CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 2012 ACTIVITY THE ARMOR GROUP OUR ACTIVITIES World Leader The Armor Group has been an expert in print technologies for 90 years. in Thermal Transfer Armor Industrial Coding equipment brand, printer definition, number of pages Technology & Printing (AICP) designs or characters printed. Its products are marketed under and manufactures inked the Armor brand and under distributor own brands. No.1 films used in Thermal Transfer technology. This European technology allows printing on numerous materials, Armor Sustainable Energies Inkjet in a durable way, and in all types of environment. (ASE) is the outcome of the Cartridges It is the most widespread technology in the world for company’s diversification and Manufacturer unitary identification and traceability of products in development strategy, drawing particular for marking variable data such as barcodes, on industrial know-how in the No.1 in Sales logos, expiry dates or other batch numbers on labels formulation and manufacture of Laser or flexible packaging. These products are marketed of thin film using a high speed coating process. Cartridges under the OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) The OSCAR (Organic Solar Cells by ARmor) research in France brand or distributor own brands. programme, in partnership with a consortium of experts based in France, seeks to develop Armor Office Printing (AOP) is the European leader and industrialise autonomous, high-performance in compatible consumables for inkjet, laser, fax and photovoltaic solutions using 3rd generation OPV impact printing, offering remanufactured and new (Organic PhotoVoltaics) technology. One of the goals patent-compliant cartridges. of this new activity is to offer all interested industrial As an organisation independent and commercial partners the keys to innovation of printer manufacturers, AOP and differentiation that will be driving tomorrow’s offers an optimal alternative economic growth. solution, regardless of the OUR FACILITIES Group Head Office Sales Office AICP Production Site AICP ARMOR USA ARMOR Beijing ARMOR Korea ARMOR Shangaï ARMOR Japan Sales Office AOP ARMOR China Production Site AOP ARMOR Asia Staffing levels by zone, ARMOR Brasil including commercial subsidiaries America /96 Europe /1,106 ARMOR Sao Paulo Asia /148 North Africa /321 RECOLL Artech Polska ARMORGMBH ARMOR UK ARMOR Polska ARMOR Benelux Artech Moravia KVM supplies ARMOR SRO ARMOR SA Overall staffing levels 24 industrial ARMOR Italie in full-timeand commercial sites ARMOR Iberica equivalent majority-owned by Armor SAS. employees Group Turnover ›€214 M ARMOR Industrie ›1,671 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 2012 activity 2 THE ARMOR GROUP Presenting this 2013 CSR report is an opportunity to reaffirm a three-fold commitment made by the Armor teams: to act in accordance with our values every day, and all over the world: humanism, innovation, commitment, and customer service EDITORIAL placing sustainable development at the heart of our strategy, including in our R&D and industrial processes, our products and human relations and in particular, via a high-quality social dialogue Hubert de Boisredon renewing our membership of The United Nations Global Compact, acting Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in line with its 10 principles on human rights, employment law, of Armor Group the environment and the fight against corruption and reporting back on the progress we’ve made. Social responsibility has become part and parcel of our genetic fabric. Social responsibility Through our action, we want to show that industry can be respectful of the environment, can contribute to the fulfilment of the men and women who make up the company, and can humanise the surrounding has become society. Thus, in 2012: part and parcel of working and living conditions of employees in China and Morocco have been improved; our genetic fabric. the environmental impact of energy needs has led to concrete achievements aimed at controlling our consumption. We would also mention the development of the ASE (Armor Sustainable Energies) activity, collecting solar energy and opening up new channels for energy storage; Armor continues to encourage the employment and training not just in France, but also in Singapore, Brazil and Morocco. This report describes many other activities and achievements. These serve to reinforce ‘living together’ and feelings of being ‘proud to belong’ to the company. We are in a position to state that Armor has a soul, comprised of convictions and energy provided by all, those who are currently working at Armor, as well as those who have put so much of themselves in over past years. It is our responsibility to ensure that this Armor ‘soul’ lives and is deployed, thanks to the shared determination of our shareholders, employees, suppliers and customers. Contents Sommaire Cover Photo: Sunrise over the grey Titan crane (Ile de Nantes) The Armor Group 03 This photo was taken for Armor from our Head Office in Nantes, by Amandine Chesneau, an Social 09 employee of the Group. The grey Titan crane stands on the banks of the Loire, bearing witness Environment 14 to the industrial past of the city of Nantes, in which the Armor Group has played a full role. Involvement within the community 19 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 2012 activity 3 THE ARMOR GROUP KEY EVENTS AND ACHIEVEMENTS 2012  Launch of the  Move into 1st TPI (industrial new dormitories production AICP China technician) Page 9  OHSAS 18001 Promotion Certification AICP France AOP (Cordon Bleu) France  Extension to  Special jury prize the storage and awarded at the  SCORE production area national ‘Responsible Appreciation AICP -USA Care’ trophies  SIPAT Awards 2012 organised by the UIC  Creation (Internal Week (Singapore  ISO 14001 and (Union des Industries of the France of Workplace Corporation of OHSAS 18001 Chimiques Cartouche Accident Rehabilitative Certification  ISO 9001 professional body Réemploi Prevention) Enterprises) AICP USA Certification federating all French association AICP Brazil AICP Singapore AICP Brazil chemical companies) AOP France Page 11 Page 19 All activities Page 22 France January February Mars April May June July August September October November December  First elections of  LIFE  Commissioning  New Logistics  Membership staff to the Certification of the first Platform of the Small social fund by TLMI robotic AOP Maroc Apprentice management (Tag and Label slitting cell Programme committee Manufacturers AICP USA  Celebration AICP Brazil AOP Poland Institute). of 90 years Page 19 Certificate of Armor  Move back to for the AICP All activities  2nd place the BBC Head Office, activity, audit France in the recruitment at the historic at La Chevrolière category at premises France  Prize giving the Trophées ARMOR SAS France ceremony, de l’Insertion Page 14 (disability) Entrepreneur 2012 région Ouest (a prize organised  ISO 50001 awarded to the best by MEDEF 44  Award of Certification entrepreneur of the (French Employers’ the Trophée AICP La Chevrolière year in western Association) Territoire France France) in the ARMOR SAS France Innovation Page 14 ‘International Pays de la Loire Company’ category,  ‘Stratégie Export’ (a prize awarded organised by prize-giving for the best Ernst & Young ceremony organised innovations and L’Express by MOCI (Moniteur in the Pays de All activities du Commerce la Loire region) France International) in the ‘Jury’s magazine Favourite’ All activities category France AICP France Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 2012 activity 4 THE ARMOR GROUP A CLEARLY-DEFINED STRATEGIC LINE Well aware of the responsibilities it shoulders, the Group intends to act in line with a clear strategy: being respectful of the environment, giving men and women from the company a key role to play, through managerial and technical innovation yet while paying special attention to both customers and economic performance, as a guarantee of long-term viability. A shared vision • Circular Economy: anchoring our products within a logic of sustainable resources and reduction of environmental impacts throughout their whole life cycle, Our strategy rests on from production to recycling. strengthening our contribution to Sustainable Development • Renewable Energy: reducing our energy consumption and contributing through 5 priority issues: to the deployment of renewable energy solutions with a view to prevention of climate change. • Responsible Traceability: supporting responsible identification of products and developing information provided to consumers about their health and safety, and about the environment. • Employees Development: using an attractive social rights package to enhance employees fulfilment and competences, for their well-being at work, their employability and the Group’s growth. • Territorial Solidarity: developing social ties around our facilities worldwide, while remaining supportive of the societal challenges faced by the territories. Values at the heart Implementation of our strategy Each new recruit receives a welcome is the collective responsibility of our booklet, laying out these values. Within of individual and employees. In 2009, the Group selected each subsidiary, working groups filter their collective responsibility four values that each person could everyday practice through these four make their own, using them as a guide values, identifying areas in need of to their own professional behaviour: improvement. Their implementation may humanism, innovation, commitment be a matter of individual responsibility and customer service. yet the Group’s collective and societal responsibility depends upon it. Research R&D is a major growth driver for each This constant dynamism allows us of our activities, especially for our future to remain competitive and at and Development projects in renewable energy and the the cutting edge of innovation. in support thermal transfer activity. In France, Research concentrates on innovation R&D designs and industrially develops and the development of new products, inked ribbons. All of this work is then securing raw materials, as well as deployed on production sites in France, on optimization and improved reliability and in the international subsidiaries. of manufacturing processes through In six years, its workforce has practically the search for new formulations. tripled, now employing 74 doctoral students, engineers and technicians. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 2012 activity 5 THE ARMOR GROUP MAIN IMPACTS OF ACTIVITIES  AOP PROCUREMENT PRODUCTION LOGISTICS PRINTING COLLECTION END OF LIFE DISTRIBUTION SORTING CO2 CARTRIDGES NON RE-USABLE Intermediate material waste recovered LASER CARTRIDGES COLLECTED (including toner powder) Material recovery CO2 CO2 SECOND LIFE including toner powder if cartridge Waste: is non re-usable Morocco: end-of-life Laser remanufacturing cartridges LASER OR INKJET END USER Pigments Intermediate waste incinerated: CARTRIDGES Paper and • Production of energy remanufactured energy consumed • CO2 emission PACKAGING CO2 CO2 or new, in printing NON RE-USABLE under the ARMOR Cardboard INKJET CARTRIDGES or distributor Incineration with Plastic brand Czech Republic: or without energy Harvesting of Inkjet remanufacturing recovery non-renewable ressources CUSTOMER: distributor Reduction of consumption AFTER SALES Virgin or recycled CO2 CO2 SERVICE: ARMOR raw materials HOUSEHOLD RUBBISH Poland: in the absence New inkjet of sorting by Responsible and transparent labelling on packaging: the end-user Health, employee protection • New or remanufactured product Local and/or responsible (especially for those in contact with toner powder), • Instructions for responsible usage purchasing practice ergonomics, prevention • Environmental Labelling & Product Quality (within France) of work-related injuries (MSD) Employment Contribution to local development Products & Services Quality Process: from Purchasing to After Sales Service Impacts Protecting know-how and respecting industrial property of supplier activities Impacts of customer activities, both distributors and end users  AICP PROCUREMENT PRODUCTION DISTRIBUTION USE AND (customer or neutral END OF LIFE Manufacture of ink Slitting sub-brand), Coating Packaging After Sales Service Quality Process: from R&D to the After Sales Service Protecting know-how and respecting industrial property VOC coating emissions captured and incinerated (within France) PET • production of energy • CO2 emission Solvents (depending on application) Silicons Slitting waste Polystyrene • recycled (within France) Polypropylene CO2 CO2 Electricity, Gas Print-related Reduction of consumption CUSTOMERS END-USER: Harvesting • Printer Manufacturers COMPANY of non-renewable ressources • Value Added Resellers Ordinary industrial waste: (Designers of CO2 Location of slitting • used film • packaging integrated solutions activities by geographical for marking Resins distribution area and traceability) Waxes Pigments Safety, chemical risk control in collaboration with the local authority Cardboard Health, ergonomics and prevention of work-related injuries (MSD) Responsible and local Sealing and depletion of soils purchasing practice Employment, contribution to local development Impacts of supplier activities SITES: Brazil, China, United States, France, Singapore Impacts of activities of both customers and end users Social impact Economic impact Environmental impact Key: Water consumption, treatment of effluents Energy consumption Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 2012 activity 6 THE ARMOR GROUP AN OPERATIONAL PLAN OF ACTION IN SUPPORT OF THE STRATEGY Building on the action plans already deployed in France (Dec@plan for AICP, Alternative Print Programme for AOP), CSR self-diagnosis for subsidiaries, initiated in 2011, and our ‘values process’ have allowed us to identify areas in need of improvement, translating these into a 2013-2017 action plan. Group Action Plan (Extract for 2013) CSR Ethics and Governance: values, management systems (Quality, Health, Safety, Environment), internal and external drivers Group Formalisation of the Group’s culture and values in the form of an ethical and human rights charter AICP USA, Brazil, Singapore Creation of an employee booklet (including in the languages of the nationalities represented) AOP Morocco Application for OHSAS 18001 certification for the workplace health & safety management system AICP USA Inclusion of the Group’s CSR news in monthly and quarterly information (newsletter and meetings) AOP France Sales representative training in Armor CSR strategy Group Development of a CSR questionnaire for suppliers, applicable in the subsidiaries Raising awareness among internal employees of all Group divisions of the issues addressed in the business France linkages charter Employee Development AICP USA, Singapore • AOP Morocco, Poland Organisation of a confidential, periodic medical check-up for all employees, adapted to their activity France Measurement of equality of opportunity, in order to make progress AICP USA Compliance with the OIT C183 convention on maternity leave (14 weeks) AICP Singapore Analysis of the impact of becoming compliant with the OIT C132 convention on paid leave (3 weeks) AICP USA, Brazil, Singapore Measurement and analysis of compliance with the SA8000 standard on overtime AOP Morocco (maximum 12 hours / week and 1 day of rest (24 consecutive hours) / week) AICP France, USA, Singapore Improvement to the workplace environment (staff room, meal area, company restaurant, social area, AOP Morocco workshops, personal lockers with keys) France Improved integration of disabled workers (Signature of the AGEFIPH convention) Circular Economy AICP Brazil Sourcing of a suitable recycling process for all significant waste, ensuring its traceability and recovery AICP USA Recycling of waste from the PET factory (inked film) Increasing the volume of empty cartridges collected from our customers by ourselves, in compliance with AOP undertakings made by us to the French Ministry of the Environment and Sustainable Development AOP Bringing the rate of material recovery of end-of-life cartridges to 100% AICP France Organisation of organic waste management from the company restaurant Renewable Energy AICP USA, Brazil, China, Singapore Measurement and analysis of energy consumption, setting of a reduction objective AOP Morocco, Poland AOP France, Morocco, Poland Carrying out an AOP carbon assessment (Group perimeter) AICP France Set-up of rail freight ASE Trialling the first OPV films in concrete applications and in real conditions Responsible Traceability AOP France Extension of environmental labelling to 30% of the product range Territorial Solidarity AICP USA, Brazil, China, Singapore Joining (or creation of) a local association of companies for Sustainable Development AOP Morocco, Poland @ The details of these programmes are available at: Dec@plan www.armor-tt.com www.armor-print.com Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 2012 activity 7 THE ARMOR GROUP SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT ANCHORED IN OUR GOVERNANCE In 2011, the Group adapted its governance to better take into account sustainable development considerations and the interest of stakeholders in its decisions. In 2012, drawing on the stabilisation of this organisation, the focus is now on articulating deployment of the Group’s approach, and taking into account local on-site problems. GROUP In terms of social responsibility, our governance is organised around the bi-monthly Sustainable  Board of Directors  Strategic Committee  General Management Development (SD) committee, Frequency: bi-monthly Frequency: monthly Committee Members: CEO (Chief Executive Members: CEO, Shareholdera network of correspondents Frequency: monthly Officer), ShareholderAdministrators, Financial Members: CEO, FD, DSP, in the subsidiaries and Dec@plan Administrators, Personnel Director (FD), Director of AICP Sales and Marketing Representatives (advisory Strategic Planning (DSP) and Alternative Print Programme Project Director, AICP Industrial capacity) Director, AOP Managing Leaders, in France, who run the steering Director (MD) committees for these two programmes. The SD committee, which was restructured  Sustainable Development Committee in 2011, is chaired by the Group’s Chief Frequency: bi-monthly Subsidiaries: Network Executive Officer and led by the Chaired by: CEO of correspondents Headed by: Director of Sustainable Development France : Dec@plan Sustainable Development Director. and Alternative Print It brings together the Group’s departmental Programme Project Leaders (HR, Finance, Legal, etc.) and operational (Purchasing, Marketing, Industrial) Shareholders Suppliers directors for the three activities. States Each is at once an ambassador for Financial partners the Group and a carrier of expectations representative (banks, insurers) with regard to it, in its relationships STAKeholders Financial Management with the Group’s stakeholders (employees, Legal Purchasing customers, suppliers, shareholders, Management Management Employees Service local authorities, etc.). Each member Providers has sufficient decision-making power to render our orientations operational. HR Management IT Management* Trade Depending on the agenda, Unions SD Committee other contributors may be invited Media to participate. Customers Operational Management R&D Management AICP/AOP Gender balance within Local Marketing / Communication International Subsidiary Competitors governance bodies authorities and Commercial Management* Management and within the Group Research partners For the moment, only men sit on Neighbours the Board of Directors and Management Partners Committee. The proportion of women on the AICP and AOP executive * Non-permanent members committees stands at 20% and 9% respectively; on the Sustainable Development committee it is 30%. In comparison, 49% of Armor employees AICP, AOP, ASE ACTIVITIES worldwide are women. In France, women’s representation reaches 30%  Executive Committees by activity of the total workforce: 31% of managers, Frequency: monthly 44% of supervisors, 55% of employees Members: AICP, ASE: CEO, functional and operational directors AOP: MD, functional and operational directors and 18% of workers. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 2012 activity 8 social EMPLOYEES AS KEY PLAYERS IN OUR STRATEGY All aspects of social responsibility are linked, and together they set the tone of human relations within the company, thus favouring the Group’s development. Year after year, we are constructing a more comprehensive social rights package for our employees. Improving working and living conditions for employees Best The Group encourages In China, in 2012, the conditions comfortable 4-person apartments practices its subsidiaries to combine for earning paid leave were having two bedrooms, a living economic performance with changed making the system room, a private bathroom with social progress. Action is fairer, and the jobs more hot water, a kitchen area and guided by listening to appealing. Administrative reversible air-conditioning. employee issues, and by employees and production referring to International workers now get seven days In Morocco, during the creation Labour Organization of paid leave per year (prorata of the new Armor Industrie agreements. for time worked during the first logistics platform (1,500 m² year, and after the 3-month of storage, 50 employees), probationary period) to which quality of life at work has been ›59% are added the eleven days of taken into consideration: 2011 Chinese public holidays. After an area of 150 m² is dedicated that, they earn one extra day of to communal use (cloakrooms, Proportion of leave per year of service, up to sanitary facilities, staff room ›91% workforce offered regular medical fifteen days for employees and ten days for workers. equipped with refrigerators, hotplates, microwave oven 2012 check-ups. and water coolers) and there In addition, last December, is a 250 m² garden. employees who had been living in dormitories moved to more Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 2012 activity 9 social USING DIALOGUE TO BUILD AN ATTRACTIVE SOCIAL RIGHTS PACKAGE We seek to develop the appeal of social drawing on personnel representation within entitlements at all our facilities by prioritising bodies as befits the local context is fundamental lasting, high-quality employment, which entails in moving our social responsibility forward. limiting recourse to short-term, temporary and In addition to any regulatory bodies, initiatives agency jobs. As a result, in 2012 the number of develop at local level, encouraging exchanges permanent contracts in France rose by 3%, and with management around socio-economic represents 96% of the workforce worldwide. themes, in a climate of transparency, respect Beyond this aspect, a balanced social dialogue and mutual trust. Best Forums for dialogue practices were set up in 2012 2012 was marked by the creation of two new Health and Safety Committees (CHSCT) at subsidiaries. In the United States, this takes the who were also volunteers to express 700 628 +7% form of monthly meetings with their feelings about all matters affecting representatives from each department the life of the Industrial and Expertise (six members in all). The minutes of Centre at La Chevrolière: working these meetings are displayed in the staff conditions, organisation of the activity, room. In Morocco, the committee product quality… In 2012, 29 meetings comprises the Managing Director, the thus came up with 221 improvement 315 Director of Production, the Human proposals, which were then discussed -4% 274 350 Resources Manager, the Occupational with line management. -4% Health Doctor and two personnel At AOP, the Alternative Print representatives from Armor Industrie. It Programme’s ‘Human Development’ 137 has adopted a formal approach to working group raised the need for +7% 95 +3% monitoring actions and will soon consideration of how internal present an annual report. communications are conducted. Offered to all staff on a monthly basis, 0 In France, dialogue was at the heart of information meetings of 15 to ce N ia a Af or As ic managerial concerns in 2012. Thus, 20 minutes include a questions and Fran (e xc ric th a er Am l. Eu within AICP, ‘progress groups’, led by answers session, and are led by a team Fr ro an p ce e volunteers having received training for of five managers working in pairs with ) this role, encouraged the participants groups of employees. Workforce evolution between 2011 and 2012 (report scope, in full-time equivalent posts) ›52% 2011 ›91% Proportion of workforce covered by a Health 2012 and Safety Committee. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 2012 activity 10 social HEALTH & SAFETY, AN ISSUE WELL-BEING AT WORK, AN OBJECTIVE This priority is illustrated across several areas: prevention (regular awareness-raising sessions for making the working environment safe (chemical teams, ergonomic adaptation of workstations, first risk, fire risk, meteorological and noise nuisance); aid training for employees) and the implementation the supply and encouragement to wear Personal of appropriate management systems. The social Protection Equipment; regular medical check-ups barometer, conducted in France in 2011, opened suited to the professional risk in question, up reflection on well-being at work and gave rise, extended in 2012 to China and Morocco, in 2012, to actions integrated to the Dec@plan independent of any legal obligation to do so; and Alternative Print Programmes. Best Awareness-raising and training practices as drivers of progress Convinced of the importance of raising awareness about workplace health and safety, the Group is multiplying its prevention actions among personnel. In Brazil, the SIPAT (Internal Week training (handling extinguishers, first of Workplace Accident Prevention) aid). A high level of staff involvement In Brazil, SIPAT (Internal Week of Workplace Accident Prevention) in August 2012. organised in August 2012 allowed all has enabled us to get OHSAS 18001 employees to be made aware of health (safety management system) and safety problems both within the certification, like on French sites. company and elsewhere. For a period of ›35 one hour each day, external contributors In Poland, prevention work continues, (including doctors) addressed a range of in conjunction with technical themes: diet, the wearing of personal improvements to equipment especially protection equipment, the prevention of ultrasound welding stations, so as to sexually transmitted diseases… A group make them less noisy. of actors closed the event with a Workplace Accidents humorous presentation about the In France, the 2010 animation ‘Bien with days off impact of good waste management. dans son assiette’ (Eat well, feel great!), was followed in 2012 by ‘Bien dans son In the same way, throughout the year, corps’ (At home in your body), with the Armor USA has communicated objective of better understanding the on health and safety issues through human body and knowing how best to 23 multiple awareness raising sessions respond to physiological needs, in order accidents (wearing of personal protection 25 147 days to control your nutritional balance and equipment, blood-born pathogens) and by extension your health. 7 12 3 accidents accidents 199 days 1 1 115 days accident accident 1 day 20 days also! 0 a ia N ce er ic As Af or ric th Fran ››PARI (in-house reclassification families…) worldwide Am (e xc l. Eu a Fr ro and layout of workstation ››Social fund in Poland an p ce e ) programme) in France ››Workstation ergonomics ››BECOM (Well-Being and worldwide Number of workplace accidents Communication) in France ››Gestural and postural training with days off, ››Site anniversary celebrations worldwide and number of days off (open days, festive events for Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 2012 activity 11 social FIGHTING DISCRIMINATION AND ENCOURAGING DIVERSITY Our action in matters of diversity and antiwho are on average twice as likely to be unemployed, discrimination measures is guided by compliance we are multiplying initiatives, making the most with the regulations, and the multitude of of the incentive measures offered by national backgrounds represented in its workforce. In 2011, legislation where these exist. In particular, these Armor signed the Diversity Charter, which initiatives are about keeping people in work, direct encourages companies to guarantee the promotion employment of disabled people, the development and respect of diversity in their workforces. of subcontracting entrusted to protected In terms of access to employment for disabled people, workshops and awareness-raising among staff. ›32 Best Diversity: practices monitoring commitments Diversity policy in France rests on four main pillars, which served to guide our actions in 2012. employees are disabled, representing 2.2% of the Group’s workforce. With regard to professional equality Ethnic, cultural and social diversity is between men and women, a approached through the sponsorship of In France : 4.8% below the legal Comparative Status Report has been hard-to-place individuals (see the Job minimum (6%) but up by 13% since 2011 drawn up, in accordance with legal Academy report on page 19). requirements, as well as a tool to monitor the Equality agreement signed Two specific aspects were addressed on in 2011. Initial actions concerned the age management theme: one on adaptation of the recruitment process in youth access to employment (cf. p19) order to guarantee equality of and the other on senior employability, opportunity at every stage. in application of the agreement on physical strain signed in late 2011. 10 9.2% To encourage the integration of people Potential progress concerns making with disabilities, in addition to work lighter at the end of a career and participation in sporting events, shows setting up tutoring, encouraging the and forums on the theme of disability transfer of know-how. In the future, and and employment, joint visits with driven by legislative developments, a companies from the protected sector true age management policy could be 5 and associations were organised to published following reflection on 3.4% discuss best practice or envisage future intergenerational jobs. partnerships. 1.4% 0 nd ce USA Po Fran la also! Volume of service purchased ››PRISME (programme in favour of the integration of entrusted to organisations deaf and hearing-impaired people) in France employing mainly ››Disability-themed events (Special Olympics race, disabled people ‘one day, one job’ with Cap Emploi…) in France (exclusive of technical services) Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 2012 activity 12 social IDENTIFYING INTERNAL Skills management within Armor Group is linked to current and future needs inherent to the Group’s COMPETENCES strategy, the responsibility to develop people’s AND MOVING THEM employability, respect for equality of treatment and professional fulfilment. FORWARD Training needs are generally identified at annual individual interviews, but also, in France, through specific interviews known as ‘second part of career’ interviews, for employees aged over 45. ›42% Best Training is at the heart practices of our concerns In 2012, the ongoing training budget in France represented 3.1% of the payroll, which is 2.5 times of the workforce benefiting from the legal French minimum. an individual professional interview worldwide Indeed, the training courses, the most diploma. These training courses in France (already established in France, innovative of which, such as BeCom’ have been subsidised (at 27%) by local the USA, Brazil and Singapore) Well-Being and Communication, authorities and training fund collection ‘Université Armor’, and Professional agencies (OPCA Organismes Paritaires Qualification Certificates in France, Collecteurs Agrées). were attended by 411 employees, 100% 9 hrs/person representing 65% of the workforce. Of The subsidiaries have not been left 100 these, 64% were men, and 36% women. behind, with implementation of a For example, over the 2011-2012 period, highly-formalised process in Poland and 80% 4 hrs/person 57 employees earned the ‘Automated a total of 273 employees undergoing Installations and Machinery Operator’ training in 2012. The USA, Brazil and 65% professional qualification from the 36 hrs/person Morocco are also developing their own ‘Université Armor’. This programme, training programmes, with a strong which will continue over the coming emphasis on safety in the USA. 50 years, saw the launch in 2012 of a first Furthermore, we note with satisfaction intake of 12 employees seeking to gain that, in 2012, women represented 49% the ‘Industrial Production Technician’ of the trained workforce, worldwide. 12% 1 hr/person 3% 12 hrs/person 0 a ia N ic As Af or ric th er (e xc a Am l. Eu Fr ro an p ce e Fr ) an ce Proportion of employees having accessed training, and average number of hours of training per person ‘Automated Installations and Machinery Operator’ training course at Armor University. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 2012 activity 13 environment REDUCING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Given the environmental impacts of our activities and products, we are careful to limit the effects of production through environmental management of our sites, and by designing and promoting more ecological product and service offers. Saving energy Best To face up to the environmental Within the context of the system, with a shared management practices and economic issues linked Dec@plan programme, the review on annual performance. with energy demand, all of our La Chevrolière site has obtained sites are engaged in actions to ISO 50001 certification (standard In the same way, during renovation measure and reduce energy on energy management systems, of our historic factory in Nantes consumption. published mid-2011) following (France), where the head office two years of gradual was to be housed (2,300 m² of implementation of an Energy offices), all eyes were on energy Management System including performance. So much so that Energy consumption breakdown the process, site management the building now bears the ‘BBC’ Asia and service provision. Among the (low consumption building) 13% exemplary actions, worthy of label, with consumption of just Europe (excl. France) mention are the installation of a 70 kWh/m², which is, according 7% network for the recovery of heat to ADEME, around half of the ›22,726 America issuing from the air compressors national average for administrative 4% North to preheat the process water buildings (164 kWh/m²). MWh of electricity Africa (action 70% financed by energy This performance was achieved 2% consumed economy certificates), the by using insulation, making use creation of natural light wells to of natural light, and the installation France 74% complement LED lighting, and of a latest-generation natural gas the application of the energy condensing boiler. policy to major service providers, to which is added 18,883 MWh of natural gas including the one in charge of (94% of which is consumed in France) exploiting the cogeneration Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 2012 activity 14 environment ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT OF SITEs We are pushing ahead with deployment of the preservation of ecosystems. environmental management in our subsidiaries. In In 2012, significant progress has been made 2012, the Armor site in the United States was with regard to energy-saving and recovery of awarded ISO 14001 certification, following in the production waste, particularly through gradual footsteps of the French, Polish and Moroccan deployment of the REC’PET (PET film recycling) sites. The actions concern regulatory compliance, programme in the Thermal Transfer activity, waste collection and processing as well as, with an objective of zero landfill by 2015 depending on the site, the reduction of significant a target already achieved in France. consumption in energy and water and Best Understanding the impacts, 249 t 220 t 499 t 102 t 2,169 t practices 100 1% exercising discretion 13% 7% Aware of the limitations of the Bilan Carbone® (French 10% association carbon assessment system), the La Chevrolière 46% site (France) sought to extend the measure to cover all its 10% environmental impacts by conducting a ‘Multi-Criteria 50% Ecological Assessment’ in 2012. 99% Since 2008, the La Chevrolière site has This site is already conducting many 50 99% conducted a Bilan Carbone® every year, actions aimed at controlling its 15% the better to discern the main sources of environmental footprint, especially with greenhouse gas emissions resulting from regard to its particular location: 66% its activity, and to prioritise its actions. 14 hectares, 45% artificialized, located 43% This approach, known as ‘monocriterion’, around 4 km from the Grand Lieu lake, 39% assesses the impact of activities on climate which is classified as a Natura 2000 change, to the exclusion of any other Special Protection Area, because of its environmental externality, at the risk of biodiversity. In 2012, it embarked upon 1% orienting the action without having the a project for the re-establishment of 0 a ia N Af or er ric th benefit of an overall view. natural spaces within its plot, in order to Am ic As ro pe Fr (e an xc a ce l. ) The ‘Multi-Criteria Ecological Assessment’ encourage the return of biodiversity. Eu Fran ce extends the method to 14 indicators This landscaping will allow noise and Material recovery: 48% (acidification, eutrophication, exhaustion visual nuisances, as well as the use of Incinerated with energy recovery: 14% of resources, toxicity, etc.). This innovation, plant protection products and the cost Incinerated: 30% Landfill: 8% supported (at 50%) by ADEME Pays de la of managing green spaces, to be Loire, as an experiment prior to national reduced. It will also be used as an Recovery of 3,238 metric tons deployment, allowed quantification of the educational tool for employees, schools of production waste generated significant impacts and resulted in a plan and other companies. of action for reduction. 0.73 0.56 0.32 0.39 also! 2009 2010 2011 2012 ››Separation of storm water and wastewater at the Cordon Bleu site (France) Water consumption evolution at Armor Poland ››Purchase of a filling machine with cardboard on the Morocco site (in m3/1000 cartridges produced) ››Planting of trees on the Cordon Bleu site (France) ››Signature of an LPO Refuge (French bird protection league) agreement Increase of 22% due in particular to modification of the rinsing procedure for on the La Chevrolière site (France) the filling machines (change of frequency) ››Flowering meadows on the La Chevrolière site (France) and the setting up of additional cleaning actions on certains processes. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 2012 activity 15 environment REDUCING Our two activities continue to work on reducing the environmental footprint of their products: PRODUCT AOP essentially acts on the second lifecycle of laser and inkjet cartridges, IMPACTS whilst respecting the intellectual property of the original brands, through the collection and recovery flow, the manufacturing process and the choice of components (packaging, toner, inks, etc.). AICP is as active on the inked ribbons as it is on their manufacturing process. R&D has already allowed the launch of products such as Solfree, a unique solvent-free coating procedure and LL ribbons (Long Length) to which the references had been extended in 2012. Best Armor trials environmental labelling practices In 2012, AOP extended lifecycle analysis to a larger number of references within the context of the experimentation phase in environmental labelling on cartridges intended for the use of the general public. In 2012, together with the whole AFNOR** platform. A decision is profession (French remanufacturers, expected from the authorities that will 242 brand manufacturers OEM), officialise environmental labelling and 250 NF Environment Nordic Ecolabel 203 Armor continued to experiment with render its usage in France standard. environmental labelling, an 176 experimentation that was conducted by Alongside this, Armor will in 2013 132 the French government, as part of the be a candidate for integration of 93 ‘Grenelle’ laws targeting consumers’ the experimentation to be launched 93 125 93 rights to access environmental at European level. Response due information about products. in June 2013… 49 32 110 110 This concerted approach led to the proposal, *French Environment and Energy Management Agency 83 in September 2012, of a methodological **French standardisation agency 12 44 20 framework project for the ADEME* / 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Number of eco-labelled references 60 54 16 27 30 38 16 AOP is developing an increasingly rich range of remanufactured, eco-labelled products and announces 11 their environmental impact on the packaging following the completion of lifecycle analysis. 0 2011 2012 New or remanufactured inkjet Laser also! Number of references bearing environmental labelling following ››Jumbo range of laser cartridges (large volume) a lifecycle analysis Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 2012 activity 16 environment Best The circular economy in practice practices Armor and its partners have set up a circular economy for printer cartridges, thus minimizing recourse to non-renewable raw materials in favour of re-use and recovery of materials, effectively excluding incineration and landfill. Armor is a signatory to the national comfortably met, with +24% for inkjet European waste hierarchy (Waste voluntary agreement for the collection cartridges and +49% for laser cartridges. Framework Directive 2008/98/CE) and processing of office printer In all, 733 metric tons of cartridge waste by encouraging re-use, followed by cartridges. This commits us to increasing (laser and inkjet) were collected, 50% recycling of materials, for its cartridges. the number of cartridges we collect of which were of use in the production from companies by 5% per year, and of remanufactured cartridges. The other In 2012, the volume of remanufactured from the general public by 10% per 50% were dismantled for recycling inkjet and laser cartridges brought year. In 2012 (in comparison with 2011) of materials 100% effective since to market by our Group corresponds the objectives set for collection, October 2012 (92% on average, to an equivalent of 1,363 metric tons achieved by our subsidiary Recoll and over the year). In this way, AOP fully of waste avoided through re-use. in partnership with Revialis, have been complies with the principles of the Circular economy loop for printer cartridges, in connection with Alternative Print Programme Extraction of natural resources Eco-design of OEM cartridges Marketing Production of of raw new OEM materials cartridges Production of remanufactured Manufacture cartridges of derivatives Preparation of materials Marketing of with a view to cartridges re-use Ecodesign of remanufactured cartridges 92% on average 100% from Oct-12 Dismantling and separation 50% Collection of of secondary used materials Sorting + cartridges Key: distribution with a view to 733 metric tons 50% re-use Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 2012 activity 17 environment FIGHTING CLIMATE CHANGE Since 2009, our operational French sites have For the regulatory scope of the French law conducted regular analysis on the greenhouse known as ‘Grenelle II’ (scope 1 and 2 according gas emissions related to their activities (Bilan to the ISO 14064-1 standard), emissions reach Carbone®) in order to measure and reduce their the equivalent of 23,774 metric tons of CO2 impact on the key challenge that is climate change. an increase of 0.8% in comparison with 2011, In 2012, this measurement was extended to head taking account of the 9% increase in production office, and directly extracted from the ‘Multi-Criteria and the effectiveness of the action plans. Ecological Assessment’ of the La Chevrolière site. Best Encouraging results 4% (-66%) 3% practices 9% Innovation in products and process has already (-27%) allowed us to make real progress, and we are 34% (+15%) stepping up our efforts. 10% (-18%) If we consider the Bilan Carbone® • substantial energy-savings as a whole, significant reductions have • the promotion of collective or already been achieved by: alternative modes of transport to • reducing VOC* emissions into the 14% employees: around 20% of employees (+29%) atmosphere (-12% since 2008, -94% at La Chevrolière use car-sharing, 26% since 2001) at the La Chevrolière site, (-36%) representing annual savings of the achieved through perfecting products equivalent of 114 metric tons of CO2. Manufacture and incineration of solvent PET film manufacture such as Solfree® in 2009, and through Manufacture of other raw materials the improved efficiency of VOC* End-of-life and use of product Efforts will continue to be made Transport and Travel capture and incineration via a Energy in this direction in France and in Europe, Other co-generation system to complement particularly with optimization of the natural gas Bilan Carbone® at the AICP transport flows for AOP merchandise. • improved effectiveness in the use of Alongside this, best practice is spreading La Chevrolière site (France) in 2011, raw materials, since the impact of throughout the subsidiaries, not just including inputs, outputs inputs (PET, the collection and in terms of energy savings but also and evolution in comparison manufacturing of cartridges, of collective transport for employees to 2009 data packaging) is concentrated on their as in China, Singapore and Morocco. extraction and production Methodological details: the input emission factors for calculation of the Bilan Carbone® at the La Chevrolière site were more refined than those used for the 2009 analysis, following the Multi-Criteria Ecological Assessment, introducing a disruption to data continuity (on the solvents, for example). 100 100 61 also! Evolution of VOC emissions /m2 50 37 ››Raising awareness of car-sharing produced and collective transport on all 25 (base index of 100, 16 sites worldwide 14 year 2003) ››Rail transport of merchandise [...] in France 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2011 2012 ››Green IT in France *VOC (Volatile Organic Compounds) are atmospheric pollutants having effects on both health and biodiversity. They contribute to increasing the concentration of ozone in the atmosphere and have warming power of about 10 times that of CO2. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 2012 activity 18 I nvolvement within the community ACTING AS A RESPONSIBLE, SOCIALLY-INVOLVED PLAYER Acting in line with our values does of course mean changing our everyday approach towards customers but also towards the community (suppliers, the areas in which Armor sites are located, sectors of activity). With one goal in mind: to get involved and share our practices. Contributing to access to employment in the areas in which we are established Best In line with our identity In 2012, several sites made a onto the maintenance teams for practices and values, our subsidiaries commitment to working towards a period of one month. Armor are involved in local projects integration or study-work Industrie hopes to repeat this aimed at boosting territorial experience to combat exclusion experience, over longer periods. dynamism, cultivating both and unemployment among In Brazil, Armor has, since social ties and employee young people. In Singapore, November 2012, been a member commitment. Armor Asia collaborates with of the ‘small apprentice’ SCORE (Singapore COrporation programme, which offers an of Rehabilitative Enterprises) in initial professional opportunity the ‘Yellow Ribbon’ programme to young students from modest to help ex-prisoners and backgrounds, attending state ›11 ex-offenders reintegrate. Since schools. An 18-year-old woman October 2006, more than 100 will thus be offered support and people have thus been offered a guidance over a period of two second chance. Armor Asia’s years, while being trained in of the 15 young people graduating involvement was, incidentally, administrative services. from the 13th Job Academy in Nantes rewarded with a prize in 2012. In Lastly, in France, Armor SAS (organised by the FACE Atlantique club Morocco in 2012, a work has integrated 9 young people and sponsored by Armor) were either experience process was initiated via ‘professionalization contracts’ in employment or long-term training in collaboration with the OFPPT for the award of a certificate for (6 months or more) 6 of whom had (office for professional training the ‘Operation of chemical permanent contracts by the end of 2012. and the promotion of work). manufacturing equipment’ a first Four people were thus welcomed in the sector for this country. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 2012 activity 19 I nvolvement within the community QUALITY IN We use a quality management system, starting in product design and continuing right through to after-sales service, which boosts the THE SERVICE competitiveness of our production sites. The ISO 9001 certification, which was OF THE awarded to Brazil in 2012, and is constantly renewed at all other sites, recognises our commitment and encourages us to pursue continuous CUSTOMER improvement by making good use of the appropriate management tools. Customer satisfaction is at the heart of this approach, in terms of both product and service quality. We survey our customers regularly in a bid to measure their level of satisfaction, the impact of actions undertaken in previous years and to set up the actions necessary to achieving greater satisfaction. Best Listening to our customers and offering satisfaction practices The results of the satisfaction surveys conducted with our customers in 2012 are very encouraging. In 2012, 426 AICP customers throughout come to fruition. Lastly, the AICP image with which our customers are highly the world were questioned, representing on innovation has garnered approval satisfied across quality, product more than 80% of turnover. The level with the number of people convinced availability, and breadth of offer. of overall satisfaction is high identical rising from 60% to more than 80% In contrast, quality satisfaction ratings to that of the 2010 survey. within a 5-year period. for the inkjet activity sit at around 73%, Just one shortfall: less well-appreciated with 77% on product availability. By the complaints procedures have led to In 2012, AOP conducted a customer end of 2012, falling levels of ‘highly satisfied’ satisfaction survey in France, the UK thanks to a significant internal drive, customers in Europe. This point has and Italy. The customer satisfaction rate the quality problems encountered have been addressed by strengthening the is 90% including 15% who are ‘highly been resolved, and availability improved. organisation of technical support. satisfied’. AOP’s strengths are commercial A real success story: the rate of customer ‘Satisfied’ ratings in terms of product quality (95%), quality of technical complaints about remanufactured inkjet quality and performance remain high and logistics services, and an excellent cartridges fell by 2%, and should settle (91.6%), as do those for sales support product offer in terms of coverage at around 1%. Clear improvement is also and logistics (95.8%). This is particularly of the installed base of printers noted in product availability, with service true in China, where efforts made on (100% ‘satisfied’). Remanufactured laser ratings stabilised at around 95%. quality, service and sales support have technology has emerged as an element AICP Customer Satisfaction Survey Total Europe America Asia China 2010 2012 2010 2012 2010 2012 2010 2012 2010 2012 SATISFIED 93.7% 93.7% 97.8% 95.0% 90.5% 97.3% 92.9% 89.8% 78.8% 93.8% Highly satisfied 35.6% 29.7% 43.8% 33.3% 43.2% 32.9% 16.1% 23.7% 6.1% 25.0% Satisfied 58.0% 63.9% 54.1% 61.7% 47.3% 64.4% 76.8% 66.1% 72.7% 68.8% DISSATISFIED 6.3% 6.3% 2.2% 5.0% 9.5% 2.7% 7.1% 10.2% 21.2% 6.3% Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 2012 activity 20 I nvolvement within the community A SHARED, CONCRETE, AND RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING POLICY Our purchasing policy aims to establish components purchased for production; and a qualitative relationship with our suppliers, the integration of CSR criteria to the annual so as to ensure the quality of our products appraisal of our suppliers’ performance. as well as respect for industrial property, Furthermore, our subsidiaries are encouraged while limiting the impact made by purchases on to select local suppliers for purchases external the environment. In France, this policy relies on: to the Group, thus contributing to local a strong partnership with our strategic suppliers, economic development whilst limiting in order to secure raw materials; approval the transport by a patents expert of all the strategic AOP ›104 Best Application of the Supplier practices Relations Charter The year 2012 was marked by the set-up of monitoring for application of the Supplier suppliers, Relations Charter we had signed in 2011. (56% of whom are considered to be strategic) have participated in 11 Team The AICP Purchasing Department such as, for example, detection of Meetings organised in France in France now takes quarterly suppliers in a situation of economic since 2009 measurements of 14 dedicated dependency, which has led us to support indicators, in line with the Charter’s two of these this year. ten themes: average payment term, number of suppliers in a situation of Similarly, in 2012 AOP launched technical dependency, percentage of purchasing seminars with the manufacturers of turnover spent in France, number of laser components at the Birjdid factory 97% full-time disabled people equivalent, (Morocco). These events bring together 100 number of suppliers having participated our own and our suppliers’ engineers 86% in a Team Meeting (work and sharing (Purchasing, Production, R&D and meetings organised with suppliers), Quality) to exchange ideas on the number of days of professional training design and manufacture stages, as well for purchasers, etc. We note compliance as on shared challenges, in a mutually56% with recommendations, constantly enriching atmosphere that is conducive improving results and an incitation to to cross-fertilisation. open up to new areas of investigation 50 39% 14% 0 a ia N ic As Af or ric th er (e xc a Am l. Eu Fr ro an p ce e Fr ) an ce During Team Meetings, Proportion of local purchases themes such as sustainable development (exclusive of intra-Group purchases) or quality are approached from four perspectives: products of today and tomorrow, quality of service and relations. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 2012 activity 21 I nvolvement within the community EXERCISING RESPONSIBLE INFLUENCE The commitment we have made must be approach. Moreover, we are involved with public underpinned by causing responsibility to become authorities and actors in the sector, so that the a selection criteria for customers, in market cartridges market becomes more transparent, conditions that highlight this difference. For this through environmental labelling, and more reason, the Group’s marketing actions integrate responsible in the face of counterfeiting. For us, further transparency, to guide customers in their exercising responsible influence also means purchases, in their use of the product and in the participating in CSR dissemination in the territories selective sorting of the product after use as by sharing our practices with a view to spreading well as offering additional information about our and pooling it, and thus developing synergies. Best Preventing further An area in transition practices proliferation of clones In 2011, the La Chevrolière site (France) co-founded the IePAD association Illegal new cartridges known as ‘clones’ have been on sale, (inter-enterprise sustainable business under the usurped label of ‘remanufactured cartridges’ park) in a spirit of sharing environmental for several years now, at very low prices and this is practices across the industrial zone. damaging to the business. Since October 2012, the collection of This practice is disrespectful of industrial conduct committing signatory members non-hazardous industrial waste has thus property, employees, the environment, to refuse to sell clones. been pooled, resulting in more efficient and even quality for the end customer. recovery, the passage of fewer heavy To counter this proliferation, AOP has Alongside this, the FCR (France collection vehicles, and the building placed its expertise at the disposal of Cartouche Réemploi) association was of relationships between companies. ETIRA (European Toner & Inkjet founded in June 2012 at the initiative of This initial success has encouraged Remanufacturers Association a Armor and LVL (a Nantes-based the 11 members to embark upon other European association bringing together company in re-use of office printer forward-looking paths together. the manufacturers of remanufactured cartridges), uniting seven French cartridges) in order to produce an anticollection and remanufacturing actors in clones guide intended for the use of order to promote the re-use of printer members of this association. This guide cartridges and prevent further has since become the sector’s proliferation of these clones. Italian benchmark well beyond the scope of actors (led by Armor Italy) followed the also! ETIRA. AOP is also behind the insertion French example in October 2012. of a chapter into the ETIRA code of ››‘External Stakeholders’ survey at the La Chevrolière site in France Networks of Influence ››Numerous CSR interventions in France Armor is a member of several networks and associations, through which it is also well-placed to be influential: ››Open day for local mayors, • Union des Industries Chimiques and its Responsible Care charter at the Morocco site • Forum des amis du Pacte Mondial, an association aimed at promoting ››Social and sponsorship the UN Global Compact and the sharing of associated best practice actions in Morocco • Dirigeants Responsables de l’Ouest, an association of business leaders in Pays de la Loire and Brittany, federated around the idea of corporate social responsibility as a support to economic performance • MEDEF (French Employers’ Association), the top business network in France: it defends and promotes businesses of all sizes and from every sector of activity, • Club Carbon’At : Association of Bilan Carbone® users in the Atlantic region, • ETIRA : European Toner & Inkjet Remanufacturers, • IePAD (inter-enterprise sustainable business park): an association of companies for the Bois Fleuri Activity Zone Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 2012 activity 22 I nvolvement within the community ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT WHICH BENEFITS ALL STAKEHOLDERS (ARMOR SAS SCOPE) Industrial investments Subsidiaries: and reserves: €11.1 M 6% of turnover is invested Income from equity investments: in the company. €4.5 M Because they are already using quality management and implementing actions in favour of employee safety and the environment, the subsidiaries gradually become involved in the Group’s CSR process. Customers: €214 M (Armor Group) €178 M (Armor SAS scope) + 8.5% in comparison with 2011 Each year, the Group’s CSR Strategy is presented to its main customers as an integral part of the Group’s 58% is returned to appeal and competitiveness. stakeholders Employees: €35.7 M 1 Beyond their pay and the associated employer contributions, 1 2 3 4 5 the 628 employees of Armor SAS have the advantage of social benefits, an incentive plan, and a PEE (savings) / PERCO (pension) plan with the company making additional contributions. These benefits were subject to agreements signed with personnel representatives. Equity providers: €4.5 M 2 Armor SA reimbursed €4.5 M of the debt incurred Company: €2.4 M in connection with its acquisition in 2008. 4 Armor’s economic health benefits communities via the payment of taxes and duties, and through financing Suppliers: €60 M philanthropy actions. Armor also receives subsidies. 3 (raw materials) more than 620 suppliers in France. Every year, Armor’s strategic suppliers attend a Team Banks: €3.1 M Meeting to share the Group’s strategy as well as its 5 The amount includes financial fees, repayment of debts expectations in terms of corporate responsibility. and financing received. REPORT SCOPE This Corporate Social Responsibility which the Group is a signatory. numbers of indicators that have been report covers all Armor Group operatioconsolidated using the metric system, Although the structure has been guided nal sites with the exception of the Artech across its full scope. by the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Moravia subsidiary in the Czech Republic, international profile disclosure report, The GRI coverage index and correswhich was acquired in 2010. this report concentrates on portraying pondence with the Global Compact is For the fourth consecutive year, this the significant impacts and efforts of the accessible at www.armor-group.com report is our Communication On ProGroup, without breaching the level of (self-assessment of the level of applicagress (COP) made in 2012 on the ten confidentiality demanded by competitive tion of the GRI framework: C). principles of the UN Global Compact, to considerations. It includes increasing Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 2012 activity 23 Humanism Innovation Commitment Customer service Humanism Innovation Commitment Customer service Humanism Innovation Commitment Customer service Humanism Printed with vegetable-based inks by Goubault Imprimeur ISO 14001 PUB935 ARMOR SAS 20 rue Chevreul CS 90508 44105 Nantes cedex 4 Tél. +33 (0) 2 40 38 40 00 Fax +33 (0) 2 40 38 40 01 armor@armor-group.com www.armor-group.com MIX Paper from responsibles sources
