ARGE CONSULTING COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2012 PERIOD Communication on Progress-2012 Contents ABOUT THE REPORT .......................................................................................................2 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ..................................................................................................3 ABOUT ARGE CONSULTING ............................................................................................4 STRATEGY .....................................................................................................................10 BUSINESS EXCELLENCE ..................................................................................................10 INSTITUTION BUILDING ................................................................................................11 SHAPING THE FUTURE ..................................................................................................11 SUSTAINABILITY ...........................................................................................................13 RISK MANAGEMENT .....................................................................................................15 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH at ARGE Consulting ........................17 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES………………….…………………………………………………………22 ARGE CSR Yearbook......................................................................................................28 GLOBAL COMPACT NETWORK IN TURKIYE ...................................................................31 RIO + 20 ........................................................................................................................34 CVA ...............................................................................................................................35 TURKISH MANAGEMENT CONSULTANTS ASSOCIATION (YDD) .....................................39 ARTICLES FOR IMPROVING MANAGEMENT QUALITY ...................................................40 MICRO LOAN ENTREPRENEUR AWARD MODEL ............................................................41 PUBLICATIONS ..............................................................................................................42 PARTNERSHIP WITH NGO’s ..........................................................................................45 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ........................................................................................47 GRI Index Evaluation of Sustainability Report in 2012 ..................................................48 “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 ABOUT THE REPORT ARGE’s COP for 2012 is prepared to; Evaluate the economical, environmental and social effects created by its activities, Target the actions for reducing the probable negative effects to a minimum degree, Compare, monitor and better the performance of sustainability, And to share the results with all the Stakeholders. The prior ARGE COP for 2011 has been released in April 2012. UN Global Compact ARGE, has signed the UN Global Compact in 2002 and has declared to apply the 10 main principles concerning human rights, labor, environmental and corruption malpractices. This report also has the feature of Communication on Progress. GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) ARGE Communication on Progress Report has been prepared according to the basis of GRI Reporting Initiative Index (G3.1). This report offers the companies a framework which they can prepare their own report on the sustainability activities and results in economical, environmental and social areas. (Details for the GRI) “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 Chairman’s Message ARGE works with the mission of improving management quality. ARGE believes that society’s well being can be increased only if management quality of government, private sector, and civil society is improved. The role of a business is to make sustainable improvements in the quality of life in the community. ARGE Consulting, not only helps its clients create value for their own shareholders, customers, and stakeholders but ARGE is also a catalyst to promote appropriate behaviour for responsible entrepreneurship, thereby helping improve the quality of life and improve the awareness level in business and community. In 2012, we continued our voluntary activities, such as serving on the boards of numerous NGOs; managing and providing guidance for the evaluators of award processes of OSGD and Citibank –Micro Credit; wrote and shared articles to introduce new management ideas and concepts to our society. We have also been active in numerous international organizations such as the Global Corporate Governance Forum and representing the business world in governance matters at the OECD to improve the quality of governance throughout the world; as well as publishing a published a new articles published in ………. Also in 2012, we continued to lead the Global Compact activities by assuming the role of National Representative of UN Global Compact. Since our aim is to increase the impact of voluntary activities, and feeling great responsibility by being the Representative, we have been trying to increase the number of signatories and the effectiveness of the Network. The Sectorial Approach, which was designed and implemented first by Turkish Network, has been defined as an important milestone in Global Compact Activities. We try to improve and share knowledge about good governance with society by our volunteer activities. With this report, we share our corporate social responsibility activities for the period of the year 2012. Dr.Yılmaz Argüden Chairman April 2013 “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 About ARGE Consulting • At the crossroads between Europe and Asia, Turkey is not only experiencing the highest GNP growth rates among OECD countries, but is also realizing the benefits of her privileged ties to European, Middle Eastern, and Central Asian countries. As a matter of fact, Turkey is rated as one of the leading emerging markets in the world. • Realizing the growth potential for international business in the Turkish and related markets, ARGE was founded in 1991 to provide advisory services in the areas of business strategy development and implementation, business excellence methodologies, evaluation and development of investment projects, development of organizational infrastructure, change management. • ARGE‘s consultants are recruited based on several factors some of which are unconventional for such firms. For example, ARGE prefers employees who are either current members of NGOs or who wish to undertake such social commitments outside of work to ensure that its employees are in tune with the social environment, as well as the business environment. • ARGE has been a pioneer in setting a benchmark for corporate volunteerism by asking consultants to devote a full day of each working week for voluntary work in NGOs. This practice then has become a part of the performance evaluation of ARGE consultants, who were asked to report once every two weeks on how they allocated their time to volunteer activities. This practice is in line with ARGE’s use of the Balanced Scorecard methodology to ensure that its strategies are applied throughout the organization. With this methodology, all of the employees’ actions are observed with scorecards and timetables. Also, each ARGE consultant receives one month of training per year to keep abreast of the latest developments in his/her field of specialization. ARGE is committed  To add value to the business of its clients,  To provide the right team of experts for each project,  To provide solutions that differentiate its clients in the marketplace, with special emphasis on implementation under local conditions,  To retain its objectivity and independence of its views, and to protect client confidentiality.  Industry expertise in areas such as energy, financial services, textiles, automotives, FMCG, manufacturing, distribution and construction is the fundamental strength of the company. ARGE also has a network of collaboration arrangements with organizations and affiliates in Turkey, Europe, and USA to bring together relevant necessary experience to its ongoing projects.  ARGE’s strives to achieve a major improvement in its clients’ business results. We believe that there are four main factors that affect business results. These are the business strategy and business excellence methodologies necessary to effectively implement the strategy, human resources, and technology management. Sustainable business results are achieved only when these four factors are considered as a whole and in a well-balanced way. Our approach is to try and balance all the four factors to suit the requirements of our clients in order to achieve the best, world-class results. “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 ARGE’s Mission To create value by improving management quality. & Vision To be a role model in creating value for its clients and with its contributions to the community. ARGE Values & Principles Our mission is to create value. ARGE continuously strives to add value to the business of its clients. We do our utmost to provide 'the best' solutions in every project we undertake Our most important asset is the trust of our clients. ARGE is committed to keeping the interests of the client above all. Protecting client confidentiality, maintaining the objectivity and independence of our views, and avoiding any conflict of interest are our key principles. We demonstrate the same integrity, business ethics, and diligence in our work, in community services, and in our personal lives. The assurance of our work is the quality of our people. ARGE strives to attract the best people and to create an environment of mutual trust and team spirit to foster continuous development of its people. We expect each member of our team to demonstrate self respect, respect for others and the environment The assurance of our future is our passion for learning. ARGE supports the development of knowledge, competence, and creative abilities of each team member; and expects them to do so, both on an individual and organizational level. We strive for effective utilization of the ultimate non-renewable resource, time Science and technology are essential in improving the quality of life. ARGE continuously strives to anticipate the ever-changing needs of its clients, and to keep abreast of scientific and technological developments as well as best benchmarks, to meet those needs. Imagination is the key to creativity and leadership. ARGE recognizes that its clients need creative solutions and thus strives to develop implementable solutions that differentiate its clients in the marketplace The key to success is achieving sustainable improvements in competitiveness. ARGE realizes that sustainable improvements can only be achieved through teamwork with clients. We believe that our clients’ success will lead to a better quality of life for the community and humanity. “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 Business Impact ARGE Consulting has performed more than 25 projects in 2012 to the customers which has active and important impact in various industries with more than 30.000 employees. ARGE’s focus is to leverage our management expertise to help our clients and NGOs maximize their impact on the community. Aluminium Fragnance Glassware & Aroma Durable Petroche Consumer mical Goods Lock Tourism ARGE Battery Education Electric Insurance Motors Constructi on Energy Textile . We also should add that ARGE sees each project as a new opportunity not only to make business better but also to open new windows, widen directors and managers’ perspectives about environmental and social issues. We draw attention to these issues especially in our interviews and meetings. “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 Examples of projects that were conducted in 2012 where we have improved the awareness of our clients for CSR activities are as follows: Project Number of people in Sector Project Name No the Organization Developing Human Resources 1 Manufacturing; glassware 17,000 Systems 2 Petrochemical industry Institutional development Identifying development 3 Manufacturing :Aliminium 400 strategy&implementations 4 Energy 200 Institutional development Identifying development 5 Manufacturing; glassware 500 strategy&implementations and performance system 6 Electric Motors 800 Corporate Governance & HR Corporate Governance & 7 Textile 1000 Organization 8 Construction 600 Corporate Governance & HR Fragnance & Aroma 9 100 Institutional development Manufacturing 10 Battery Manufacturer 440 Strategy Deployment NGO – Health and 11 150 Mission & Vision setting Education HR systems and strategy 12 Insurance 500 deployment 13 Durable Consumer Goods Institutional development – 14 Lock Manufacturer Quality Export Processing Zone 15 Corporate Governance Management 16 Construction 200 Mission& Vision & Organization 17 Limak Corporate Governance 18 Mining Corporate Governance 19 Tourism Corporate Governace & HR Holding ; Cement, Port, 20 Construction, Food, Corporat Governance Aviation “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 ARGE’s BUSINESS MODEL Strategy Business Institution Shaping Sustainability Risk Excellence Building the Future Management Strategy Assessment of Human Structuring Development Business Resources Community Strategy Definition of Effectiveness Management Contribution Development Risk and Risk Systems Assesment Strategy Total Quality Organizational Developing Implementation Management Structuring Partnership Strategy Risk (Balanced Alignment Management Scorecard) (Balanced Strategy Scorecard) Strategic Process Social Alliances Efficiency Corporate Governance LCA Analysis Risk Analysis Governance and Consultancy Post Merger Value Institutional NGO Integration Management Development Effectiveness IIRC Risk for Family Methodology Management Businesses Support Systems Scenario Reengineering Intellectual Social Planning Capital Support Management Projects Country Strategy “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 STRATEGY For organizations, it is critical Strategic Planning Methodology to define and implement External Environmental Analysis Strategies Strategic Plan General Financial Opportunities and Risks proper strategies to make sure • Markets and Customers • Competitiors Performance •Growth, downsizing, mergers, acquisition Content • Priorities and Position • Technology –Business Unit that they focus their energies • Economy • Political Developments Priorities and Position •Markets, customer –Market –Product –Services segments, products and on “Doing the Right Business”. Vision & Mission Main Business Objectives services • • Competitive Advantage External Strategy Sources of Competitive • Internal Strategy • Reason for existence Priorities Advantage • Strategic Cohesion Organizations having clearly Internal Analysis • Compatible Brand, Service, Customer, • Production costs •Costs / Value / Differentiation Plan Technology, • Level of service • Leadership defined their purposes Strengths and Weaknesses Organizational Dimension Geography • Values • Customer satisfaction • ... External Strategies •Product • Objectives • Main subjects: Who, What, • Company Culture •Service When (mission) and targets which • Organizational Structure • Management Practices •Distribution •Pricing • Human resources • Critical performance • Systems •Trust indicators they intend to reach (vision), Other Major Issues •Image •Advertisement • Coordination elements /Introduction have to determine a road map • Efficiency • Financial Performance Internal Strategies Measurement and Assessment • Profitibality of Assets (strategy) in order to achieve • Profitability of Customer Segment • Perfomance of New Brands •Employees and Talents •Organizational Structure • Business Unit Performance Card • Personal objectives •Information Technologies • Rewarding them. • Quality •R & D •Quality •Facilities With ARGE strategy services, we help companies to gain a Where are we? Where do we want to be? How do we get there? Who should do what? How can we track changes? sense of direction by mobilizing our modern management concepts, methodologies, and experiences; considering their business area, scale, and structure. During the strategy implementation phase, we help companies through our experience in proven Balanced Scorecard Applications. BUSINESS EXCELLENCE “Doing the Business Right” for determined business targets provides methodologies for efficient and effective use of resources for organizations. Competition parameters in different characteristics in different sectors made efficiency an indispensable working principle. This understanding, demonstrated the importance of process oriented point of view and made holistic view a necessity in the management of organizations. “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 As ARGE, our well rounded experience in various sectors, generates value for organizations in process re-engineering and in management quality. Organizations that we have supported in Total Quality Management concept have gained important achievements in their applications for National Quality Awards and in EFQM processes which positively affected their business results. INSTITUTION BUILDING The main purpose of our institution building services is to achieve a sustainable organizational structure and culture “to ensure continuity.” We help institutions build sustainable governance systems involving the stakeholders, the board and the top management for public companies as well as family businesses. Our methodologies help implementation of effective use of human resources by development of human resource management systems and development of intellectual capital of organizations with appropriate measurement methods. SHAPING THE FUTURE Shaping the future requires an approach that is based on common values and principles, regardless of whether it involves the future of an individual, a company, a NGO, a government, or even humanity. Also, we need to realize that the people are the basis of all institutions and we all have multiple roles. Therefore, adhering to these common values and principles enables us to behave consistently in different roles. This understanding requires us to create a positive return for each resource we utilize, regardless of the ownership of that resource; to be fair in sharing the returns; and to continuously improve the management quality in all institutions we are involved with. The basis of this understanding can be found at the intersection of western analytic thinking and eastern spiritual and holistic outlook. It involves the tradition of tolerance prominent in Anatolia, the crossroads of civilizations; creation of value and sharing it with an attitude of “Regard the other, as you regard yourself;” and assuming responsibility for the future. In short, having a meaning in life is making meaningful contributions to others. The basic principles of shaping the future could be summarized as follows: First, those who wish “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 to shape the future have to have a dream about the future and develop thoughts and content for the desired future. Real results are achieved not by solving problems, but by catching the opportunities. “Luck favors the prepared mind.” This is the essence of shaping the future. Shaping the future is preparing the mind, the behaviour, and the attitude for the future. Second, the desired future has to create a value. Value creating activities, that utilize the resources effectively, tend to have a higher success rate. Innovation is the engine of development and value creation. Therefore, shaping the future requires innovative thinking and vision. Third, those who wish to shape the future has to have a realistic assessment of the resource needs and how to gain access to them. In particular, one has to realize that resources are not solely, or even mainly, within the organization but rather outside the organization. Therefore, an open mind for cooperation, a commitment to meritocracy, development of the best, and fairness in sharing are the keys to mobilization of adequate resources. Those who focus only within the organization, as it is the familiar territory, are likely to have a limited vision and will be unable to achieve a broad acceptance of the vision and mobilization of resources. Fourth, shaping the future requires a broad understanding of the environment, which in turn can only be achieved by those who have a passion for learning and continuous improvement. Those who are keen observers of the world, of the technological developments, of the resources, and their team are more likely to identify the important steps needed to shape the future. Fifth, shaping the future requires creating trust and effective communication of the vision in order to win the hearts and minds of the decision makers regarding the required resources and those who are subjects of the change initiative. Sixth, we have to realize that shaping the future starts with changing our own current behaviour. Achieving a consistency in thought, values, and behaviour is the best way to gain trust. Assuming responsibility for the future and utilizing all the resources solely for the stated vision is the surest way of mobilizing others’ resources for the vision. Last but not the least, shaping the future requires a long term focus and discipline. It requires practising for a marathon, not for a 100m sprint. Positive attitude and living a balanced life increases longevity and strength to realize the vision. We, at ARGE share our professional experience with seminars, conferences, and strive to put theory into practice by contributing to numerous NGOS. “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability is one of the major strategic issues of 21 century. Sustainability is the continuous improvement of business operations to ensure long-term resource availability through environmental, socially sensitive and transparent performance as it relates to consumers, business partners and the community. Environmental Social Economic *Adams W.M (2006) The Future of Sustainability Re-Thinking Environment and Development in Twenty-First Century Report of the IUCN( International Union for Conservation of Nature) Reowned Thinkers Meeting 29 31 January 2006 When sustainability implemented fully; it drives a bottomline strategy to save costs, a top line strategy to reach a new customer base, a talent strategy to get, keep and develop employees, customers and community. The goal of sustainability is to increase long-term shareholder and social value, while decreasing industry’s use of materials and reducing negative impacts on the environment. “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 Society & Environment Market Regulations Company Sustainability should be at the core of the organization’s strategy so that it can adapt itself to changing business and social environment. ARGE has an important expertise in strategy development. This expertise will create a strong base in advicing on sustainability strategy formulating, developing for business entitites. All these efforts will help to transform and change business and society. ARGE services includes LCA analysis, strategy development, alignment of sustainability actions to main strategy, creating a base for integrated reporting system. “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 RISK MANAGEMENT The financial crisis and its rippling effects on the wider corporate sector have prompted companies to rethink how they govern and manage the risk. The challenge to boards and senior management is to balance risk with acceptable reward, to create value without hazarding the enterprise. Risk management strategy must be aligned with the strategy. The risk management policies must be determined to reach the defined goals of strategy. ARGE helps companies to identify their risks, the effects of risk to the institutions and how these risks could be managed. Firms need a system to manage and mitigate the risk. The basic model below includes boards at the top, internal audit and control structures and all departments and processes. Risk Model is; Strategy goals and Risk Identification Definition of Improvements Risk and Measurement BOARD INTERNAL AUDIT INTERNAL CONTROLS* Definition of System Review Control and Mechanism Reporting and Mitigation Control Actions Pur aim is to improve risk management capability in the business. *Marsh Principles of Risk Management Presentation made on 28 February 2008, Istanbul “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 OUR HUMAN RESOURCE POLICIES ARGE’s policy is to attract the best people and to create an environment of mutual trust and team spirit to foster continuous development of its people. We expect each member of our team to demonstrate self respect, respect for others and the environment. ARGE supports the development of knowledge, competence, and creative abilities of each team member; and expects them to do so, both on an individual and organizational level. We strive for effective utilization of the ultimate non-renewable resource, time. ARGE believes in leading by example. We demonstrate our corporate social responsibility, by encouraging all our consultants to devote a full day of each week for voluntary work in NGOs to improve the quality of life in our community with a local, national, and global perspective. “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Approach at ARGE Consulting Corporate Social Responsibility has been at the core of ARGE’s philosophy ever since its inception and is a core value of its governance perspective. As the first Turkish signatory, ARGE supports the Global Compact and integrates the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact in its operations. UN Global Compact Principles are accepted as minimum norms at ARGE. The UN Global Compact Principles compose a fundamental part of ARGE’s vision, since ARGE is founded with the vision to strengthen corporate social responsibility. Beyond ARGE’s alignment with the ten UN Global Compact Principles, ARGE’s activities are intended to promote and develop the Corporate Social Responsibility concept and corporate governance principles in companies and NGOs, throughout Turkey. For this purpose, we have some keys for success; • For Value Creation – Utilize skills and/or systems developed to improve management quality by establishing focus in line with corporate values and mission. • For Impact – Cooperate with NGOs and develop their institutional capabilities for better acceptance and mobilization of larger resources. Projects conducted vis-à-vis NGOs are widely accepted rather than just being individual company actions. • For Sustainability – Apply good governance principles to CSR projects and NGOs. • Being creative and proactive in thinking. • Working with the parties that implement the Global Compact. • Working on a project or with a party if there is a potential to add value. • Improve Recognition of Best Practices. One of ARGE’s major tools to promote corporate social responsibility is its partnership with several NGOs that are very effective in their areas of operation in Turkey. As a result of its vast amount of experience in the area of management consultancy, ARGE supports the operations of NGOs in the areas of institution building, strategy formation, and total quality management. In this respect, in line with its mission and vision, ARGE aims to promote corporate social responsibility among other organisations and integrate its management consultancy experience within its projects in partnership with its network of clients and other NGOs. Our main aim is to improve Corporate Governance, Sustainability and Business Practices of served customers. “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 ARGE Consultants look for getting big impact too in their volunteer activities. To do so, they take leadership role in volunteer associations such as GC Turkey Network, Corporate Volunteer Associations; developing environmental impact model, micro loan entrepreneur award models; write articles, books to contribute society, give lectures, attend panels. All of these activities had positive impact on tens of thousands of people’s lives. Bringing Management Quality to Turkey Promoting Volunteerism in Corporate Sector ARGE Leading the UN Global Compact Developing a world class Corporate Governance Methodology Six main areas which ARGE has impact on Community 1. Bringing Management Quality to Turkey; ARGE has been instrumental in initiating the National Quality Movement and preparing its clients’ management systems that led Turkish companies to consistently be among the top two European Quality Award winners (EFQM) 2. Promoting Volunteerism in Corporate Sector: It is our policy to encourage our employees to spend one day a week on a pro –bono basis for improving the effectiveness of non – profit organizations. ARGE has been recognized for the impact on the society of its CSR activities: a. At the European Parliament by Generation Europe to be among the top three firms to “Shaping the Future” b. By the European Commission to be the only Turkish company featured in “Responsible Entrepreneurship” publication c. As a CSR case study by the Bosphorus University and d. Taken as a “Best Practice CSR’ by CSR4U of Ireland ARGE has also been instrumental in encouraging major firms operating in Turkey to improve their own volunteer efforts by helping establish the Corporate Volunteers “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 Association and developing and running a Volunteer Awards Scheme under the aegis of CVA 3. Leading the UN Global Compact: ARGE has been the first Turkish company to sign the UN Global Compact, and last year our Chairman has assumed the role of National Representative of UN Global Compact. We are currently developing an innovative sectorial approach to increase the number of signatories of the UNGC Local Network. This methodology will be presented at the GC Leaders Summit in New York. 4. Developing a world class Corporate Governance methodology: ARGE values the sustainability of institutions highly and helps them with their governance implementations. Over the last year we have developed a methodology to measure effectiveness of corporate governance and published three books on governance one of which is in English namely, “Boardroom Secrets” that has been widely acknowledged by Davos participants. Also, our Chairman was selected by the Global Corporate Governance Forum to its Private Sector Advisory Group. 5. Developing the Competitiveness Award for increasing the competitiveness level of Turkish Corporations: ARGE consultants took active part in the development, preparation and launch of the Competitiveness Award in Turkey, run by SEDEFED and REF. The award was announced, and will be given in the yearly competitiveness congresses which were supported by ARGE partners since its initiation. This award will be highly instrumental in encouraging and increasing the competitiveness levels of Turkish Companies. The reason for our high impact is the approach we take ; 1. First we focus on developing a conceptual framework for the issue at hand 2. Then, we develop content, examples, and case studies to help our network understand the issue well. At this stage we write articles, books, give speeches, and identify and recruit key players who are likely to walk the talk about the issue at hand and act as role models. 3. At this stage we help establish a specific NGO whose sole goal is to promote the issue at hand and gather support to the idea rather than promoting our own efforts or interests. Issue comes before interests of any player. We also focus on the proper governance of the NGO to sustain intellectual and financial support to the issue by a broad group of institutions. Generally, one ARGE consultant serves on the board of the relevant NGO to ensure appropriate guidance and oversight. “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 4. In order to promote the right kind of behaviour around the issue, we establish a credible award scheme that is judged independently but according to a specific criteria (generally developed by ARGE). Providing feedback to both the winners and losers is a key element of improving future performance. Also a condition for winning the award is to behave as a role model for the issue and allocate resources to promote the issue for at least a year. 5. We measure progress and improve the methodology and our reach through successful implementers to continue to promote the right kind of behaviours and achieves significant development throughout the community Regardless of the content of the issue (Quality, volunteerism, CSR, governance) this methodology helps mobilize the community around desired behaviours and achieves significant development throughout the community. “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 OUR SUSTAINABILITY AND CSR ISSUES IN 2012 We introduced “Blueprint for Corporate Sustainability Leadership” model in our Communication on Progress Report of 2011. We spend an important amount of effort to create awareness in members of Turkey Network. The implementation of the model will improve the alignment of sustainability to business strategy and make it part of DNA of companies. The model has been presented below. Implementing the Ten Principles into Taking Action Strategies and in Support of Operations Broader UN Goals and Issues Engaging with the UN Global Compact “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 UN GLOBAL INDICATORS for SUSTAINABILITY ARGE APPROACH & PRACTICES COMPACT PRINCIPLES Principle 1: ARGE maintains a favorable working The first six principles compose environment and culture by the most important criteria for us Business should support respecting the right to health care, in terms of selecting our and respect the protection right to work on equal conditions, customers. of internationally right to equality, right to freedom of proclaimed human rights expression, right to liberty and ARGE aims to be a role model security. ARGE ensures that its with its contributions to the suppliers and clients support the community. This is an integral same principles. part of our company vision. In this line, we are concerned with the effects of our activities Principle 2: ARGE policies on harassment, as much as we do for the employment equity, safety, health all activities that surround us. We Business should ensure ensure that basic human rights are aim to be a role model both in that they are not complicit firmly respected. our business operations and in human rights interactions with the community. ARGE policy on employment equity We try to develop awareness Principle 3: ensures the provision of good among the students in respect of working conditions in which all these principles. Business should uphold the employees could express their ideas. freedom of association and ✓ Open – door policy effective recognition of the Maintaining a good reputation in ✓ Feedback in formal and line with these principles is a right to collective informal discussions bargaining fundamental element in our ✓ Excellent working conditions operations. ✓ Profit sharing, through bonuses, staff appreciation These principles are integral parts days of ARGE values. “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 UN GLOBAL INDICATORS for SUSTAINABILITY ARGE APPROACH & PRACTICES COMPACT PRINCIPLES The first six principles compose Principle 4: ARGE aims to support and develop the most important criteria for us the potential of all employees by in terms of selecting our Business should support training, motivation tools. ARGE customers. the elimination of all forms strives to achieve work/life balance of forced and compulsory for all staff. Staff is able to work ARGE aims to be a role model with labor from home when needed, and staff its contributions to the can manage his working time on a community. This is an integral project basis. part of our company vision. In this line, we are concerned with Principle 5: ARGE is against child labor. the effects of our activities as Employees are protected by much as we do for the activities Business should support the employment contracts and other that surround us. We aim to be a effective abolition of child social security measures. ARGE role model both in our business labor does not work with companies that operations and interactions with use child labor. the community. We try to develop awareness Principle 6: ARGE provides equal opportunities among the students in respect of at work and takes every precaution these principles. Business should support the against discrimination in terms of elimination of race, gender, age, nationality and discrimination in respect of marital status. Maintaining a good reputation in employment and line with these principles is a occupation fundamental element in our operations. These principles are integral parts of ARGE values “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 UN GLOBAL INDICATORS for SUSTAINABILITY ARGE APPROACH & PRACTICES COMPACT PRINCIPLES Principle 7: ARGE prevents, minimizes and Through our CSR projects, we try to mitigates the negative impact on promote environmental Business should support a the environment. responsibility and work with NGO’s. precautionary approach to We support environment friendly environmental challenges applications through sustainable use of resources. Our publications are available as soft copies at our website. In this respect, we respect the Principle 8: ARGE promotes the awareness – efficient use of resources by raising campaign on environment publishing as proportional to the Business should undertake responsibility in its network and needs of our clients and the initiatives to promote supports all staff to contribute community. greater environment Our working environment has no responsibility negative impact on the environment. We use all resources (office equipment, use of Principle 9: ARGE uses recycled paper, toner transportation for our business and cartridges. ARGE supports operation) efficiently and Business should encourage environment friendly effectively. the development and technologies. ARGE office We have been among the first set of diffusion of environmentally resources are either reused or signatories to the statement for friendly Technologies recycled or granted for other use. “Caring for Climate: The Business Leadership Platform” in 2007. In 2008, ARGE initiated a corporate responsibility project to support the UN ‘Caring for Climate’ initiative. ARGE developed a methodology which will provide a guide to its customers in initiating environment friendly applications in their core areas of competence. “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 UN GLOBAL INDICATORS for SUSTAINABILITY ARGE APPROACH & PRACTICES COMPACT PRINCIPLES ARGE maintains a high integrity and Since its establishment, at the end Principle 10: values based system as mentioned of every financial year ARGE in our vision & mission. ARGE implements right and effective Businesses should work believes it is a role model to other auditing procedures. Our against corruption in all its companies and the community. management consultancy services forms, including extortion include methodologies for good and bribery ARGE maintains a high integrity and corporate auditing. values based system as mentioned in our vision & mission. ARGE believes it is a role model to other companies and the community. “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 ARGE CSR Yearbook 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 NGO Supported Speech about Chariman of ARGE Signed the statement for Leader of GC Türkiye Leader of GC Leader of GC Leader of GC Signed the management – BUMED – CSR in Turkey in has been selected as “Caring for Climate” Network Türkiye Network Türkiye Network Türkiye ✓ Chairman of Global Member of the Bosphorus Barcelona at one of the “100 Steering Committee Steering Network Global boardof University the Global Global Leaders of activites Compact Turkiye Compactthe management of Alumni Compact Tomorrow” by the New approaches for Committee Steering first signatory TEGV (also had Association Summit World Economic expanding network activites Committee Network from Turkey taken role in its for its Forum for his participation Sectoral Approach activites establishment in application commitment to (Automobile, 1995) to the improve the Pharma) National management quality Quality throughout the Award community Initiated the ARGE Actively BUMED won NGO management – Corporate Volunteer Corporate Volunteer Corporate Corporate Corporate National ‘Developing Civil worked for the National Member of the Awards –initiated and Awards –initiated Volunteer Awards – Volunteer Awards Volunteer ✓ Corporate Volunteer Society’ project CVA and Quality Award board of contributed to the and contributed to Third Award Quality – case Study at BUMED management of development of the the development of Ceremony –Fourth Award Awards –Fifth Awards – Sixth Award Movement at Ceremony Award Bogazici TESEV awarding procedure – the awarding Actively worked for Kalder University rewarding best CSR procedure – CVA Performance Ceremony Ceremony (Turkish activities rewarding best CSR indicators and Quality Actively worked for CVA activities reporting system Association) Actively worked for designed in 1998. CVA Active promoter since its inception Developed an ARGE BUMED won “Intellectual CSR activity – project Given lectures about CSR Given lectures about NGO management – NGO NGO NGO training ‘Developing Civil the National Management” manager in TESEV at numerous universities CSR at numerous Member of the management – management – ✓ NGO management – program Society’ project Quality – an ARGE Good Governance and occasions universities and board of Member of the Member of the Member of the board of presented as Award Publication project occasions management of CVA best practice to board of board of management of CVA İnternational management of management of CVA CVA ✓ OECD Business and Universities by the European OECD Business Industry Advisory Clearing House and Industry Committee (OECD private Advisory sector) Governance Vice Committee (OECD private Chairman sector) ✓ Global Corporate Governance Vice Governance Forum Chairman Global Corporate Private Sector Advisory Governance Forum Private ✓ Member of the Board of “Helping you succeed.. .” Communication on Progress-2012 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Sector Advisory Management Consultants Group Association Established Role in the “Change Actively worked Responsibility of the Active role in the ARGE and Microsoft Given lectures Given lectures Given lectures the Corporate establishment of Management for CVA and session – development of ‘ENGAGE on the Road about CSR at about CSR at the Civil Society ” – an ARGE BUMED Participatory Istanbul’ network – a numerous about CSR at Volunteers numerous numerous Management Publication Democracy collaboration platform universities and Association universities and Certificate Mechanisms: NGO’s between CVA(Turkey) occasions universities (CVA) Program at and CSR’ at the 15th and Engage (UK) occasions and occasions Bosphorus National Quality Universtiy Congress NGO Supported Actively Creating CSR activity – NGO management – NGO management – Weekly first page Weekly first page Lots of management BUMED – worked for opportunity of trained a group of Member of the board of Member of the column on strategic column on articles about ✓ –Member of Bosphorus CVA and individual elemantary students management of CVA board of insight at the Turkish strategic insight at University BUMED development for the debating management of CVA business daily, management the board of the Turkish Alumni for employees contest Dünya was shared management Association for business daily, of Kalder its application to Dünya (Turkish the National Quality Quality Award Association) CSR activity – Actively worked Change Actively worked for Chosen as Best Practice Weekly first page Developed Developed Developed Built a library for CVA and Management CVA by CSR4U column on strategic “Microloan “Microloan “Microloan ✓ “Microloan at its BUMED ” – an ARGE insight at the Turkish performance performance Publication business daily, evaluation model” – performance performance ‘Adopted evaluation model” Dünya Second award evaluation evaluation model” – School’ ceremony – Third award ceremony model” – Fourth award Fifth award ceremony ceremony Corporate “Strategic View” “Management of “ARGE Corporate Designed “ “Benchmarking” – Worked on book Published “Keys Social and “Reputation Voluntary Governance Model” – an Environmental an ARGE Publication named “KPI” to Governance” ✓ Published articles Responsibility Management” – Assocations” – an ARGE Publication Impact Model” A new book – ARGE Publication ARGE ARGE Publication Publication of a book on Data Mining” – an “BOARDROOM ” – an ARGE governance titled ARGE Publication SECRETS” published Publication “Boardroom Secrets” English and revised Turkish Speech about Designed a model for Developed Participating as a Creating Creating “Preparing the corporate governance “Microloan jury member to opportunity of opportunity of ✓ Creating opportunity Future of European performance competitions in individual individual Education” at WEF evaluation model” universities of individual and development for development “Enterpreneurship employees for employees development for and Innovative employees Employees” at İstanbul Chamber of Industry (ISO) “Helping you succeed.. .” Leader of GC Türkiye Network The Global Compact National Network is the platform for all signatories of the Global Compact in Turkey which are committed to the principles and practices of the United Nations Global Compact. The Network defines its own agenda and activities according to the local conditions and priorities of Turkey. The Network undertakes any activities considered necessary to promote and support the principles of the Global Compact. The Steering Committee is a multi-stakeholder advisory body that meets minimum twice annually to provide ongoing strategic and policy advice for the implementation of the activities of the Global Compact National Network in Turkey. The Steering Committee is an assembly of five constituency groups business, civil society, labour, government and the United Nations, engaged in the Global Compact and who are committed to advance the implementation of the Global Compact National Network in Turkey. ARGE took an active role in steering committee and Dr. Argüden has been selected to lead the GC Türkiye Network. “Helping you succeed.. .” Global Compact Network in Turkiye The Global Compact Local Network (GCLN) Turkiye was launched in 2002. The network unites a wide range of companies and organizations committed to the principles of responsible corporate citizenship. In the first decade of the Global Compact, Turkish Network has become one of the ten largest local networks in the world and in 2009 hosted the Annual Local Networks Forum in Istanbul. Some highlights about the Turkish Network: • Among top 15 tax paying companies, 6 of them are members • 12 of the top 20 Conglomerate firms of Turkiye are members • Two of the largest Chambers of Commerce and Industry are members. • The largest Chamber of Commerce, The Istanbul Chamber of Commerce represents 27% of Turkish GNP. • The largest Chamber of Commerce and Industry, The Bursa Chamber of Commerce and Industry represented over 30,000 SMEs mainly in the automotive industry. The Turkish GC Steering Committee is a multi-stakeholder advisory body to provide ongoing strategic and policy advice for the implementation of the activities of the Global Compact National Network. The Steering Committee is an assembly of four constituency groups business, civil society, labor and the United Nations, three of which are representatives of large firms (the two largest Turkish conglomerates Koc Holding and Sabanci Holding, and Aksa), two of them are NGOs (Tüsiad and Tisk), and the last two are SMEs (ARGE Consulting and Zed Event Management). The Steering Committee has identified four areas of focus in setting the GC National Network objectives: 1. Marketing & Communication  Tracking efforts  Increasing the sharing culture to become an effective network  Disseminating information from the UN  Organizing seminars, meeting to inform and share latest developments with network participants  Making activities to increase the awareness about GC and Turkiye Network 2. Development of Reporting Performance  COP Tracking/ Guiding  Taking action to develop COP standards  To increase notable COP’s from Turkiye 3. Content Development (Knowledge Creation):  Developing mechanisms to inspire participants for working within the ethical and basic principles (developing an award process)  Publishing periodically, developing literature in Turkish  Taking an active role in developing standards for the network to seek out new developments, support of research institutions and scientific studies 4. Developing The Network “Helping you succeed.. .”  Increasing the number of participants  Decreasing the number of non-communicating participants Global Compact Turkiye Network The Board Members of GC Türkiye are an assembly of four constituency groups business, civil society, labour and the United Nations, engaged in the Global Compact and who are committed to advance the implementation of the Global Compact National Network in Turkiye. “Helping you succeed.. .” Sectoral Approach, which was designed and implemented first by Turkish Network, defined as an important milestone in Global Compact Activities. “Helping you succeed.. .” RIO + 20 Turkish Network of the UN Global Compact organized a panel in Rio +20 Conference titled “Sustaining Life on Earth” and shared best in class examples. The panel was chaired by Dr. Yılmaz Argüden (Chairman of ARGE Consulting) and the participants included the European Parliament Member Mr. Richard Howitt; Mr. Alexis Bonnel from Agence Francaise de Development; Chairman of Uganda employers Association Mr. Martin Kasekende (who is also the UN Global Compact Uganda Representative); Mustafa İlgün from Anadolu Efes, a leading regional beer company; Aykan Gülten from Coca Cola İçecek, one of the top Coca Cola bottlers in the world; Ela Yılmaz Akdeniz from Ford Otosan, a joint venture between Ford and Koç Group and the largest automotive exporter from Turkey; Barış Bora from IÇDAŞ, a leading steel exporter; Dr. Yılmaz Argüden from ARGE Consulting, a global thought leader in governance, quality, and corporate social responsibility; Hale Altan from TÜSİAD, the Turkish Industry and Business Association and Prof. Kamil Sindir Mayor of Bornova. In the panel Anadolu Efes expained their innovative approach to sustainable agriculture; Coca Cola İçecek outlined their approach to employee participation that led the company to have the best performance in the whole Coca Cola system with respect to effective water utilization; Ford Otosan focused on its engagement for bio-diversity protection; İÇDAŞ explained how they have achieved cleaning waste water to be able to utilize it in fish farms; ARGE Consulting explained the importance of social entrepreneurship for sustainable development through the www.ekledestekle.com project; and TÜSİAD explained 2050 vision for Turkey. “Helping you succeed.. .” CVA The Corporate Volunteers Association strives to enhance the quality of life by promoting and fostering corporate volunteerism through the sharing of ideas and information on corporate volunteer management and issues of community concern. CVA aims to promote and establish volunteerism within the corporate community and the community in general. With this mission CVA is giving volunteerism awards since 2007 to contribute volunteerism becoming widespread in the society, rewards the best practices leads more than seventy companies’ volunteer efforts. Dr. Argüden and Pınar Ilgaz both partners of ARGE and also board members of Corporate Volunteers Association. ARGE designed the award criteria and process, lead the implementation, and had an active role in volunteer’s award jury to promote innovativeness, impact, and sustainability of volunteerism projects and programs of private sector companies. In 2012 sixth time, award process implemented. Award Categories A. Best Practice in Voluntary Program B. Best Practice in Voluntary Project C. Best Practice in Creative Voluntary project “Helping you succeed.. .” AWARD Ceremony 22nd January 2013 D. Best Practice in Creative Voluntary project E. Best ractice in Creative Voluntary project Best Practice in Voluntary Program VİKO / Aydınlık Toplum Gönüllüleri “Helping you succeed.. .” Best Practice in Voluntary Project Fiba Grubu/ FİBA Grubu Gönüllüleri – Kırsalda Umut Var Best Practice in Creative Voluntary Project (Mansion) Ford Otosan / Arka Pencere “Helping you succeed.. .” ARGE is very good at designing “award models” and “implementation process”. “Competitiveness Award” was selected as second prestigious award in Turkey by very known business magazin Capital. When “The most prestigious awards of business” is listed, 3 of the most prestigious of the awards were designed and/or have contribution on designing or implementing process by ARGE. “Helping you succeed.. .” Turkish Management Consultants Association (YDD) YDD is a non profit organisation which was founded in 1991 by management consultants, in order to promote the management consulting profession in Turkey, bring management consultants under the umbrella of a single professional organisation, develop standards and norms of the profession, act as an intermediary for various government agencies and departments and establish local and international contacts with other related institutions and associations. YDD is the representative body of management consultants and consulting companies in Turkey. Today YDD’s members are 280, highly skilled and experienced consultants, especially in the fields of designing, developing, managing, evaluating and implementing projects and programmes and designing and disseminating various training programmes. All members are university or higher level graduates. In 2012, Pınar Ilgaz partner of ARGE – selected as board member of Management Consultants Association. She is Vice Chairman and leading communication and award committes. As a committee leader, working on corporate identity, web issues and designing the award criteria and process, leading the implementation. “Helping you succeed.. .” Main Subjects of Articles ✓ Business ✓ Individual Development ✓ Public ✓ Corporate Governance “ARGE aims to increase the awareness of the society and the leaders, to trigger an action for improvement the quality of management / life” Articles which serves some clues for improving management quality Dr. Argüden believes that the most effective way of increasing information is sharing. So, he shares his articles for improving management quality in Türkiye. ARTICLES Meetings & Lectures RIGHT REWARD FOR RIGHT PERFORMANCE – Aligning Executive Compensation with Good Dr. Yılmaz Argüden attended and gave Governance International Journal of Disclosure & lectures in 2012 as follows: Governance April 1, 2013  BIAC – OECD Governance, April Is More Regulation the Right Recipe for Better Governance October 2, 2012 2012 Increasing regulation of corporate governance is  OECD – Berlin – Better becoming a new trend in many jurisdictions. Regulations, June 2012 Yet good governance is more a matter of culture  Leaders Quest – and the climate in which that culture nourishes, Türkiye&Leadership, September than regulation. 2012 Rio+20 was a Bust The Globalist  Project Management Institute, July 11, 2012 World leaders from government, the business Keynote Speaker, September 2012 world, NGOs and academia gathered at the UN’s  Corporate Governance – Quala Rio+20 summit. Yet despite all the good intentions Lumpur, October 2012 and good ideas arising from the meeting, we are  Meeting with Global Compact unlikely to solve the world’s economic, social, and Azerbeycan Network, October environmental problems, argues Dr. Argüden, 2012 Turkey’s national representative of the UN Global Compact.  Meeting with Global Compact Iraq Network, November 2012  BIAC – Regulatory, Paris, April 2013,  TKYD,  IMSAD,  SEDEFED,  In 2012, Mr Argüden selected for, o OECD Business and Industry Advisory Committee (OECD private sector) as Governance Vice Chairman, “Helping you succeed.. .” o Global Corporate Governance Forum Private Sector Advisory Group membership “Our mission is to create value” Developing micro loan entrepreneur award model ARGE helped to develop model for assessing micro loan project for low-income entrepreneurs for Citibank. Since ARGE has deep experience in developing models and establishing a process for award mechanisms, the Citibank Award Advisory Committee asked ARGE for help. With a perspective of sustainability and continuous development principles we defined parameters and designed data base format. This model and data base format will be used for the next years’ award process. In 2012, nearly 3.000 contestants were evaluated by our evaluation model between ages 2372 in five different categories; financial success, social impact, vision, individual contention and hopeful entrepreneurship. We are proud of being a partner of such a meaningful award, and having a chance to touch these women’s lives. The project has continued in 2012. …. contestants have been evaluated in 2012. The name of the credit is”micro” but the impact is” macro” “Helping you succeed.. .” Publications: KEYS TO GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC LEADERSHIP FOR QUALITY IF LIFE Dr. Yılmaz ARGÜDEN Good governance is the key to sustainability of our organizations and success of humanity in improving quality of life for all citizens of our world. Governance is much more than just the structure, processes, and rules of decisionmaking and controls. Good governance is a culture and a climate of Consistency (predictability), Responsibility, Accountability, Fairness, Transparency, and Effectiveness that is Deployed (subsidiarity1) throughout the organization (the ‘CRAFTED’ principles of governance.) With both meanings of the word subsidiarity: (i) As a principle of social doctrine that all social bodies exist for the sake of the “Keys to Governance” 2011 individual and therefore social institutions should not take over what individuals can do by themselves, and (ii) In political “Boardroom Secrets” 2009 systems, the principle of devolving decisions to the lowest practical level, empowerment. “Benchmarking” 2009 Good governance starts with the individual and is applicable in all types of organizations, starting from the family and “Data Mining” 2008 extending throughout the community, company, nongovernmental organizations, governments at all levels, all the “ARGE Corporate Governance way to global institutions. Model”2007 This book elaborates the keys to good governance. What is interesting is that these principles, despite different forms of “Management of Voluntary application, are common regardless of the size, complexity, Organisations”2006 and jurisdiction of an organization. Furthermore, it requires an understanding of “regarding the others, as you regard “Intellectual Capital”2005 yourself” to become prevalent. This understanding transcends the individual’s interests and requires considering not only “Change Management”2004 interests of others that we share our planet with, but also interests of future generations. Good governance is the key to effective utilization of our limited resources and not only “Strategic View” 2003 improves the quality of life, but also ensures sustainability of “Reputation Management”2003 life on our planet. The essence of good governance is ensuring trustworthy “Corporate Social relations between the institution and its stakeholders. Trust Responsibility”2002 is the foundation of sustainable development. Good governance is the key to establish common expectations, to “Value Management”2001 devise effective policies and processes in order to achieve desired performance levels in a sustainable fashion. “Balanced Scorecard”2000 Governance involves the rights and processes of decision making and exercising controls in an organization to achieve mutual goals. In short, governance is about performance. In the new millennium, societies demonstrate and experience highly creative and efficient forms of governance and they learn lessons from them. In this context, a new type of citizenship consciousness emerges. This new “Helping you succeed.. .” citizenship consciousness symbolizes a new identity that acknowledges its own problems, demands higher standards but at the same time plays an active role in the formation and realization of these standards, that creates solutions from within and that forms the necessary structures for this purpose: in short, this new identity has a determination to shape its own future. To establish these structures, consistency is necessary at a global scale. Global consistency requires a convergence on implementing common values in all aspects of life. The solution has to start at grassroots: if transformation and change can be inspired at all levels of society, the process to shape the future begins. The role of those who do not take part in the process will be limited in a future shaped by others. Thus, for sustainability of our institutions we need to consider new ways of involving all stakeholders in governance mechanisms. The basic element of any community or organization, is the individual. Therefore, the domain of governance starts from the individual and extends all the way to all of humanity, global governance. Good governance takes place at four levels in societal life: 1) Individual, 2) Corporate, 3) NGO, and 4) Public Sector, which in turn has three layers: i) Local, ii) National, and iii) Global. At all these levels, if the stakeholders are driven by common values of having an open mind for continuous learning (curiosity); an open heart for sharing (responsibility); a quest for effective utilization of resources for value creation; and accountability, consistency, transparency, and fairness for building trust, then the fundamentals are in place for establishing the rules of engagement for good governance, paving the path for shaping their own future. This book argues that good governance is key to sustainable development of quality of life, the values and behaviors that drive good governance are similar for all types of insititutions, and if we are to shape our own future, we need to start from the individual and our education systems. It is my sincere wish that this book will be useful in the development of good governance culture, throughout the world and contribute to the establishment of trustworthy relationships between all types of organizations and their stakeholders, thereby ensuring effective, sustainable, and equitable resource utilization to improve the quality of life throughout the globe. http://www.amazon.com/Keys-Governance-Strategic-Leadership-Quality/dp/0230278140 “Helping you succeed.. .” International Certification of Capabilities All ARGE partners and managers are qualified quality assessors and certified management consultants (by ICMCI). “The assurance of our future is our passion for learning.” Opportunity of individual development for employees We believe that the more knowledge employees get the more effective ARGE will be in devising solutions to the problems of her clients. With this motto all employees of ARGE are encouraged and supported to pursue their self-improvement educational studies such as attending seminars, and continuing postgraduate education. “Helping you succeed.. .” Partnership with NGO’s TESEV – The Turkish Economic and Social Studies Foundation ARGE has provided project management and leadership support to our partner NGO –TESEV since 2006, in a project named ‘Good Governance Quality of Life’. ‘Good Governance’ project aims to strengthen governance at the local level by increasing the participatory role of civil society in local governing. The project aims to develop mechanisms to make civil society able to affect decision making processes. The project has been implemented in 6 pilot cities. Urged the integration of the quality concept in good governance principles and practices. The ongoing project is a good example of developing and maintaining anti-corrupt, transparent, accountable, efficient, sustainable practices in public governance – with a continuous will of generating good quality services KALDER – Turkish Quality Association Chairman of ARGE, started the National Quality Movement in Turkey in 1998 while he served as the Chairman of the Turkish Quality Association (KalDer). National Quality Movement aimed to improve the management effectiveness of private, public, and civil society institutions throughout Turkey by promoting TQM philosophy. The National Quality Movement is probably one of the most effective national programs to extend the use of the EFQM model and could provide an interesting example for other countries as well. This project extended the implementation of the EFQM Excellence Model to all walks of life, from industry to service sectors; from large institutions to very small organizations; from private sector to public sector and even the NGOs. Also, a new award category for NGO’s, has been established for the first time in Europe to promote utilization of good governance principles in the NGOs. Within National Quality Movement, 60.000 people have been trained in country wide. Local Quality Days are organized in order to deploy the National Quality Movement country wide. TEGV The Educational Volunteers Foundation One of the foremost non-governmental organization operating in the educational field in Turkey though volunteer participation. TEGV has “Helping you succeed.. .” reached more than 1.000.000 children and young people (ages 7-16) during the eleven years since its foundation in 1995, with the active support of over 10,000 volunteers, mainly between the ages of 18 to 26. TKYD – Corporate Governance Assosiation of Turkey The association plays an important role in promoting the importance of Corporate Governance in Turkey and the neigbouring countries. The association collaborates with IFC and CIPE to improve awareness in the region. The association has good reletions with Capital Markets Board of Turkey ( the regulator) and Borsa Istanbul and OECD. The association is the representative of International Corporate Governance Network (ICGN)in Turkey. The Chairman of ARGE is a member of Advisory Board in the Association. He is also the head of “ Corporate Governance Principles for NGO” task force. “Helping you succeed.. .” Performance Indicators (Revize edilmeli) MAIN ISSUE 2011 Targets & Plans Results of 2011 2012 Targets & Plans Number of Woman Employees/Number of 40% 40% 40% Total employees Absence of working days (day/man) 2 4 2 We sustained We will sustain our fair our fair and Nondiscrimination Fair Treatment and proper policy in LABOUR STANDARDS proper policy in 2012 2011 We sustained We will sustain our fair Fair and systematic treatment our fair and Wages and systematic policy based on performance and systematic in 2012 organizational responsibility level policy in 2011 We obey the legal and ethical rules in line with human rights and prefer to give service We will sustain our fair and proper policy in 2012 to customers who work with the same motto. Worked with We will sustain our fair Recruitment Process Fair treatment designed and proper recruitment Individual development. Training days 20 18 20 HUMAN RIGHTS (day/man) Access to internet, company server/ Laptop for every We sustained We will sustain our Internal Communication employee/ Celebration of our defined policy in 2012 birthdays with a small party and policy in 2011 giving gifts Timesheet a system to plan, record and Motivate for a balanced and efficient time usage monitor hours worked by each employee Level of water consumption (m3) 60 60 Water Usage Level of water consumption per person 4,0 4 4 (m3/person) Level of electricity consumption (kwh) 13.400 13.400 13.400 Electricity Usage Level of electricity consumption per person 893 900 893 (kwh/person) Level of energy consumption (natural gas, 2.000 m3) (heating purpose) ENVIRONMENT Level of energy consumption (natıral gas, m3) Our buildings' heating system is We aim to reduce our Natural Gas Usage (production purpose) for common usage consumption Level of energy consumption per person 133 (natural gas, m3/person) (heating purpose) Level of paper consumption (kg) 140 130 120 We aim to reduce our consumption and Paper Usage Level of paper consumption per person 9,1 Reduced to 8,6 continue to support (kg/person) recycling process in 2012 We are against any kind of corruption and this is at the heart of all our activities and take ANTI CORRUPTION consider into our suppliers and customers We will continue our way of living with high loyalty to our ethical values. approach in this matter. We take outside and independent audit service for our activies. We worked on We will publish a new booklet Keys to about KPI . We will publish a Governance We will publish a new Publishes new booklet to contribute our book and booklet in 2012 society and send out more than published in 3000 readers in 2011 2011 We have We will continue to publish We will continue to Articles published 27 VOLUNTEER ACTIVITIES articles publish articles articles We will give at least 8 lectures in We will give lectures Lectures 8 2011 about management We will continue our We will continue our attribute Volunteer activities (hours/man) 322 attribute with the same with the same passion in 2011 passion in 2012 “Helping you succeed.. .” GRI Index Evaluation of Sustainability Report in 2012 Profile Situation Referance 1 Strategy and Analysis 1.1. Description of management 1.2. Basic effects, risks and opportunities 2 Profile of the Organization 2,1 Name of the Organization *** About ARGE Consulting 2.2. Core brands, products, and/or services. *** About ARGE Consulting 2.3. The operational structure of the Organization *** About ARGE Consulting 2.4. Organization Center *** About ARGE Consulting 2.5. Countries in which the organization operates *** About ARGE Consulting 2.6. The nature of the property and the legal form *** About ARGE Consulting 2.7. Served markets *** About ARGE Consulting 2.8. The scale of the Organization *** About ARGE Consulting 2.9. Significant changes related to size, structure or ownership n.a International Certificate of 2.10. Awards *** Capabilities 3 Report Profile 3.1. Reporting period *** About the Report 3.2. Date of most recent report *** About the Report 3.3. Reporting frequency *** About the Report 3.4. Point of contact for the Questions concerning the Report *** At the end of the report 3.5. The process of defining the contents of the report *** About the Report 3.6. Report boundary *** About the Report 3.7. The restrictions on the scope or limits of the report ** About the Report 3.8. Reporting basics for Joint ventures n.a 3.9. Data measurement techniques and the basics of calculation. n.a 3.10. Reasons and effects of an information given in earlier reports n.a Significant changes in the measurement methods applied for the context of 3.11. n.a the previous report 3.12. GRI content Index *** GRI Index 3.13. Report external content assurance n.a 4 Management, commitment and obligations 4.1. Governance structure of the Organization. *** About ARGE 4.2. The independence of the President of the Board of Directors n.r 4.3. The number of independent members in the Management Committee n.r About ARGE, ARGE’s Mission Mechanisms that provide the participation of employees or shareholders in 4.4. *** and Values, Human Resource the management. Policy The relations between the organizations sustainability performance and the 4.5. n.r compensation applications to the senior management 4.6. Processes blocking the conflicts n.r The qualifications of the experts which direct the organization’s 4.7. *** Human Resource Policy environmental and social strategy The principles, code of conduct, values of the organization and the mission for 4.8. *** ARGE’s Values economic, environmental and social performances. Supervision of the Board of Directors for sustainability performance and 4.9. n.r related risks 4.10. The self evaluation of the board for sustainability performance n.r 4.11. Organization’s approach to precautions n.r 4.12. The Organization's external economic, environmental and social activities *** Business and Financial “Helping you succeed.. .” Profile Situation Referance Impact, CSR Activities in 2012 4.13. Unity and association memberships *** Partnerships with NGO’s 4.14. Organization's stakeholder groups n.r 4.15. Basis of the selection of stakeholders n.r 4.16. Stakeholders communication approach n.r 4.17. Important topics resulting communication with the stakeholders n.r Economics Management Approach EC1 Distributed direct economic value ** Business and Financial impact EC2 Climate change-related financial results n.r EC3 Described obligations of interest plan of the organization n.r EC4 Important financial aid received from the State n.a The comparison between standard entry level salary with the local minimum EC5 n.r wage EC6 Local-based supplier policy, applications, and expense ratio n.r EC7 Local employment procedures n.r The effect in the impact of infrastructure investments and services of public EC8 n.r interest. EC9 Indirect economic effects ** Business and Financial impact Environment Management Approach EN1 Materials uses with weight or volume *** Performance Indicators EN2 The ratio of the recycled materials n.r EN3 Direct energy consumption *** Performance Indicators EN4 Indirect energy consumption *** Performance Indicators EN5 Energy savings *** Performance Indicators EN6 Energy-efficient products and services *** Performance Indicators EN7 Reduced indirect energy consumption *** Performance Indicators EN8 Total water withdrawal from the resources *** Performance Indicators EN9 Water resources affected by the withdrawal of water from the resources n.r EN10 The ratio of water recycled and reused n.r EN11 Production centers in the protected areas. n.a The significant effects on the biodiversity in the protected areas as a result of EN12 n.r activity, product or services. EN13 Habitats protected or restored n.r EN14 The strategies to manage the impacts on bio-diversity n.r List of types of living environments in the nationally protected areas by the EN15 n.r operations. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions n.r EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions n.r EN18 Initiatives to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and realized reductions n.r EN19 Emissions of ozone-exterminator items. n.r EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions n.r EN21 Total water discharge n.r EN22 Type and total weight of waste according to the method of disposal n.r EN23 The volume of important debris n.r EN24 International transported or treated hazardous waste n.r EN25 Description of the life environments affected from water discharge. n.r EN26 Initiatives to reduce the environmental impact of products n.r The ratio of sold goods and the packing material demanded back by EN27 n.r categories The number of money values of significant punishments regarding the EN28 n.r impropriety of rules and regulations. The environmental impacts of workforce and the transportation of the used EN29 n.r products, goods and materials “Helping you succeed.. .” Profile Situation Referance EN30 Total environmental protection costs and investments n.r Employees Management Approach LA1 The total workforce according to employment type, contract and region ** Human Resources Policy The total number and turnover rate of the employees regarding age, gender LA2 n.r and region LA3 Benefits provided for only full time employees n.r LA4 The rate of employee covered by the collective work agreements, n.r LA5 The minimum notice period regarding operational changes n.r The representation rate of the total workforce in the committees concerning LA6 ** Human Resources Policy worker health and safety The number of injury, business related sickness, absenteeism rates and job LA7 n.r related death ratios according to the region. The risk control, and consulting programs in application for helping serious LA8 n.r diseases Health and Safety topics in the official agreements with the commercial trade LA9 n.r unions. LA10 The average hours of training per year per employee ** Human Resources Policy Training programs which will support the employees continuous employment LA11 ** Human Resources Policy with life-long skill management programs The ratio of employees receiving regular performance and career LA12 n.r development revision The listings of employees according to gender, age group, minority group LA13 ** Performance Indicators membership LA14 The basic salary ratio of men to women according to the employee categories *** Performance Indicators Human Rights Management Approach The number of significant investment agreements that contain items on CSR Aprroach at ARGE HR1 ** human rights Consulting HR2 The ratio of important suppliers that were scanned for human rightsn.r Total training time of employees regarding the human rights policies and HR3 n.r procedures. HR4 Total number of cases of discrimination and actions taken n.r The operations that carry a significant risk about the application of the HR5 n.r collective work agreements and the freedom of association HR6 Operations which carry significant risk in child labor n.r HR7 Operations that carry significant risks in forced and compulsory labor n.r HR8 The ratio of trained security personnel relating to human rights n.r HR9 The total number of cases of violation of the rights of local people n.r Community Management Approach SO1 Impacts of operations on local communities and regions n.r SO2 Number of the business units analyzing risks of corruption. n.r The ratio of trained personnel with the organization’s anti corruption policies SO3 n.r and procedures. SO4 The actions taken against the corruption cases n.r SO5 Participation in public policy development and lobbying activities ** Partnerships with NGO’s According to the country, the total value of contributions to the political SO6 n.r parties, politicians, and related institutions, The total number of trials concerning non competition behavior, monopolistic SO7 n.r practices antitrust and their results. The number of significant monetary sanctions and monetary punishments of SO8 n.r impropriety of regulations and rules. Product/Service Responsibility Management Approach PR1 Life cycle stages of products and services on safety and health. n.r “Helping you succeed.. .” Profile Situation Referance The number of cases of impropriety on the safety and health of the PR2 n.r products/services during its life cycle. PR3 Procedures for product/service information and tagging n.r Number of cases of impropriety regarding product/service information and PR4 n.r tagging PR5 Customer satisfaction-related applications n.r Compliance programs for marketing communication, related discretionary PR6 n.r rules and standards The number of cases of impropriety to the standards, rules and regulations PR7 n.r regarding marketing communication The number of verified Customer complaints regarding customer privacy PR8 n.r violation or customer data loss. The monetary value of significant punishments on the impropriety of the rules PR9 n.r and regulations obtaining products or services. *** This indicator was fully described and supported by information. ** A part of this indicator was described and supported by information. * This indicator is not documented. n.r Not related n.a Not available “Helping you succeed.. .”
