Company Report Table of contents Robert Bunsen Str. 4 64579 Gernsheim 1. The Company Tel.: +49 (0) 6258 / 94 92 0 2. The Products Fax: +49 (0) 6258 / 94 92 21 www.CompwareMedical.com ˜ MeDoSys e-mail: info@compwaremedical.de ˜ QS Forum ˜ dia Doku 3. Consulting ˜ Benefit from our experience ˜ Competence and knowledge ˜ CompWare Medical offers more than just software development 4. Activities ˜ Concept ˜ Participate on fairs, congresses, conferences and exhibitions 5. Project development ˜ Custom-made solutions ˜ Project development ˜ Software ˜ Challenge ˜ Complete systems or single solutions ˜ Experience is what counts! 6. Service ˜ Competent and reliable service on a personal basis ˜ MeDoSys Service ˜ Service on the Internet ˜ References and Partners 7. The Ten Principles ˜ Human Rights ˜ Labour Standards ˜ Environment ˜ Anti-Corruption 1. THE COMPANY CompWare Medical is an ISO-certified manufacturer of medical devices. Apart from the IT based documentation and dosing system MeDoSys® the company supplies software solutions for documenting and managing therapies of concomitant diseases. Thanks to its well-proven technology and its competence based on many years of experience in the field of substitution treatment, CompWare Medical® has established itself even internationally as a much asked-for consultant when it comes to the implementation of quality-based, law-conform substitution programmes. We are running a branch in Appenzell, Switzerland. Our automatic dispensers are manufactured there. We process also the foreign activities in Europe as well as in Asia from Appenzell. In Monschau, Germany, the sales office of CompWare Medical for Germany is located. Since 2009 we have representatives in India and Nepal. The Manager in charge for Asia is Mr. Meyer–Philippi. Sales Office Branch Office Monschau Appenzell Germany Headquarter: Switzerland Gernsheim, Germany Managing Directors: Günther Kalka Financial Accounting Gerd Meyer-Philippi Representative Asia Haltern India, Nepal Germany Fidelitas Medical IT-Solutions Cape Corlal USA 2. The Products The high standard of our products speaks well for the competence of CompWare Medical regarding documentation, distribution and quality assurance in the field of drug medicine. Complete solution: OST with MeDoSys® is an automatic IT-based comprehensive Methadone Dosing and Dispensing System that includes documentation of buprenorphine tablets to manage opioid substitution treatment for drug users. It has been designed specifically for treatment centers, hospitals, clinics and patients in prison settings. MeDoSys® mainly focuses on three basic essential requirements: • Safe handling of methadone / buprenorphine doses • accurate dispensing and efficiently managing large number of patients • very little medical staff needed. The system is used in more than 200 treatment centers and 20 prisons in Germany and other European countries in Bosnia, Baltic, Austria and Spain. In Asian region already in Nepal and Malaysia. Benefits of MeDoSys® • high safety in handling narcotics • prevention of methadone diversion • safe and efficient management of a large number of patients • very little staff required for large number of patients • high cost effectiveness • very user friendly and easy to handle After the large success of our MeDoSys – Dispenser, the automatic Documentation and Dosing System for Methadone and Buprenorphine, we have decided to manufacture a little Dispenser for small institutions. The Dispenser is determined for 15-50 Patients. In 2012 / 2013 we are adding a solution used in pharmacies. With QSForum Compware Medical has developed an Internet portal for qualified medical personnel, which aims at quality assurance, information and exchange of views among experts. The portal provides an event calendar, latest information on important topics and a platform for discussions. Sensible issues are made accessible to registered users only. diaDoku is an instrument for the semi-automatic documentation of the distribution of Diamorphin. It records the quantities of Diamorphin distributed to the patients via a permanent balance. 3. Consulting Benefit from our experience CompWare Medical elaborates complete concepts designed for the specific needs of our customers and partners. We work out the list of requirements together with their, take over the project development, design marketing strategies and finally realize the entire project. Entrusting us with all these tasks, you will benefit from the many years of profound experience we have had in the health care sector. We are particularly qualified in the electronic documentation and quality assurance in the field of OST drug and substitution medicines. Other basic competences we have our profound knowledge of narcotic drug law and our ability to deal with the specific settlement of accounts in connection with OST patient services rendered by physicians, health insurance companies and pharmacies. Competence and knowledge We are partners of ministries and authorities, international aid organisations, medical institutions, health insurance companies, the public health system and pharmaceutical companies. For all of them we have successfully realized a large number of projects – including medium-sized projects in the medical and health care sector. We will make use of the knowledge and experience gained from these projects when working on the realization of your plans. CompWare Medical offers more than just software development Our work focuses especially on the automatic documentation and dispensing and distribution of narcotic drugs as well as on the IT-supported documentation and quality assurance in the field of OST medicines. We have increasingly been making use of the Internet and Intranet as means to simplify work processes and to assure their quality. Moreover, our solutions on the basis of electronic networks make the exchange of specific expert knowledge and up-to-date information easier, faster and more reliable. 4. Activities Concept The Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ, German company for international Cooperation) GmbH and the German company CompWare Medical are working together in selected South and South East Asian countries within the framework of the Public Private Partnership (PPP) project “Comprehensive Methadone Substitution Treatment”. The PPP project is supporting the implementation and scaling up of national substitution programmes with reliable and user friendly technology, capacity building and technical advisory services. The project complements the tasks of national and international organisations and supports the work of clinics and nongovernmental organisations on order to enhance quality, coverage, safety and cost effectiveness of national methadone substitution programmes. The PPP project is completed. Compware Medical supports the systems for an additional year. Currently the Ukraine is under preparation for 2013. Participate on fairs, congresses, conferences and Exhibitions The substitute medicine is a very important branch, so we try to present our products at as many activities as possible. Some Activities which we have participated: DGS Congress Berlin every year Interdisciplinary Suchtkongress München every year AATOD Las Vegas 2012 ExpoPharm Munich 2012 5. Project development Custom-made solutions We design individual solutions for documentation, quality assurance, accounting and data transfer for the application in the field of OST medicines. Having already realized a large number of medical projects CompWare Medical has gained enormous competence and profound experience in this field. Project development We take over the entire project development for medical institutions, medical and pharmaceutical companies and institutions of the public health system, also providing a consulting service preceding the actual start of the project. Compware Medical designs concepts according to your specific needs, works out appropriate solutions and supports you with the realization of the projects. Software We develop software solutions designed for the individual needs of the users. The software development focuses on specific applications in the field of medicine. Here, our customers benefit from the many years of experience our team has gained during a large number of projects, combining the profound technical know-how regarding software development with the extraordinary competence in the field of medical applications. Our ISO 9001:2000 and ISO 62304:2006 certification also includes the software development. When working out IT-solutions for medical applications, we also consider aspects like data transfer, the use of up-to-date networkand communication technologies as well as data protection. Challenge Projects to be worked out in cooperation with our customers and partners have always been a big challenge for the competence of CompWare Medical. We have again and again mastered theses challenges by successfully providing solutions for numerous application fields in the health sector. The projects CompWare Medical has realized in the field of OST medicines including the treatment of drug addicts are evidence of our success. Complete systems or single solutions We have got the solutions designed for your needs. This is especially true for large Projects such as the revolutionary development of a complex system combining the dosing, management and documentation of the entire substitution treatment with numerous additional functions. But CompWare Medical also supplies intelligent solutions for specific tasks in connection with the documentation and data processing in the field of OST medicine including accompanying illnesses. Experience is what counts! Of course, our project partners benefit from our know-how in medical technology and medical IT-applications with special emphasis on OST medicines. But it is not only the competence CompWare Medical has got in this field that counts, but also the experience we have gained during many years of successful cooperation with our project partners working in outpatient clinics, surgeries, in the public health system or pharmaceutical companies: we have been specialists in medical IT-applications since 1986. 6. Service Competent and reliable service on a personal basis CompWare Medical is always there for its customers. The service we provide for our Documentation and dosing system MeDoSys is available 365 days a year and 24 hours a day, and the personal contact can be reached immediately via our hotline. A competent member of our service staff, who can be contacted easily and quickly, will personally take care of your problems – they will not be connected to an anonymous call centre. This means immediate and effective support by one of our experts be it on the phone, via remote maintenance or through service on site. MeDoSys Service 365 days 24-hour hotline rapid service on site competent and dedicated service staff Instruction, practice, backup on site Periodic maintenance of MeDoSys latest service technologies like remote maintenance Service on the Internet We consistently count on the Internet as a fast and comfortable service instrument. For our product QSForum, for example, you can download the respective handbooks and get information on frequently asked questions. Apart from that, you can reach us via e-mail to ask your questions. References and partners more than 200 treatment centers Prisons German Federal Ministry of Health / Federal Opium Agency Ministries and authorities of other countries Health insurance companies, Germany giz (German company for international Cooperation) GmbH WHO UNODC UNDP AHRN Medical Association WL, Germany 7. The Ten Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally Proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Respecting human rights is natural to us. In our field of activity (Treatment of Drug addicts and HIV patients) observing human rights is a matter of fact. With our activities, we help people who are living in a difficult environment, such as people in prisons or people in poor countries. Our business partners are international health organisations such as the WHO, German Federal Ministries, aid agencies as well as treatment sites and prisons. We make sure that our potential partners are abiding by the human rights. When selecting our suppliers, it is very important for us to guaranty that these suppliers follow the international human rights protection principles. We do not accept business activities with companies or facilities not keeping the human rights. This is reflected in our business guidelines which we have work out together with our employees. We compare the names of our employees, partners and customers with the current anti terror lists. Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour We support a street children project (40 children) and our godchild’s (3 children) in Kathmandu / Nepal. As a result of this project the children’s get access to school education and vocational trainings. At the same time the project prevents child labour. Measurement: 43 children. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation As a German company, we do not only have to stick to German legislation but also to the international business laws. One of our business guidelines is “to help each other and to be on friendly terms with each other”. We condemn all kinds of child labour as well as forced or compulsory labour. We don’t cooperate with companies which do not respect the environment and human rights, do not grant any rights to their employees and tolerate child labour. We do not discriminate any human beings. As a company operating internationally we work together which any person regardless of nationality, gender, age, religion, skin colour or diseases like HIV. Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental Challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. The environmental protection is an important topic for us. It belongs to the defined targets of our enterprise. Our business cars correspond to the present environmental technology. Our main product, a documentation and dispensing system for narcotic drugs like methadone, makes less paper necessary. The components, used for the system, are reusable and recyclable. We have modern remote maintenance systems. When customers have a problem, we can help them from our workplace and do not have to drive with the cars. Even on international territory, this system functions. This saves time and the technicians’ costly travelling by car or plane. We are using videoconference – technique to minimize travelling. Our service technologies are up to date. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Our business principle is against any form of corruption.
