TOWARDS OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE The shift in focus from growth to operational excellence already bore fruit in 2012. Cramo achieved good results, considering the market situation. Proﬁtability improved while gearing decreased. Cramo has proven to have a solid foundation in place for generating value, even in a less favourable business environment. Why did you shift your strategic theme Stig Gustavson: We saw early on the need A wider international spread should from growth to operational excellence? to reach a certain size. In our business – as ideally yield steadier business overall. Vesa Koivula: Cramo has enjoyed a in almost every business – there is a need Right now the whole of Europe seems to period of strong growth since 2005. We for scale. For Cramo, scale means better be in recession, so that aspect is on the have transformed what was a domestic utilisation of our ﬂeet. A bigger rental back burner. And this again has given us company into one of the largest equipment ﬂeet can provide better service to clients. a golden opportunity to concentrate on rental service companies in Europe. Being a certain size also gives us a better operational matters. We believe the best way to increase position when we negotiate purchasing shareholder value is to focus on operational agreements with our suppliers. What does this strategic shift mean excellence − to concentrate on proﬁtability Another aspect relates to our in practice? and stable proﬁt distribution. We also aim international growth. Although Europe Vesa Koivula: We have made good to continue growing faster than the market, functions more and more as one market, progress in increasing internal efﬁciency. but growth is not an end in itself. there are still big differences in business We have been successfully implementing climate and activity between countries. our Best in Town strategy. Our fleet EBITA improved by the end of the year. The impact of efﬁciency improvements started to show in the third quarter results. 31 22 14 17 11 EBITA MEUR 12 AND EBITA % 9 7 TARGET >15% OF SALES Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 10 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS MEUR AND AFTER INVESTMENTS MEUR 138 146 121 77 Both cash ﬂow from operations 65 68 62 and cash ﬂow after investments 27 increased to levels above those before the ﬁnancial crisis. FOCUS ON 08 09 10 11 12 1. PROFITABILITY -55 -96 2. STABLE PROFIT DISTRIBUTION management processes have improved service, with a complete range of modern, On a strategic note I want to mention and our depot network has undergone efﬁcient equipment at reasonable prices. our new approach in Russia. Russian continuous developed. Although some of our employees might market conditions differ signiﬁcantly from With this strategic shift we aim to ﬁnd themselves made redundant in the those in the West. We found that we are optimise our operations in all our markets. process, the end result is a company that too small to carry the inherent risks of That requires further implementation provides good, secure employment. doing business there. We therefore made of the uniform Cramo Rental Concept Our lenders love efﬁciency. Because the unorthodox move of merging our and harmonised processes as well as a the rental business is capital-intensive, we operations in a joint venture with our close stronger expansion of the modular space must maintain good relationships with all rival, Ramirent. In doing so, we created a business outside Sweden and Finland our ﬁnance providers at all times. viable platform for further growth in this than before. Since we want to maintain our Finally, our shareholders have the interesting but difﬁcult market. position as a driver in rental development, right to expect a good, steady dividend we will ensure continuous development of stream – which has not been the case in How would you assess Cramo’s the Cramo Rental Concept. these recent turbulent years. We see it as ﬁnancial performance in 2012? the ultimate goal of our current work to Vesa Koivula: I am pleased to say that Stig Gustavson: When we look at Cramo´s achieve shareholder value. Cramo achieved good results, considering background, many of our depots have a the market situation. Despite increased history as independent companies, with Econimic uncertainty was the driving force ﬁnancial uncertainty and the divestment their own way of handling matters. We in 2012. How has it affected your business? of our modular space production and have naturally strived at acquisition to Vesa Koivula: 2012 started on a positive customised space rental business in make the integration process quick and note. Demand for equipment rental Finland, Group sales remainded at about smooth. Yet it is clear that we still have remained high in most of our market the same level as in 2011. Our EBITA some ground to cover to become a truly areas although harsh winter conditions margin improved compared with 2011, lean and efﬁcient company, with modern slowed construction activity down in and gearing decreased as a result of standard procedures. many Central and Eastern European positive cash ﬂow. I can add that we have countries. During the spring problems in succeeded in implementing our shortHow do you see the beneﬁts from Southern Europe affected the economic term performance improvement actions, this shift for different stakeholders? climate throughout Europe as well as in which were initiated in the second quarter Vesa Koivula: We believe that increased our markets. However, in some markets, of the year. operational excellence and agility will be especially Norway, the Baltic countries I am happy to say that we are one of reﬂected in further enhanced customer and Russia, demand continued to grow. those companies that have been able to service. This, together with more efﬁcient Continued economic uncertainty in the show improved results year after year in internal operations and use of capital, will second half of the year was reﬂected in the this challenging environment. be reﬂected in improved proﬁtability. postponement of investment decisions. At the same time, our commitment to This also slowed down the demand for Stig Gustavson: It is true that 2012 was the United Nation’s Global Compact means equipment rental in most of our markets. yet another difﬁcult year. Still, it is quite working under the UN’s fundamental Meanwhile, market-speciﬁc differences in rewarding to see how we tackled the principles in the areas of human rights, demand for equipment rental increased. difﬁculties. The results, good cash ﬂow labour rights, environmental sustainability However, the demand in our main market and improving proﬁtability, are proof of and anti-corruption. Page 24. areas remained satisfactory. progress. Nevertherless, the Board is fully Stig Gustavson: Efficiency is good for Stig Gustavson: We have certainly not committed to pressing on with further everyone, everywhere and always. been sitting still just waiting for better substantial improvements. We hope the beneﬁts for our customers times. The efficiency programmes will be obvious: Fast and uncomplicated referred to above have been a must. CRAMO ANNUAL REPORT 2012 INTERVIEW WITH THE CEO AND THE CHAIRMAN 11 Cramo celebrates its 60th anniversary in 2012 has been a tough year. What is your trust in us. We will continue to implement 2013. What kind of starting point do you message to Cramo’s employees? our strategy vigorously, excel in our have for 2013 and for the next 60 years? Vesa Koivula: Unfortunately, efficiency operations and adjust with agility to the Vesa Koivula: We made good progress improvements in this uncertain time have challenges to be met. We will work to in implementing our revised strategy, also entailed staff reductions. I am pleased generate value for all of us. as our results show. Alignment of our that the Cramo spirit has remained good in Central European business with the rest spite of them. I would like to thank you all Stig Gustavson: Unfortunately, we cannot of the Group and the change in Norwegian for your strong commitment. We really have promise a better market environment in operations initiated in 2011 have proceeded passionate rental champions. And as the the near future. However, the results of our as planned. Our performance in the Baltic uncertainty persists, I ask you once again diligent work are forthcoming. We are well countries, especially Estonia, has been to stay prepared. under way to further proﬁtable growth. very good, while operations in Switzerland I was also delighted to see that almost I would like to thank all our loyal were terminated. Implementation of our a quarter of our employees enrolled in the shareholders and welcome all new ones. harmonised Performance Management ﬁrst phase of the One Cramo Share Plan Together with our competent staff we are Model to improve efﬁciency at the depot launched this year. The plan is one way to looking forward to a rewarding future. level is also off to a good start. At the reward your efforts in working towards same time, the work to be the industry our goals. leader in responsibility and customer care continued, as the certiﬁcates granted to our Stig Gustavson: We want to take good care Sincerely, Swedish and Finnish operations indicate. of our staff. During the year we launched a With the divestment of modular stock savings plan for all employees. space production in March, we freed up The employee puts aside a certain management resources and capital for our percentage of his/her monthly pay, and Vesa Koivula core modular space operations, the further that money is used to buy company shares President and CEO development of our standardised modular for the employee’s share-holding account. space rental business and its geographical After three years of saving and investing, the expansion. In order to capitalise on growth company is committed to giving one bonus opportunities in the Russian and Ukrainian share free of charge for every two shares markets, we formed a joint venture. owned by the employee. We now have some We believe that we have strengthened 520 new shareholders on our staff. our competitiveness in the past few years We strongly believe in the beneﬁt of Stig Gustavson thanks to development projects based on increasing the “sense of ownership” Chairman of the Board the Group strategy as well as corporate among staff. acquisitions. We are more agile than ever, and we have our contingency plans in What is your message place in the event of a weaker market. to shareholders and investors? Vesa Koivula: As a result of a strategy Stig Gustavson: Our business is closely revision, our focus has become highly linked to construction and manufacturing. shareowner-centric. Our aim is to have Old Europe is still far from complete a stable profit distribution policy with when it comes to infrastructure, housing increased dividends. Our capital structure or commercial construction. And with so is stable and our balance sheet is strong. many sectors opting for cheaper labour I want to thank you for your continued elsewhere, European industry must reinvent itself with new products, new efﬁciency and increased competitiveness. The rental business is simply a very efficient way for a contractor or an Company industrial enterprise to get access to founded modern productive equipment without the burden of ownership. From our present platform of scale and service, a good network and fast procedures, we will claim our fair and growing share of tomorrow’s rental business. 1953 DOMESTIC GROWTH 12 INTERVIEW WITH THE CEO AND THE CHAIRMAN CRAMO ANNUAL REPORT 2012 SHIFT IN FOCUS FROM GROWTH TO PROFITABILITY AND CASH FLOW Acquisition of Theisen Group (2011) MEUR 688 Acquisition of Cramo Group (2006) GROUP SALES MEUR 77 MEUR 54 2000 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 START OF OPERATIONAL INTERNATIONAL GROWTH INTERNATIONALISATION EXCELLENCE Financial crisis 2007–2010 European sovereign debt crisis 2010–2012 CRAMO ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FROM GROWTH TO OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE 13 CRAMO PEOPLE – THE HEART OF EXCELLENT PERFORMANCE At the end of the day, Cramo People are those who develop and deliver operational excellence both to the company and to customers. UNDERSTANDING OUR NEEDS – We have a good, long-term relationship with Cramo. They understand our needs and clearly care about our business. Furthermore, Cramo has without a doubt the best product range in aerials, which is our biggest need, remarks Mr Ivan Bezak, Project Manager at INGSTEEL, spol. s.r.o., the construction company responsible for building a new stamping plant at the vehicle assembly factory in Bratislava for Volkswagen Slovakia. THE RIGHT PEOPLE IN THE RIGHT PLACE – I believe that the further education this award allows will help me to improve my management skills and ﬁnd new and more innovative ideas for our business processes, services and solutions or their implementation that are useful to Cramo and our customers. I also hope to be able to share the knowledge I gain with my colleagues and thus increase our team competence and competitiveness, says Mr Mindaugas Silobritas, Fleet Manager at Cramo Lithuania, Latvia, Kaliningrad and the 2012 winner of the EUR 15,000 Gunnar Glifberg Award. – The training and career development framework is an excellent tool for developing passionate rental business champions, motivation and a good service attitude. It also enables us to ensure that we have the right competencies in the right place, develop competencies where they are needed and recruit the right people in order to achieve our operational goals and ensure high-quality customer service, says Ms Gunta Špīse, HR Manager at Cramo Latvia, Lithuania and Kaliningrad. EMPLOYEES BY COUNTRY (FTE) GAINING INSIGHT 31 DECEMBER 2012 (2011) – It is a great initiative to gain insight in CENTRAL EUROPE 327 (295) our workday and to improve efﬁciency, GERMANY 295 (256) says Mr Henrik Geber, Project Manager AUSTRIA 29 (30) at Peab, one of the Nordic region’s HUNGARY 3 (2) SWITZERLAND 0 (7) leading construction and civil engineering EASTERN EUROPE 623 (589) companies, on Cramo employees working ESTONIA 138 (127) LATVIA 44 (37) as apprentices at a customer site. LITHUANIA 51 (48) RUSSIA 191 (136) FINLAND 452 (647) POLAND 150 (179) SWEDEN 832 (830) CZECH REBUBLIC 39 (50) NORWAY 223 (221) SLOVAKIA 10 (13) DENMARK 97 (124) BELGIUM 1 (1) 20 CRAMO ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Develop Cramo People MOTIVATED TO WORK – The One Cramo Share Plan provides a great opportunity to invest money in the company I work at and increases the feeling of being part of a larger organisation. I ﬁnd the shares to be an excellent way to invest and have a cushion for the future, notes Ms Gintarė Junevičiūtė, Marketing and Communications Manager at Cramo Lithuania. – The conditions for participation were really inviting, so I found no reasons not to. Participating motivates me to invest maximum effort to realise company goals and grow company value, says Mr Aurimas Giedraitis, Project Manager at Cramo Lithuania. The aim of the One Cramo Share Plan launched in 2012 is to encourage employees to become shareholders and reward them for their efforts in working towards Cramo’s goals. At the same time, it builds further on the Cramo spirit, a common interest and understanding as well as strengthening the tie between Cramo shareholders and employees. About 22% of all employees across the Group enrolled in the plan in the ﬁrst phase. Pages 42 and 89. KEY FIGURES 2012 2011 Change, % Average number of employees (FTE) 2,664 2,580 3.3 Number of employees at year-end (FTE) 2,555 2,707 -5.6 Total number of employees 2,637 2,809 -6.1 permanently employed 2,520 2,630 -4.2 temporarily employed 117 179 -34.6 women 375 381 -1.6 men 2,262 2,428 -6.8 Personnel expenses/ employee (EUR 1,000) 54.0 52.6 2.5 Personnel expenses/ sales, % 20.9 20.0 GENERATING IDEAS FOCUS ON UNIFORM TRAINING – Cramopol was found to be a good tool for communicating our strategy and way of AND DEVELOPMENT working as well as for strengthening the Cramo team spirit. At the same time we got Following ﬁnalisation of the core concepts plenty of good ideas from our employees for practical improvements. For example, and models as well as support tools we have improved our spare parts logistics, invoicing and sub-rental processes and templates in all HR focus areas, based on these ideas, says Mr Ladislav Takac, Managing Director at Cramo Czech implementation was launched in 2011. Republic and Slovakia, where Cramopol will be played again in 2013. In 2012 the focus at corporate HR shifted The Cramopol game project received an honourable mention at the Henkilöstöteko to further developing the uniﬁed training 2012 competition, organised under the theme “Innovative solutions for developing and career development framework. the work community” by the Finnish Association for Human Resource Management Implementation began in Finland, Sweden, – HENRY ry and Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company. The jury appreciated Lithuania and Latvia in 2012. the fact that Cramo Group, operating in a traditional industry, has identiﬁed an optimal way to implement their strategy in practice. CRAMO ANNUAL REPORT 2012 STRATEGY / MUST-WIN BATTLES 21 CRAMO CARE – HARMONISED APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY By helping its customers to meet their sustainability targets, developing market-leading sustainability services in cooperation with key customers, offering attractive working conditions and having high environmental standards in its customer offerings, Cramo creates performance excellence and competitive advantages. Sustainability at Cramo means responsiveness to customer and Quality, Safety and Environment policies. Cramo has needs, development of sustainable products and services and developed Group-level policies within the frame of the UN conducting all operations with sustainability considerations. Global Compact and Cramo Care, a Group-wide sustainability At Cramo fair and mutually rewarding relations with program. The implementation of sustainability work is all stakeholders form the platform for value creation and decentralised and adapted to the local business environment. sustainable business. Sustainability management is based on www.cramo.com > Sustainability the UN Global Compact as well as Cramo’s Code of Conduct DEVELOPMENTS TARGETS FOR ASSESSMENT OF IN 2010–2011 CRAMO CARE DEVELOPMENTS IN 2012 PRIORITIES FOR 2013 • A common Become the • Further development of the framework, • Further roll-out of Cramo Care framework for leader in such as identifying focus areas of key • Develop common GRI-based sustainability responsibility stakeholders KPIs and implement them in all − Cramo Care and customer www.cramo.com > Sustainability countries − developed, with care • Step-by-step implementation and roadmap and • Implement model for adaptation of Cramo Care and quality, misconduct reporting organisation safety and environment Action List in (“whistleblowing”) • First implementations operating countries, such as OHSAS 18001 in business plan certiﬁcate for Cramo Sweden, ISO 14001 • GRI-based sustainability carried out in Sweden certiﬁcate for Cramo Finland reporting at the Group level in the Nordic countries • A pilot report • New sustainability section on the based on the Global corporate website • UN Global Compact compliancy Reporting Initiative included for supplier chain • GRI-based reports in Sweden management (GRI) completed in and Norway Sweden GOOD EMPLOYEE CARE GOOD CUSTOMER CARE – Cramo is a company with a good – Our aim is to develop passionate reputation, and our team is great rental champions that understand and friendly to work with. I like customers’ needs and take good care of working at Cramo because it offers them. In order to identify any difference continuous growth and learning between customers’ expectations opportunities. I like to be involved in and our performance and focus our different projects that will enhance development activities in the right my skills, and new challenges make places, we carried out a sustainability work interesting and gratifying”, survey with the Swedish Institute in says Mr Rait Hiie, Depot Manager 2011. As a result, we started preparing of Construction Machinery, with 17 for the implementation of QSE years of experience at Cramo Estonia. standards in LitLat, explains Mr Darius Pages 20–21. Norkus, Managing Director at Cramo Lithuania, Latvia and Kaliningrad. 24 CRAMO ANNUAL REPORT 2012 CRAMO’S ECONOMIC IMPACTS IN 2012 GENERATION OF ADDED VALUE DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE Customers Owners and ﬁnancial community • Cramo provides machinery • 9,096 shareholders and equipment rental, EUR 39.6 EUR 688.4 • Dividends EUR 12.4 (3.2) million rental-related services and (32.5) (679.9) million • Interest on hybrid capital EUR 6.0 rental of modular space million (6.0) million • Over 150,000 customers in 14 countries • Financial expenses EUR 21.3 (23.4) million EUR 112.4 Personnel Suppliers of (105.7) • Cramo employed an average of materials and services million 2,664 (2,580) people • Materials, services and other • Women accounted for 14.2 (13.6)% of purchases from local and EUR 497.9 personnel on 31 Dec 2012 global suppliers EUR 373.6 (534.3) (387.2) million million • Gross capital expenditure EUR 43.0 Public sector and society EUR 124.3 (147.1)1 million (41.9) • Cramo’s taxes, pension expenses million and social security charges 1 Excluding acquisitions HIGH STANDARDS Health, safety and the work environment are on the agenda four – Safety and the working environment have a central role times a year when Cramo and Veidekke meet. in the industries we operate in. We create beneﬁts for both – A unique proactive collaboration with regular face-to-face customers and employees through new sustainable services meetings to also monitor health and safety issues. The most and solutions as well as through concepts to reduce the risk of important thing is that Cramo’s personnel have acted quickly in an accidents, emergencies and injuries. Our three certiﬁcates in the exemplary manner to address issues we raised instead of digging area, ISO 9001 on quality, ISO 14001 on environment and OHSAS “trenches” and meeting only when we have a serious conﬂict. 18001 on safety, show that we are a credible partner, says Ms Cramo’s training of our employees in operating lifts is another Marika Örnstlig, Safety Coordinator at Cramo Sweden. good example of proactive safety work in our relationship, says – Our aim is to effectively minimise the environmental Ms Elisabet Langbråten, HSE Manager at Veidekke Construction impact caused by processes, products and services such as AB, Bygg Stockholm, in Sweden. new energy-efﬁcient modular space solutions. By taking care of environmental and quality issues in our operations, we help our customers to meet their sustainability targets, notes Ms Mirja Juslin, Quality Manager at Cramo Finland where ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 are certiﬁed and OHSAS 18001 is under way. SUPPORTING CHILDREN On the Group level Cramo continued its support as an international partner of SOS Children’s Villages, and most operating companies also participated in more local projects as part of the company’s social responsibility program. www.cramo.com > Sustainability > Cramo Care > Community Care CRAMO ANNUAL REPORT 2012 CRAMO CARE 25
