Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress (COP) SADKO 2012 Our Vision We dream of becoming one of the leading socially responsible organizations that provide high quality, Affordable Price, environmentally friendly products and services in Egypt and the region, while having meaningful, fun and fulfilling jobs doing so. Our Mission We source and distribute Egyptian and international brand name quality home appliances, with an ever increasing focus on environmentally friendly products and processes, to better serve and inspire our fellow Egyptians. Core Values We strive to live them and don’t always succeed but we keep on trying Family Spirit We have a sense of belonging, compassion and empathy for one another. We can trust and count on each other and celebrate each other’s success. Respect Everyone has the right to be listened to even if we do not always agree, the right to freely express their views on all matters that affect them. We treat one another with mutual respect despite our different positions in the organization Authenticity We are true to our selves and others. We are trying to make our jobs meaningful to sustain our humanity and sense of purposefulness in our lives and in the work place. Integrity We work with competence and consciousness. We want to do the best we can, in the best way we can. We do not take bribes or do anything that is unethical. Social responsibility We want to be prosperous while having the good of all our stakeholders and that of our environment equally in mind too. Beauty In all that we do and take an active role in creating it anywhere we can. Our slogan: Your friendly distributer. Sadko Statement of Support Dear Sadko Stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Sadko Company reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In the annual Communications on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Moreover, we believe that the private sector and the civil society have to cooperate with the government (& vice versa) in order to solve all the country’s social issues and hence solve its economical problems. Sincerely, Hadia Sadek Ghabbour President Sadko Egypt 1 Sadko Global Compact (COP)..Conja Feb. 6/2013 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of international human rights within their sphere of influence. Principle 2 Business should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Goals 2012 Achievement Employee development program started and a Thomas course was taken by 15% of employees to enhace their capabilites and help in their career development Assessment 2013 1-Some laborours complain that they work overtime and are not well compensated 2-Some staff treat their colleagues with a little bit of haughtiness Policy 1-All laborours should work equal hours and be compensated fairly if they work extra hours 2Every one respects one another as per our company Values Goal 2013 1Labour satisfaction on issue of working hours 2Fairness achieved 3Reduce number of complaints to zero 4Respect for one another according to our company Values. Implementation 1-HR Manager meets with Managers and laborours who have issues on this point 2Solutions are proposed 3-Compensation System to solve this is put in place 4We have Respect as one of our Values and we will activate workshops to communicate and align on its meaning to all Sadko team Measurement 1-Reduced number of complaints from 50 to 5 2-Everyone of the Sadko team has the same concept definition on how to respect one another and everyone they encounter at work 2 Sadko Global Compact (COP)..Conja Feb. 6/2013 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Goals of 2012 Achievement 1More awareness campaigns and data on Environment through the company newsletter, boards and workshops Done 80% 2More workable initiatives for volunteering will be introduced Done 20% Assessment 2013 1Staff are still not engaged or completely aware of envirnomental challenges and concepts 2Staff are still not fully involved in Volunteer work in the community Policy 1All staff should be aware of priority issues concerning CSR & this will be done through the workshops with a follow up based concept so that staff voluntarily keep in mind energy & water savings in the company. 2All staff lean towards volunteer work and this will enable us to increase participation in community efforts whether in less fortunate communities or in schools. . Goals 2013 1Increase in the number of staff who are aware of CSR 2Increase the level of engagement of the staff in Volunteerism 3Encourage staff initiatives towards energy savings Implementation 1Themed workshops to increase understanding of CSR will start with the aim to prioritize the environmental issues employees are interested in as well as build their Using Team boards to capacity and enhance their organizational ability to develop integrated approaches to announce these various environment management. activities 2-We will activate this initiative to enable them to socialize in an atmosphere of The company newsletter is camaraderie and enhance awareness of our country culture. Trips will be set in another vital source of various cultural locations in the area information 2We are sponsors of ENACTUS Egypt for the Sadko Special Competition on inventing a marketable, environmental friendly home appliance product . 70% done 3The “Kids Corner” is a new initiative that will start as a pilot project in two of our showrooms. The main objective is to embody and convey the child-friendly values of Sadko & introduce some environment issues in games to suit different ages To be done Measurement 1CSR. Out of the 450 staff at least 100 people will attend and know more by Awareness increases by making baseline level of information 50% 3 Sadko Global Compact (COP)..Conja Feb. 6/2013 2Volunteerism. Sadko aims to create opportunities for its employees pertaining to environment, self motiviation, solidarity with less fortunate people, to participate in volunteering activities in our communities as it is an integral part of our strategic Volunteer awareness and planning to increase our role as a passionate responsible corporate citizen. motivation up by 30% 3Kids Corner in the showrooms. Presenting clients with a place where their kids Encourage a larger number can enjoy the time they wait for their parents to inspect, choose a product to buy of clients to visit showrooms 4ENACTUS initiative informs staff of university students & how encouraging them would benefit all sides Ongoing Sadko Volunteer team at Habitat Egypt 4 Sadko Global Compact (COP)..Conja Feb. 6/2013 LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Businesses should eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Goals 2012 Achievement Freedom of association & collective bargaining 1A new Cafeteria has been inaugurated to give staff a place to have a meal and socialize for limited tset imes daily 2A Library has been inaugurated on premises to give staff free time for reading or taking a break or to borrow a book 3This will encourage limited socializing and will give space for some quiet time in the midst of the stress of life in general Assessement 2013 1Encourgement of staff to free socializing and time to relax and proper use of space 2A new dimension within scope of work for staff to break the cocentration & focus & return refreshed Policy 1Strict monitoring of free time 2Staff to adhere to set times 3Set specifications and uphold standard of cafeteria to well serve staff Implementation 1Announcements with code of conduct in both places To be done 2Regular monitoring of the cafeteria & making sure things presented are according to specifications & standards Ongoing, 20% done Measurement A survey will be done to check company morale, cleanliness and service standards for both: Library and Cafeteria To be done 5 Sadko Global Compact (COP)..Conja Feb. 6/2013 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. Goals 2012 Achievement 1Transparency in all dealings within the company and towards Assessment 2013 all stakeholders Staff are not fully aligned and as such, workshops will be introduced to 2Clear communication channels strenghten these values Policy All staff should adhere to company policy related to bribes, transparency in information, & always deal honestly and with integrity towards individuals and organisations with which they transact business Implementation 1We have a policy of zero tolerance. 2Sadko maintains the highest standards of ethics and integrity in all dealings. We work hard to maintain honest and open relationships based on mutual trust, and believe that transparency is the only way forward for a better economy. 3We have integrity as one of our values and we will activate workshops to communicate and align on its meaning to all Sadko team Measurement Everyone of the team will have the same concept definition on how to live by Integity in our business at Sadko, a survey at the end of 2013 will be conducted to better understand impact of those workshops on implementation 6 Sadko Global Compact (COP)..Conja Feb. 6/2013
