LEADING THE WORLD IN ESSENTIALS FOR A BETTER LIFE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT CONTENTS 2012 HIGHLIGHTS ................................ 3 PEOPLE ............................................... 23 PRODUCTS ......................................... 59 Employees ........................................... 23 Innovation ............................................ 59 OUR APPROACH .................................. 5 Training, Benefits & Compensation ..... 24 Packaging ............................................. 63 About This Report ................................... 7 Employee Health ................................. 24 Post-Consumer Waste.......................... 65 Independent Assurance Statement......... 8 Employee Safety .................................. 25 Supply Chain ........................................ 66 Sustainability 2015 Progress ................ 12 Employee Engagement ....................... 28 Suppliers............................................... 67 Sustainability Advisory Board ............... 13 Diversity & Inclusion ............................ 28 Quality & Safety .................................... 69 Stakeholder Engagement ..................... 15 Labor Relations .................................... 29 External Principles Workplace Awards ............................... 31 PERFORMANCE DATA ....................... 71 & Memberships..................................... 17 Community ........................................... 32 Summary .............................................. 71 Governance, Ethics Regional & Brand Initiatives ................. 34 People .................................................. 73 & Human Rights.................................... 20 Volunteerism & Giving ......................... 35 Planet ................................................... 75 Awards.................................................. 22 Disaster Relief ..................................... 37 Products ............................................... 80 Sustainability at Home .......................... 38 Economic .............................................. 81 PLANET ............................................... 39 GRI INDEX ........................................... 82 Fiber .................................................... 39 Sourcing .............................................. 41 Alternative Fibers ................................. 44 Reforestation ....................................... 45 Environmental Partnerships ................. 46 Water .................................................... 48 Community Water Initiatives ................. 50 Waste ................................................... 52 Climate Change & Energy Use ............. 54 KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2013 2 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT 2012 HIGHLIGHTS KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | HIGHLIGHTS | JUNE 2013 3 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | HIGHLIGHTS | JUNE 2013 4 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT brand and employee-led initiatives. Last year, we contributed OUR APPROACH $19 million in cash and $14 million in product donations, in addition to the countless hours our employees spent volunteering in their communities. For a decade now, we have reported on company-wide environmental, social and economic progress in annual sustainability reports, which for the past several years have also served as our communication on progress to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). At Kimberly-Clark, sustainability has always been about doing the right thing. But, more than that, sustainability provides us with several competitive advantages. It earns us a cost advantage through reductions in water and energy use and in waste sent to landfill, which have saved us tens of millions of dollars over the past 20 years. THOMAS J. FALK, CHAIRMAN AND CEO It also secures us a customer advantage. As we’ve found since we began setting goals and reporting our progress against them, Kimberly-Clark is leading the world in providing essentials for a great customers want to do business with companies that operate better life and is committed to doing it sustainably. And we know in a transparent, responsible and ethical manner. that innovation is central to our success, whether we’re enhancing our trusted brands or finding ways to reduce our impact on GRI 1.2 the planet. We try to do the right thing for our customers and our world, and we wouldn’t have it any other way. We’ve also found that, increasingly great people want to work for companies that are committed to environmental and social For 140 years, Kimberly-Clark has provided essential brands that stewardship. Attracting great people who share similar beliefs is people know and trust. From humble beginnings producing paper important for our future success, and new talent bring with them from rag stock at our Neenah, Wisconsin, mill in 1872, today new ideas that help us to get better and better. At Kimberly-Clark, we compete in eight major consumer-market categories, five of we’re continuously improving what we do and how we operate: which we created. Additionally, people use Kimberly-Clark • Advancing innovation through our products. Twenty-two Professional’s products to provide safety solutions and enhance percent of our net sales in 2012 were from environmentally the quality of the workplace environment. Medical professionals innovative products, including the first alternative fiber tissue turn to Kimberly-Clark Health Care for a portfolio of products and towel products brought to market containing bamboo and essential to the health and hygiene of their patients and staff. wheat straw. • Looking beyond our own footprint to our supply chain. Through our Corporate Social Compliance program, which we rolled out Kimberly-Clark created ﬁve of the eight in 2012, we are increasing our confidence that key suppliers are engaging in continuous improvement towards operating in consumer-market categories in which a sustainable and ethical manner. it competes. • Continually striving to reduce the footprint of our operations and raw materials use. In 2012, we announced our intention to transition at least 50 percent of our wood-fiber demand from Being positive contributors to our communities is a big part of natural forests to other fiber sources by 2025. what we do and, for the past 60 years, we’ve provided essentials through the Kimberly-Clark Foundation and many other regional, KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2013 5 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT • Supporting our employees through training and development also continued to adjust to new global economic realities, with opportunities, safe workplaces and fair labor practices restructuring in our North American and European operations. We did our best to balance business needs with our social and In 2012, we celebrated achievements in each of our environmental responsibilities as we closed Kimberly-Clark’s last sustainability pillars: two remaining pulp mills. • More than 12,000 salaried and hourly employees in Going forward, we will find creative solutions that reduce our 66 countries collaborated with each other during a five-day, environmental footprint and encourage our suppliers to embrace online, global One K-C Culture Jam, contributing internal more sustainable practices. We will also focus on sourcing culture-related ideas that will help us improve environmentally preferred alternative materials for our products employee engagement and finding ways to enhance the benefits of our • Introduced safe water initiatives in El Salvador and Colombia philanthropic activities. that, along with our ongoing water projects in India and Israel, helped us meet our annual water replenishment target of As our employees apply their passion and ingenuity to meet 200 million gallons the challenges of today and those of tomorrow, I know that • Yielded revenue of $56 million globally through sales of scrap together we are acting with the same dedication to quality, service and secondary materials, more than offsetting total waste and fairness with which our founders established our business disposal costs of $28 million while reducing our footprint 140 years ago. The world has changed since then. Our dedication to our values and long-term sustainability has not. • Realized more than $1.5 million in energy savings at our El Salvador facility by installing energy monitoring equipment that has enhanced efficiency and allowed operators to adjust energy consumption to avoid peak energy prices • Reached $100 million in sales of our Scott Naturals product Tom Falk line in just five years, demonstrating the competitiveness of Chairman & CEO budget-friendly products containing recycled fiber, including tube-free bath tissue, paper towels and flushable cleansing cloths While we are pleased with our success, 2012 also had its challenges. We fell short of our goal of zero manufacturing waste to landfill. Also, many of the products we sell are single-use and, while we broadened the reach of our recycling and composting programs, we still have a lot of work to do in this area. We KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2013 6 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT Views from Our Sustainability Advisory Board “Kimberly-Clark’s tenth reporting year is a unique opportunity to report on goals and progress, describe challenges, and demonstrate accountability as Kimberly-Clark strives to create zero waste, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, oversee its supply chain on key practices and attract/retain a diverse workforce. To increase its credibility, the report should be more self-critical, clearly describing challenges and missed goals.” Tim Smith Senior Vice President Environment, Social and Governance Group Walden Asset Management We also are working to accelerate our progress by implementing initiatives to: LISA MORDEN • Make visible the value of our energy, waste and SENIOR DIRECTOR, GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY water programs We are living in transformative times that increasingly are • Maximize the use of Continuous Improvement principles and demanding a thoughtful response from businesses to the economic, management systems to identify and increase awareness of environmental and social issues that people face everywhere. environmental savings opportunities and the benefits they generate At Kimberly-Clark, our Sustainability 2015 strategy, under our • Define our next-generation sustainability strategy by identifying People, Planet and Products pillars, continues to guide our work. trends and associated impacts to our business, prioritizing It is informed by the application of the precautionary principle ideas for creating shared value, and aligning them with our at each stage of a product’s life cycle, sets out a clear vision of overall corporate strategies our responsibilities and articulates the goals we’ve identified to address them. In this, our 10th annual sustainability report, Our progress is predicated on the successful engagement of we describe our progress toward them. employees, suppliers, business partners, social and environmental nongovernmental organizations and customers. In December 2012, we engaged a third party to undertake a stakeholder GRI 4.11 interview process on our behalf. Information gathered through that After several months of heading up our global sustainability engagement provided a valuable appraisal of our current initiatives, I am heartened by our progress on many fronts. To sustainability reporting, as well as input into current and future mention just three instances, by the end of 2012 we had engaged priorities for Kimberly-Clark’s sustainability initiatives. To the extent more than 13,000 employees in our Small Steps for Sustainability possible, we have incorporated those findings in this report. program; achieved 100 percent certification of our fiber suppliers through third-party forest management certification systems*; We invite you to join the conversation. Please tell us what you and — while it is only a modest start — made advances on postthink at Sustainability@kcc.com. consumer waste, through packaging reductions and recycling pilots. Lisa Morden As we look further into the future, at the potential risks and Senior Director, Global Sustainability opportunities presented by global megatrends, we are building the long-term resilience of our businesses by driving a culture * Approximately 150 tons of fiber from a specific supplier were not certified, but with rounding of the two-digit data, the percentage totals 100%. of accountability. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2013 7 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT Two Tomorrows was not involved in the preparation of any part INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE of the Report. We have no other contract with Kimberly-Clark and this is the fourth year we have provided assurance. We adopt a STATEMENT balanced approach towards all stakeholders. Our team comprised: Tom Gosselin, Sarah Gudernatch and Natasha D’Silva. Further information, including individual competencies relating to the team can be found at www.twotomorrows.com. Scope and Objectives Basis of our opinion Two Tomorrows (North America) Inc. was retained by KimberlyOur work was designed to gather evidence with the objective of Clark Corporation to conduct an independent assurance of its providing moderate assurance as defined in AA1000AS (2008). 2012 Sustainability Report (“the Report”), as published on the We undertook the following activities: Company’s website. • Review of the current sustainability issues that could affect The assurance process was conducted in accordance with Kimberly-Clark and that are of interest to stakeholders; AA1000AS (2008). We were engaged to provide Type 2 • Interviews with senior executives and managers based in assurance, which covers: Roswell, GA, Neenah, WI, Irving, TX, and São Paulo, Brazil, • Evaluation of adherence to the AA1000APS (2008) principles to understand the top level commitment and strategy related of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness (“the to sustainability; Principles”) and • On site verification at the Company’s Mobile, AL, mill and São • The reliability of specified sustainability Paulo, Brazil, production site to assess the controls and performance information. processes present at the operational level in comparison against claims made at the Group level and to conduct data Claims in the Report, with the exception of financial information samples on indicators contributing to the report; related to Kimberly-Clark’s Annual Report, were included in the • Review of Kimberly-Clark’s approach to stakeholder scope of our assurance engagement. We also use the Global engagement, risk management, strategic development Reporting Initiative (GRI) Quality of Information Principles as and materiality determination. This included interviews criteria for evaluating performance information. with senior managers responsible for engagement with key stakeholder groups, and specific review of stakeholder Responsibilities of Kimberly-Clark Corporation’s engagement activity; Management and of the Assurance Providers • Review of information Kimberly-Clark provided to Two Kimberly-Clark’s management has sole responsibility for Tomorrows on its reporting and management processes preparation of the Report. Two Tomorrows, in performing our relating to the Principles; assurance work, is responsible to Kimberly-Clark’s management. • Review of supporting evidence for key claims and data in Our statement, however, represents our independent opinion and the report; is intended to inform all stakeholders, including KimberlyClark’s management. • Review of the Company’s internal audit process including interviews with the internal audit team to verify the specific competence and audit approach to internal data verification. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2013 8 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT Findings Materiality: identification of those issues which are necessary for stakeholders to make informed judgments concerning KimberlyOn the basis of the work conducted, and with the exceptions Clark and its impacts. outlined below, nothing came to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly describe Kimberly-Clark’s adherence to The 2012 Report is a balanced and transparent communication the Principles or its performance. tool which stakeholders can use to stay informed of the Company’s sustainability initiatives and performance. Observations Without affecting our assurance opinion, we also provide the Strengths: Through its current stakeholder engagement efforts, following observations on Kimberly-Clark’s adherence to the three Kimberly-Clark has demonstrated that it has established Principles and on the published performance information: processes for identifying the issues stakeholders view as significant. Looking forward, we believe that completing the Inclusivity: the participation of stakeholders in developing and materiality process will support the prioritization of issues most achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability. significant to both Kimberly-Clark and its stakeholders and can ensure that these issues are adequately addressed in the In 2012, Kimberly-Clark conducted the first half of a formal sustainability report. Kimberly-Clark will be able to analyze materiality process and interviewed 40 key stakeholders on the feedback systematically and effectively balance potentially sustainability initiatives most important to them. The Report divergent stakeholder priorities. content addresses much of the resulting feedback. Results and progress against 2015 goals are clearly presented within a more Opportunity for Improvement: The Company can benefit from concise Report. contextualizing the data captured against units of production or relevant metrics. Reporting performance both in terms of absolute Strengths: Kimberly-Clark’s Sustainability Advisory Board (SAB) data as well as normalized data can address both internal and has access to the extended sustainability team and Global external stakeholder needs and provide a more complete analysis Strategic Leadership Team (i.e. Kimberly-Clark’s Chairman and to inform decision-making. This can allow Kimberly-Clark to CEO and his direct reports) to provide input on sustainability risks provide stakeholders with comparable data without having to and opportunities. Kimberly-Clark also engages with numerous resort to clarifications and restatements. non-governmental organizations, including Greenpeace, World Wildlife Fund, and the Forest Stewardship Council to better On specific sustainability indicators: understand and address stakeholder issues and concerns, and considers these in its decision-making processes. In addition, Post-Consumer and Operational waste: Kimberly-Clark focuses on open innovation and partners with Noteworthy Efforts: Waste generated from the one-time use of universities and design firms to work on reducing naturaland many products is a significant issue for Kimberly-Clark. The petroleum-based materials, and with consumers (through Company is pursuing a number of multi-stakeholder projects to programs like Mompreneurs). In addition, Kimberly-Clark has test market-based solutions for composting or recycling postdemonstrated good practice in engaging with its customers to consumer wastes. In 2012, the Company opened a second communicate sustainable product performance for the Neve diaper recycling plant in New Zealand and implemented Kimberlybrand in Brazil amongst other countries. Clark Healthcare’s Blue ReNew recycling program for operating room sterilization wraps. Opportunities for Improvement: Kimberly-Clark has worked hard in internal waste, water, and energy reductions but could further Opportunities for Improvement: With regards to waste diverted benefit by collaborating with stakeholders to work on consumer from landfill, Kimberly-Clark can benefit from describing the full behavior, as a large portion of sustainability impacts that arise options and environmental credentials of waste deemed as from increasing consumer product use can be addressed through “beneficial use” that makes up the 78% of waste that is diverted. consequent disposal methods and consumer awareness. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2013 9 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT Readers may be confused by the distinction between “beneficial” them develop contingency plans related to impacts from natural and “secondary” use of waste. disasters and auditing suppliers in countries at high-risk of human rights abuses to ensure compliance with SSCS. Water: Opportunities for Improvement: To strengthen reporting on Noteworthy Efforts: Kimberly-Clark is to be commended for efforts performance in this area, Two Tomorrows recommends: to assess water risks at each mill in 2012 and benchmark them 1. The Company provide further context of both the processes against internal standards. The Mobile, AL, mill features a used for prioritizing key sustainability issues in the supply long-loop recycling system and future capital projects continue to chain as well as the overall timeline for the phased roll out of be scheduled. the SSCS program, including receiving signed Declarations Opportunities for Improvement: Kimberly-Clark can work with of Compliance from all 30,000 suppliers. senior executives to consider the length of acceptable return on 2. As 29 of 38 suppliers audited in 2012 had mandatory investment for water-focused (and other) capital improvements, compliance violations, Kimberly-Clark can consider how to or consider valuation processes which include risk and proactively drive sustainability performance in its supply chain stakeholder feedback in the decision-making process. by developing and communicating a mitigation and remediation strategy related to the most common violations, Fiber procurement: including sharing successful practices across the supply chain, Noteworthy Efforts: The Company has demonstrated its to prevent repeat violations by the same suppliers. commitment to obtaining its fiber from environmentally responsible sources and has sourced nearly 100 percent of virgin Responsiveness wood fiber from suppliers whose forestry operations or wood-fiber The extent to which an organization responds to procurement activities are certified by a third-party forest stakeholder issues. certification system. In addition, Kimberly-Clark has devoted resources to exploring viable long-term options for The Report states that sustainability at Kimberly-Clark has always alternative fibers. been about “doing the right thing”. Our assessment is that Opportunities for Improvement: As fiber sourcing is a critical Kimberly-Clark is committed to sustainability and prioritizes component of Kimberly-Clark’s sustainability strategy, Two initiatives when there is a clear business case, including return on Tomorrows recommends that the Company provides additional investment, mitigated risk, or competitive advantage. In our clarity (for both internal and external stakeholders) on the types or opinion, this further integrates sustainability into formalized subsets of FSC categories and achievement towards overall decision-making processes. targets. To strengthen its sourcing policy, the Company can report on its commitment to a specific FSC subset or articulate how the Strengths: Kimberly-Clark engages and responds to stakeholders balance between the subsets and other certification schemes at all levels of the company. The inclusion of candid feedback is determined. from each Sustainability Advisory Board member in The Report is a testament to the transparency and inclusivity for which Responsible supplier development: Kimberly-Clark strives. Kimberly-Clark increasingly responds to Noteworthy Efforts: As part of a long-term risk management SAB, NGO, and other stakeholder concerns, and incorporates approach, the Company has begun to integrate new supplier stakeholder feedback into management decisions. standards and processes within its updated Supplier Social Compliance Standards (SSCS) program. Key efforts in 2012 Opportunity for Improvement: Two Tomorrows recommends that included conducting assessments of suppliers in order to help as Kimberly-Clark establishes its next generation of sustainability targets, the Company should develop goals and indicators which reflect a more complete picture of the Company’s sustainability KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2013 10 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT priorities and efforts, including capturing the cost-benefit tradeoffs related to sustainability performance. For example, when a mill makes a capital investment that increases energy consumption while significantly decreasing the amount of fiber in the final product. Two Tomorrows (North America) Inc. Oakland, CA May 2013 Tom Gosselin Project Director Natasha D’Silva Project Manager Sarah Gudernatch Project Manager * Two Tomorrows (North America) Inc. Two Tomorrows was formed in January 2009 following the merger between leading sustainability and corporate responsibility consultancies, CSRnetwork Ltd and Sd3 Ltd. Two Tomorrows (North America) is a subsidiary of Det Norske Veritas. Two Tomorrows is an international consultancy that helps companies to perform better and create value by doing business in a sustainable way. www.twotomorrows.com KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2013 11 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT GRI 4.8 SUSTAINABILITY 2015 PROGRESS Our Sustainability 2015 goals are clear and measurable. Our Sustainability 2015 is an integral component of our Global progress towards them is summarized below. Business Plan. Built around the pillars of People, Planet and Products, it integrates social, environmental and economic 2011 2012 elements into our company’s agenda, as we take action to sustain healthy working environments and communities. Sustainability 2015 weaves a sustainable-business mindset and practice PEOPLE into our operations, and it allows global opportunities for our employees, businesses and brands to take an active role in achieving Kimberly-Clark’s vision of leading the world in Zero workplace fatalities 1 0 0 essentials for a better life. GRI 3.5 Socially focused programs in all K-C communities 62% 89% As we reach to achieve our Sustainability 2015 goals, we are looking ahead to Kimberly-Clark’s 150th anniversary in 2022 100% participation by key suppliers with social compliance standards 2 99% 67% and challenging ourselves to meet the expectations of our stakeholders with meaningful additional goals. We have begun to PLANET analyze our business in light of our progress to date, predicted future trends in the business and sustainability realms, and input from our stakeholders. The stakeholder engagement interviews we undertook in December 2012 as well as ongoing consultation 25% reduction in water use and maintain quality of discharge 3 0.88% 18% with our Sustainability Advisory Board and various industry and NGO partners provide invaluable perspective and help us in identifying issues we need to explore and gaps we need to close. 100% fiber from certified suppliers 4 99.9% 100% In 2013, we will be giving considerable attention to a materiality analysis, with the expectation that we will apply these findings in our sustainability reporting. 5% absolute reduction in GHG 5 1.2% 3.5% Notes: Baseline year is 2010. Zero manufacturing waste to landfill (% of facilities to meet goal) 49% 58% 1 A motor vehicle fatality occurred in the trucking operations of Kimberly-Clark de Mexico, an unconsolidated affiliate. PRODUCTS 2 In each year of the program, we have expanded the number of suppliers who are asked to sign the Declaration of Intent to Comply with the Supplier Guidelines. In 2011, 40 suppliers were sent declarations, as a pilot. In 2012, 250 finished-product manufacturers were sent declarations. 250 million new consumer touches (M) 49 110 3 Water use reductions in 2012 were driven by a more efficient manufacturing footprint achieved through conservation programs and the pulp and tissue restructuring, which shifted production from the Everett Mill in the U.S. and the Millicent-Tantanoola Mills in Australia. Compared to 2011, our manufacturing volume was down 25% of 2015 net sales from environmentally innovative products 13% 22% 0.3 percent, while water use was reduced 17.3 percent during the same period. 4 5 Approximately 150 tons of the virgin fiber used in 2012 were not certified, but with two-digit rounding the percentage totals 100%. Our GHG emissions reductions in 2012 were driven mainly by structural asset 20% reduction in packaging environmental impact 6 4% 4% changes from 1) the closures of the Everett Mill in the U.S. and the Tantanoola pulp mill in Australia; 2) energy-efficient improvements resulting from the implementation of energy projects and best practices in manufacturing processes; and 3) the 0.4% reduction in manufacturing volume compared with 2011. 6 Numbers are cumulative and report progress against baseline year. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2013 12 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT • Jeffrey Hollender (USA), cofounder of Seventh Generation; SUSTAINABILITY ADVISORY BOARD board member of Greenpeace U.S.; the Environmental Health Fund; and Verité, a leading workers’ rights organization • Mindy Lubber (USA), president of Ceres, a network of investors, companies and public interest groups whose aim is to accelerate and expand the adoption of sustainable business practices and solutions to build a healthy global economy • Malini Mehra (India), founder and CEO of the Centre for Social Markets, a nonprofit organization that has pioneered work on sustainability and corporate responsibility in India and its diaspora since 2000 • Tim Smith (USA), senior vice president, Environment, Social and Governance Group at Walden Asset Management • Andrew Winston (USA), coauthor of the best seller Green to Gold, author of Green Recovery; founder of Winston EcoStrategies, an organization that helps leading companies use environmental strategy to grow and prosper TIM SMITH • Ricardo Young Silva (Brazil), former executive president of SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, ENVIRONMENT, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE GROUP, Ethos Institute, a leading corporate social responsibility WALDEN ASSET MANAGEMENT organization dedicated to mobilizing, encouraging and helping companies manage their businesses in a socially Kimberly-Clark’s Sustainability Advisory Board (SAB) was formed responsible way in 2007 to provide insight on sustainability issues and best practices to our Global Strategic Leadership Team and Global Sustainability staff. GRI 4.1 CHAIRMAN & CHIEF The SAB provides an assessment of our EXECUTIVE OFFICER sustainability efforts, and their comments can be found throughout this report. GLOBAL STRATEGIC LEADERSHIP TEAM SUSTAINABILITY ADVISORY BOARD Comprising eight external thought leaders who possess a CONSUMER BUSINESS diversity of expertise and cultural experience, the SAB offers an independent view of our sustainability programs, as well as SUSTAINABILITY PERSONAL CONSUMER K-C K-C IMPLEMENTATION & potential risks and opportunities for our business. CARE TISSUE PROFESSIONALL HEALTH CARE COORDINATION TEAM • Suhas Apte (USA), former vice president, Global Sustainability at Kimberly-Clark • Claude Fussler (France), former vice president of Dow BUSINESS UNIT LEADERSHIP / BUSINESS UNIT & REGIONAL Chemical and former director of stakeholder relations at the KCI REGIONAL World Business Council for Sustainable Development REGIONAL / COUNTRY MANAGEMENT TEAMS KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2013 13 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT GRI 4.9 In addition, the SAB assesses our sustainability report. Its comments can be found throughout the People, Planet and Products sections of this report. SAB members generally serve for no more than three consecutive two-year terms. Each member receives an annual stipend and is reimbursed for travel expenses to attend meetings. As of June 30, 2012, Malini Mehra and Andrew Winston completed their first terms, while Claude Fussler and Tim Smith completed their second. Suhas Apte, Mindy Lubber and Jeffrey Hollender joined the Advisory Board and began their first terms on July 1, 2012. Ricardo Young Silva resigned from the SAB in March 2013, when he was elected to public office in São Paolo and chose to focus on the needs of his constituents. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2013 14 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT Information on specific engagements with stakeholder groups can STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT be found in the following sections of this report: People • Employee engagement, diversity initiatives and labor relations • Humanitarian partnerships through the Kimberly-Clark Foundation and disaster relief • Communities through employee volunteerism and giving and regional, business unit and brand outreach Planet • Forest stewardship partnerships • Community water replenishment initiatives Product • Supplier sustainability SKIP KRASNY • Post-consumer waste knowledge-sharing networks MANAGER, SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY PROGRAMS • Consumer quality and safety, including product recalls and As we work to meet our Sustainability 2015 goals, our related protocols stakeholders provide us with essential guidance. In addition, we communicate our progress to the shareholder and They give us valuable feedback on our sustainability objectives investment communities through our 2012 10-K, on the Investors and progress as well as important insights into our products section of our corporate website, in our public SEC filings, as well and operating processes. We welcome constructive feedback as through investor and shareholder meetings, analyst-sponsored that helps us understand the concerns of nongovernmental conferences and distribution of our sustainability report. organizations (NGOs), customers, consumers, communities where we do business, investors and employees. GRI PR5 GRI 3.5 Listening to the Consumers Who Use Our Products Stakeholders’ Views on Our Reporting We welcome input from the consumers who use our products In December 2012, we engaged a third party to reach out to a and provide them with a variety of ways to reach us, including number of our stakeholders whose opinions we value, seeking web chats, email, social media, toll-free phone numbers their input on the degree to which our sustainability report and mail. provided transparent, comprehensive and accessible coverage of • Consumers who reached out to Kimberly-Clark in 2012 in key issues. In addition, stakeholders were asked for their views North America and Europe: 611,778 on the sustainability issues they expected would have a • Consumer satisfaction surveys in North America: 48,843 significant impact on Kimberly-Clark in the future. • Favorable experiences with Consumer Services Teams Stakeholders from eight groups (business partners, suppliers, when they responded to questions and comments about customers, employees, investors, socially responsible investors, products, ingredients, advertising and promotions: 96% NGOs and academics) were engaged through telephone • Consumers intending to purchase Kimberly-Clark products interviews and, when requested, written questionnaires. To the in the future: 96% extent possible, we have incorporated their recommendations from that engagement in this report. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2013 15 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT GRI 4.14 Socially • Cost reductions • Annual meeting Responsible • Organic revenue growth • Earnings calls Investors • Earnings • Meetings between executives GRI 4.16 (SRI) • Corporate governance and investors • Political contributions • Analyst conferences GRI 4.17 and lobbying • One-on-one interviews • Sustainability performance • Shareholder resolutions Our ongoing engagement, summarized in the following table • Recycled fiber (in no particular order), takes many forms — from one-way • Climate change • Innovation and R&D information channels to consumer and customer research, • Supply chain management dialogues with environmental organizations, and partnerships • Product quality and safety with humanitarian organizations. Communities • Job opportunities • Community meetings • Local impacts such as water • Volunteering programs use, noise, air pollution • One-on-one interviews STAKEHOLDER • Support of local charities GROUP AREAS OF INTEREST EXAMPLES OF ENGAGEMENT • Taxes Consumers • Improved health and hygiene • Cause marketing campaigns Government • Legal compliance • Meetings with Government • Affordability • Consumer • Lobbying Affairs team • Good customer service education campaigns • Corporate citizenship • Meetings with Regulatory • Consumer Affairs team satisfaction surveys • Meetings between mill staff • One-on-one interviews and local government officials • One-on-one interviews Wholesale • Sustainability attributes • Customer meetings Customers of products • One-on-one interviews NGOs • Sourcing raw materials • Direct engagement • Environmental impacts of • Wood fiber with NGOs manufacturing, e.g., water use • Environmental impacts of • Participation in World • Post-consumer waste manufacturing, e.g., Business Council for water use Sustainable Development • Product quality and safety initiatives • Consumer education • Toxics in the environment • One-on-one interviews • Pricing • Climate change • Product life cycles Employees • Sustainability performance • Team meetings • Supply chain management • Raw material sourcing • @K-C intranet site • Animal testing • Business performance • @myHR intranet site • Labor standards • Training and • Employee surveys • Bottom-of-the-pyramid development opportunities • One-on-one interviews • Safety • Employee networks Academics • Resource use • One-on-one interviews • Fairness and equality • Town hall meetings • Climate change • Employee engagement with executives • Water availability • Charitable giving • Performance management • Life cycle of products process • Social welfare Suppliers • Contractual terms • Sustainability guide Business • Renewable materials • One-on-one interviews • Sustainability requirements for suppliers Partners • Waste reduction • Fiber procurement policy • Risk assessments and audits • Resource use (water, • Labor standards • Supplier energy, etc.) and accountability sustainability summits • Recycling • Quality and consistency • One-on-one interviews • Supply chain management Traditional • Cost reductions • Annual meeting • Employee safety Investors • Organic revenue growth • Earnings calls • Operating margins • Meetings between executives • Earnings and investors • Dividends • Analyst conferences • Corporate governance • One-on-one interviews • Shareholder resolutions KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2013 16 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT GRI 4.13 EXTERNAL PRINCIPLES Memberships & MEMBERSHIPS Kimberly-Clark first became a member of the Corporate Eco Forum in 2010. The Forum is a community of global leaders, representing 18 industries and $3 trillion in assets, dedicated to advancing sustainable business. At the Forum’s annual meeting in June 2012, Kimberly-Clark’s sustainability leadership team contributed to the panel discussion “Engaging the Board of Directors in Sustainability” and took part in dialogues on a wide variety of topic sessions, ranging from driving sustainability in supply chain management to employee engagement. Peggy Ward, sustainability strategy leader at Kimberly-Clark, was chosen from a highly competitive global field of more than We subscribe to several global declarations of principles and are 150 applicants to embark on a life-changing sustainability members of a number of industry organizations that provide leadership development program in the Amazon rainforest in platforms for Kimberly-Clark to learn and share information about July 2012 with world-renowned ecologist Dr. Thomas Lovejoy. sustainability and related issues. The winners and runners-up were deemed by the selection jury to be at an inflection point in their lives or careers with External Principles regard to sustainability — ready and eager to take their sustainability leadership to the next level within their The United Nations’ Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) are communities and/or organizations — as well as strong team a set of goals and targets meant to eradicate extreme poverty, players accomplished in setting ambitious goals and hunger, illiteracy and a number of devastating diseases. We use getting results. the MDGs as a guide for the programs and initiatives we plan in support of our Sustainability 2015 goals. The Lacey Act was introduced in 1900 to prohibit the transport of illegally captured wildlife. It has been amended several times, This report serves as our most recently in June 2008 when the U.S. Congress extended its protection to plants, including timber, paper and other forest Communication on Progress to the UNGC. products. Kimberly-Clark is a member of the Lacey Act Defense National Consensus Committee, a group made up of companies, associations and organizations affected by the Act, as well as leading environmental groups. The committee created a standard GRI 4.12 that provides clarity on the Lacey Act’s regulatory guidelines and As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we are enforcement rules, including the notion of “due care,” in order to committed to upholding the Compact’s Ten Principles (per UNGC) provide a common understanding of the regulatory framework on human rights, labor standards, the environment and antiwithin which Kimberly-Clark and other organizations operate, and corruption, working within our sphere of influence to encourage to develop an effective means of protecting against inadvertently their support. This report serves as our Communication on obtaining illegal wood fiber. Progress to the UNGC, and our GRI Index is cross-indexed with the UNGC principles. AdvaMed Technology and Regulation (T&R) Group is an umbrella regulatory group under AdvaMed (a trade association representing makers of medical devices, equipment, software and supplies). Its role is to coordinate efforts to accelerate market KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2013 17 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT access, pursue reasonable post-market and inspection programs, to represent the tissue industry. For the duration of this develop a legislative agenda, and coordinate as appropriate agreement, Kimberly-Clark will work with FSC on activities that on international regulatory efforts. Kimberly-Clark participates in will be mutually beneficial to each organization and will seek several of its working groups. For example, to ensure greater to drive increased awareness of the FSC brand, increase the patient safety, we have been working with AdvaMed to address growth of FSC-certified forest area globally, and consider connector design regulations for enteral feeding devices as well the opportunities for certification of non-wood alternative fibers. as epidural products. In 2012, our i-Flow team engaged in an In addition, Kimberly-Clark sits on the FSC National Board of infusion pump task force, an extension of the work we contributed Directors in Australia and the United States. to 2011. Kimberly-Clark is a member of the United States Council for The Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation International Business (USCIB), which promotes open markets, (AAMI) is a nonprofit organization of nearly 7,000 healthcare competitiveness and innovation, sustainable development, and technology professionals supporting the healthcare community in corporate responsibility supported by international engagement the development, management and use of safe and effective and prudent regulation. USCIB presents American business medical technology. AAMI is a major resource for national and views on a wide range of issues — from environmental regulation international standards. The AAMI standards program consists of to trade policy to labor relations — directly to U.S. policy makers, more than 100 technical committees and working groups that UN and EU officials, and a host of governments and other groups. produce standards, recommend practices and write technical information reports for medical devices. Kimberly-Clark Health The U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) is a nonprofit Care is a charter member of AAMI’s Sustainability Committee, organization committed to a prosperous and sustainable future which is developing environmental standards for manufacturers through cost-efficient and energy-saving green buildings. USGBC and hospitals. works toward its mission of market transformation through its LEED green building program, robust educational offerings, a ASTM International, formerly known as the American Society for nationwide network of chapters and affiliates, the annual Testing and Materials, is a globally recognized leader in the Greenbuild International Conference & Expo, and advocacy in development and delivery of international voluntary consensus support of public policy that encourages and enables green standards. Its ASTM E60 Sustainability Committee, of which buildings and communities. Kimberly-Clark is a platinum member Kimberly-Clark is a member, focuses on the acquisition, of the USGBC. Kimberly-Clark provides a wide variety of products promotion and dissemination of knowledge; the stimulation of that help buildings and facilities meet the requirements of LEED research; and the development of standards relating to certification. An organization’s participation in the voluntary and sustainability and sustainable development. technically rigorous LEED process demonstrates leadership, innovation and environmental stewardship. EDANA is the international association serving the nonwovens and related industries. Based in Europe, EDANA provides The World Business Council for Sustainable Development leadership to foster innovation as well as sustainable and (WBCSD) is a CEO-led organization of forward-thinking profitable growth of the industry participants through the active companies that galvanizes the global business community to promotion of sustainable development, transparency and create a sustainable future for businesses, society and the consumer interests. In 2012, Kimberly-Clark Health Care environment. Together with its members, the Council applies its contributed to the development of the EDANA/MEDECO position respected thought-leadership and effective advocacy to generate paper “Environmental Impact, Clinical Efficacy and Cost of constructive solutions and take shared action. In 2012, KimberlySingle-Use Medical Drapes and Gowns.” Clark was a leader in its Water Working Group and an active participant in its forest solutions as well as sustainable The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) is an independent, consumption and value chain efforts. Kimberly-Clark joins nonprofit organization that protects forests for future generations. WBCSD and its member companies in recognizing the role and Kimberly-Clark is a member of FSC-International and signed a opportunity of business in increasing access to safe water and Cooperation Agreement in 2012 as FSC’s selected global partner sanitation around the world. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2013 18 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT The Personal Care Products Council (PCPC) is a national trade association representing the global cosmetic and personal care products industry. Founded in 1894, the Council has more than 600 member companies that manufacture, distribute and supply personal care products in the U.S. Kimberly-Clark participates in many of its standing committees and technical subcommittees, including the International Committee, the Safety and Regulatory Committee, the Quality Assurance Committee and the Microbiology Committee. In addition, Kimberly-Clark participates in member-only meetings on subjects of common interest. Kimberly-Clark is also a member of a number of diversity organizations: • Catalyst Inc. Organization that expands opportunities for women at work. Kimberly-Clark chairman and CEO Tom Falk serves on the board of directors • Executive Leadership Council Networks for African American executives of Fortune 500 companies • Network of Executive Women Advances women in the consumer packaged goods and retail industries • Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers Member of the Industrial Partner Council • Society of Women Engineers Member of this society’s Corporate Partnership Council • National Association of Asian MBAs, National Black MBA Association, National Society of Black Engineers, National Society of Hispanic MBAs (Recruiting partners) • Corporate Counsel Women of Color, National Bar Association, and National Association of Women Lawyers KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2013 19 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT We provide more detail on the Governance and Policy pages of GOVERNANCE, ETHICS our corporate website. In this sustainability report, you may also visit our Labor Relations and Diversity & Inclusion pages. & HUMAN RIGHTS GRI 4.3 Our Board of Directors and its various committees provide oversight and guidance on all aspects of our businesses and our relationships with stakeholders. Our annual proxy statement contains detailed information on our Board and committee structure, the independence of the members, and the responsibilities and meeting frequency of each committee. The Board has established and approved the framework for our policies and procedures. Among these are our policies relating to environmental stewardship, fiber sourcing, product safety, charitable donations and employment. As part of its oversight role, the Board and its committees receive regular reports from management on these topics, the corporation’s goals, and progress against these goals. THOMAS J. FALK CHAIRMAN AND CEO GRI 4.10 For 140 years, Kimberly-Clark has fostered a culture of fairness, Management receives strong input from an independent honesty and integrity. Sustainability Advisory Board that was established to ensure that outside perspectives on these topics were being solicited and Our core values — authenticity, accountability, innovation and evaluated. In addition, the Board receives benchmarking reports caring — guide our business decisions and initiatives. Our on how the corporation’s programs compare with those of other day-to-day actions are founded on a long-standing governance companies. Finally, each year the Board conducts an evaluation structure, which comprises: of itself, as does each of its committees, to assess whether it is • A Board of Directors that is more than 91 percent independent meeting its oversight responsibilities. The Board then develops and includes independent Board committees action plans for any opportunities identified. • A clear reporting structure and lines of accountability Kimberly-Clark Corporation has a robust compliance and ethics • A global Code of Conduct program. Key components of that program are our anti-corruption • A comprehensive policy platform, including policies on human policies and procedures, which are designed to ensure rights, labor, diversity and inclusion, and environmental issues compliance with global anti-corruption standards, including the • Strong oversight and communications mechanisms, including United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United oversight by the Kimberly-Clark Board of Directors on key Kingdom Bribery Act. More information on our policies is environmental, social and governance issues available here. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2013 20 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT GRI 4.8 other expenses of Kimberly-Clark employees engaged in We regularly assess the quality and effectiveness of our lobbying, fees paid to outside consultants lobbying on Kimberlycompliance and ethics program. In 2012, we surveyed 38,000 Clark’s behalf, and the portion of trade association dues used employees about their awareness and knowledge of our Code of for lobbying. Conduct. The survey showed an improved level of participation and awareness of the Code and the procedures for reporting GRI SO6 Code misconduct. In May 2012, we held our first ever Compliance In the U.S., Kimberly-Clark does not currently operate a political and Ethics Week to raise awareness among our employees of action committee (PAC). Similarly, in the U.S., the company makes compliance and ethics policies and practices. We believe that our no contributions from other sources or funds to political candidates, anti-corruption program is effective and that we are in compliance PACs that contribute to candidates, or other organizations formed with applicable laws in all material respects. Key aspects of our solely for the election or defeat of a public official. anti-corruption program include: • Prohibition of both government and commercial bribery Protecting Human Rights and corruption Our commitment to protecting human rights is consistent with • Prohibition of facilitating payments even where permitted our respect for each other and continues our heritage of fairness, under local laws honesty and integrity. This commitment is formalized in our • Global standards applied throughout our enterprise Human Rights in Employment Policy and our Code of Conduct. • Regular training of employees on our Code of Conduct, Our policies align with the goals of several international anti-corruption and related ethics topics standards, including the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and • Requirement for contracts with third-party agents to contain those of the UN Global Compact. anti-corruption/bribery covenants • Availability of multiple channels for guidance on or reporting of We respect international social compliance and environmental potential violations of Code of Conduct, anti-corruption or other principles aimed at promoting and protecting human rights and the corporate policies. Reports may be made anonymously. environment. We also promote human rights in our supply chain. • A strict anti-retaliation policy in support of anyone who reports We do this through our Supplier Social Compliance Standards, a suspected violation of the Code of Conduct which identify, prevent, mitigate and account for human rights • An experienced investigative team that follows up on all reports violations, with a focus on countries at high risk for human rights of alleged fraud or other violations of the Code of Conduct abuses. Companies within our contracted supply chain, including • An experienced internal audit team that actively audits for and our packaging supply chain, are requested to sign annual evaluates potential unreported fraud or other violations of the declarations of compliance. In 2012, we began auditing against Code of Conduct these standards to identify violations in the following categories: • An annual survey of enterprise workforce to confirm • Child labor, forced labor and abuse of labor understanding of the Code of Conduct and that all potential • Freedom of association and collective bargaining violations have been reported properly and in a timely manner • Discrimination • Anti-bribery and anti-corruption We regularly assess the quality and effectiveness of our compliance and ethics program and continue to believe that our • Working conditions that present imminent threat or serious anti-corruption program is effective and that we are in compliance injury to employees with applicable anti-corruption laws in all material respects. • Protection of the environment The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors provides oversight GRI SO5 of our efforts to ensure compliance with the Code, other internal Political Spending and Lobbying policies, and certain legal and regulatory requirements. In 2012, Kimberly-Clark reported $280,000 in expenditures on For more information on 2012 audit results, see the Supply Chain U.S. federal lobbying activities, which included the salaries and section of this report. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2013 21 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT AWARDS GRI 2.10 • Recognized in FTSE4Good Index Series for tenth consecutive year • Named one of Ethisphere’s World’s Most Ethical Companies in 2012 and 2013 • Among Top 20 of CR Magazine’s 100 Best Corporate Citizens for fifth consecutive year • Received a 90% rating in the Corporate Equality Index 2013 • Ranked fourth among World’s 25 Best Multinational Workplaces by the Great Places to Work Institute, out of 350 multinational companies from 45 countries • Received WWF Environmental Paper Award for “Best Environmental Performance Paper Brands” • Ranked #56 overall and #1 in industry in Newsweek’s 2012 Green Rankings out of the 500 biggest U.S. companies • Named one of DiversityInc’s 25 Noteworthy Companies • Named to Gartner’s Top 25 Supply Chains list • Awarded Best Procurement Team at the 2012 Procurement Leaders Conference in London • Received the Export Excellence Award-La Nación-Banco Galicia 2012 in the category “Best Sustainable Management” from among 150 entrants. The awards are presented by La Nación, an important Argentinian newspaper, and Banco Galicia, a large national bank. • Winner of the 2012 Circle of Excellence award from Distribution Business Management Association • Recognized for best-in-class corporate governance standards by Governance Metrics International • Named Best Employer for Healthy Lifestyles 2012 both in the U.S. and abroad by the National Business Group on Health; Kimberly-Clark was also recognized for Best Community Outreach KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2013 22 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT PEOPLE For 140 years, our people have built this company. We are EMPLOYEES proud to celebrate the success of our employees, and we count Authenticity, accountability, innovation, caring: Our values are on their support as we deliver woven into every aspect of our work. Providing essentials for a essentials for a better life. better life is as much about how we work as it is about what our work accomplishes. As a company, we believe in a performance-driven culture. Our People Philosophy expresses what we expect from and how we support our people. Our aspiration is to unleash the power of our employees by: harnessing the value our diversity can create; encouraging them to dream and grow our businesses; creating a winning culture and celebrating our successes; living well-balanced lives; and giving back to our communities. In this section, you can learn about employee: • Learning and development opportunities • Diversity advances • Health and wellness programs • Support platforms for those affected by structural changes • Safety progress • Award-winning contributions • Engagement initiatives in cash and product donations KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2013 23 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT Behaviors (Think Customer, Win Consistently, Build Trust, Build TRAINING, BENEFITS & COMPENSATION Talent, Make Decisions and Continuously Improve), resulting in increased engagement and ensuring that each employee understands his or her accountability for achieving results that foster success. Compensation For directors and above, our annual incentive plan contains financial targets, as well as other quantitative and qualitative factors. For our executive leadership (chairman and CEO Tom Falk and his direct reports), diversity is one of a number of qualitative factors for 2012. EMPLOYEE HEALTH We coach new team members on our People Philosophy, culture, values, and commitment to diversity and inclusion, and we support their growth through education, work experiences and development opportunities. We offer experiential learning through special assignments and job rotations. We provide online and classroom learning opportunities, outlined in 2012 in our new Global Learning Catalog, to develop additional skills and build existing abilities such as learning a new language Caring is a long-standing Kimberly-Clark value, and helping our and developing leadership capabilities. In addition, we offer employees stay healthy is an important way we put that value experiential learning through special assignments and job into action. rotations, and provide exposure to our global organization through networking groups, volunteer opportunities and mentoring programs. In some regions, the services provided by In 2012, we launched a global initiative to introduce a culture of accountability in which every Kimberly-Clark employee Kimberly-Clark are not available through understands his or her accountability for achieving results that drive the business forward. We rolled out this global program in other community agencies. 18 languages, and, by the end of 2012, 74 percent of our salaried workforce has been trained. All salaried employees will be trained Kimberly-Clark’s Health Services team provides an array of by the end of 2013. This initiative will reinforce our One K-C preventive and occupational health programs tailored to the KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2013 24 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT needs of employees in every country where we operate. These Employee Assistance Program include: pre-placement medical evaluations; workplace risk Kimberly-Clark’s Employee Assistance Program (EAP) helps our assessments for hearing, workstation ergonomics, medical employees in 27 countries balance work responsibilities with surveillance and travel; treatment of health complaints; personal and family needs by providing confidential assessment, immunizations; and fitness assessments. consultation, counseling, education, resources and referrals to employees and their families. Approximately 7 percent of our U.S. In some regions, the services provided by Kimberly-Clark, such employees used these services in 2012, compared with an as medical and vision checkups for preschool children, dental industry average of 3.1 percent. We believe this reflects trust in exams, influenza vaccines and nutrition advice, are not available the program as well as accessibility of the services provided. through other community agencies. LiveWell Our LiveWell health-promotion programs are designed to inform EMPLOYEE SAFETY and motivate employees to live healthier lives by eating well, exercising and reducing health-related risk factors. In 2012, our employees engaged in a variety of activities to improve their health. Many Kimberly-Clark locations around the world offer comprehensive health assessments, biometric screenings, health coaching and energy-management training. Employees traveling internationally are provided with health screenings, travel health advice, vaccinations and emergency medical care anywhere in the world. On-site medical clinics staffed with physicians and nurses are provided in some locations in the U.S., Latin America, Europe, and the Middle East and Asia. In 2012, our Central American and Caribbean region continued to offer a nutrition program in which more than 600 employees took part. Sixteen participants were nominated “Star Patients” for their personal commitments and perseverance. On average, they lost 11.5 kg over one year. One of our employees, Adrian Nunez, lost a total of 19.4 kg in one year. Along the way, Adrian, who is diabetic, improved his Our safety focus, day in and day out, is on achieving a fatalityhealth with exercise and nutritious meals. As a result, he is free and incident-free workplace. We have policies and programs now able to manage his diabetes without taking medication. that support our employees’ safety and encourage them to keep themselves and each other safe. Kimberly-Clark received a gold “Best Employer for Healthy Lifestyles” award from the National Business Group on Health and a Global Distinction award for our employee health and Our vision is to have every Kimberly-Clark well-being efforts worldwide. The awards recognized the company’s effective, widespread and innovative solutions that colleague, contractor and visitor return improve the health and lifestyles of employees both domestically and globally. home safely at the end of each day. We achieved our Sustainability 2015 goal of zero workplace fatalities in 2012, as we had in the two prior years, at KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2013 25 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT Kimberly-Clark’s wholly and majority-owned companies that Notes: we report on in our financial statements. However, our equity 1 In 2012, a motor vehicle fatality occurred in the trucking operations of Kimberly-Clark affiliate, Kimberly-Clark de México, experienced a fatality from de México, an unconsolidated affiliate. a transportation accident in February 2012. A lost life at any of 2 In January 2012, the Chester, Pennsylvania, mill was cited by OSHA as a result our or our affiliates’ operations is tragic and not acceptable. of an explosion involving a propane tank that occurred in August 2011. A monetary sanction of $23,000 was paid and the following corrective actions undertaken: Our commitment to our employees • Discontinued refueling of propane cylinders on the Chester site immediately following the incident, and the two propane filling stations on site were dismantled To provide a workplace in compliance with all applicable and removed. occupational safety and hygiene (OS&H) laws and regulations • Propane is now delivered in cylinders by a vendor. and in conformance with the company’s OS&H • The smoking policy has been clearly recommunicated and is consistently enforced. performance standards. Our expectation of our employees TRIR: Work-related events that result in fatalities, temporary or permanently disabling injuries, or illnesses, per 200,000 hours worked per annum. To refuse to take any action considered unsafe, to confront LTRIR: Reportable injuries/illnesses that result in time away from work or restricted work, per 200,000 hours worked per annum. others acting in an unsafe manner and to immediately stop SERR: Number of Sentinel Events reported per 200,000 hours worked per annum. any unsafe actions. N/A: Data is not available. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2013 26 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT GRI LA7 More than 95 percent of our facilities have formal EHS committees, a requirement of our EHS MS. With participation Safety Systems, Policies and Communications from both employees and management, the committees address Our Global Occupational Safety and Hygiene (OS&H) Policy EHS concerns raised by employees and others; identify, prioritize states that we will manage OS&H for the protection of our and support the facilities’ improvement activities; and review employees, contractors and visitors and to aggressively pursue progress of those activities, safety incidents and trends. the elimination of occupational injuries, illnesses, disabilities and fatalities. Our Environment, Health and Safety Management Crystal Eagle Award System (EHS MS) establishes minimum requirements and This award is given for 365 days without a reportable incident standards for the management of EHS activities. We are involving Kimberly-Clark employees. committed to regularly assessing the EHS MS in order to achieve United States: International: continuous improvement of OS&H performance. • Conway, Ark. • Huntsville, Ontario, Canada In 2012, we: • LaGrange, Ga. • Jaromer, Czech Republic • Conducted 20 global EHS assessments focusing on the OS&H • Neenah Nonwovens, Ga. • Rouen, France Performance Standards that address the eight hazard • Roswell Pilot Facility, Ga. • Villey-Saint-Ètienne, France categories identified by Kimberly-Clark that could lead to a • Owensboro, Ky. • Koblenz, Germany fatality. These global assessments continue to drive • Belmont, Mich. • Alanno, Italy compliance with regulations and conformance to Kimberly• Corinth, Miss. • Romagnano, Italy Clark’s OS&H standards. • Berkeley, N.C. • Tlaxcala, Mexico • Accelerated the combustible-dust assessments and technical • Lexington, N.C. • Klucze, Poland training sessions in several of the facilities. As we continue on • Jenks, Okl. • Stupino, Russia this journey, we are identifying gaps, correcting them and reducing the risk associated with combustible dust. • Loudon, Tenn. • Epping, South Africa • San Antonio, Texas • Gimcheon, South Korea • Provided technical training on our new Machine Safety Standard for senior leaders in key businesses and conducted • Ogden, Utah • Daejeon, South Korea train-the-trainer sessions in each business in preparation for a • X-Mill, Wis. • Calatayud, Spain full training rollout in 2013. The deployment of the Machine • Family Care R&E, Wis. • Salamanca, Spain Safety Standard establishes consistent standard applications • Safeskin Mills, Thailand that reduce equipment-related risks for our employees across • Barton-upon-Humber, the globe. United Kingdom • Delyn, United Kingdom • Flint, United Kingdom Awarding Safety Leadership “Receiving the 2012 Rising Star in Safety recognition is not only wonderful from a personal standpoint, it is a recognition for all safety professionals and mill managers Crystal Globe Award who are committed every day to providing a safe and healthy This award is given for 1 million hours without a reportable workplace for all. We each have a passion and commitment incident involving Kimberly-Clark employees. not only to produce the best products and the best brands, • Ogden, Utah United States: but also to build a great place to work, starting with safety.” • Conway, Ariz. • Family Care R&E, Wis. Ivan Maldonado • X-Mill, Wis. • Jenks, Okla. Environmental Health & Safety Leader, Kimberly-Clark Global • Loudon Mill, Tenn. International: Health Care, Winner of the 2012 U.S. National Safety Council • Paris, Texas • Daegeon, South Korea award as one of “40 Under 40” Rising Stars of Safety KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2013 27 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT Employee input was categorized into six primary themes that will EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT be the focus of employee guidance and communications going forward and will be integrated with the Global Engagement Survey in 2013. DIVERSITY & INCLUSION To succeed, Kimberly-Clark needs employees who have a desire to win and a passion to make a difference. We actively develop new initiatives to fuel engagement in both. In October, nearly 12,000 employees from Workplace diversity and inclusion are integral to Kimberly-Clark’s growth strategy and are fundamental components of our People 66 countries participated in our One K-C Philosophy. They are business imperatives because when our workforce reflects the consumers we serve in our global markets, Culture Jam. we can better understand and deliver on their needs. And greater diversity of thought, experience and perspective fosters new ideas — the kind of breakthroughs we need in order to achieve After asking employees for ideas on what we could do to our goals. accelerate culture change, we created a new collaborative experience that would transcend organizational and geographical silos. In October, employees from around the world collaborated with each other in the new One K-C Culture Jam. We promote diversity among our employees Over five days, opinions and feedback on our organizational through Employee Resource Groups. culture were collected online in chat rooms, discussion forums and quick polls. In addition, more than 700 focus groups were Our Human Rights in Employment Policy underscores this held in mills, enabling our workforce at all of our operations to be commitment. It prohibits discrimination and harassment based on heard. Facilitators shaped ongoing conversations among race, color, sex, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, employees and senior leadership. age, religion, creed, national origin, disability, genetic information, veteran status, legally protected leave and other categories The Jam exceeded expectations. Close to 12,000 salaried and protected by applicable law. We also extend our benefits to our hourly employees in 66 countries contributed some 22,000 posts. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2013 28 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT Note: “Management” is defined as U.S. employees in EEP category 01 (executive/senior-level officials and managers, and first/middle-level officials and managers). employees’ eligible dependents including children, spouses, GRI EC7 common-law spouses and domestic partners. Within Kimberly-Clark International, we have historically focused on hiring local-country management and teams, because we Diversity in Our U.S. Operations believe that they best know the marketplace and how to conduct We promote diversity among our employees through Employee business in their respective countries. Local management are Resource Groups. These are open to all employees and are also a valuable resource for our leaders who are honing their valuable tools for the recruitment, development and retention of capabilities and knowledge of emerging markets through and, engagement among, colleagues from different backgrounds: temporary international placements. • African American Employee Network (AAEN) • Family Caregivers Network • Parents Interactive Network (PIN) LABOR RELATIONS • Focus Asia • Latin American Network for Diversity • New Employee Opportunity Network (NEON) • People Respecting Individual Differences Everywhere Network (PRIDE@K-C) • Service, Alliance, Uniting Together (SALUTE) • Women’s Interactive Network (WIN) Diversity Internationally The Global Diversity and Inclusion team collaborates with Kimberly-Clark leaders around the world to develop action plans that are specific to the issues in their regions. Through our talent-attraction and selection processes, we seek an appropriate balance of genders and nationalities for each market, and track our progress annually. We recognize the importance of respectful union-management relationships in advancing areas of mutual interest with respect to our sustainability initiatives and global workplace rights. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2013 29 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT allows Kimberly-Clark’s consumer business in Europe to place One of the pillars of our Social Compliance resources and investments behind our strongest brands with the greatest potential in key markets. program is requiring suppliers to ensure As a result, the company will sell or close five manufacturing freedom of association. facilities. These include the closure of our diaper mill in Barton, UK; and the sale or closure of our diaper mill in Calatayud, Spain, toilet tissue mill in Alanno, Italy, and our toilet and facial tissue mill Supporting Constructive Labor Relations in Klucze, Poland. Also identified for closure is Kimberly-Clark Professional’s Delyn facility at the company’s mill in Flint, Wales, To maintain open communication channels with the approximately which primarily makes hand towels. The remainder of the Flint 25 percent of our global workforce that is unionized, Kimberlysite is unaffected. Clark supports active union-management labor councils and communication forums. GRI SO10 In 2012, Kimberly-Clark continued a social dialogue with Workers Uniting (WU) and the Union Network International (UNI), which GRI LA11 together represent 20 million workers through 900 affiliated These changes will affect between 1,300 and 1,500 employees unions in 150 countries. across Europe. The company continues to work proactively with employees and local employee representatives, ensuring that At the Global Union and Management Leadership Conference in consultation processes are respectful, fair and consistent. To August, Kimberly-Clark, UNI and WU, a global union representing support employees through these transitions, Kimberly-Clark has 3 million workers in the U.S., Canada and the UK, renewed their established an employee assistance hotline with support in joint statement for a third year. multiple languages, offered outplacement assistance and counseling services, and provided severance and The statement endorses ongoing, collaborative, global dialogue benefits packages. among the three organizations and affirms Kimberly-Clark’s commitment to maintaining a respectful and cooperative Kimberly-Clark expects the majority of actions associated with relationship based on proactive information-sharing and ongoing these closures or sales to be completed by the end of 2013. exploration of solutions to corporate social responsibility and workplace rights issues. Update on Everett Mill Closure The Everett Mill in Washington State closed in April 2012, and we GRI EC9 are completing site demolition during the second quarter of 2013. Recognizing that the mill had provided employment to GRI SO9 generations of Everett families and support to community Supporting Employees at Plant Closure Sites organizations, Kimberly-Clark has helped fund a transition support center to provide retraining, placement opportunities and In 2012, Kimberly-Clark made changes in our European strategy financial assistance for our displaced employees. In addition, we to focus resources and investments on the company’s strongest have continued our support of the local United Way chapter and products and markets. As part of this work, we announced that other community charities during 2012 to avoid disruption of their we will stop manufacturing and selling diapers in Europe, with the important work. To achieve the goal of a clear and clean property, exception of Italy. In addition, Kimberly-Clark will streamline its the company has proactively investigated environmental manufacturing and administrative footprint and divest itself of or conditions and will remediate the mill site to the satisfaction of the exit certain lower-margin, low-growth markets. The new strategy Washington Department of Ecology. With these efforts, the mill KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2013 30 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT property, located in the recently rezoned working waterfront, will Winning mills were required to meet and exceed our Vision 2015 be ready for others to redevelop. energy goals, in addition to either a water or waste goal, demonstrating continuous performance improvement in each area: GRI HR5 Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining Energy efficiency Internally, we conduct an annual Code of Conduct survey, as well Must meet Vision 2015 energy-efficiency benchmarks and as country-specific communications on the issues of freedom of 1. Show continuous improvement of up to 10 percent association and collective bargaining as developments warrant. below target Externally, one of the pillars of our Social Compliance program is requiring suppliers to ensure freedom of association; we also 2. If at 10 percent below target, must sustain that level audit for freedom of association violations as part of our supplier social compliance auditing program. Water use Must meet Vision 2015 water benchmarks and During Kimberly-Clark’s auditing process, we check for evidence 1. Reduce water consumption by 5 percent or more until of illegal denial of collective bargaining, illegal denial of freedom reaching a water-efficiency level of 15m3 per ton of association, threats of intimidation, and bribes for not joining or of production associating with a worker organization. There has been one internal or third-party audit finding to date that highlighted this 2. If at 15m3 per ton, must sustain that level for one year and concern. All findings have been remediated, so there is no longer complete a water-replenishment project for the mill a concern. Waste Must meet zero waste-to-landfill benchmark and further reduce GRI HR6 actual waste generated by 5 percent or more. GRI HR7 The six winning mills — Beijing, China; Jaromer NW, Czech Protection Against Forced Labor Republic; Hadera, Israel; Nogales 2, Mexico; Ramos Arizpe, One of the pillars of our Social Compliance program is requiring Mexico; and Nahariya, Israel — each met the required energysuppliers to ensure protection against forced labor and abuse of efficiency benchmark and showed continuous improvement of at labor; we also audit for forced labor and abuse of labor violations least 10 percent against it. as part of our supplier social compliance auditing program. Four mills exceeded the benchmark by more than 10 percent: During our auditing process, we check for evidence of forced Beijing and Nahariya mills, at 15 percent or more, Jaromer NW, at labor and abuse of child labor; that all workers are present 30 percent or more, and Nogales 2 accomplished a remarkable voluntarily, and for evidence of physical coercion. There have 75 percent improvement against the benchmark. been two findings during audits with our current Finished-Product Contract Manufacturers. All findings have been remediated, so All winning mills also met the waste-reduction criteria of sending there is no longer a concern. zero waste to landfill and reducing the waste generated at their facilities by five percent or more. Hadera Mill also met the water criteria — a triple crown! WORKPLACE AWARDS Winning mills will receive a Crystal Tree Award made out of recycled glass, a donation to the nonprofit of their choice and an Since 2010, our internal Crystal Tree Awards have honored opportunity to participate with one of Kimberly-Clark’s NGO leadership in sustainability. In 2012, the awards recognized partners on a project such as tree planting or exemplary operational performance at six Kimberly-Clark mills. water replenishment. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2013 31 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT COMMUNITY In 2012, Kimberly-Clark and our employees raised $6.6 million for the United Way. The Foundation maintains strategic partnerships with global organizations that address issues related to our business and are of interest to our customers and our consumers. In 2012, the Foundation’s key partnerships included: GRI EC8 MedShare International — This organization recovers surplus medical equipment in the U.S. and sends it to healthcare facilities in emerging countries that have a critical need. In 2012, KimberlyClark extended our founding partnership with MedShare for another three years with a grant of approximately $1,170,000. This grant will be used to broaden access to essential healthcare, with a focus on maternal and child health, in Latin Through Boys & Girls Clubs of America, we supported an American countries. initiative to find America’s Most Inspirational Mom. The winner, Lorrie Wolfe, received a full-tuition scholarship. Boys & Girls Clubs of America (BGCA) — For more than 30 years, Kimberly-Clark has supported BGCA. In 2012, we Kimberly-Clark’s goal is to help sustain the communities in which continued our sponsorship of BGCA’s Family PLUS (Parents our employees work and live. Our success — and theirs — is Leading, Uniting, Serving) initiative, a program dedicated to grounded in this principle. empowering families to participate fully in their children’s lives. We also supported an initiative to find America’s Most The Kimberly-Clark Foundation, celebrating 60 years of providing Inspirational Mom. The winner, Lorrie Wolfe, from Hickory, NC, the essentials for better lives, provides support through a range of and two runners-up received full-tuition scholarships to the health, humanitarian, economic and environmental initiatives. University of Phoenix. In 2012, Kimberly-Clark and our employees supported communities around the world with contributions of approximately $19 million in financial support and $14 million in products. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2013 32 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT Bright Futures Lorrie Wolfe is a single mother of three, including one child with Asperger’s syndrome. She is a domestic violence survivor In 2012, Kimberly-Clark marked the 20th year of the Bright who, with her children, left a physically abusive household with Futures program, and the company awarded college scholarships no money, transportation or job. totaling $1.3 million to 65 children of employees across 15 U.S. states and Canada. Bright Futures scholarships are valued at up Lorrie has always encouraged her kids to think big and to to $20,000, or $5,000 per school year, for full-time students work hard in pursuit of their dreams, and she lives by those attending accredited colleges and universities. Since its inception, words. She works full-time with at-risk youth at the Salvation the program has awarded more than $34 million in scholarships Army Boys & Girls Club of Hickory as a project coordinator and to more than 1,700 students. Recipients are chosen based on volunteers in the Hickory community, collecting clothes academic achievement and leadership in extracurricular activities. and school supplies, researching part-time jobs for teens, and soliciting donations from businesses for program support and career experiences for Club kids. Lorrie is pursuing a degree Dani Garon was awarded a Kimberly-Clark Foundation Bright in criminal justice and plans to use her education to work in Futures Scholarship in 1998. Her father, Louis, was a the juvenile justice system. One day, she hopes to open her Kimberly-Clark career employee and her mother, Sharon, had own Boys & Girls Club. been employed in operations. Dani applied her scholarship to a bachelor of science degree in neuroscience at the University of Toronto, in Ontario, Canada. Then, after deciding on a American Red Cross — Kimberly-Clark and our employees career in nursing, Dani continued her studies at the university, provide financial contributions, product donations, blood graduating with a master’s degree in nursing and earning a donations and volunteer time to ensure that the needs of those role as Nurse Educator at Ontario’s Thunder Bay Regional affected by disasters are met. In 2012, we continued our Health Sciences Centre. During this time, unbeknownst to commitment to the American Red Cross Annual Disaster Giving family and friends, Dani applied to and was accepted as a Program (ADGP) through our 2011 pledge of $1.5 million over student by the Northern Ontario School of Medicine. three years to support local, national and international disaster In June 2012, Dani graduated with her fourth university degree, preparedness and response programs. As a member of the this time as a doctor of medicine. In September, she began a ADGP, Kimberly-Clark ensures through our support that the Red two-year residency in family medicine, with plans to practice Cross can be on the scene of a disaster as quickly as possible. medicine in Ontario’s northern communities. In a thank-you letter to Kimberly-Clark CEO Tom Falk, Dani’s mother writes, The United Way — Since 1954, Kimberly-Clark and our “You made a wonderful choice, and the payback on your employees have supported the United Way. As part of our annual financial decision will benefit the people of an area that employee campaigns, Kimberly-Clark employees volunteer and includes many former Kimberly-Clark employees and their contribute to United Way organizations across the U.S. The families for years to come. Our daughter most certainly has a Kimberly-Clark Foundation then matches employee pledges very ‘Bright Future.’” dollar for dollar. In 2012, Kimberly-Clark and our employees raised $6.6 million, an increase of 8.6 percent over 2011. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2013 33 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT step, the alliance revamped Kimberly-Clark’s outreach materials, REGIONAL & BRAND INITIATIVES resulting in the development of a “Healthy Practices for Mother and Infant Care” booklet that contains information on such topics as newborn care, breastfeeding, infant development, and nutrition. Outreach teams were trained in reproductive health and family planning. The initiative was piloted in October with 200 mothers in Colombia, and the Huggies outreach teams distributed the booklet to 30,000 new mothers in 2012. Beginning in 2013, the program will reach 210,000 women in Colombia and Ecuador each year through one-on-one and small-group sessions. Atlantic Forest Socio-Environmental Reference Center In December 2012, the Atlantic Forest Distribution Center, Kimberly-Clark’s largest distribution center in Brazil, became the home of the Atlantic Forest Socio-Environmental Reference Center. Located in Mogi das Cruzes, 35 miles from São Paulo, the area is part of tropical and subtropical forest ecosystems that have a wider range of biodiversity than the Amazon. More than 85 percent of this ecologically important region has been deforested HUGGIES’ EVERY LITTLE BOTTOM PROGRAM for agriculture and settlement over the centuries. In partnership with the Brás Cubas University, the center’s scientific research In addition to supporting communities through our Foundation will focus on the conservation of fauna and flora, and four partnerships, the corporation and our regions, business units and students from the university will be trained to monitor animal and brands reach out with initiatives to serve local and farplant species. Findings will be shared with the academic reaching needs. community and other parties interested in the conservation of nature and the improvement of the region’s socioenvironmental conditions. In 2012, Huggies’ Every Little Bottom National Bike Challenge program donated 26 million diapers to Kimberly-Clark created and sponsored the first U.S. National Bike Challenge, with more than 900 employees, including approximately distribute to U.S. families in need. 250 from outside the U.S., riding a total of 400,000+ miles. They joined 30,000 riders from all 50 U.S. states to exceed the Challenge’s 10 million-mile goal. The Kimberly-Clark Foundation Regional Initiatives sponsored employees at 10 cents a mile and presented a Maternal and Child Health in the Andean Region $35,000 donation to the League of American Bicyclists (LAB) Kimberly-Clark Colombia, in an alliance with USAID’s 4th Sector to support biking in the U.S. Health, launched an initiative to improve access to maternal-child health and reproductive health services in the Andean region. Business Unit and Brand Initiatives While child and maternal mortality have fallen in recent decades, Global Handwashing Day some regions continue to experience extremely high maternal To mark the fifth anniversary of Global Handwashing Day, mortality rates, of which 90 percent are considered avoidable. Kimberly-Clark Professional and The Healthy Workplace Project held a 30-day event to raise awareness of critical hygiene-related The health initiative is built on Kimberly-Clark’s Plan Hospitales, health challenges facing children and families around the world. an outreach program for the Huggies brand that touches more During the challenge, participants logged on to a simple online than 650,000 new mothers in the Andean region each year, and quiz to test their knowledge of key hygiene issues and to choose USAID’s interest in improving maternal and child health. As a first KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2013 34 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT which of three U.S. Fund for UNICEF clean-water initiatives they teachers were provided with resources including lesson plans, preferred a Kimberly-Clark donation to benefit. Through its digital teaching materials and samples. We also partnered with initiatives, the U.S. Fund for UNICEF provides children and Endometriosis New Zealand, supporting delivery of its programs. families with access to safe drinking water and proper sanitation Through these partnerships, we reached approximately 200,000 in communities around the world. girls in 2012. Wheels of Life Campaign Diaper Need Awareness Kimberly-Clark Health Care (KCHC) partnered with the European In 2012, Huggies’ Every Little Bottom program continued its Society of Intensive Care Medicine and GE Healthcare to support support of the National Diaper Network, a nonprofit organization it the Wheels of Life Campaign, an initiative that aims to highlight founded in 2011, with a donation of 26 million diapers to distribute the positive impact of lifesaving skills on survival and recovery to U.S. families in need. The 2012 contribution included 5 million rates. During 2012, the campaign visited eight cities in six Little Movers Camo Diapers for U.S. military families. Every Little countries where experts have taught cardiopulmonary Bottom had donated more than 80 million diapers by the end resuscitation (CPR) training to more than 10,000 people. of 2012. The Wheels of Life vehicle contains a replica intensive care unit Start-Up Funding for Baby Businesses (ICU) that includes products from Kimberly-Clark’s KimVent In the third year of its MomInspired grant program, Kimberlyrange. The products are aimed at preventing ventilator associated Clark’s Huggies brand awarded 11 mothers $15,000 each in pneumonia (VAP), a condition that can affect critically ill patients start-up funding to develop their baby products businesses. Since who need mechanical help with their breathing. 2010, the program has received more than 1,700 applications and awarded 32 women with nearly half a million dollars in grants Girl’s Education and Hygiene in South Africa to help launch their businesses. In South Africa, girls whose families live in poverty can miss up to 40 days of school a year because of menstruation-related challenges. The majority of these girls eventually drop out of school. Kimberly-Clark’s Kotex brand partnered with the Imbumba VOLUNTEERISM & GIVING Foundation, a South African social change charity, to provide more than 12,000 girls with sanitary pads on Mandela Day, which is celebrated on July 6th. Kotex also supported the Walk for Mandela Challenge, providing packs of sanitary pads at a reduced price to the Imbumba Foundation and its partners. In addition, Kotex in South Africa encouraged women to purchase a pack at a reduced price. In turn, a portion of the sale price benefited an underprivileged girl through a donation to the Imbumba Foundation. The Foundation’s goals are to create awareness around menstrual hygiene and the challenges facing girls living in poverty, to educate boys on reproductive health so that they respect girls and their privacy in schools, and to help K-C BOLIVIA’S VOLUNTEERS DURING THE CELEBRATION OF THE RECYCLING educate and restore the dignity of affected girls. PROGRAM THAT BENEFITS CHILDREN IN THE REGION. Partnerships for Education Resources Providing the essentials for a better life means giving back to our U by Kotex® partnered with the New Zealand Health Board to communities. Throughout the year, employees from Kimberlysupport puberty and menstruation education in the country’s Clark facilities around the world participate in a variety of schools by providing nurse teachers with education resources for volunteer activities with local nonprofit organizations. their school presentations. In Australia and New Zealand, KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2013 35 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT sponsored by Kimberly-Clark, USAID and La Fundación Kimberly-Clark employees contributed Empresarial para el Desarrollo Educativo (FEPADE) in alliance with the minister of education. The funds also supported $4.2 million to nonproﬁt organizations KCTronics, another initiative led by Kimberly-Clark volunteers to teach young people robotics. in 2012. Kimberly-Clark Costa Rica organized a tree-planting event to celebrate World Environment Day on June 5th. For the second The Kimberly-Clark Foundation’s Community Partners consecutive year, Kimberly-Clark volunteers and children from program recognizes the volunteer efforts of U.S. employees the school near our Coris Mill in Cartago planted 600 new trees, and their spouses by making $500 grants to the charitable creating a 1,000-tree grove in the area. In addition, revenue from organizations at which they volunteer for 30 or more hours per AmbientaDOS, the national paper recycling program sponsored year. Through our Kimberly-Clark Foundation’s Matching Gifts by Kimberly-Clark, has allowed the company to purchase and program, U.S. employees are able to double their donations to donate 27,000 seedlings to Bosque Urbano, an organization qualified charitable organizations. charged with planting trees in a large metropolitan area. Supporting United Way in Our Communities Celebrating the Environment Caring is one of Kimberly-Clark’s core values, so the United Way In what has become a Kimberly-Clark tradition, employees campaign season in the U.S. is always an important time for the around the world supported environmental efforts leading up to company and our employees, who go out of their way to make annual Earth Day and World Environment Day celebrations. the campaigns fun, informative and meaningful. In April, employees from Kimberly-Clark Roswell, GA, along with Kimberly-Clark matches employee contributions to the United their spouses, children and friends, joined forces with the Friends Way dollar for dollar, and in 2012 the company raised $6.6 of Kittredge Park in Northeast Atlanta to create a new trail for million, an increase of 8 percent since 2011. In the last decade hikers. The team cleared invasive plants, limbs and shrubs, alone, Kimberly-Clark and our employees have contributed more framed the clearing with fallen trees, and hauled and spread than $50 million to improve lives and build stronger communities. mulch. The result was a new 500-foot trail that connected with an existing trail network in the park. Since 2008, our Argentinian employees have raised funds for the United Way through activities coordinated by the Fundación Kimberly-Clark El Salvador celebrated World Environment Day Caminando Juntos. In 2012, more than 130 employees opted to with a month of environmental activities in June. Recycling was a participate in a monthly donation plan. Others took part in central focus. Las 9 Vidas del Papel challenged employees to Volunteer Day with United Way, helping plant native trees in the maximize the collection of recyclable materials in their homes, Reserva Costanera Sur in Puerto Madero and participating in including paper, cardboard, PET, Tetrapaks and cans. This renovations and repairs supporting the Centro Educativo San material was sold and the revenue provided to Instituto Tècnico Ignacio and Manos Abiertas. The Fundación supports more than Industrial Juan Ernesto de Bedout, an educational project that 600 people a week, providing tutoring for children, scholarships supports students pursuing a technical education and is for young people and labor-market training workshops for adults. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2013 36 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT Hurricane Sandy DISASTER RELIEF The superstorm pounded the Eastern Coast of the U.S. in October, affecting millions of people and their homes, livelihoods and neighborhoods. Efforts to restore power and communications were hampered by flooding and freezing temperatures. In the storm’s aftermath, our Huggies team, in collaboration with the National Diaper Bank Network, worked with the Red Cross to help provide diapers for those in need. Additionally, we shipped more than 40 truckloads of feminine care products, paper towels, adult incontinence products and toilet paper for distribution through Red Cross shelters and emergency-aid stations in New York and New Jersey. Tornadoes in the U.S. In response to tornadoes in the Midwest and southeastern regions of the U.S. in 2012, the National Diaper Bank Network and Kimberly-Clark’s Huggies brand pledged 1 million diapers to the American Red Cross to support disaster-relief efforts. The diapers pledged were in addition to the $1.5 million financial commitment Kimberly-Clark made to the organization’s Annual Disaster Giving Program. Floods in Queensland, Australia Man-made and natural disasters can be devastating for our Kimberly-Clark Australia partners with Foodbank Australia to employees, neighbors and customers. We understand that ensure that our products are on hand when people need them providing essentials for a better life means being there when most. When southeast Queensland was affected by the return of people need us most. devastating floods, we quickly dispatched approximately 8,000 cases of products, including toilet paper, diapers and feminine care products, in immediate relief to those affected by the floods. Following Hurricane Sandy, we shipped more than 40 truckloads of products to New York and New Jersey. At Kimberly-Clark, we believe the best way to help those affected by disasters is to partner with relief organizations that have the expertise, staff, volunteers and material resources needed to respond. In addition, Kimberly-Clark lends a hand through product donations and works with a variety of international humanitarian aid groups to ensure that help makes it to those in need. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2013 37 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT Kimberly-Clark Professional (KCP) focused on “small steps” SUSTAINABILITY AT HOME during 2012 Sustainability Week celebrations. Approximately 200 participants at the Reigate and Kings Hill locations in the UK were challenged to reduce their personal ecological footprint by testing their know-how on ways to reduce water use and fuel consumption. Employees at KCP and Family Care sites in the Europe, Middle East and Asia regions, as well as employees and mill operators at six locations, competed for lowest-carbonfootprint bragging rights. Employees were encouraged to reduce their everyday impact by adopting simple actions, such as using less water and fewer hand towels in their hand-washing routine. In 2012, employees who signed on to the Small Steps program or increased their commitment to it were awarded a Water Saver bag, which reduces water use in toilet tanks by one liter per flush, with an estimated water-reduction total of 771,000 gallons per year. Kimberly-Clark’s Small Steps program reaches out to our global workforce, encouraging employees to adopt small behavioral changes that together can contribute to a significant reduction in the use of energy, water and other resources. “My entry into Small Steps was vowing to turn off my computer at the end of the day. It’s quick, it’s easy and it makes sense in more ways than one. Not only does it allow me to ‘disconnect so that I can connect’ with family and friends after work, but it really DOES make a difference.” Anabell Iglesias Media Strategist, K-C Latin America (El Salvador) Note: Results reflect 58% of employees who have regular access to computers. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2013 38 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT PLANET Our mission to provide degradation have become more prominent. Almost half of Earth’s original forest cover is essentials for a better life gone, much of it removed within the past three decades. With world population projected is inseparable from our to reach 9 billion by 2050, pressure on these important resources continues to grow. commitment to protect the Views from Our Sustainability Advisory Board environment. It’s been our “Continuous dedication and improvement are just not enough. How long can we way for 140 years,w and it is continue to turn fibers from slow-growth forests into wastes of very short-lived tissue our priority going forward. goods? And, for every ton of tissue produced, release a ton of CO2 and displace 40 tons of water? This industry needs broad and dramatic technology changes to become sustainable.” FIBER Claude Fussler Former Vice President, Dow Chemical As global demand for the world’s naturalFormer Director, Stakeholder Relations forest resources increases, serious global World Business Council for Sustainable Development issues such as deforestation and forest In response, Kimberly-Clark is working to lead the way in environmentally responsible fiber use through the following actions: • Sourcing 100 percent of our wood fiber, by 2015, from suppliers that have received third-party certification of their forestry activities • Obtaining 90 percent of the fiber, by 2025, in our tissue products from environmentally preferred sources. This includes Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)–certified wood fiber, recycled fiber and sustainable alternative fibers. • Establishing a goal of transitioning at least 50 percent of wood fiber sourced from natural forests to alternative fiber sources by 2025 annual increase in tissue annual increase in energy efficiency manufacturing water use efficiency (mmBtu/MT production) m3/MT production KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2013 39 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT Fiber Use in 2012 • Kimberly-Clark’s manufacturing consumption of total market pulp produced: 4.4 percent • Total virgin wood fiber used in Kimberly-Clark products: approx. 2.36 million air-dried metric tons (ADMT) • Combined FSC-certified and recycled fiber used: 66.1 percent GRI EN2 Note: As part of our 2011 global GF&TN agreement with WWF, we will report our total use of environmentally preferred fiber for all fiber-containing products. Virgin pulp will include all K-C manufactured pulp, purchased market pulp and third-party contract–manufactured fiber-containing products. K-C began collecting fiber data from third-party contract manufacturers in 2009. Moreover, Kimberly-Clark will not knowingly use “conflict wood,” illegally harvested fiber or fiber procured from special forest areas, such as primary tropical rainforests, endangered forests, high-conservation-value forests and any areas protected by government authorities. We promote efforts to stop illegal-logging imports through our support of the Lacey Act in the U.S.; the Illegal Logging Prohibition Act in Australia, which came into effect in 2012 following years of lobbying by environmental groups and support from businesses such as Kimberly-Clark; and the EU Timber Regulation, which took effect in March 2013. You can read more about this in our Fiber Procurement Policy. In the following sections, we provide additional details on fiber certification, and our plans to reduce our dependence on natural forest fiber. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2013 40 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT SOURCING Views from Our Sustainability Advisory Board “This report clearly demonstrates the significant progress Kimberly-Clark has made in improving the sustainability of its supply chain and its use of raw materials. However, many challenges remain, chief among them is how to make the company’s disposable products less disposable, or even not disposable at all.” Jeffrey Hollander Co-Founder, Seventh Generation Board Member, Greenpeace USA, Environmental Health Fund and Verité The third-party certification systems we recognize are: • Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) • Sustainable Forest Initiative (SFI) • Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes (PEFC) • Sistema Brasileiro de Certificação Florestal (CERFLOR), in Brazil • Canadian Standards Association’s (CSA) National Sustainable Forest Management Standards (CSA) In 2012, we reached our Sustainability 2015 goal of sourcing 100 percent of our virgin wood fiber from suppliers whose forestry operations or wood-fiber procurement activities are certified by a third-party forest certification system. Note: * Approximately 150 tons of the fiber from a specific supplier were not certified in 2012, but with two-digit rounding, the percentage is 100%. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2013 41 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT inaugural FSC Friday. This global day of recognition aims to Our Commitment to FSC Certification encourage people to consider the wood and paper products they We continue to have a strong preference for FSC certification purchase and look for the FSC-certification logo on products. over that of other frameworks. FSC has the world’s most The FSC administers three different types of certificates, which widely recognized forest certification scheme, supported by relate to different stages of production and points along the internationally recognized environmental nongovernmental value chain: organizations (ENGOs) and preferred by a number of retail • Forest Management certification: Awarded to forest customers and business-to-business partners. To support our managers or owners whose management practices meet suppliers, we work with partners such as FSC International, the requirements of FSC principles and criteria Greenpeace and the World Wildlife Fund’s (WWF) Global Forest & Trade Network (GF&TN) to standardize FSC requirements. • Chain of Custody certification: Given to manufacturers, processors and traders of FSC-certified forest products. It verifies the use of FSC-certified material and products along the production chain. Several regions, including Australia, North America and Taiwan, have invested in building FSC awareness in markets where • Controlled Wood certification: This subset of Chain of Custody knowledge is very limited. For example, in Australia, consumer certification enables organizations to identify categories of awareness is at about 35 percent. Recognizing this gap, our wood considered acceptable. FSC Controlled Wood, which Australian team is leveraging our own brand awareness to help does not have to come from FSC-certified forests, can be increase recognition of FSC among consumers, customers, mixed only with FSC-certified wood in products labeled business partners, employees and governments. Also, in 2012, “FSC Mix.” the team hosted an employee engagement event for the Notes: N/A: Data not available. Data represents Kimberly-Clark and equity affiliates. “FSC Plantation” is a subset of “FSC Mix”. “Post-consumer recycled content” is a subset of “Recycled content”. * Post-consumer recycled content reported for North America and Europe only. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2013 42 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT Notes: A Decade of Progress: N/A: Data not available. Data represents Kimberly-Clark and equity affiliates. Leading Our Industry in Responsible Fiber Sourcing “FSC Plantation” is a subset of “FSC Mix”. “Post-consumer recycled content” is a subset of “Recycled content”. Ɣ Set goal of 100 percent certified suppliers 2007 Ɣ Kimberly-Clark introduces Andrex in Europe, its All Kimberly-Clark tissue mills in North America and Europe first FSC-certified branded consumer tissue and approximately 50 percent of our mills in our other regions Ɣ Alliance with Greenpeace, which led to a are Chain of Custody–certified. Our target, under our GF&TN revised fiber procurement policy agreement with WWF, is to achieve 100 percent Chain of Custody Ɣ Joined World Wildlife Fund’s Global Forest certification for all of our mills by 2016. Pulp suppliers must be & Trade Network (GF&TN) Forest Management–certified in order to supply us with FSCcertified pulp for our FSC product-labeling initiatives. 2009 Ɣ Kimberly-Clark becomes the first away-from-home tissue products company in North America to seek and obtain FSC chain-of-custody certification Ɣ South Africa received FSC chain-of-custody FSC-Certification Achievements in 2012 certification The number of our products that are FSC-certified continued to Australia received FSC chain-of-custody certification grow in 2012: 2010 • Kimberly-Clark Professional (KCP)’s North America towel and Ɣ Kleenex and Scott Naturals become the first tissue product lines are nearly 97 percent FSC-certified, the U.S.-branded consumer tissues to adopt largest percentage in the U.S. and Canada. In 2012, KCP FSC certification introduced FSC-certified Kleenex and Scott brand towel and Ɣ Global GF&TN agreement tissue products containing non-fiber resources. Ɣ K-C Professional achieves FSC labeling for • Kimberly-Clark Australia’s entire line of tissue and towel 2011 more than 95 percent of its North American tissues and towels products is FSC-certified Ɣ Kimberly-Clark becomes the first U.S. tissue • Kimberly-Clark Indonesia’s Cikarang Mill achieved FSC Chain maker to offer branded FSC consumer tissue products (Kleenex Facial and Scott Naturals) of Custody certification in 2012 • Kimberly-Clark’s Scott brand bath tissue and towel products Ɣ FSC certification for North American Scott brand consumer products became FSC-certified in 2012 Ɣ The Kimberly-Clark Barbosa Mill in Colombia achieves FSC chain-of-custody certification 2012+ Ɣ Kimberly-Clark sets goal to reduce use of wood fiber sourced from natural forests by at least 50 percent by 2025 Ɣ First alternative-fiber tissue products introduced by K-C Professional using bamboo and wheat straw KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2013 43 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT our use of wood from plantations, increasing our use of waste ALTERNATIVE FIBERS by-products, and incorporating land use–efficient, rapidly renewable alternative fibers. This move may also provide business advantage as regards fiber flexibility and, ideally, reductions in cost volatility. “If done right, Kimberly-Clark’s commitment to reduce its demand on fiber from natural forests could be groundbreaking and potentially set a new high bar for other companies to meet. We applaud Kimberly-Clark on this initiative.” Richard Brooks Forest Campaign Director, Greenpeace While we are aware that realizing our goal of significantly reducing our use of fiber sourced from natural forests will be challenging, we are committed to working with key stakeholders, Andrex, KCP Kleenex and KCP such as Greenpeace and the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), to Scott towel and tissue products define and develop sustainable alternative fibers. that use bamboo and wheat straw fibers were introduced Kimberly-Clark is pursuing several high-potential fiber alternatives, including those from plants such as bamboo that make efficient and sustainable use of land, as well as “agricultural Going beyond the commitments in our current fiber-sourcing waste” fibers such as wheat straw. policy, Kimberly-Clark is exploring alternate sources of fiber in order to continue to provide the high-quality products our consumers demand, to strengthen our tissue business by enabling increased fiber flexibility, and to foster sustainability of the world’s natural forests. We continue to strongly support sustainable forest management by adhering to our ﬁber procurement policy, which holds FSC certiﬁcation in the highest regard. Source: Beyond Forest Brochure Non-tree alternatives mature significantly faster than traditional fiber sources or yield significantly more fiber than traditional sources. At the Rio+20 United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in June 2012, we announced our intention to transition at least 50 percent of our wood fiber sourced from Kimberly-Clark signed a development agreement in September natural forests to alternate fiber sources by 2025. This ambitious 2012 with Provitro Biosciences (formerly Booshoot), a biotech goal will require us to undertake initiatives such as maximizing company in Washington State and a global leader in advanced KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2013 44 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT plant-propagation technologies. The agreement will enable us to explore manufacturing our tissue products with fiber derived from Provitro’s proprietary bamboo-propagation technology. REFORESTATION Through the partnership, we will work with Provitro to develop high-yield fiber alternatives that can be grown in the U.S. at scale and in environmentally and socially responsible ways. Provitro will provide bamboo “starts” that Kimberly-Clark will grow in pilot projects designed to test the viability of several species of giant bamboo, including Moso, as scalable and sustainable tree-fiber alternatives. Moso grows to almost 100 feet and is harvestable in less than a decade, producing several times the fiber of traditional timber and capturing four times as much carbon dioxide as most trees. To ensure that we understand and responsibly manage the impacts of alternative fibers, we commissioned a life-cycle analysis of bamboo, wheat straw and several other alternative natural fibers that was conducted by the Georgia Institute of Technology in 2012. We have commissioned WWF-US to do additional sustainability work in 2013 related to potential impacts on carbon sequestration, biodiversity and ecosystem services of various alternative natural fibers. Using Alternative Fiber In addition to supporting sustainable forest management, we partner with local groups on reforestation initiatives designed to In 2012, Kimberly-Clark launched three product lines containing improve forest habitats and benefit the surrounding communities. alternative fibers: Conservation International Andrex Eco bath tissue, introduced in the UK in May 2012, is made from 90 percent recycled fiber and 10 percent bamboo. Since 2007, Kimberly-Clark has worked with Conservation This is the first time that bamboo has been used in toilet International to support the Forest Mosaics Initiative in Brazil. tissue by a major brand in the UK Andrex Eco is FSC-certified, As our work with Forest Mosaics approached completion, a assuring that the entire supply chain, including the bamboo, is key project in 2012 was the translation into English of the independently certified. Its packaging also is made from recycled publication “Sustainable Forest Mosaics — Integrated Monitoring materials and can itself be recycled. of Biodiversity and Guidelines for Forest Restoration.” This report will promote the dissemination of the Mosaics model to other Kimberly-Clark Professional began offering Kleenex and Scott regions where plantation forestry occurs. brand product lines that contain 20 percent wheat straw or bamboo to its North American business-to-business partners in January 2012. Kimberly-Clark is supporting the National Wildlife Federation in restoring over 15,000 acres of longleaf pine habitat in Alabama. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2013 45 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT National Wildlife Federation GRI EN26 ENVIRONMENTAL PARTNERSHIPS In late 2011, Kimberly-Clark partnered with the U.S. National Wildlife Federation (NWF) to restore longleaf pine on private land in Alabama. Historically, longleaf pine was the dominant forest type in the southeastern U.S. By the 1990s, it had been reduced to 3 percent of its former range. During 2012, an NWF affiliate, the Alabama Wildlife Federation (AWF), implemented the project, re-establishing or restoring more than 3,100 acres of the coniferous habitat in three priority areas. NWF also leveraged Kimberly-Clark’s funding support to connect to local landowners, who were instrumental in re-establishing or restoring an additional 15,000 acres of longleaf pine habitat on their lands. Keep Korea Green About 470 Yuhan-Kimberly employees and their families joined together to plant more than 9,000 trees on public lands in the South Korean cities of Daejeon, Gimcheon and Chungju in March and April, contributing to the more than 2 million trees that had been planted and nurtured in 2012 through the company’s We engage with a number of environmental NGOs, multilateral Keep Korea Green program. Since the program began in 1984, organizations and industry associations to help advance our approximately 47 million trees have been cultivated. forest and fiber initiatives. These include the World Resources Institute Corporate Consultative Group, an industry think tank; Greenpeace; the GF&TN of the WWF; and a variety of fibercertification organizations. In addition, we made progress with the following organizations: World Wildlife Fund (WWF) In 2012, Kimberly-Clark was invited by WWF to become a member of the New Generation Plantations (NGP) project. The project will identify, promote and communicate better practices for plantation design and management. Plantations are designed to maintain ecosystem integrity and to protect and enhance high conservation values; they are developed with stakeholder involvement and contribute to economic growth and employment. In 2012, 76 percent of the wood fiber Kimberly-Clark used was sourced from plantation forests. We will use what we learn from this project in our alternative-fiber-development work, as we develop bamboo plantations in the southeastern United States. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2013 46 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT We also worked with WWF to provide funding to FSC-US SmartWay Transport Partnership to develop and approve the National Controlled-Wood Risk This is a strong government/industry collaboration between Assessment Protocol for the U.S. In 2012 the work focused on freight shippers, carriers, logistics companies and other identification of forested areas in the southeastern U.S. that are stakeholders, to voluntarily achieve improved fuel efficiency and potentially of high conservation value (HCV) and simultaneously reduce environmental impacts from freight transport. SmartWay at risk from forest management activities. In one significant step partners demonstrate to customers, clients and investors that of determining risk in the southeastern U.S., FSC-US contracted they are taking responsibility for the emissions associated with with The Nature Conservancy and the University of Georgia to goods movement, are committed to corporate social responsibility produce a set of maps showing eco-regionally significant HCVs in and sustainable business practices, and are reducing their carbon the Southeast. footprint. To date, the partnership includes nearly 2,900 companies and associations committed to improving fuel efficiency. KimberlyClark has been a member of SmartWay since 2006. We are working with The Nature Conservancy to restore degraded forest areas along waterways near our mill in Brazil. The Nature Conservancy (TNC) Through our Neve brand in Brazil, we continued our three-year partnership with TNC, investing $600,000 in its work to restore degraded Atlantic Forest areas along waterways near our mill in Mogi das Cruzes. Our objective is to compensate for the water we draw for our manufacturing processes with reforestation along the Tietê River, the facility’s main water source. In 2012, we conducted studies to measure our water footprint. This work will provide a benchmark for our 2013 initiatives, which will include engaging local landowners to protect the land near riverbanks and springs that was previously used for agriculture and livestock. The Forest Dialogue (TFD) Kimberly-Clark sits on the steering committee of The Forest Dialogue (TFD). Based at Yale University, TFD is a platform and process for multi-stakeholder discussion and collaboration on the most pressing local and global issues facing forests and people. The steering committee identifies the dialogue topics, and one current dialogue stream focuses on forest protection and landuse planning as part of the 4Fs dialogue — Food, Fuel, Fiber and Forests. A second area of interest to TFD is the potential future use of genetically modified trees, a development that could affect Kimberly-Clark’s sourcing of plantation-based wood pulp such as eucalyptus. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2013 47 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT Reducing Our Water Use WATER GRI EN10 Water use reductions in 2012 were driven by a more efficient manufacturing footprint achieved through conservation programs and the pulp and tissue restructuring, which shifted production from the Everett Mill in the U.S. and the Millicent-Tantanoola Mills in Australia. Compared to 2011, our manufacturing volume was down 0.3 percent, while water use was reduced 17.3 percent during the same period. In 2012, all applicable facilities met our global wastewater standards. GRI EN8 GRI EN9 GRI EN21 The Mobile Mill installed equipment to recycle treated effluent and reduce the quantity of fresh water used in manufacturing Water issues directly affect Kimberly-Clark’s business. Because processes. The $3.5 million “long loop” recycle system started we use large amounts of water in our manufacturing processes up in late December 2012 and, by February 2013, was recycling and because water is vital to human and ecosystem health, we 30 percent of its treated wastewater, eliminating an equivalent of are investing significant capital to minimize our absolute water 8.2 million cubic meters per year of fresh water use. The longuse and support the needs of communities in which we operate. loop system was designed to recycle up to 55 percent of the mill’s total effluent. We will be tracking and reporting on results in our Our goals include: 2013 report. • A 25 percent reduction in water use by 2015, using a 2010 baseline, while maintaining our current quality of discharge In 2012, the Northfleet Mill began construction on a $22.4 million advanced waterand wastewater-treatment system. In addition • Replenishing 200 million gallons per year of water to to satisfying regulatory requirements and resolving some safety communities in need concerns, the system will provide the mill with higher-quality process water and will use up to 80 percent less water by In 2012, our total global water use was 105.3 million cubic meters. recycling effluent. There will also be a reduction in air emissions This represents a 17.3 percent reduction from our 2011 water use and waste disposal, as the tissue machines operate more of 127.3 million cubic meters. efficiently with fewer stops and starts. In our 2013 report, we will provide data on the resulting reduction in water use. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2013 48 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT Also in 2012, operators at our Bernal Mill, in Argentina, installed Compliance with Water Discharge Standards a gravity strainer — a process water filter — in their water shortSince 2000, we have required all facilities and business units to loop system to increase filtering of suspended fiber solids. The certify, on a quarterly basis, their compliance with our biological implementation resulted in a 51 percent increase in water-use oxygen demand (BOD) and total suspended solids (TSS) global efficiency (from 55 cubic meters per metric ton of production to wastewater performance standards. In 2006, we developed a 27 cubic meters per metric ton of production) and a 25 percent program to monitor acute toxicity at our international mills on a cost reduction. rotating basis and introduced corrective measures at mills where acute toxicity was present. And in 2011 we formalized an acute toxicity standard requiring that all wastewater discharges be free of acute toxicity. In 2012, all applicable facilities met this standard. Note: N/A: Data not available. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2013 49 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT GRI EN10 COMMUNITY WATER INITIATIVES Kimberly-Clark uses approximately 34 billion gallons of water per year, and we return about 32 billion gallons, or 94 percent. Our goal is to close the remaining 6 percent gap over 10 years, beginning in 2011. To that end, we have set a water-replenishment target of 200 million gallons per year, which will accumulate to 2.0 billion gallons over 10 years. In 2012, Kimberly-Clark formally announced its Water for Life program as a key component of the company’s sustainability strategy looking beyond 2015. Recognizing the global importance of fresh water and the sustainable management of water resources, Kimberly-Clark collaborates with nongovernmental Sitio del Niño (El Salvador) organizations (NGOs) to provide clean drinking water, as well Kimberly-Clark and CARE International collaborated in 2012 as sanitation and hygiene education, to communities around on an initiative to provide potable water and sanitation to four the world through this program. schools located near our Sitio del Niño Mill. These schools are among the approximately 32 percent of the country’s schools that have inadequate sanitation and lack access to a safe water Approximately 700 million people across supply. Mill employees initiated the project to benefit the people in their community. In addition to rehabilitating the potable water and 43 countries are affected by water scarcity. sanitation facilities in the schools, Kimberly-Clark also improved the wells and the water-disinfection systems for the communities surrounding the schools. The improved water-supply systems will produce nearly 84 million gallons of chlorinated water annually, providing safe drinking water for 1,279 schoolchildren and more than 1,000 families. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2013 50 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT Papeles de Cauca (Colombia) One million gallons of clean water will be supplied annually to the Puerto Tejada community as a result of the filtration system project begun in 2012 at Kimberly-Clark’s Papeles de Cauca Mill. In 2010, Kimberly-Clark provided 400 employees and their families with safe drinking water by supplying them with home water filters. Based on that success, employees initiated the 2012 filtration project to provide potable water and improved sanitation to two schools. In addition, to extend the benefit to students who attended after-school activities, clean water was pumped to the nearby Colombianitos Foundation, an NGO that supports children living in impoverished neighborhoods in Colombia. The project benefited more than 1,600 children, including more than 70 children of Kimberly-Clark employees, plus an additional 1,200 children in neighboring communities. The filtration system also has a side benefit. Excess water is sold in one-gallon jugs within the community and at sporting events. The revenue from sales is used to cover the system’s operating costs and maintenance and to provide funding support for the school. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2013 51 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT In 2012, our Personal Care Mill in Neenah, Wisconsin, reduced WASTE its waste to landfill to 4.8 percent, down from 22 percent in 2011. Investments in waste segregation enabled the facility to partner with a local company that processes waste materials into pellets that are converted into plastic shelving, garbage cans and plastic bins. The remaining waste is converted into fuel pellets. Maximizing the Value of Secondary Materials As Kimberly-Clark facilities move toward the 2015 goal of zero waste to landfill, our teams are also working to ensure that manufacturing by-products are managed to provide optimal value as secondary materials. By sharing best practices in material sorting and sales, identifying material reuse and recycling opportunities within our operations and supply chain, and developing relationships with outside recyclers, we are putting scrap materials to good use while offsetting costs. Managing Tissue Mill Sludge Residual short fiber (RSF), the wastewater-treatment sludge from our tissue-making operations, accounts for approximately 90 percent of our manufacturing waste still going to landfill. Many Our manufacturing operations are focused on eliminating waste of our mills have successfully diverted sludge from landfill for sent to landfill, reducing waste generation and maximizing the soil amendment; newsprint and corrugate manufacturing; and value of secondary manufacturing materials. building and insulation products. All continue to seek new markets. Eliminating Waste Our mill at Beech Island, South Carolina, for example, has been In 2012, 58 percent of our facilities met the 2015 goal of diverting its RSF from landfill for more than a year, selling it for sending zero manufacturing waste to landfill; 78 percent of all pet bedding products and composted topsoil amendments. In waste generated has been diverted from landfill to secondary, 2012, the Beech Island team pushed beyond “landfill-free” for beneficial uses. its RSF and secured additional high-value users, including a manufacturer that uses the RSF as a solidifying agent for its fiber cement manufacturing process and another that utilizes it as a From 2011 to 2012, we reduced our waste feedstock for its fiberboard manufacturing process. generation by 77,000 metric tons, equaling the mass of three Statues of Liberty. Note: The MT of waste/MT of production data indicate that nearly 30% of the weight of our products is waste. This is mainly due to the recycled fiber process and the water and by-products left behind after usable fibers are extracted. Nearly 1 million MT of Kimberly-Clark’s waste is from recycled fiber sludge; that represents roughly two-thirds of Kimberly-Clark’s total waste generation. Keep in mind that nearly 50% of that weight is residual water leftover from the pulping process. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2013 52 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT In 2012, we faced two continuing challenges. Our Enstra Mill had been converting its sludge to energy in an on-site boiler, but in South Africa had been sending its recycled fiber sludge to a reverted to landfill for technical and safety reasons. The result local company that used it to manufacture construction materials. was an increase in waste to landfill in 2012 compared to 2011. But economic conditions shut down this market, resulting in the Absent these changes, our total waste-to-landfill numbers in 2012 sludge being redirected to landfill. Our Loudon Mill, in Tennessee, would have decreased 7 percent overall. GRI EN22 Note: “Beneficial use” = landfill alternate daily cover, termed as beneficial reuse in the U.S. GRI EN24 KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2013 53 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT To manage the GHG emissions from our operations and to CLIMATE CHANGE & ENERGY USE identify cost-effective mitigation opportunities, we have developed a corporate-wide GHG inventory of the six major greenhouse gases, and we report progress annually based on detailed EPA protocols and guidance. We also set a 2015 corporate-wide goal of reducing GHG absolute emissions from manufacturing by 5 percent from a 2010 baseline. Views from Our Sustainability Advisory Board “With creativity and collaboration, Kimberly-Clark has progressed on all its major environmental impacts. While I believe the company needs to set much more aggressive greenhouse gas emissions goals, it has made absolute cuts again this year. Kimberly-Clark’s work on water is going well, annual increase in energy efficiency but will require continued investment and support, and its fiber (mmBtu/MT production) strategy (certification and innovation around alternatives) is world-class.” Andrew Winston Co-Author, Green to Gold At Kimberly-Clark, the majority of our operational greenhouse Author, Green Recovery gas (GHG) emissions result from energy use at our Founder, Winston Eco-Strategies manufacturing facilities. GRI EN16 Managing Our Greenhouse Gas Emissions In 2012, absolute global GHG emissions at our manufacturing GRI EN19 facilities were 5.38 million metric tons of CO2 equivalents (CO2e). This represents a 2.4 percent reduction from 2011 GHG Notes: The U.S. emission factors were based on the 2011 U.S. EPA eGRID2010 version 2.1, the international emission factors used the International Energy Agency Data Services “CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion (2011 Edition),” and 2010 data has been updated to reflect these new calculations. N/A: Data is not available. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2013 54 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT emissions and a 3.5 percent reduction from the baseline year of 2010, putting us on track to meet our Sustainability 2015 goal. From 2011 to 2012, we reduced our energy GRI EN18 consumption by 11.7 trillion Btu, enough We pursue GHG emissions reduction from our operations with three main strategies: energy to power more than 300,000 1. Applying Lean Energy strategies and Continuous houses for one year. Improvement concepts to achieve energy efficiency through conservation projects, best practices and facility-level energy management programs. This includes establishing aggressive GRI EN5 energy benchmarks for our major manufacturing processes to highlight our most significant improvement opportunities. GRI EN6 2. Switching to lower-GHG-emitting fuels, such as from fuel oil to natural gas for process steam generation or from the electrical GRI EN7 grid to on-site cogeneration plants that efficiently satisfy our Below are some examples of our key 2012 activities: electricity, steam and process heat requirements 3. Implementing renewable-energy-sourcing solutions LEAN Energy: Supplementing our traditional energy and projects conservation programs, one of the most effective concepts piloted in 2012 is an approach we are calling “LEAN Energy.” GRI EC2 LEAN Energy is designed to engage mill employees in a culture While continued global attention to the climate change issue is of conservation and GHG emission reduction using energy an important factor in supporting energy projects, we also believe management systems and Continual Improvement concepts to there is an opportunity to improve our competitive position as eliminate wasted energy. Our manufacturing facility in Sitio del reduction in energy use at our manufacturing facilities results in Niño, El Salvador, reduced its energy consumption by more than lower manufacturing costs. Where carbon markets are in place 5 percent as compared to 2011 through its Lean Energy program, or emerging, our financial assessment of these projects includes with little capital investment. The approach will be adopted by potential costs associated with operating in these markets. more than a dozen other facilities on three continents as it is rolled out globally in 2013. GHG emissions reductions in 2012 were driven by a more energyefficient manufacturing footprint. This was achieved through Combined heat and power: Our manufacturing facility in conservation programs and the pulp and tissue restructuring, Millicent, Australia, began construction of Kimberly-Clark’s which shifted production from the Everett Mill in the U.S. and fourth combined heat and power facility in 2012. The $30 million the Millicent-Tantanoola Mills in Australia. Compared to 2011, project, which will be fully operational in mid-2013, will reduce our manufacturing volume was down 0.3 percent, while GHG the mill’s carbon emissions by approximately 90,000 metric tons emissions were reduced 2.44 percent during the same period, a a year. A gas turbine and heat recovery process will provide modest reduction in carbon intensity. energy-efficient steam, electricity and drying capability for the mill’s operations. Minimizing Energy Use and Improving Efficiencies Millicent joined our three other cogeneration-powered facilities (Fullerton, California; Romagnano, Italy; and New Milford, We achieved energy-efficiency improvements as a result of Connecticut) in receiving the U.S. Environmental Protection the implementation of energy projects and best practices in Agency’s Combined Heat and Power Partnership 2012 Certificate manufacturing. In 2012, energy efficiency at our manufacturing of Avoided GHG Emissions. The three facilities combined have facilities improved by 14.8 percent, declining from 15.6 million Btu avoided emissions of 3.97 million metric tons of carbon dioxide. per metric ton of production in 2011 to 13.3 million Btu per metric This includes avoided emissions in 2012 of more than 230,000 ton of production. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2013 55 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT GRI EN20 GRI EN3 GRI EN4 metric tons, equal to emissions from the generation of electricity gas, representing a reduction of 7,500 MT of CO2e emissions used annually by 28,685 homes. from the 2010 baseline year. In Thailand, our Safeskin facility replaced its 800,000-gallon-per-year fuel oil consumption with Fuel switching at Taiwan and Thailand mills: The mills in process steam generation produced with a biomass boiler, Taiwan (Chungli, Hsing Ying and Tayuan) switched the fuel they resulting in GHG emission reductions of 2,300 MT of CO2e. With were using for process steam generation from fuel oil to natural savings from fuel switching and energy-efficiency improvements KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2013 56 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT in our three Taiwanese facilities, total GHG emissions were reduced by 8 percent from the 2010 baseline year. The Tesco Knowledge Hub is a network set up by the UK grocery retailer Tesco to support its suppliers in reducing GHG Energy management systems: In 2012, the Koblenz Mill in emissions associated with the products they supply. In 2012, Germany became the first Kimberly-Clark facility to be granted we were invited to join the Tesco Knowledge Hub Advisory internationally recognized Energy Management ISO 50001 Board, which is made up of a small group of suppliers that are certification. The mill team made significant reductions in energy at the forefront of sustainable business practice. By the end consumption since 2010 by, among other initiatives, measuring of 2012, the Knowledge Hub had involved Tesco’s 1,000 top and monitoring key data such as gas, electricity, compressed suppliers in online collaboration, supplemented with face-toair, steam, and water usage, with performance tracked through face meetings and site visits. monthly charts of key performance indicators. The mill currently operates at approximately 13 percent below its energy benchmark. Transport Efficiencies Renewable energy: Our mix of renewable/non-renewable energy In 2012, we continued our involvement in the U.S. Environmental sources was negatively impacted this year due to the shutdown of Protection Agency’s SmartWay Transportation Partnership. our Everett and Tantanoola pulp mills and removal from service of Through it, we are reducing carbon dioxide emissions and saving a poorly performing biomass boiler at our Loudon, Tennessee, mill. fuel with the active participation of our logistics team and supply Our teams continue to seek renewable energy sources as part of chain. Kimberly-Clark has adopted several programs that are our overall energy and GHG-reduction strategies. increasing intermodal usage and reducing length of haul, total miles and empty miles, as well as wait time and idling at shipping Contributing to Global Climate and receiving docks. Change Discussions Kimberly-Clark takes part in a number of ongoing global conversations focused on the management of GHG emissions and climate change. In 2012, we participated in the European Union Carbon Trading Scheme, and we also continued to monitor the development of proposed climate emissions legislation in the U.S. and other countries where we have business interests related to our manufacturing or raw material sourcing. We also are active in the CDP Supply Chain Project, where we are working to understand our Scope 3 emissions and their magnitude in our overall carbon footprint. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2013 57 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT GRI EN17 GRI EN29 Notes: Numbers are estimates. Drop in savings for 2009 is due to a significant drop in fuel prices. Pounds of carbon dioxide emitted for each gallon of diesel fuel burned: 22.45 Since 2006, we have more than doubled intermodal utilization, from approximately 42,000 loads to more than 91,000 loads, a 117 percent increase that has resulted in: • Savings of 53 million gallons of diesel fuel • Reduction of CO2 emissions by more than 540,000 tons • Cumulative saving (CS) equal to $294 million as compared to usage of over-the-road trucks In June 2012, Kimberly-Clark was recognized by the Voluntary Interindustry Commerce Solutions Association for our continuous growth of shipping via intermodal. The association also honored us with the Collaborative Commerce Achievement Award for sustainability excellence. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2013 58 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT PRODUCTS Since we made our first product in 1872, quality, service and fairness have been the values INNOVATION behind our essential products. Innovation is the lifeblood of our business. We These values continue to compete in eight major consumer categories, inspire our search for more five of which we created*: sustainable ways of meeting our customers’ needs. • Facial tissue* • Paper towels* • Bathroom tissue* • Diapers • Training/youth/swim pants* • Infant and child wipes • Feminine care* • Incontinence care of net sales from environmentally innovative products Additionally, people use Kimberly-Clark Professional’s products to provide safety solutions and enhance the quality of the workplace environment while medical professionals turn to Kimberly-Clark Health Care for a portfolio of products essential to the health and hygiene of patients and staff. Together, Kimberly-Clark Professional and Kimberly-Clark Health Care accounted for 24 percent of 2012 net sales. Both businesses are experiencing continued growth, with a shift of their respective product mixes into faster-growing, higher-margin segments, including safety and wiping products in K-C Professional, and medical devices in K-C Health Care. Kimberly-Clark is focusing its long-term research on alternative materials and other environmental innovations that don’t rely on wood ﬁber. Andrex, KCP Kleenex and KCP Scott towel and tissue products that use bamboo and wheat straw fibers were introduced KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2013 59 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT Kimberly-Clark’s philosophy of innovation is based on identifying GRI EN1 the needs and wants of consumers and other end-users and satisfying those needs by improving existing brands and exploring We are also looking for ways to use fewer petroleum-based new opportunities. By 2015, we aim for 25 percent of our net materials, and are researching four options: sales to be from environmentally innovative products. We are • Lighter-weight materials that use less polymer currently at approximately 22 percent on this measure. • Polymers made from renewable materials Materials Innovation • Biodegradable polymers for use in flushable products that provide more flexible disposal options Kimberly-Clark is focusing its long-term research on alternative materials and other environmental innovations that don’t rely • Use of recycled polymers on wood fiber. In 2012, we introduced our first towel and tissue products made from bamboo and wheat straw fibers — Andrex Kimberly-Clark supports Algix, a U.S. clean-tech firm, in its Eco in the UK and Kimberly-Clark Professional’s Kleenex and evaluation of algae-based bioplastics that could one day replace Scott brands in the U.S. This innovation is discussed in the the petroleum-based plastics. Through a licensing agreement, Alternative Fibers section of this report. we provide support to Algix to develop and commercialize algae/ polymer bioplastic technology that blends aquatic feedstocks, produced by wastewater management and aquaculture facilities, Views from Our Sustainability Advisory Board with commercial polymers for use in packaging, consumer goods and other applications. “I applaud Kimberly-Clark’s programs like the composting of diapers and Blue Renew that recycles hospital waste. In Reducing Material Weight emerging markets, industry will need to work closely with governments in order to address post-consumer waste in Our business units continue to use reduced-weight materials regions not currently equipped to recycle it. for their products. For example, in 2012 our Personal Care business reduced the material weight in its products by more The company has made great strides in deriving 22 percent of than 15 million pounds, focusing on replacements for the fluff and net sales from environmentally innovative products. I suggest absorbent materials used in child care products and the plastic that Kimberly-Clark publish its criteria for this metric, and also film used in diapers. Global Nonwovens has reduced the weight examine its products’ full life-cycle impacts.” of nearly 60 percent of its sourced materials, compared to a Suhas Apte 2009 baseline. This is significant progress toward a five-year goal Former Vice President, Global Sustainability of reducing the weight of 80 percent of our nonwoven grades. Kimberly-Clark Progress has resulted from operational improvements, capital investments and new-material developments. Notes: N/A: Data is not available. Polymers for 2009 is an estimate. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2013 60 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT Science at the Root of Innovation • Third-Party Recognition In 2012, we expanded our network of innovation centers. We • Breakthrough Environmental Innovation added a facility in Medellín, Colombia, and significantly expanded our center in Seoul, South Korea. The centers are helping us By the end of 2012, we had achieved approximately 22 percent develop products that incorporate local and regional insights of net sales from the environmentally innovative products in our to meet consumer needs around the world. Together with our ecoLOGICAL portfolio, including: established innovation facilities in Neenah, Wisconsin, and Roswell, Georgia, we are positioned to stay competitive in a fastYEAR BRAND PRODUCT REGION changing market environment. 2011 Kleenex FSC-labeled products Europe Kleenex, Scott, EU Ecolabel We support science and education in industry and academia Wypall Kimberly-Clark through presentations, scholarly contributions and partnerships. Professional products We partnered with the University of California Berkeley’s Kleenex Eco-form facial UK Sustainable Products and Solutions Program, investing in the cleansing wipes study of municipal-waste reduction and collection strategies, Kleenex, Scott FSC-labeled and North America for example. Our Innovations team contributed a chapter on the Eco-Logo-certified Kimberly-Clark sustainable manufacturing of polymers and paper in the 2012 Professional products edition of the prestigious 10-volume textbook Polymer Science: Huggies Pure and Natural A Comprehensive Reference. diapers Huggies Baby wipes Kimberly-Clark has taken a prominent role as a founding member Scott Scott Naturals U.S. in The Sustainability Consortium, including leadership in the bath tissue Paper Sector, in the Measurement Science Working Group and Kleenex FSC-certified tissue on the Co-Chairs council. Kimberly-Clark was active in the Paper, Neve NeveNaturali Brazil Pulp, and Forestry Sector group (as one of the only organizations bath tissue to have completed a life-cycle analysis in the category) and 2012 Scott FSC-certified bath North America provided research and insight to help drive the development of tissue and towels the category sustainability profile for bath tissue. Huggies Diapers Latin America Neve Bath tissue Life-Cycle Assessment: Our ecoLOGICAL Model Eco-Certifying Our Products In 2010, we introduced our ecoLOGICAL model to establish a globally recognized portfolio of environmentally innovative Eco-certification programs are voluntary, often country-specific products and to provide ourselves with a tool with which to initiatives intended to encourage businesses to develop and measure progress toward our Sustainability 2015 goals. The market products that are better for the environment. Products are model includes an environmental innovation rating system for evaluated by independent third parties against program-specific products, business-specific product scorecards, environmental criteria and carry the program logo on their packaging. innovation tracking systems, sales tracking systems, and rapid life-cycle assessment (LCA) tools for use in product development, The EcoLogo, a North American certification program, assures communications resources and training. that our tissue products demonstrate a significantly reduced environmental impact as measured by five key life-cycle criteria: Before being included in our ecoLOGICAL portfolio, products • Resource consumption must be evaluated across four categories: • Energy consumption • Responsible Materials — including rapidly renewable materials, • Wastewater quality third-party-certified materials and post-consumer materials • Aquatic toxicity • Life-Cycle Footprint • Solid waste generation KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2013 61 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT Ecolabel, a pan-European certification program, assesses tissue products using equally stringent criteria, including the elimination of elemental chlorine from the bleaching process. Nearly 60 percent of Kimberly-Clark Professional (KCP) North American products have received EcoLogo certification — 83 products in its tissue and towel lines and, new in 2012, 24 products in skin care. In Europe, six KCP products were granted the Ecolabel accreditation in 2012, bringing the total to 115, or more than 40 percent of its products in Europe. Scott Naturals brand dry bath tissue, paper towels and napkins have earned the Green Good Housekeeping Seal, an emblem given by the Good Housekeeping Research Institute in recognition of a brand’s demonstration of environmental responsibility across a wide range of criteria. Scott Naturals dry bath tissue, paper towels and napkins have met the Good Housekeeping Green Seal’s environmental standard for paper goods based on recycled content and other factors. Additionally, in 2012, Scott Naturals reached $100 million in annual sales versus $4 million in 2007, demonstrating the competitiveness of budget-friendly products, including tube-free bath tissue, paper towels and flushable cleansing cloths that contain recycled fiber. Two years ago, Kimberly-Clark became the first U.S. tissue maker to offer branded consumer tissue products that meet the rigorous sustainable sourcing requirements of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). Consumers can now identify FSCcertified Kleenex brand and Scott brand products by the FSC label on every package. For information on fiber certification and FSC labeling, please click here. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2013 62 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT Measuring Our Progress PACKAGING In 2012, we maintained the 4 percent reduction we had achieved in 2011 versus the 2010 benchmark year. Unfortunately, packaging reduction projects completed in 2012 were largely offset by increases in some corrugated box weights, changes in product mix to more packaging-intensive smaller-count packages, and increased bag weights to enhance on-shelf product-quality perception and reduce product damage. We acknowledge that we have much work to do to reduce the environmental impact of our packaging while maintaining product quality in a highly competitive marketplace. We employ a carbon-intensity metric to calculate environmental impact reductions in packaging as compared with a 2010 baseline. The metric is defined as: Weight in metric tons of CO2 equivalents (CO2e) attributable to total packaging purchased/weight in metric tons of product produced. We are making steady progress in reducing the environmental CO2e (also used in the Climate Change section of this report) impact of the packaging that protects our products’ quality and the is a commonly used measure that expresses the global safety of our consumers. In 2011, we began collecting data from warming potential of various greenhouse gases in terms of our packaging suppliers worldwide in support of Kimberly-Clark’s the amount of carbon dioxide (CO2) required to produce the packaging metric. In 2012, we held full-day technical meetings same effect. with several of our major packaging suppliers to brainstorm Various packaging materials have different CO2e intensities ideas for sustainable packaging. Several shortand longer-term (tons of CO2e per ton of packaging). We use externally project concepts were identified. Also in 2012, we implemented recognized and vetted conversion factors so that CO2e numerous packaging reduction projects across all Kimberly-Clark is the common measure used to compare different businesses and regions. packaging materials. Reducing the weight of our Kleenex facial In general, reductions in packaging are driven by decreases in packaging weight (light-weighting) or the use of less packaging as tissue cartons saved us nearly $1 million. a result of product-specification changes, such as thinner or more compact products. We request data on the total weight (by type) of packaging sold to Kimberly-Clark from all of our packaging Kimberly-Clark is a member of the Sustainable Packaging suppliers worldwide, along with related data such as percentage Coalition (SPC). The SPC is a U.S.-based industry working group of recycled material used. For fiber-based packaging, we started dedicated to a more robust environmental vision for packaging. collecting data in 2011 on certifications and the source countries The SPC encourages members to initiate projects of interest on of the fiber used. packaging sustainability within a framework of science-based research, supply chain collaborations and continuous outreach. In 2012, we also completed development and began rollout of a calculator that is helping our business units compare environmental impacts of packaging for specific savings and innovation projects within a common framework. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2013 63 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT Packaging Reduction Successes ASIA (TAIWAN) BRAND / PRODUCT PACKAGING REDUCTION SUSTAINABILITY BENEFIT KOTEX feminine Market test of Replacement of care multipack blended renewable petrochemical material thermoplastic-starch with plant-based material and polyethylene EUROPE (UK) BRAND / PRODUCT PACKAGING REDUCTION SUSTAINABILITY BENEFIT Andrex Eco Recycled packaging Use of 100% postbathroom tissue for core, primary industrial recycled wrap and secondary material case film Kleenex facial Reduction of carton Material diverted from tissue height use: 640 tons, a reduction in carbon emissions of 28% per year LATIN AMERICA (BRAZIL) BRAND / PRODUCT PACKAGING REDUCTION SUSTAINABILITY BENEFIT Neve Compacto Introduction of 628 tons of sugar cane bathroom tissue sugar cane–based polyethylene used in 2012 polyethylene resulting in savings of approximately 2,700 tons of carbon emissions NORTH AMERICA BRAND / PRODUCT PACKAGING REDUCTION SUSTAINABILITY BENEFIT Kimberly-Clark Reduction of weight Material diverted from Professional of corrugate cases use: 246 metric tons of towel and across various corrugate bathroom products products Cottonelle and Reduction in the Elimination of about Scott brands thickness and weight 1 million pounds of bathroom tissue of polyfilm packaging polyethylene, correlated and, in some cases, to 600 tons of carbon replacement of virgin emissions per year polyethylene with recycled plastics Kleenex facial Up to 15% reduction in Savings of more than tissue weight of upright and $1 million and reduction flat paperboard cartons of more than 24,500 tons of carbon emissions per year Huggies Wet Reduction in corrugate Reduction of 550 metric Wipes use from doubletons of corrugate and walled to single-walled 1,650 tons of carbon cases emissions per year KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2013 64 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT GRI EN27 POST-CONSUMER WASTE K-C Professional (KCP) initiated a single-use-garment recycling program in 2011. In 2012, KCP and Life Technologies in the U.S. completed successful pilots of a nitrile-glove-recycling program, which were then replicated across the country. The gloves and garments are recycled in partnership with TerraCycle. In 2012, the cleanrooms and laboratories participating in the U.S. program recycled more than 20 tons of garment and glove waste into plastic lumber, Adirondack chairs, Frisbees and other consumer products. Similar pilot recycling programs have been started in Germany and the UK for used protective garments and nitrile gloves. Kimberly-Clark Health Care has been working with hospitals to help them recycle Kimguard* Sterilization Wrap. In 2012, we launched a five-stage recycling engagement program called Blue ReNew. The program helps hospitals organize their wrap-recycling needs, including engagement of leadership and key stakeholders, identification of recycling partners, training of hospital operating room teams and measurement of The majority of Kimberly-Clark products are single-use, and our program results. In 2012, nearly 200 hospitals were involved stakeholders have identified post-consumer waste as an important in various stages of set up of the Blue ReNew program. Of issue for Kimberly-Clark to tackle as we continue to expand into these, 52 hospitals implemented all five stages of Blue ReNew emerging markets. We are working on a number of recycling, and diverted an estimated 1.5 million pounds (30 percent of upcycling and composting solutions, which we describe below. purchased volume) of wrap from landfill. We understand the importance of applying life-cycle thinking to our products— from development to disposal — and will provide updates on our progress on this front in future reports. Huggies Brand Brigade, a packaging-recycling initiative offered in U.S. schools and communities in partnership with TerraCycle, expanded exponentially in 2012. Approximately In 2012, 52 hospitals helped us divert an 76,000 pieces of diaper packaging were collected, an increase of more than 1,000 percent from 2011. Sign-ups for additional estimated 1.5 million pounds of sterile collection bins increased by 55 percent. wrap from landﬁlls. Members of our Global Nonwovens business participate on the boards of the Association of Postconsumer Plastic Recyclers and Kimberly-Clark’s Huggies brand continued its partnership with the Healthcare Plastics Recycling Council, working with other Envirocomp in 2012, opening a second collection-and-compost industry leaders to increase the recycling of plastics-based products. plant for used diapers, incontinence products and sanitary items in Wellington, New Zealand. By year-end, 300 customers Information on our materials recycling efforts in our manufacturing had subscribed to the service. This follows the success of operations is available in the Waste section of this report. Envirocomp’s first Huggies-sponsored facility in Christchurch, New Zealand, in 2010, which serves more than 700 household and 500 commercial customers. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2013 65 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT SUPPLY CHAIN Views from Our Sustainability Advisory Board “Building resilient supply chains is essential in an era where extreme weather events are the norm, resources are scarce, and human rights abuses continue. Kimberly-Clark is embedding sustainability within its supply chain because it is a business imperative. We applaud the company’s commitment to set high standards for its suppliers and challenge the company to further scale improvements across its supply chain through engagement, capacity-building and industry collaboration.” Mindy Lubber President, Ceres Ensuring high standards in our dealings with our suppliers is an important business goal and is part of our Code of Conduct Kimberly-Clark’s supply chain is extensive, with approximately and Human Rights in Employment policy. In 2012, we further 250 contract manufacturers, who are part of a larger network of underscored the importance of these standards with the release 30,000 goods and services suppliers worldwide. of an updated Sustainability Guide for Suppliers and an update to our Supplier Social Compliance Standards, Audit Guide and Due Diligence Process. Ensuring high standards in our dealings Our standards share common goals with several international with our suppliers is an important business standards, including the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and goal and part of our Code of Conduct. the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which we signed in 2010. Working toward a more sustainable supply chain is now a For more information on how we’re working with suppliers, business imperative, and our relationships with suppliers are click here. essential to our ability to deliver on our promises to customers and consumers. We seek to do business with suppliers who share our values of quality, service and fair dealing, and our commitment to sustainability. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2013 66 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT Our compliance program focuses on establishing consistent SUPPLIERS standards and control processes within our in-scope supplier facilities, while recognizing that there are differences in laws, customs and economic conditions that affect business practices around the world. We emphasize the importance of responsible workplace policies and practices that comply with applicable employment laws and regulations, human rights, occupational safety and health, and environmental regulations. This is a priority for Kimberly-Clark, and we are determined to proceed with diligence and transparency. GRI HR2 Progress in Supply Chain Compliance The new supplier standards and processes are being rolled out in a phased approach. By the end of 2012, 146 out of 219 of our contract finished-product suppliers had signed the Declaration of Compliance. Additionally, partnering with our customers and external auditing firms, we implemented a human rights We choose our suppliers based on a number of factors: safety, risk-management process to identify, prevent, mitigate and quality, price/value, assurance of supply, technology, service and account for suppliers’ impacts on human rights and compliance. sustainability. Supplier sustainability assessment considerations We focused on countries at high risk of human rights abuses, include environmental sustainability, social performance and requiring facilities in those countries to demonstrate an absence good governance. of violations in each of the following categories: • Child labor In 2012, we updated our Supplier Social Compliance Standards • Forced labor (SSCS) program. Updated standards were communicated to our finished-product contract manufacturers, and we began • Abuse of labor requesting signed Declarations of Compliance from all contract • Freedom of association and collective bargaining manufacturers. The SSCS are now part of the terms and • Discrimination conditions attached to Kimberly-Clark purchase orders and contracts. They are driven by the belief that good corporate • Working conditions that present an imminent threat of serious citizenship is essential to our long-term business success and injury to employees must be reflected in our relationships and workplace activities, as well as the workplaces of those who are authorized to directly In late 2012, we started working on the next phase of the supply our business. program, which was to roll out the Declaration of Compliance and Audit Guide to our branded packaging suppliers. By the end of 2012, 146 out of 219 of our Also in 2012, we expanded our collection of supplier sustainability data with new requests made to our major suppliers regarding contract ﬁnished-product suppliers had eight key raw-material categories, including questions about suppliers’ energy consumption and greenhouse gas goals. signed the Declaration of Compliance. We also began tracking data from our fiber-based packaging suppliers worldwide. Data requested included virgin-fiber countries of origin, virgin-fiber-certification data, and the percentage of recycled fiber used in the packaging we purchase. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2013 67 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT Working with our customers, we conducted 38 audits, utilizing have significant manufacturing facilities in about 40 countries. independent third parties, to assess suppliers’ compliance with Most of our sourcing is also local. the SSCS. The assessments involved confidential interviews with employees and on-site contract workers. Suppliers that fail to fully Kimberly-Clark’s practices and policies focus most of our comply with our standards are required to work with Kimberlyspending on locally based suppliers at all of our significant Clark to implement corrective actions. In the event a supplier locations of operation. There are several fundamental reasons for subsequently still fails to fully comply with our standards, we this practice: exercise our contractual rights, including the right to terminate a • We manufacture internally in about 40 countries, usually supplier’s agreement(s). for local markets. Only about 4 percent of our products are contract-manufactured. 2012 Audit Results • Most of our raw materials are bulky and expensive to • Facilities audited: 38 ship. Minimization of shipping distance is always a prime • Facilities with violations: 29 with mandatory and 24 with consideration, as transportation is one of our largest input non-mandatory costs. This not only minimizes cost, but also minimizes greenhouse gas emissions resulting from transportation. • Average number of violations per audit: 2.8 • Many of our raw materials come from industries that local • Facilities with Mandatory Compliance Violations, such as child governments protect. As a result, raw material import duties labor, workers not free to leave after working hours, high risk of often exist, making local sourcing important. fire/injury, pregnancy testing (requiring proof of remediation): 76 percent • Because we manufacture for local markets, most of our labor needs to be co-located with the manufacturing facility and, • Facilities with Non-Mandatory Compliance Violations, such for this reason, we do not outsource much of our labor. In as fire exits not identified with signs or indicator lamps, addition to manufacturing, these local affiliates usually have inadequate emergency lights, failure to register young workers internal staff functions (marketing, finance, planning, etc.). (no proof of remediation required): 63 percent Additionally, many of our purchased services, transportation • Violations by category: and utilities are also local, for reasons such as cost, language, Safe and Healthy Workplace: 88 percent mill proximity, etc. Child Labor: 8 percent • We have ongoing business relationships with many local Forced Labor: 2 percent suppliers. These relationships add value in terms of quality, Freedom of Association: 1 percent delivery, technical support, security of supply and preferred customer status. Environmental: 1 percent • Remediation For K-C supply chains, the concept of local sourcing has Suppliers that successfully remediated violations: three dimensions: 100 percent • Shipping distance Average remediation time: 71 days • Shipping within the country where the raw material Suppliers with planned follow-up audits: 13 percent is consumed • Shipping within the economic region (e.g., EU, NAFTA) where GRI EC6 the raw material is consumed Locally Based Suppliers As explained above, cost dictates that we minimize shipping Kimberly-Clark’s business model is to manufacture and source distance for most of our raw materials. In addition, there are often in local markets as much as possible [i.e., in individual countries other factors that cause Kimberly-Clark to use raw materials and free trade zones like the European Union (EU) and the North that are sourced in the country where they are consumed. Many American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA)]. Most of our products of our sites are in geographies in which international shipping are sold in the country (or free trade zone) of manufacture. We would involve ocean freight, and this increases cost, as ground KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2013 68 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT transportation is also necessary at both ends. Such sites are in countries that are islands (Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, Indonesia, UK), peninsulas (South Korea, Malaysia, Turkey) or Kimberly-Clark is accountable for and very large (China, U.S., Russia, India, Brazil). committed to the integrity of our products For certain raw materials, we source within regions (like the EU). For these raw materials, vast scale is required for economically and supply chain. viable production when country-level sourcing is not available. A good example is superabsorbent polymer (SAP). Companies External regulations and industry best practices, as well as that make SAP typically have one to two large plants in each internally developed standards, define our quality criteria. region. Shipping distance/cost is still an issue, but is balanced by Programs are established to measure compliance with these and manufacturing cost. report results to senior management. These quality standards and established quality-system processes drive the continuous In summary, about 70 percent of our suppliers are local by improvement activities that ensure that Kimberly-Clark products these definitions. are safe and effective for consumers. Kimberly-Clark is accountable for and committed to the integrity QUALITY & SAFETY of our products and supply chain. Should they become necessary, product recall programs are in place to proactively and promptly address potential safety issues. These processes are tested periodically to ensure that they are effective and efficient. Kimberly-Clark takes a proactive approach to recovering products that do not meet quality or regulatory standards or that may pose an adverse health or safety risk. In 2012, Kimberly-Clark executed recalls in the U.S. that included the following products: • Kimberly-Clark Professional Kleenex Luxury Foam Ensuring quality is an essential part of Kimberly-Clark’s business Hand Sanitizer strategy, and a culture of quality is the foundation for meeting our • Kimberly-Clark Patient Warming System Model 1000 customer and consumer expectations. Control Unit It is the policy of Kimberly-Clark to design, manufacture and • Kimberly-Clark Ultra and MicroCool Surgical Gowns deliver products that meet or exceed customer and consumer • I-Flow ON-Q Pump with Bolus Button standards for quality, performance and value. Each KimberlyClark business, function and facility is charged with developing We are equally dedicated to protecting consumer health and and maintaining quality systems that support this policy. From safety. Our product-safety scientists are trained and accredited design and sourcing to manufacturing, commercialization, in the field of toxicology, biocompatibility and health-risk transportation, distribution and sales, quality is an important part assessment. Most have doctoral degrees and several are of our entire process. board-certified by the American Board of Toxicology. Safety KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2013 69 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT assessments conducted by our product-safety experts cover the complete life cycle of a product: research and development, manufacture, sale, use and disposal. Additional information on our policies, positions on animal testing, and implementation of the European Community’s regulatory framework for the management of chemicals (REACH) is available on our corporate website here. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2013 70 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT PERFORMANCE DATA As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), Kimberly-Clark is required to annually communicate its progress in promoting the UNGC’s ten principles. The content index below Note: Our employee numbers only include full-time employees. cross-references each of the ten principles to the location where they are discussed on the website and serves as Kimberly-Clark’s Communication on Progress (COP). Note: * Approximately 150 tons of the fiber were not certified in 2012, but with two digit rounding the percentage is 100%. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2013 71 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT PERFORMANCE DATA SUMMARY Note: “Intergeographic” refers to inter-company sales. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2013 72 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT PERFORMANCE DATA Notes: 1 In 2012 a motor vehicle fatality occurred in the trucking operations of Kimberly-Clark de Mexcio, an unconsolidated affiliate. 2 In January 2012, the Chester, Pennsylvania, mill was cited by OSHA as a result of an explosion involving a propane tank that occurred in August 2011. A monetary sanction of $23,000 was paid and the following corrective actions undertaken: Discontinued refueling of propane cylinders on the Chester site immediately following the incident, and the two propane filling stations on site were dismantled and removed. Propane is now delivered in cylinders by a vendor. The smoking policy has been clearly recommunicated and is consistently enforced. TRIR: Work-related events that result in fatalities, temporary or permanently disabling injuries, or illnesses, per 200,000 hours worked per annum. LTRIR: Reportable injuries/illnesses that result in time away from work or restricted work, per 200,000 hours worked per annum. SERR: Number of Sentinel Events reported per 200,000 hours worked per annum. N/A: Data is not available. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2013 73 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT PEOPLE PERFORMANCE DATA Notes: “Management” is defined as U.S. employees in EEP category 01 (executive/senior-level officials and managers, and first/middle-level officials and managers). KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2013 74 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT Notes: As part of our 2011 global GF&TN agreement with WWF, we will report our total use of environmentally preferred fiber for all fiber-containing products. Virgin pulp will include all K-C manufactured pulp, purchased market pulp and third-party contractâ€“manufactured fiber-containing products. K-C began collecting fiber data from third-party contract manufacturers in 2009. Notes: * Approximately 150 tons of the fiber were not certified in 2012, but with two-digit rounding, the percentage is 100%. PERFORMANCE DATA KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2013 75 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT PLANET PERFORMANCE DATA Notes: N/A: Data not available. Data represents Kimberly-Clark and equity affiliates. “FSC Plantation” is a subset of “FSC Mix”. “Post-consumer recycled content” is a subset of “Recycled content”. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2013 76 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT PLANET PERFORMANCE DATA Notes: Numbers are estimates. Drop in savings for 2009 is due to a significant drop in fuel prices. Pounds of carbon dioxide emitted for each gallon of diesel fuel burned: 22.45. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2013 77 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT PLANET PERFORMANCE DATA Notes: The U.S. emission factors were based on the 2011 U.S. EPA eGRID2010 version 2.1, and the international emission factors used the International Energy Agency Data Services “CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion (2011 Edition),” and 2010 data has been updated to reflect these new calculations. N/A: Data is not available. Notes: N/A: Data is not available. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2013 78 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT PLANET PERFORMANCE DATA Notes: “Beneficial use” = landfill alternate daily cover, termed as beneficial reuse in the U.S. Notes: The MT of waste/MT of production data indicates that nearly 30% of the weight of our products is waste. This is mainly due to the recycled fiber process and the water and byproducts left behind after usable fibers are extracted. Nearly 1 million MT of Kimberly-Clark’s waste are from recycled fiber sludge; that represents roughly two-thirds of Kimberly-Clark’s total waste generation. Keep in mind that nearly 50% of that weight is residual water leftover from the pulping process. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2013 79 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT Notes: N/A: Data is not available. Polymers for 2009 is an estimate. PERFORMANCE DATA KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2013 80 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT PERFORMANCE DATA Notes: “Intergeographic” refers to inter-company sales. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2013 81 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT GRI INDEX As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), Kimberly-Clark is required to annually communicate its progress in promoting the UNGC’s ten principles. The content index below cross-references each of the ten principles to the location where they are discussed on the website and serves as Kimberly-Clark’s Communication on Progress (COP). KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | GRI INDEX | JUNE 2013 82 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT GRI INDEX KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | GRI INDEX | JUNE 2013 83 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT GRI INDEX KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | GRI INDEX | JUNE 2013 84 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT GRI INDEX KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | GRI INDEX | JUNE 2013 85 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT GRI INDEX KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | GRI INDEX | JUNE 2013 86 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT GRI INDEX KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | GRI INDEX | JUNE 2013 87 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT GRI INDEX KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | GRI INDEX | JUNE 2013 88 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT GRI INDEX KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | GRI INDEX | JUNE 2013 89 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2012 SUSTAINABI LITY REPORT GRI INDEX KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | GRI INDEX | JUNE 2013 90
