UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2012 Statement from the Director Elif is committed to make the Global Compact principles a part of its corporate strategy, culture and every day operations and to engage collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. I am pleased to confirm that Elif providing better conditions for the Developing its business activities reaffirms its support of the Ten new generations. Therefore, Elif in order to promote productive, Principles of the United Nations relentlessly works for valuesustainable and cost saving Global Compact in the areas of added projects parallel to its methods and technologies, Elif Human Rights, Labor Rights, principle of sustainability and stands out with the value it Environment and Antisocial responsibility. creates for the environment and Corruption. In this our first society and its commitment in annual Communication on Labor rights and safety is a sustainable development. Progress, we describe how our critical topic for Elif. Elif is committed to deliver any legal, Elif works against all forms of culture is in compliance with organizational or functional corruption, including extortion and Global Compact and our bribery. Elif supports the Global actions to further integrate its requirement related with labour Compact’s principles on antiprinciples into our business rights and safety. Elif is corruption, complies with law, and strategy and daily operations. committed to the principles of fair condemns any form of bribery or We are also committed to share and equitable labour relations corrupt activity parallel to its Code this information with our demonstrated through the of Conduct. stakeholders, customers and suppliers using our primary diversity of our co-workers and Elif is committed to make the channels of communication. operations. Global Compact principles a part Elif also continuously enhances of its corporate strategy, culture Elif seeks to uphold universal the workplace conditions for and every day operations and to human rights, including better working environment and engage collaborative projects accessibility, discrimination and provide a safe and healthy work which advance the broader labour rights. Elif Code of environment for its co-workers, development goals of the United Conduct requires the fair and contractors and visitors. Elif’ aims Nations, particularly the equitable treatment of all Elif Millennium Development Goals. to develop an equal opportunity employees, suppliers and diverse workforce, engaged to customers. Diversity & Equal work in a safe workplace with Employment Opportunity is a highest standards and no injuries. sustained competitive Elif aims to reduce the use of advantage for the continued natural resources in its products, growth of Elif. operations and services. One of Selçuk K. Yarangümelioğlu Elif is aware of the fact that Elif’s core values is sustainable Managing Director development of countries and development and Elif values its living standards of communities reputation as an environmentally can be achieved only by engaged supplier. 2 | Elif UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Report 2012 Director’s Photo Our Approach to Reporting Contents Elif prepares and presents its United Nations Introduction Global Compact Communication on Progress Statement from the Report in accordance with the UNGC Reporting Director ............................ 2 Guidelines. Our Approach to Reporting......................... 3 Elif United Nations Global In this report, ‘Elif’ refers to Elif Company Profile Compact Communication on Plastik Ambalaj Sanayi ve Progress Report 2012-2013 is Ticaret A.Ş. (Elif Plastic Elif At a Glance ............... 4 issued annually and provides a Packaging Industry and Vision, Mission and summary of its progress for 10 Commerce Inc. Co.) and its principles of UNGC in 4 areas; subsidiaries. Elif Plastik Ambalaj Values .............................. 6 Human Rights, Labour Rights, Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. is 40 years of Experience ... 8 Environment, Anti-corruption. registered with trade registry Sustainability Approach.10 Details regarding the information number 115112 in Istanbul given in the report can be Chamber of Commerce on Quality Approach .......... 12 provided online at Elif’s 26.05.1972. The report is corporate website and at the prepared for the period section dedicated for action 2012/2013. Report Profile pages of the regarding area. The online content provides Our Policies and further information about Elif’ as Standards ...................... 14 well as additional and update GUNGC Principles, information about the issues covered in this report. Approach, www.elifplastik.com.tr Implementations and Results............................ 18 Questions & Feedback Human Rights Principles Actions .......................... 20 We welcome your feedback on our commitments and Labour Rights Principles – performance detailed here in our United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Report 2012-2013 . Actions .......................... 22 Questions and feedback about the report should be directed Environmental Principles – to Elif via the ‘Contact us’ enquiry form at Actions .......................... 24 www.elifplastik.com.tr/contact or via e-mail to Anti‐Corruption Principle – marketing@elifplastik.com.tr or via phone numbers given at Actions .......................... 26 Elif corporate website. Elif UNGC COP Report 2012 | 3 Elif at a Glance Elif is an unrivalled packaging partner, serving 360° Tangible Excellence for its customers with continuous innovation , sustainable practice and a global diverse culture. Istanbul Headquarter & Plant Cairo Office & Plant Area Sales Agent Elif is a global supplier for With its worldwide benchmark Offering services to many major flexible packaging solutions, factory of 110,000 m 2 in total, brands, both domestic and known and preferred with its 55,000m2 of it being indoor global, Elif exports in excess of quality. Continuously improving facilities, Elif has a production 50% of its production to more its service and quality standards capacity approaching 55,000 than 60 countries worldwide. after its establishment in 1972, tons per year. Elif is committed Elif continues to target Elif has been authenticated as to provide exceptional service tomorrow's excellence by the market leader for setting and highest quality products strengthening synergy and high quality standards in the tailored to the unique needs of dynamism generated by the flexible packaging industry by its each customer through unity of its customers, suppliers, multinational customers with collaboration and innovation co-workers and its innovative leading brands. driven by the art of science. management approach. Elif employs approximately 800 With headquarters in Istanbul, Elif’s flexible packaging co-workers and has an annual Turkey, Elif's international solutions include converted sales of approximately 170 operations network is packaging materials, materials mUSD. Elif owns one of the strategically structured to offer on reel and technical films for leading production facilities in both worldwide supply flexibility food & beverage, hygiene, the world with architecture of and a global localized service for household and personal care, construction, infrastructure and its customers. Elif has 7 area industrial, retail and other high technology of production sales agents around the globe sectors. and scale. and started to invest for a new plant in Cairo, Egypt. 4 | Elif UNGC COP Report 2012 Elif is an unrivalled packaging partner, serving 360° Tangible Excellence Packaging Solutions for its customers with continuous innovation , sustainable practice and a global diverse culture Converted Materials Technical Packaging on Reel Films Sectors We Serve Food & Household Personal Beverage Care Care Retail & Other Industrial Elif UNGC COP Report 2012 | 5 Vision, Mission & Values An unrivalled packaging partner, with global and diverse culture serving 360° Tangible Experience for its customers with continuous innovation and sustainable practice.. VISION Corporate Values Continuous Innovation Being the global Elif’s Corporate Values reflect Innovation is a means of benchmark company in the the behaviors that shape the applying technology, art and tone of how Elif works within the know-how to developing and flexible packaging ecosystem of customers, differentiating products and industry. services, retaining and partners and co-workers. Elif Elif continues to target creates value by over fulfilling strengthening market positions, tomorrow's excellence to keep the needs of customers in a building stronger brands and its global benchmark company spirit of innovation, through driving sustainable growth for position in the flexible packaging continuous passion for Elif and therefore its customers. industry. This has been excellence and with a clear The challenge is not to make achieved with the enthusiasm desire for sustainable products and services to fulfill generated by the synergy of development. customer expectations but Elif's customers, suppliers, professional human resources 360˚ Tangible Excellence relentlessly force competencies of Elif to exceed those and management team with Elif continuously pursue expectations. Therefore, Elif is innovative approach. excellence to make its continuously looking for state of Continuously improving its customers experience the the art facilities with full service and quality standards, Excellence not only today but awareness of which Elif has been authenticated as also tomorrow in all geographies improvements are imminent and the market leader for setting and under all conditions. what can be made possible for high standards in the flexible packaging industry by its Elif’s understanding of its customers. Elif specifically Excellence is continuously implements this potential to multinational customers with constantly carry its customers leading brands. training the employees under the roof of Elif with the latest one step ahead. technology it possesses, Sustainable Practice continuously performing the MISSION production and service that will Elif exists for the purpose of To deliver value adding exceed customers’ expectations creating value by increasing the flexible packaging in terms of their needs and standard of living and quality of solutions for the continuously increasing the life of its employees and targets after each success Elif otherwise contributing to the sustainability framework economic, environmental, and has achieved. This with worldwide understanding within the social well-being of customers, authenticated quality. dynamic corporate framework suppliers, and the nations in Elif is committed to provide will ensure Elif to increase its which the company transacts exceptional service and highest market share with the business. quality products tailored to the contribution of all of the The objective of Elif's unique needs of each customer employees and close tracking of sustainable development is to through collaboration and the scientific and technological ensure the continued existence innovation driven by the art of developments, continuous its of the company as an economic science. Elif is committed to development and growth, and factor, as an employer in the work relentlessly to deliver value cultivate an unrivalled brand region, in harmony with the adding flexible packaging from “Elif” nominated as the environment and the standards solutions for the sustainability standard of quality. of society in the long-term. framework of its partners, customers, economy, society and environment. 6 | Elif UNGC COP Report 2012 Sustainable management forms Elif enables its customers to the basis of Elif’s commercial take advantage of a reputable, success. Conscious trustworthy and liable partner consideration of its social and through its comprehensive societal responsibility, as well as portfolio of solutions, high conscientious handling of standard of quality, customer natural resources and the service tailored to the needs of environment, are integral parts the diverse cultures and agility of Elif’s self-image. to adapt to changing business requirements and environment. Industry Expert Corporate Personality Elif’s strong know-how, technical Global Culture knowledge and expertise Elif’s global culture accredited creates value for its customers by its customers pioneering their to hold a continuous competitive sectors, Elif continues to advantage through efficient and transform new market potential innovative packaging solutions. into growth and strengthening its Elif is passionate about using position on a secure global this industrial expertise in footing. delivering innovative packaging solutions for its customers to Elif intends to be a worldwide enhance the products people international trademark by use in their daily lives. Elif’s expanding its customer and operational and commercial partner network all around the expertise combined with its world thanks to its diverse versatile solutions allow Elif to human resources, cultural present its customers with a infrastructure and capability of value proposition unrivalled in geographical distribution and the industry. speed to react. Strategic Partner Elif provides products and services of superior quality and value helping its clients articulate their goals, charting a course which navigates them from where they are today to where they want to be tomorrow and beyond. Elif upholds the values and principles of its customers in every action and decision by treating their assets as its own and behaving with their long-term success in mind. Elif UNGC COP Report 2012 | 7 40 years of Experience An unrivalled packaging partner, with global and diverse culture serving 360° Tangible Experience for its customers with continuous innovation and sustainable practice.. 8 | Elif UNGC COP Report 2012 Elif UNGC COP Report 2012 | 9 Quality Approach Elif continues to target tomorrow’s excellence by strengthening synergy and dynamism generated by the unity of its customers, suppliers with professional human resources and its innovative management approach. Elif is committed to provide Fundamental business with the latest technology it exceptional service and high policy of Elif is possesses, continuously quality products tailored to the performing the production and unique needs of each customer 360˚ Tangible service that will exceed through collaboration and Excellence customers’ expectations in innovation driven by the art of Elif continuously pursue terms of their needs and science. Elif continues to target excellence to make its continuously increasing the tomorrow’s excellence by customers experience the targets after each success Elif strengthening synergy and Excellence not only today but has achieved. This dynamism generated by the also tomorrow in all geographies understanding within the unity of its customers, suppliers and under all conditions. 360˚ dynamic corporate framework with professional human Tangible Excellence is one of will ensure Elif to increase its resources and its innovative Elif’s core values reflecting the market share with the management approach. behaviors that shape the tone of contribution of all of the Therefore, Elif not only how Elif works with its employees and close tracking of advocates good corporate customers and partners as well the scientific and technological governance but also promotes as its internal working principals. developments, continue its long-lasting cooperation as well Sustainable Practice and development and growth, and as open communication with Continuous Innovation are the cultivate an unrivalled brand customers and suppliers to other two core values of Elif. from “Elif” nominated as the uphold the principles of mutual standard of quality. trust and fundamental human Elif’s understanding of Quality is values as a part of our social continuously training the responsibility program. employees under the roof of Elif Corporate Personality and Value of Elif Excellence 10 | Elif UNGC COP Report 2012 Quality Certificates BRC/IoP Packaging Awards for Elif has successfully adopted the Re-Certification Printing Excellence, concept of Total Quality with ‘Grade A’ Sustainable Packaging & Approach over all of production Of very high concern, Innovation and service processes and been especially for the food Elif, has been awarded with awarded by ISO 9001 Quality sector, the BRC/IOP (British Turkish Packaging Design Management System, ISO Retail Consortium/ Institute of National Competition ‘Crescents 14001 Environmental Packaging ) Global Standard for and Stars of Packaging 2012’ in Management System, ISO Food Packaging and Other flexible packaging category with 22000 Food Safety Packaging Materials, was printing excellence achieved on Management System, OHSAS developed to ensure retailers Iglo (Bird’s Eye) Gourmet 18001 Occupational Health & and food manufacturers to meet Shrimp packaging. Safety Management certificates legal obligations. The BRC/IOP and BRC/IoP Global Standard is developed to ensure supplier İpek Kağıt gained also gained for Food Packaging and Other compliance and secure retailers' two awards with Selpak Toilet Packaging Materials. ability to guarantee the quality Paper Biodegradable Packaging and safety of the food products. and Selpak Paper Towel Easy Elif achieved its BRC/IoP reOpen & Easy Close Pack certification with ‘Grade A’ in developed and produced by Elif 2012 and got the renewal of the in 2011. certificate in 2013 through continuous quality improvement. In 2010, Elif is honored with ISO 9001 ‘Excellence in Packaging’ by Re-certification The renewed ISO 9001 :2008 Ontex. In 2012, İpek Kağıt and BRC/IOP registration has awarded Elif for its high quality ISO 9001:2008 redefine and clarify Elif’s service and products with certification, achieved after an commitment for providing more ‘Supplier of the Year’ award. In intensive audit in December organizational and higher quality 2013, Elif is recognized by 2012, confirms that Elif processes and services for its ‘Coca-Cola Green Supplier continues to target tomorrow’s customers all around the world. Award’ in Energy Management production and service Successfully completing the category. excellence. Elif is committed to gruelling process required for supplying sustainable, more ISO9001:2008 and BRC/IOP efficient, safer, cleaner and certificates, Elif’s prioritization of customer focused production superior product quality and and service processes to customer satisfaction is once professionally fulfill or exceed more emphasized. With its customers requirements. This sustainable practices, 360° re-certification is an evident of tangible excellence approach Elif’s strong commitment to and continuous innovation increase customer satisfaction culture, Elif continues to work by consistently providing relentlessly for making its name products that meet global synonymous with ‘Sustainable standards and regulatory Quality’. requirements Elif UNGC COP Report 2012 | 11 Elif’s Approach of Sustainability To create long term value for sustainability, Elif tracks its sustainability management performance and plans its enhancements in a framework outlining three main domains of sustainability as indicated. Elif acts responsibly toward the Elif's approach to sustainability Packaging environment and society and is driven by the operating model Sustainability promotes productive and cost defining its approach to saving methods and technology business in three elements and Sustainability of packaging is in its business activities. For Elif, starts with its brand essence: dependent on three core sustainable development means ‘Packaging Intelligence’ functions of packaging the combination of long term combined intelligently. Elif acts oriented economic success with – Vision & Mission: Elif's responsibly with the awareness environmental protection and strategic framework for of sustainable packaging. social responsibility both in the significant success workplace and marketplace of – Corporate Personality: Protecting: Optimum Elif. It is aimed to integrate a Articulating Elif's unique packaging should extend sustainability notion into Elif's approach to conducting work product shelf life to the required organizational and management every day. level and protect the product system and build stable and – Corporate Values: Reflecting against physical, chemical and sustainable relationships with the behaviors that shape the microbial damage to minimize business partners of Elif by tone of how Elif works with its food spoilage and maximize acting responsibly throughout customers and partners as well community health. Therefore, the entire supply chain. as its internal working principals reducing the amount of packaging also ends up in reducing its sustainability impact due to product waste/spoilage or spread of health issues in the Packaging Sustainability community. Informing: Packaging is not only a communication tool for marketers but also an information platform for consumers. While right dosing and storage instructions can prevent product waste and protect community health, recycling and other green information like carbon footprint and supply chain tracing help to increase the sustainability of the packaging itself. Performing: Packaging also serves many purposes in terms of functionality and contributes to sustainability in the supply chain and the community. Longer shelf life, easy handling, less storage space and other convenience functions contributes to sustainability of both economy and community as well as environment. 12 | Elif UNGC COP Report 2012 Sustainability Framework Environmental Economic Social Sustainability: Sustainability: Sustainability Environmental Sustainability is Elif plans its actions to achieve Social Sustainability is the core the ability to maintain the and maintain an adaptive, element of Sustainability which qualities that are valued in the resilient, vital economy providing aims to create and maintain physical environment of Elif. opportunities and stability for its quality of life for people. Elif’s programs for stakeholders, employees, Economic and Environmental Environmental Sustainability business partners, customers, factors are important, but they include actions to prevent the society and the environment. are both means to the end, threats and impacts from Initiatives of Elif for Economic rather than ends in themselves. arising, protect the environment Sustainability includes raising Therefore, by working towards from threats and damage, the level of accountability / Economic and Environmental reduce the use of physical transparency as well as Sustainability, Elif is already resources and use renewable corporate governance, working towards Social rather than depletable increasing shareholder value, Sustainability. Elif’s actions for resources, to redesign enhancing economic Social Sustainability includes production processes and performance and productivity, ensuring fair trade and fair products to eliminate the and reaching financial objectives competition, local economic production of environmentally in and for its sustainability development, continuously unfriendly materials, and to help framework. enhancing working conditions protection and restoration of and workplace safety, protecting natural habitats and human rights and health, environments valued for their providing a proper base for livability or beauty. diversity, caring for personal security and privacy as well as supporting and leading social philanthropy programs. Elif UNGC COP Report 2012 | 13 Our Policies and Standards Board of Elif supports the highest standards of corporate governance and best practice and are committed to the principles of transparency, integrity and accountability. Good corporate governance and 4. Documents that would 10. If ill-intentioned people try to transparency are fundamental to disclose company’s private collect the information achieving Elif's vision of information should not be taken considered as “company secret” becoming a Global Benchmark out of the company after normal that should not be revealed to Company in the Packaging work hours for work purposes. If third parties or if such an Sector by providing high quality the work needs to be completed intention is sensed, the and service standard. Elif strives on that day, it would be company should be immediately for excellence in products appropriate to stay late in the informed of this situation. offered and in the way it does building provided that the 11. Company staff working in business throughout all its permission of the related production departments of new customers, suppliers and manager is taken. products, projects, inventions, partners in a safe and 5. Company staff should refrain brand etc. should not accept environmentally responsible from giving information about anybody to their departments as manner. This precision applies financial issues such as guests no matter how close the equally to transparency in regarding wages, additional person is (friend, relative or reporting and meeting the rights and fringe benefits to other company staff who do not expectations of regulators, people from inside and outside have permission to enter that shareholders and the public. the company. department) and should not give 6. Company staff should not information about the subject. Elif Corporate Confidentiality discuss outside the company 12. If company phones are used Policy personal problems, complaints by company staff and if as well as conflicts inside the confidential matters are being 1. Company staff are personally company. discussed, utmost attention responsible for protecting at all 7. Company staff should not must be paid to confidentiality times the confidentiality of any give any information to anybody and security issues. Confidential written and/or verbal information about company objectives, matters should not be discussed or documents given to him/her know-how and projects. in crowded places or in directly or indirectly as per 8. Company staff should refrain company of third parties. his/her position. from accepting gifts or materials 13. Company staff should 2. Telephone numbers from other companies, accept visitors in the waiting hall registered in the company’s institutions and third parties; allocated by the company, not in telephone guide and other they should also refrain from their offices. If visitors need to contact information should not promises, wishes or offers for be accepted in the office be shared with people from promotional purposes. environment, then important and outside the company. 9. Company staff should be confidential documentation 3. Company staff should not careful about consuming alcohol inside the room should be taken have any discussions or in social meetings such as away. interviews with people outside receptions, dinners or balls 14. Security manager and/or the company that would be organized by the company. company manager must be harmful for the company’s informed of suspicious behavior security and confidentiality and observed in social activities should not disclose any organized together with third information or documents. parties. 14 | Elif UNGC COP Report 2012 15. Company staff should inform Elif Environment, • ensures the selection of their managers of any Occupational Health materials responsive to suspicious situations that they environment concerns, and witness and that they think that it And Safety Policy suitable for occupational health would put the company into a Elif adopts and implements a and safety in terms of selection difficult situation. management approach to of equipment and vehicles, 16. At the end of work hours, protect the environment, • prevents waste in raw material important documents should not prioritize occupational health use, be left uncovered, documents and safety, guarantee done with must be filed and compliance with the terms and • achieves savings in power others must be placed in a requests of the customer, in consumption, and reduces drawer or a cabinet with a lock. addition to the privilege of pollution, 17. Documents and papers of technological and high-quality • provides ergonomic and confidential nature should not be work. healthy work environments to thrown into the bin; but, must be minimize the risk of occupational destroyed using a shredder. If With this purpose, in compliance accidents, there is no shredder available, with the laws, regulations, and then such documents should be by-laws as well as EU directives • offers trainings to improve cut to very small pieces and regarding environment and environment and worker health then must be mixed up with occupational safety, and occupational safety awareness other litter. customer requirements, it will in employees. 18. Company staff should close develop worker health and It is Elif’s duty to inform all of its windows and curtains at the end occupational safety employees, visitors and of the work day, office management systems compliant suppliers about environment and equipment, especially with ISO 14001 and OHSAS occupational safety, to deliver computers, must be turned off 18001 standards, and reinforce safely the inheritance received and all documents, USBs, CDs them through continuous to future generations. and floppy discs must be improvements. preserved in locked places and doors must be locked up. It will also make sub-contractors 19. Workplaces should be to observe the provisions, opened by company staff at the methods, and principles of laws beginning of the work day using and ISO 14001 and OHSAS the same method and if there is 18001 standards, with the same something inappropriate, then discipline and attitude. the security unit and manager should be informed. In this respect, Elif; 20. Company staff should pay • thinks of the environment in attention to network safety and terms of the use of natural confidentiality rules when resources, company computers are used. • closely monitors environment related publications, • prevents and reduces waste, and carries out all activities required for recycling, Elif UNGC COP Report 2012 | 15 Our Policies and Standards (cntd.) Elif Ethical Code Of Elif Employees; from the firm's operations for Conduct themselves, members of their The firm's personnel is required family, or any relatives. They do Elif Ethical Code, to abide by the Principles of not use or lend the property, Work Ethics when performing knowledge, and titles of the firm is drawn up in order to allow Elif their duties. The Work ethics for personal interests. In order to and its employees to achieve principles, based on the values protect the intellectual property shared success, and to develop of the firm, were formulated with of ELİF and its customers, the and maintain mutual an awareness that business employees are responsible with relationships in line with procedures, standards, and laws protecting the information universal common values, with and regulations may not always protected and used in programs the customers and suppliers, provide sufficient guidance with such as İsoft, SAP etc., and and is approved also by the respect to all our behaviors and acting in line with Information Board of Directors. attitudes. The Work Ethics Code Security policies and Principled behavior is the adopted by the Board of procedures. major policy guiding the Directors includes basic and Globally accepted principles Elif employees shall give and activities of Elif The firm regarding Honesty, Reliability, receive gifts from persons, considers the application of Confidence, Protection of Trade agencies and organizations they same standards and same level Secrets, and Conflicts of come into contact with due to of closeness with all its Interest. their work, only within the customers, suppliers, and framework of established rules employees as an indispensable The employees of Elif do not of the firm. obligation, as well as the main plan for or derive personal driver of its existence and benefits for himself/herself, The employees should use the growth. his/her relatives or social circle, firm's assets only for work making use of his/her position in related purposes, protect them, For the firm, the timely and full the firm. They also strive to and ensure their most effective performance of obligations protect the interests of the firm use. In cases where the specified in laws and contracts, in all business contacts with employee determines cases as well as acting on the basis of third parties. The employees otherwise, all Elif employees are fairness has priority over all shall not engage in close tasked with protecting and commercial concerns. Current relations with persons or guarding the firm's assets before reliability and respectability of organizations that may benefit employees or 3rd Parties, and Elif stems from this attitude. from their work related decisions with ensuring use in line with the or the confidential information at interests of the firm. their command, and shall avoid No employee outside the Elif Ethical Code of such acts or behaviors. Conduct assigned departments shall Conflicts of interest will come to make verbal or written remarks occur in case the private representing or binding Elif covers the basic principles and interests of the employee are before 3rd Parties. attitudes of the Firm. The actually or potentially in conflict The employees of Elif are under policies of Elif form an integral with the interests of Elif. In case obligation to abide by all laws, monolithic structure with the the existing positions of the rules, and regulations within firm's values and principles. The employees lead to such Turkey, as well as the rules and application, monitoring, and inappropriate personal interests, laws of the countries they visit ensuring the maintenance of no employee will derive benefits during travels abroad. these principles are among the responsibilities of all Elif employees, and all employees are required to observe these. 16 | Elif UNGC COP Report 2012 ELİF Work Principles, Elif Quality Policy Elif Social Responsibility ELİF aims to provide its Fundamental quality policy of Policy employees a healthy, safe, and Elif is to make Elif, a brand The basic social responsibility efficient work environment. already synonymous with policy of ELİF is to fulfill all With this purpose: quality, unrivalled in terms of national and legal requirements production to meet maximum with an awareness of social • Aggressive attitudes, acts expectations within the responsibility in the making of a detrimental to the effectiveness framework of customer healthy and conscious society, and security of work requirements by making the and environment, threatening words most efficient use of the • Not to employ any personnel and behaviors, harassment and advanced technology at its under 18 years of age; mobbing, promotion of command, through continuous • Not to pay wages less than the commercial, political, or religious training of its employees, to minimum wage; interests shall not be accepted. increase its market share • Pay normal wages and • Alteration of official documents through contributions of all Elif overtime in full and on time; by employees during the employees within a dynamic • Not to employ uninsured performance of their duties is institutional structure following personnel; unacceptable. During the scientific and technological • To make continuous preparation of official documents developments closely, and to improvements in all matters by the employees are under ensure continuity in the taking all necessary measures obligation to abide by time development of the firm by required for the health and related and other restrictions aiming for ever growing targets safety of all employees without stipulated by the relevant at the time of achievement. any discrimination. authority. Each new employee of Elif shall be told of the work ethics during the orientation, and shall be required to sign undertakings that they understand such rules constitute integral parts of the employment contract. Elif UNGC COP Report 2012 | 17 UNGC Principles: Approach, Implementation, Actions & Results UNGC Principles Approack Human 1. Businesses should support and Elif seeks to uphold universal human Rights respect the protection of rights, including accessibility, internationally proclaimed human discrimination and labour rights. Elif rights; and Code of Conduct requires the fair and 2. Make sure that they are not equitable treatment of all Elif employees, complicit in human rights abuses. suppliers and customers. Diversity & Equal Employment Opportunity is a sustained competitive advantage for the continued growth of Elif. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the Labor rights and safety is a critical topic Rights freedom of association and the for Elif. Elif is committed to deliver any effective recognition of the right to legal, organizational or functional collective bargaining; requirement related with labour rights 4. The elimination of all forms of and safety. Elif’ aims to develop an equal forced and compulsory labour; opportunity diverse workforce, engaged 5. The effective abolition of child to work in a safe workplace with highest labour; and standards and no injuries. 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a Elif works relentlessly to reduce the use precautionary approach to of natural resources in its products, environmental challenges; operations and services. One of Elif’s 8. Undertake initiatives to promote core values is sustainable development greater environmental and Elif values its reputation as an responsibility; and environmentally engaged supplier . 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti10. Businesses should work Elif works against all forms of corruption, Corruption against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Elif including extortion and bribery. supports the Global Compact’s principles on anti-corruption, complies with law, and condemns any form of bribery or corrupt activity parallel to its Code of Conduct. 18 | Elif UNGC COP Report 2012 Implementation Actions & Results • Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy • No prosecutions relating to human rights issues • Disclosure Policy have been recorded for the period covered by • Occupational Health & Safety Policy this report. • Social Responsibility Policy • Details of the actions can be found on pg.20-21. • Product Safety Policy • Resources team7 social responsibility projects • Quality Policy completed in 2012. (http://www.elifplastik.com.tr/content/detail/corpo • Direct Positive effect on 4870 children’s life rate-policies-and-standards) standard. • SEDEX • Amenity of 1000 trees is saved against global warming. • Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy • No prosecutions relating to equal opportunity or • Occupational Health & Safety Policy other labour rights issues have been recorded (http://www.elifplastik.com.tr/content/detail/corpo for the period covered by this report. rate-policies-and-standards) • Details of the actions can be found on pg.22-23. • SEDEX • Lost days due to injuries decreased by 26.1%. • OHSAS 18001 • Average lost time weight reduced by 29.0%. • Career & Co-worker Development • 11.6 hours of education per co-worker achieved • Diversity & Equal Employment for safer working conditions. • Occupational Health & Safety • Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy • Details of the actions can be found on pg.24-25. • Sustainability Framework • GHG emission is reduced by 27.3%. • Packaging Sustainability • Direct waste to landfill is recorded as 0. • ISO 14001 • Water consumption is decreased by 4.4%. • Getting prepared for ISO 50001 • Elif has been listed among highest scored suppliers in P&G Supplier Sustainability Scorecard. • Elif recognized by Coca-Cola Green Supplier Award. • Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy • Elif has not be involved in any corrupt activities • SEDEX (or potential corruption) , nor has Elif been • Legal Governance involved in corrupt activities during or before our membership to the Global Compact. • Details of the actions can be found on pg.26-27. Elif UNGC COP Report 2012 | 19 Human Rights Actions Elif is aware of the fact that development of countries and living standards of communities can be achieved only by providing better conditions for the new generations. Therefore, Elif relentlessly works for value-added projects parallel to its principle of sustainability and social responsibility. Sustainable Human ‘Small Steps for the Donation for orphaned Resources Policy Future Workshop‘ children Elif is growing its organization Elif became the technology Elif achieved another valuewith a consistent Recruitment sponsor of ‘Small Steps for the added project by donating and Human Resources Policy Future Workshop’, implemented hygiene products and cleaning basing on qualified recruitment by the Sancaktepe Ibni Sina materials to Bahçelievler Social and sustainable development of Primary School. Services and Child Protection its human resources. With the Foundation, hosting 370 number of new positions, orphaned children. number of applications, and according to the candidate As a part of its “Corporate ratings, Elif demonstrated Citizenship” responsibility, Elif commitment in healthy and uses every opportunity to meet sustainable development of its needs of orphaned children. human resources and proved Elif donated an extensive its awareness of responsibility to support package to Bahçelievler the society. Social Services and Child Protection Foundation, This commitment of Elif is containing a variety of hygiene honored with Kariyer.net products, cleaning tissues and ‘Human Respect Award’ as well Project is designed to uncover detergents with packaging as ‘Employment Leader of the the potential of children, materials produced by Elif . Elif Sector’ award by Yenibiriş, the representing Turkey’s future, plans to repeat this project two leading on-line job search from arts to sports, from continuously in the future and to and job recruitment portal of science to culture and carry out social responsibility Turkey. broadening their minds in projects that are contributory to various disciplines. Elif provided sustainability of social values. Elif is also aware that, the technological requirements of quality and service which Elif the project in its first year and promise can only be achieved aims to take an active role in with qualified employees. project’s generalization in the Therefore, Elif selects high future. quality employees and invest in them to make them even more For two-phased project of the qualified for the road in front of 2,500 student school, Elif them. This approach provides donated laptops, digital cameras Elif to carry its success in and annual subscriptions for recruitment area to its all human juvenile scientific and artistic resources processes. publications as the technology sponsor of the project. 20| Elif UNGC COP Report 2012 Society Fotoğraf 2 Elif helps to emotional support, financial protect the assistance and health services for children who have leukemia planet with its 800 co-workers or chronic blood disorders, in order to help them cope with a HR awards Elif turned its lights off on life-threatening illness. As a Saturday March 31 at 8:30pmsupporter of many various social responsibility projects, Elif, plans 7 9:30pm for Earth Hour, the world’s largest environmental to expand its continuous support movement, together with for LÖSEV and similar foundations. millions of people around the world. Elif also called its CSR projects suppliers, co-workers, Global customers and all other parties Compact 4870  to take place in the symbolic event, aiming to increase Elif is committed to awareness of the environmental make the Global Compact & its principles a part problem and mobilize people to take action on climate change. of its corporate strategy, culture children and every day operations and to engage collaborative projects Elif continues to support which advance the broader The Foundation of development goals of the United Children with Leukemia Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Acting with a sense of social Parallel to this mission, Elif responsibility since its signed UN Global Compact in establishment, Elif, continues to July 2012. support social projects in order to create a healthy and Elif’s commitment to sustainable conscious society. Elif, became development and corporate the project sponsor to respected values are and will continue to institution, LÖSEV (The be, reflected, promoted and Foundation for Children with implemented. Elif urges its all Leukemia ), by providing suppliers, dealers, consultants carrying bags for charitable and other business partners uses. within its sphere of influence to adopt The UN Global Compact LÖSEV is one of the respected principles. non-profit NGO of Turkey as well as the world, mainly aiming to provide educational and Elif UNGC COP Report 2012 | 21 Labour Rights Actions Elif is committed to continuously enhance the workplace conditions for better working environment and provide a safe and healthy work environment for its co-workers, contractors and visitors . Occupational Health Elif has decreased the ratio of • Emergency exit lightening: and Safety cases with 4 and more day Luminosity of the emergency losses from 38% to 21% and exit lightening system is The goal of Elif's occupational achieved 26.1% reduction in enhanced and connected to the health and safety programs is to time losses due to injuries and continuous power source. foster a safer and healthier work 29.0% reduction in weight of the environment for its co-workers cases. Ratio of case per co• Fire extinguishing system: as well as to protect the welfare worker has also reduced from New foam fire extinguishing of people engaged in work or 6,01% to 3.73% in 2012 when system is implemented for ink employment and surroundings. . compared the previous year. library and depot area. Elif also Elif is aware that its co-workers implemented a new chemical and the synergy generated by Activities covered for powder fire extinguishing them are key values for the occupational health and safety system for printing department. company. can be listed as: • Reduction of environment Elif continuously and periodically • Extrusion area air circulation noise: Elif has integrated educates, trains and conducts enhancement: Elif modified roof silencer for boiler units in yearly health risk-control system of extrusion area and mechanical room and razor programs for its co-workers. Elif implemented additional exhaust units in slitting department. The is certificated with OHSAS fans in order to maximize air enhancement is resulted in 13% 18001 Occupational Health & circulation and minimize energy reduction in environment noise. Safety Management System used to maintain optimum air Certificate and implemented a conditions. • Improved safety system for variety of programs and conditioning shelves and freight processes to achieve greater • Printing area ventilation elevators: Elif has enhanced the protection and to prevent system enhancement: Elif make safety system used in the occupational injury and illness of enhancements on the ventilation shelves of the conditioning employees, contractors and system performing in printing room. Elif has also increased the visitors. All employees are area to provide better working safety conditions during dispatch committed to identifying and conditions and optimum air by replacing the current safety reporting safety concerns and conditions for printing process. doors of freight elevators with demonstrating leadership in new technology doors. implementing solutions for any • Shelf carrying capacity potential hazard. indication: Specific carrying • New notification system: Elif capacity of each shelf unit in has started a new notification As a result of the projects and stock area and warehouse is system in rest rooms for special applications dedicated to indicated on the related shelf continuous notification for no Occupational Health and Safety, unit. injury. 22 | Elif UNGC COP Report 2012 Workplace Fotoğraf Career & Co-Worker Total time of education covered Development by Elif for orientation, lost time information and awarenessThe quality and service which Elif promise can only be raising purposes has reached 11.6 hours per co-worker. 26.1% achieved with qualified Educations for occupational employees. Therefore, Elif health and safety are specifically selects high quality employees and invest in them to make them designed according to the technical requirements of each average even more qualified for the road department. in front of them. Co-worker weight of development is integrated into Diversity & Equal Elif's performance management process, with one of the Employment cases Opportunity outcomes of a co-worker's performance review being Elif is committed to create a 29.0% development planning. winning team with a winning culture where colleagues and Elif organizes tailor-made managers diversify and have induction programs for each equal employment opportunity. hours of position to ensure the new coThrough this focus on providing workers receive consistent equal opportunity to each education introductory training about Elif individual and understanding and the industry dynamics. At Elif, it is believed that motivators for each of them, Elif supports and encourages its 11.6  competencies and capabilities employees in order to satisfy develop on-the-job as well as and inspire them for their formal training programs and personal best. training tools. Elif builds capability through 'on the job Elif’s core policy of human learning' as well as through resources is to give employment formal programs and processes, decisions basing on business and training and development needs without regard to race, tools across the organization. religion, nationality, sex, age, Elif provides many opportunities disability, marital status, or any and put a lot of emphasis on other status protected by the supporting its employees' laws or regulations. Elif provides development parallel to the employees a working human resources strategy of the environment free of company. discrimination and harassment. Elif UNGC COP Report 2012 | 23 Environment Actions Developing its business activities in order to promote productive, sustainable and cost saving methods and technologies, Elif stands out with the value it creates for the environment and society and its commitment in sustainable development. Saving 1,000 trees shortening the return time of • Energy saving in drying units every year capital investment made for this of printer lines: Elif exchanged project under 1 year, when all the on-off electrical system with Elif is continuously implementing economic factors considered. rata ignition system in hot oil new systems, technologies and According to the first year and water boilers for drying practices in different scales in results of the project, the newly purpose in printing lines in order order to raise its standards for implemented system provided to minimize energy more effective energy 30% energy saving from March consumption. management. After realizing 2012 to March 2013 when many sustainable practices in compared to the previous year. • Extrusion area air circulation order to minimize energy With this pioneer and enhancement: Elif modified roof consumption, Elif, implemented benchmark project, Elif reduced system of extrusion area in world’s first large-scaled CO2 emissions by 330 tons order to maximize air circulation compressor heat recovery meaning saving amenity of and minimize energy used to project in 2012. With the around 1,000 trees against maintain optimum air conditions. accomplished new heat global warming every year. recovery project, Elif started to • Compressor heat recovery recover the heat rejected by the Projects dedicated to system: Heat recovery and compressors used in its global positive impact on concurrent aging systems are benchmark production facility in effectuated for compressors. Istanbul and reuse this energy in environment the production cycle again. Tracking its sustainability • Printing area ventilation management performance to system enhancement: Elif make The project was the first large create long term value for enhancements on the ventilation scaled heat recovery project not sustainability. Elif designs all of system performing in printing only in Turkey but also around its projects with objective of area to provide better working the world. The new system minimum use of natural conditions and optimum air provides reduction in the total resources. conditions for printing process. energy consumption of the production facility by recovering Elif’s sustainability activities in • Environmental-friendly the heat rejected by the different scales to minimize systems for cooling and drying compressors and reusing this natural resource use, water systems in printing area: Elif energy in the production cycle consumption and waste to implemented in new cooling and again. landfill can be listed as: drying systems to prevent release of gases hazardous to As an outcome of the project, • Re-use of extrusion process the ozone. The new cooling and Elif deactivated one of the heat: With the implementation of drying systems use ozoneexisting hot water boiler purpose to build system, the friendly gases and prevent the systems, which resulted in heat released from extrusion potential pollution of natural process is started to be used to resources on top of reducing maintain warehouse energy consumption. . temperature between desired limits. 24 | Elif UNGC COP Report 2012 • Frequency converter for Environment Permit chiller evap pumps: Elif Elif achieved to be the first GHG emissions integrated frequency converter system to chiller evap pumps, resulting in 62% reduction of company in packaging sector by fulfilling the competencies for 27.3% energy consumption. renewal of the Environment Permit according to the new EU • Compressor unit compliant regulation. Within the enhancements: Additional context of the Regulation direct waste to ventilation brackets for energy regarding Compulsory Permits efficiency. Oil transfer pumps to and Licenses according to the new Environment Law, Elif has landfill vanish oil waste to land. Renewal of compressor system installation to minimize energy been documented by Environment Permit on 0 losses due to pressure losses. 15.03.2012. Renewal of drying units with environment-friendly systems. UN Global Compact • Solvent recovery and Elif sent the Letter of water Commitment to the United distillation system: Elif integrated a new solvent Nations Global Compact in order to make its corporate consumption recovery and distillation system to minimize waste solvent environment and social responsibility official on global 4.4% removed by authorized waste platform in July 2012. removal plants. Special cleaning liquids rather than solvent is also being used in the plate cleaning Environmental process. Sustainability Award • New water treatment system: Elif is announced among the Recovery discharge water is companies that earned the being used in cooling towers for highest score possible in further energy saving and reuse Supplier Environmental of water in closed loop. Various Sustainability Scorecard of water treatment systems Procter & Gamble. designed for different purposes in the aim to reuse the water in a close circle. The excess of the Towards “Green factory” treated waste water is used for Elif started its studies for energy irrigation. management system and • Drip irrigation: Start of drip carbon footprint reporting in irrigation system for green area order to obtain ISO 50 001 and watering resulted in 8% saving ISO 14 064 standards parallel to in water consumption. its sustainable growth strategy. Elif UNGC COP Report 2012 | 25 Anti-corruption Actions Elif works together with its customers, suppliers and co-workers parallel to its Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy, in order to improve products in marketplace and develop new solutions that will add value to the economy, environment and culture of the marketplaces and geographies it reaches. Marketplace Approach Responsible and Ethical Sourcing and Elif intends to be a worldwide Procurement international trademark by providing products and services Elif is a member of Sedex of high quality and value, (Supplier Ethical Data helping customers and societies, Exchange) since 2010. Sedex is articulate their goals, charting a a not-for-profit membership course which navigates them organization that from where they are today to enables the sharing of ethical where they want to be tomorrow performance information and beyond. Elif upholds the between companies and their values and principles of cultures suppliers. Sedex membership it operates and serves, as well means that Elif provides access as its customers, in every action to its ethical performance and decision by treating their information to its customers and assets as its own and behaving can request the same from its with their long-term suppliers. More than development in mind. 400 global brands, 17,000 suppliers and more than 21,000 Code of Conduct and sites in 160 countries currently Ethics Policy participate in Sedex. Implementation for New As a member of Sedex, Elif is Marketplaces being audited periodically Elif has started to invest for a according to SMETA (Sedex new start of the art flexible Members Ethical Trade Audit) packaging plant in Egypt, which and completed SSAQ (Sedex will be the hub of Middle East Self-Assessment Questionnaire) and Africa operations of the for improvements of its company. sustainability and ethical policies. The increased demand Elif is not only an investor who for sustainability information provides new job opportunities about Elif’s operations from and creates added value for the customers is met by the African Economy, but also, by registered information in the using the latest technology and Sedex database and, during bringing its know-how to the 2012, 10 customers requested region, Eliff’s Code of Conduct access to Sedex information and Ethics Policy will be relating Elif sites. implemented as well in its new facility and organization. 26 | Elif UNGC COP Report 2012 NO corrupt activities (or potential corruption) during or before our membership to the Global Compact. 2 years of SEDEX membership Implementation of Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy in new production facility Elif UNGC COP Report 2012 | 27 Elif Plastik Ambalaj San. ve Tic. A.Ş. Sanayi Mahallesi 1652 Sokak No:2 Esenyurt 24510 Istanbul, Turkey T: +90 212 622 06 22 F: +90 212 622 06 77 www.elifplastik.com.tr
