Page1 Contents Accelerating Sustainability ..............................................................................................................3 Message from the Managing Directors ............................................................................................3 cKinetics: A Mission Driven Organization .........................................................................................3 Overview and 2011-2012 Highlights.................................................................................................4 cKinetics USA, Inc.: A Registered Benefit Corporation .......................................................................... 5 Tenets of cKinetics’ Operating Philosophy: Making it Count................................................................. 5 Applying UNGC Principles................................................................................................................6 Materiality Assessment, Commitment and Ongoing Engagement .....................................................6 Materiality of Principles ......................................................................................................................... 6 Engagement with UNGC ........................................................................................................................ 6 Sustainability at cKinetics: A Mission Driven Organization ................................................................8 Communicating Progress: Ongoing Commitment to UNGC Principles................................................8 Sustainability at cKinetics: Creating Impact .................................................................................... 11 Communicating Progress: Driving Sustainability in Emerging Markets ............................................ 11 Product and Services offered ............................................................................................................... 11 Thought Leadership and Insight Creation ............................................................................................ 11 Driving Impact through Market Driven Interventions ......................................................................... 13 Leveraging Technology and Incubating Innovation ............................................................................. 14 Page2 Accelerating Sustainability Message from the Managing Directors December 14, 2012 We are proud to declare our continued support of, and adherence to, the UN Global Compact in 201112. This year has been transformative for our firm; as a young startup, we have grown our revenues and staff several fold since we began our journey three years ago. An enduring passion for sustainability is at the very core of our organization’s mission and vision. We are continually searching for methods of engagement to leverage our financial resources and intellectual capital in ways which create the highest environmental and social impact possible. Our mission is to create a strong business case for relevant market-based sustainability interventions in emerging market economies. We see our role as a facilitator of innovation in the sustainability space, connecting innovative sustainability solutions with Indian industries interested in becoming more resource efficient and responsible in their operations. In 2011-12, cKinetics continued to make progress in its flagship resource management work in the supply chain of major brands; we have advanced our work that began in early 2011 in building a market model for renewable energy based rural electrification; and promoting innovative sustainability solutions and corporate initiatives through Sustainability Outlook, the Sustainable Business Leadership Forum, and Parivartan Awards. Additionally through our work in promoting Sustainability in finance, we have established an investor focused working group examining the adoption of enhanced environmental and social (E&S) disclosure among Indian firms. As a mission driven organization, we remain committed to Accelerating Sustainability through all that we do; and do so in a profitable as well as responsible manner. Pawan Mehra Upendra Bhatt Managing Director Managing Director Page3 cKinetics: A Mission Driven Organization Overview and 2011-2012 Highlights Sustainability Blueprint Market Access and Insight Investment and Sustainability Finance  Delivered Energy and  Hosted 2012 Sustainable Business  Structuring project finance for Water savings to the Leadership Forum (SBLF) Annual investment in Distributed supply chain of global Summit – India’s only market Renewable Energy (DRE) brands development platform connecting companies stakeholders in the Corporate Sustainability space  Launched Resource  Successfully held Parivartan  Launched Investor Focused Management and Tracking Awards 2012 – connecting and Working Group on tool (comMIT) to help midshowcasing innovative Environmental & Social sized businesses to track sustainability initiatives of Indian Disclosure and Reporting their footprint Corporates focused on enhanced nonfinancial disclosure among Indian corporates  Released March to  Market Insights generated in: Sustainability: A Green Jobs, Waste-to-Energy, comprehensive guide to Distributed Renewable Energy sustainability in the Indian (DRE) Policy Textile Sector The emergence and the impending and investors and businesses, cKinetics leverages a necessary growth of emerging economies, has thought process for accelerating actions on brought forth a unique opportunity to leapfrog sustainable practices that include: (a) Closed the development of newer industry and loop systems, (b) Decentralized production and community infrastructure to be more efficient, consumption, and (c) Resource conservation. sustainable and hence more profitable. The mission of cKinetics is to propagate and It is in this context, that cKinetics was founded develop market driven solutions for rapid in 2009 by a team, passionate about using adoption of sustainable growth strategies in market based solutions and industry dynamics industries and communities within emerging to address the most pressing issue of our time: economies. sustainably driven growth and development. As a specialized Sustainability Advisory firm that provides end-to-end solutions for Page4 first-hand. cKinetics will be a carbon-neutral Vision: Our visions is to company constantly pushing towards zeroaccelerate creation and carbon. By setting an example for our children maintenance of systems we can enable the generations to come. which shape a balance Be alert to opportunities: Air, water and land between resource needs are considered 'free' (or close to 'free') in many more ways than we can imagine. We need to alert of today and those in the ourselves to such cases and identify opportunities future. to bring about change. Be wise on technology: Technology is our cKinetics USA, Inc.: A Registered biggest ally in increasing efficiency and driving Benefit Corporation conservation. Technology is also our biggest enemy when it lets consumption go out of cKinetics USA, based out of Palo Alto, control. California is, in accordance with California Bill AB 361, now chartered as a Benefit Leverage market driven solutions: These Corporation. have a tendency to work and cKinetics will expend its energies on being creative in The rationale for being among the first few coming up with products and services that help companies to have sought this status is to align incentives along with other players. exhibit and inculcate a firm and ongoing commitment to balance traditional financial Be factual: If it can't be measured, it is metrics with environmental and social impact probably not worth doing. Data will form the and value creation as the key success factor. pillar for cKinetics. All internal initiatives should be measurable and decisions made on Tenets of cKinetics’ Operating data from them. Chances are that others will Philosophy: Making it Count also want to make data-driven decisions ‘ especially in market-driven-scenarios. cKinetics The following are the core elements of the should become their go-to resource. operating philosophy: Set imagination free: We're limited on what Do: action counts louder than words. is possible by our own minds. Dare to think beyond the conventional and make it happen. Be frugal: Natural resources are scarce and limited. We need to be frugal with them just as we would with anything we own. Set an example: Being an example and adopting low-resource-footprint is the best way to be the change as also to understand the challenges Page5 Applying UNGC Principles Materiality Assessment, Commitment and Ongoing Engagement As a part of its ongoing commitment to 2) How, and to what extent, can these mainstreaming sustainability in the Indian principles become central to the service business community, cKinetics is proud to offerings of cKinetics and, thus, attain the support the UN Global Compact Principles in desired impact created through its business December 2012. These principles have been operations? central to cKinetics’ growth strategy and expansion Given the focus of our operations on emerging markets, we feel it is particularly important to Materiality of Principles subscribe to relevant internationally recognized principles, charters and best Given its role as a specialized Sustainability practices in the sustainability space. Advisory firm, cKinetics has limited exposure to Sustainability Risks, and by extension created Engagement with UNGC limited ESG impact through its own operations. The cKinetics team actively participated in the Thus, the issues of materiality of UNGC Rio+20 Corporate Sustainability Forum convened by Principles, their implementation and the UNGC in Rio de Janeiro in June 2012. subsequent outcomes have been evaluated through the following lens: The team engages in the monthly meetings and conferences organized by the Global Compact 1) How, and to what extent, do the principles Network in India. apply to cKinetics in its operations? Page6 Page7 Sustainability at cKinetics: A Mission Driven Organization Communicating Progress: Ongoing Commitment to UNGC Principles In its ongoing day-to-day operations, cKinetics Policies for dealing with incidents of Human has, in the year 2011-12, incorporated several Right Violations and Corruption of the strategies, proposed by UN Global Compact, for integrating the ten principles. We are committed to diligently managing our business operations, both internally as well as These include the following: in external stakeholders, in a manner which Code of Conduct reflects our high ethical standards. The Code of Conduct outlines the expectations cKinetics has a zero tolerance policy with and aspirations of cKinetics management and respect to incidents of corruption, both in the staff in key areas of Human Rights, Corruption public and the corporate sphere. and Work Force Environment, etc. Table 1 outlines how the UNGC Operating Principles Principles have been As explained in the previous section, the implemented in the year 2011-12 operating principles guide the strategic It should, however, be noted that the planning and day-to-day operations. comprehensive application of these principles Training and Development Opportunities is an ongoing area of focus for the company and a number of wide-reaching improvements The young, talented and passionate team at are planned for 2012-13. cKinetics are afforded opportunities for and encouraged to engage intellectually and professionally in industry conferences, field building activities and training/certification programs both within India and abroad. Page8 Table 1 Areas Principles Outlook and Undertaking Tools for Implementation Outcomes Human Principle 1: Businesses should support cKinetics is committed to upholding The Code of Conduct defines our commitment to human rights; it There have been reported incidents of Human rights violations in the company Rights and respect the protection of Human Rights, in its capacity as a outlines our stance and strategy for preventing the abuse of internationally proclaimed human responsible business, in letter and in spirit, human rights. All employees and extended stakeholders are rights; and as it is material to the company currently expected to abide by it. Principle 2: make sure that they are and in future. Operating in India poses a not complicit in human rights abuses. number of unique human rights Any violation can be reported confidentially (through an challenges. cKinetics is committed to anonymous email ID) and the individual will be protected from reporting of any human rights violations repercussions. observed in the course of conducting its business operations. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold As a firm with India and US presence, Our Company Labour Practices is an internal document which No reported incidents of violations of Labour principles the freedom of association and the eff cKinetics is in compliance with all relevant defines our expectations and commitments regarding Each employees met with the manager twice to discuss the performance, ective recognition of the right to collec local labor regulations in its respective employment both in our own operations and in those of our concerns and goals tive bargaining operations. partners. Any violation can be reported confidentially and the Training and Development Principle 4: the elimination of all form individual will be protected from repercussions. Each employee is allowed 1 day per month to attend conferences, seminars s of forced and compulsory labour The prevalence of the informal, and programs for knowledge advancement Principle 5: the effective abolition of c unorganized, sector in India poses a We conduct weekly, monthly and half yearly meetings with the All internally reported complaints and concerns were dealt with on a priority hild labour number of distinct challenges in staff wherein feedback from employees is actively incorporated basis to the employee satisfaction Principle 6: the elimination of discrimi adequately assessing the adherence of by management into the company’s policies and strategies. 12 internal sessions conducted on different topics as a part of the Friday nation in respect of employment and some of our small suppliers to Principles learning discussions occupation 3-5. However, we continue to maintain We continually provide opportunities, through training and access vigilance when working with local small to industry conferences, for our workforce to grow intellectually businesses. and professionally. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support As a small operational consulting firm, Thought Leadership in the Sustainability Space details the current Internal Outcomes a precautionary approach to cKinetics has a limited ecological footprint. and past field-building research and action undertaken by Smart use of resources is an operating principle of cKinetics and focus is on environmental challenges. However, we are actively engaged in cKinetics. reducing consumption. cKinetics has a philosophy of resource conservation which Principle 8: Businesses should managing our resource consumption and includes use of electricity and paper. Dis-incentive mechanisms include fines from undertake initiatives to promote reducing waste from our operations. Creating Impact in Accelerating Sustainability focuses on our core employees for failing to leave the computer monitor down/ lights turned off. greater environmental responsibility business operations and the environmental/social impact they Reuse of paper made mandatory and recycling is encouraged. Principle 9: Businesses should Our commitment to sustainability is at the generate. encourage the development and very core of our business mission, vision, External Outcomes diffusion of environmentally friendly and operations. cKinetics has made strong Our offices are currently engaged in actively monitoring and • Through the division, Sustainability Outlook, cKinetics reaches 68,000 technologies contributions to sustainability in India tracking our electricity consumption using a suite of metering and people annually informing them on activities and updates related to (see: Thought Leadership in the analytics software. resource conservation. More at www.SustainabilityOutlook.in Sustainability Space) as well creating real • Parivartan Awards 2011 and 2012 recognized 30 pioneering businesses impact through our various business that are shaping the Sustainability agenda in India. More at ventures (see: Creating Impact in www.ParivartanAwards.in Accelerating Sustainability). • Through the Resource Management and Efficiency Program, 15 of India’s largest exporting manufacturers were assisted in improving their resource efficiency. AntiPrinciple 10: Businesses should work cKinetics supports all 71 articles of the UN The Code of Conduct defines our expectations and commitments There have been reported incidents of Human rights violations in the company Corruption against corruption in all its forms, Convention against Corruption (UNCAC). regarding anti-bribery practices both in our own operations and including extortion and bribery in those of our partners. We take an active, zero-tolerance, stance against bribery and corrupt business Any violation can be reported confidentially (through an practices through diligent monitoring and anonymous email ID) and the individual will be protected from enforcement. repercussions. Page9 Page10 Sustainability at cKinetics: Creating Impact Communicating Progress: Driving Sustainability in Emerging Markets In its endeavour to drive sustainability in emerging markets, cKinetics provides specialized operational consulting and strategic services with a focus on: • Resource Efficiency and Conservation: Energy, Water, Carbon, Waste • Renewable Energy and Smart Infrastructure • Sustainability Finance Our track record as specialists in leveraging cross-functional management resources across geographies uniquely positions us as a ‘partner of choice’ to design and execute profitable business models that enhance and promote Sustainability. We help architect and implement growth oriented sustainable solutions by bringing a deep understanding of sector dynamics across industries. We work with: • Indian organizations targeting global markets • International businesses that have operations and supply chains in India • Development Financial Institutions and catalysts for sustainability actions • Investors • Cleantech and sustainability firms Product and Services offered cKinetics engagements are characterized by a demonstrated commitment to bring about change through: Thought Leadership and Insight Creation Driving Impact through Leveraging technology Market Driven and incubating Interventions innovation Thought Leadership and Insight Creation Under the Market Access and Insight division of cKinetics, several initiatives were undertaken in 201112 to generate insight and foster thought leadership. These are: Sustainable Business Leadership Forum (SBLF) Sustainable Business Leadership Forum (SBLF) is an invitation-only Indian industry focused market development platform which equips organizations, managers and industry stakeholders on the ‘how’ of sustainability through a unique programmatic approach comprising of round the year programs and ‘on-ground industry oriented’ work. Instituted by Sustainability Outlook, the leading Page11 information marketplace on sustainability action, SBLF enables a unique exchange of thought leadership, business know-how and catalytic tools for enabling corporate transition towards sustainable business practices. Parivartan Awards The Parivartan Sustainability Leadership Awards (www.ParivartanAwards.in), instituted by Sustainability Outlook, are a platform to uncover and recognize progressive corporates, service providers, and individuals whose efforts serve as catalyst for advancing sustainability in India. India Carbon Outlook Launched at the Clinton Global Initiative, India Carbon Outlook is an independent information marketplace tracking actions related to the carbon economy as well as their impact. It proactively promotes a data driven approach to enable action by local, regional as well as global practitioners. Carbon Outlook provides (a) in-depth business and policy analysis, (b) updates on the market participants and latest trends on sustainability initiatives, and (c) expert inputs on the GHG emission reduction and other carbon abatement as well as adaptation measures being undertaken in these regions. Sustainability Outlook Sustainability Outlook is a market access, insight and collaboration platform tracking actions related towards sustainability in the Indian economy. It proactively promotes dialogue and collates data to enable action by local, regional as well as global practitioners. Sustainability Outlook aims to be the bridge for shaping change in this thought process and spur innovation. The online and print editions of Sustainability Outlook attempt to provide comprehensive in-depth coverage on market participants and latest trends on sustainability initiatives as also expert perspectives on business and policy analyses as they pertain to measures impacting sustainability in the business operations. The following themes have been covered in some of latest issues, keeping in line with the key questions of the day: Moving from Operating Defensively to Capturing Advantage (October 2012) Gearing India Towards Sustainability (September 2011) Aligning Business with Sustainability Across the Supply Chain (March 2011) Page12 Indicative Work Products Cracking the Conundrum: Linking Investments (Capital Flow) to  Landscape Paper on Environmental and Social Sustainability Disclosure Performance Disclosure and Reporting (2012) cKinetics undertook a research  Operationalizing micro-grid based distributed rural study to determine Investor electrification projects: Policy perspectives and Investment and policy view to leverage Approaches (2012) standardization of  Creating a Green Collar Workforce in India: Building Environmental and Social Careers and Industry Capacity in Environmental disclosure and reporting Sustainability (2011) The study focussed on creating  Preparedness of Indian Public Equities for Business a positive feedback loop for a Sustainability (ESG) Disclosure and Reporting (2011) virtuous cycle of getting more  Waste to Wealth: Landscape for Waste to Energy for firms and investors to start Industrial Waste (2011) moving towards standardized  Exporting Textiles: March to Sustainability disclosure of impact measures ♦ Profiling Sustainability Plans of Leading Brands and and outlines the role of policy makers in creating the Retailers for their Global Textile Supply Chain (2011) enabling infrastructure. ♦ Preview of the Coming Decade: Textile Supply Chain Sustainability Plans by Brands and Retailers (2010) Driving Impact through Market Driven Interventions Sustainability Blueprinting and Sustainability Finance teams are focused on identifying interventions which are seeded in the market need and are backed by a formidable business case. The following work streams and products are being worked based on this premise, which are generating value for clients: Resource Management and Efficiency Practice: Energy, Water and Carbon Management: Our resource management practice has been built upon supporting manufacturing units to become more sustainable through developing mechanisms for understanding and managing their energy and water consumption. A data driven approach and standardized processes directed at impact creation, have allowed paved the way for greater savings and shorter pay-backs Identification of focus Creating goals and business Handholding to help areas and hotspots case for resource efficiency implement the improvements improvements improvements and achieve targets •Mapping most resource •Assessing the •Identify enablers that will intensive processes with preparedness of the help company meet its scope of change manufacturer to report goals •Creating an estimate of and to improve •Bring in technology potential reductions in •Developing business providers, capital energy/carbon case for implementing providers etc. emissions and recommended solutions •Customizing training Benchmarking to programs and curriculum industry best practices Page13 Smart Power for Environmentally and Economically-sound Development (SPEED) cKinetics has been supporting the SPEED Program to design and test the potential of business models and implementation plans that deliver electricity from renewable fuel sources in energy deficient regions of the developing world. The Programme aims to leverage the power of needs of cell-towers in electricity-starved regions as an anchor load to create a cleaner power infrastructure that would serve the larger needs of poor and vulnerable people in these regions, thus catalyzing economic and social development. cKinetics work is geared at fostering a framework for enabling multiple bottom line assessment and financing for these projects. Planning institutional engagement for impact disclosure: advance disclosure of impact in businesses cKinetics has been working with investors, which are looking at impact in addition to financial returns, to understand their nature of interest in impact/ sustainability disclosure. These investors have expressed the for advancing deployment of the disclosure-measurement systems by leveraging existing institutional frameworks such as the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Global Reporting Initiative, Carbon Disclosure Project, Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, amongst others. In this context, a Working Group was established to answer the following questions through applying an investor lens: 1. What steps are needed to coordinate actions between existing institutions to increase the prevalence of impact disclosure from businesses in India? 2. When, where, and how should these steps be undertaken to promote deployment of investment capital looking beyond a pure financial return? The working group, convened under the Sustainable Businesses Leadership Forum includes cKinetics, GIZ (German Development Authority) and Impact Investing Policy Collaborative (IIPC). The Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs, under the Ministry of Corporate Affairs is the Policy Lead for the projects. Leveraging Technology and Incubating Innovation Some of our recent initiatives include: Resource Conservation Tool comMIT is an analytics and information aggregation platform developed to enable clients to build insight into their operations. It helps build a view on the impact of sustainability related actions being taken. It is designed to interface with existing client reporting systems. Venture Accelerator at cKinetics cKinetics Accelerator seeks to invest-in and support new cutting-edge Sustainability focused ventures that are shaping the future of resource conservation. Engagement Models:  Investments: cKinetics Accelerator invests in early stage ideas and ventures providing strategic capital usually when the venture is young and the firm still addressing many aspects of risk  In-situ incubation support: Should an entrepreneur or a venture be located in Delhi, cKinetics Accelerator can provide space and facilities for operations Page14  Entrepreneur-in-Residence (EIR): Should an entrepreneur be contemplating an idea in the Sustainability domain, we share our insights with EIRs and work collaboratively to refine the ideas and also can provide initial seed funding. EIRs necessarily need to operate out of our Delhi center for us to engage and support effectively cKinetics Accelerator invests in ventures and ideas emerging from platforms such as the Unreasonable Institute, ISB iDiya, CIIE-INFUSE at IIM Ahmedabad and others. Page15 www.cKinetics.com INDIA 708 Hemkunt Chambers, 89 Nehru Place, New Delhi 110019 T: +91.11.4050.7277 USA 262 Ventura Avenue, Palo Alto, CA 94306 T: +1.650.331.1931 Page16
