Bella Center A/S – Communication on Progress Statement of continued support CEO of Bella Center, Arne Bang Mikkelsen, is pleased to express Bella Center’s continued support of the Global Compact’s ten principles with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In the year that has passed, since our last Communication on Progress, we have worked intensively with our focus areas and are proud to inform you that we have fulfilled the majority of our goals for 2012. With this starting point for 2013 we are excited about the sustainability work that lies ahead of us and both management and employees are looking forward to the continued work with the ten principles of the Global Compact. 2013 will also be a year with increased focus on our CSR communication, both externally towards guests, suppliers, partners etc. and internally towards our employees. Therefore our initiatives within communication will feature as a new section in this year’s COP. Mr. Arne Bang Mikkelsen CEO Bella Center A/S 1 CSR In our continued work with the Global Compact’s ten principles we maintain the following four divisions of our focus areas: 1. Human rights 2. Working environment 3. Climate 4. Anti-corruption This Communication on Progress describes the areas we have worked with in 2012, the results we have achieved and our goals for 2013. Human rights Global Compact principles 1-2 1. The company should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and 2. Ensure that it is not complicit in human right abuses. Bella Center constantly focuses on the compliance of the human rights. And 2012 was no exception. We are proud to inform that no abuses of the human rights have been registered, either with us or any of our partners. Obviously this will also be prioritized highly in our future business operations. Workers’ rights Global Compact principles 3-6 3. The company should uphold freedom of association and effectively recognize the right of collective bargaining. 4. Support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5. Support the elimination of child labour. 6. Eliminate discrimination in relation to work and employment conditions. In 2012 we have continued our work with the completion of the above mentioned principles within workers’ rights. Our work force has always been very diverse and in 2012 we have had extra focus on the recruitment of young people in internships (see table of focus areas). We also participated in several networks for social responsible companies, and will continue to do so in the future, since the knowledge sharing within these networks is of great value to us. In regards to hiring people in light jobs, a new legislation has put our work in this area a bit on hold. We are still very positive towards having a diverse workforce, but we need to have a complete overview of the new legislation, before hiring more people in light jobs. 2 The psychological working environment For many years we have conducted Workplace Risk Assessments (WRA). In 2013 it was decided to also introduce an assessment that should be conducted every six month (Great Place to Work). We also decided to further educate our managers in how to handle the results of the assessments. All this is done to improve the psychological working environment and to be better at handling the potential areas of improvement. The physical working environment Bella Center complies with all legislation governing the physical working environment (the Danish Act on Working Environment) and I am pleased to inform that 2012, as earlier years, was a year with a low accident rate. Being an important focus area for us, we will of course continue to improve the physical working environment. Health, sickness absence and stress We still have a strong focus on the well-being of our employees, and try to achieve this by offering:  Health check  Healthcare scheme  Worklife balance  Well-being coach  Sport events  Massage 3 Focus Areas/Initiatives Activities in 2012 Goals in 2013 The psychological working  Attitude survey  Great Place to Work environment  Workplace Risk survey every six month Assessment (WRA)  Education of managers in how to work with the results of the survey The physical working  Ergonomic counseling as  Continued focus on environment needed maintaining the low accident rate Health, sickness absence and  Training of managers in  Continued focus on stress conducting difficult prevention, stress and conversations with “the difficult employees on sick leave conversation”  Stress courses  Well-being coach  Possibility of sessions with a psychologist Social events  Christmas party  Continue with all of the  Sports club events we have offered in  Brunch every two week 2012, since we know they  Largest number of are very important for participants in DHL relay both the psychological and physical working environment. Diversity/social responsibility  A 20% increase of trainee  New legislation and new positions (within finance, top management must be reception, restaurant and in place before we decide kitchen). on how much effort can be put into this area. Climate and environment Global Compact principals 7-9 7. The company should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environment-friendly technologies. As in earlier years, 2012 was also a year with focus on all the waste management and energy consumption. Waste management towards our guests is a constant challenge. In 2012 we tried to work with three sorting categories, but unfortunately without a success. Our guests simply are not capable of sorting their waste correctly, which has resulted in extra work for our employees. We therefore abolished the sorting towards our guest and instead Bella Center staff handle the sorting back-end. This also makes it possible for us to sort the waste in many more categories. 4 Focus Areas/Initiatives Activities in 2012 Goals in 2013 Waste management  Sorting is moved from  Continue the sorting our guests to our staff made by our staff backback-end. The positive end. effect is more sorting  Continue to generate categories. earnings on the waste being sorted. (punktum I stedet for streg) Lighting  More energy-efficient  Continued work with lighting at International more energy-efficient House (5,218 sqm) and lighting at International Fashion Mart (3,000 sqm) House and Fashion Mart is in progress Bybierne (Urban Bees)  Expansion from 6 to 12  We will expand the (www. bybi.dk) hives. cooperation with Urban Bee, and in the future it will include sales of honey beers, both at our hotel, Bella Sky, but also at Bella Center.  We will communicate more about the Urban Bee project to get more companies involved. Wind turbine  The wind turbine  We are currently produces what negotiating an extension corresponds to 10% of of the wind turbine until our total energy 2017 consumption Materials consumption  Focus on material  Continued focus on more consumption has resulted energy-friendly carpets. in more energy-friendly banners and signs  More agreements with suppliers to take back their own packaging Organic agriculture  Increased use of organic  Continued focus on food. In 2011 it was 5%. increased use of organic In 2012 we reached 8%. food, with a goal of 1012%. 5 Anti-corruption Global Compact Principle 10 10. Companies should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Bella Center does not accept that our employees receive, demand or offer money, presents or services to anybody in order to obtain any preferential treatment. And we have not experienced any problems in this area in 2012. Communication We started 2013 with the development of a communication strategy for our CSR initiatives. It is an ambitious and long-term strategy which will be rolled out over the next couple of years. We will focus on both internal and external communication. Below are listed the communication initiatives which will be initiated in 2013. Focus Areas/Initiatives Goals in 2013 Communication in general  Elaborate visual universe (logo, templates, layouts) to be used in all CSR communication External communication  Highlight our CSR initiatives in sales material and on our homepage  Integrate information about our CSR initiatives in our interior decoration  Visible storytelling about CSR initiatives that are not visible at first sight (water reduction, sun film) Internal communication  Involvement of employees in the CSR work  Information to employees about the CSR work 6
