Driving CSR, Driving Sustainable Mobility Hankook Tire CSR Report 2012/13 About This Report Reporting Purpose Reporting Scope At Hankook Tire, through this fourth CSR Report, we aim to This report primarily focuses on the accomplishments and plans of present our CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) performance, as Hankook Tire Worldwide (the newly incorporated holding company) well as our endeavors focused on creating economic, social and and Hankook Tire (will run the existing tire business). In terms of environmental values in 2012. We also wish to share our plans and Hankook Tire, this report mainly covers its Korean business sites: commitments for 2013. To communicate with various stakeholders, the headquarters in Seoul, plants in Daejeon and Geumsan, and this report intends to integrate the expectations and demands of the R&D Center. In addition, a portion of its overseas subsidiaries our stakeholders through an accurate and transparent disclosure of in Hungary and China are included in reporting on such issues information. as employee health and safety management, environmental management, community involvement and development and employee value creation. We will continually expand our reporting Reporting Guidelines and Principles scope throughout the coming years to ensure that our endeavors This report was prepared against the GRI G.3 guidelines in order to and achievements in undertaking global CSR initiatives at overseas satisfy global standards and enhance its usability by international sites are fully and comprehensively integrated into CSR reports. For readers as well as for use in our reporting and disclosure standards. information on Hankook Tire subsidiaries, please refer to Company It demonstrates our commitment to meeting the expectations Profile section of this report. and demands of various stakeholders in Korea and abroad as a global corporate citizen. Our internal CSR reporting guidelines and principles ensure the reliability, appropriateness, and completeness Third-party Assurance To ensure the reliability of the report content, Type 2 assurance of the report content, the transparency and integrity of the reporting engagement was performed in accordance with AA1000 standards process and the originality and uniqueness of the report itself. Not by BSI Korea (www.bsigroup.co.kr), an independent third-party only do these principles allow for a better utilization of this report assurance provider. The outcomes are summarized and organized but also apply to all our disclosure documents. This constitutes our in the assurance statement that appears at the end of this report. fourth CSR Report and we aim to publish such reports annually. Reporting Period Target Audience This report is to transparently disclose the status of our CSR This report spans the period between January 1, 2012 and management initiatives to our key stakeholders (customers, December 31, 2012. To provide more reliable information to readers employees, suppliers, local communities, shareholders & investors) through the presentation of our CSR performance track records, and general stakeholders (civil organizations, students, central this report contains information and data that spans from 2009 and local governments, competitors and media)as well as gather to March of 2013 for major report sections. Furthermore, 2013 feedback. action plans by key managerial issues are outlined in detail to help stakeholders better understand future improvements to be made against our 2012 achievements. Detailed Information on the Report For more information or inquiries on this report, please contact us at: CSR Team, Hankook Tire, Teheran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea(Yeoksam-dong) •Tel. +82-2-2222-1671~1679 •Fax. +82-2-2222-1721 •csr@hankooktire.com •www.hankooktire.com 1 Contents Hankook Tire CSR Report 2012/13 Introduction About This Report C2 Contents 01 CEO Message 02 Profile Company Profile 04 Brands & Products 05 Integrated CSR Management System Integrated CSR Management System 06 Materiality Analysis 10 CSR Steering Wheel 2013 11 Constant Monitoring Areas Responsible Corporate Governance 14 Integrated Risk Management 16 CSR Focus Areas Focus 01 Employee Health & Safety Management 20 Focus 02 Environmental Management 02-1 Integrated Environmental Management System 24 02-2 Climate Change & GHG Management 30 Focus 03 External Stakeholder Satisfaction Management 03-1 Win-Win Supply-chain Partnership 34 03-2 Community Involvement & Development 40 03-3-1 Customer Satisfaction and Quality Management (General Customers and Dealers) 46 03-3-2 Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management (Car Makers) 50 Focus 04 Employee Value Creation 52 Focus 05 Transparency & Business Ethics 60 APPENDIX UN Global Compact 65 Awards 66 Membership/ Government Grants and Regulatory Violations 67 Financial Data Summary 68 Employee Data Summary 69 CSR Principle 72 GRI Index Table 74 Participant Information 75 Independent Assurance Statement 76 Global Network 78 You may move on to the related page if you click on it. HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 2 CEO MESSAGE Dear Stakeholders, I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude for your full support in our continued growth. This past year of 2012 was particularly challenging as the tire industry experienced the toughest-ever competition due to the fiscal crises in the U.S. and Europe, the currency depreciation policy adopted by multiple countries and the economic slowdown in China and other emerging markets. Despite such difficult business conditions, we set a new record in our business results: our global sales reached a record KRW 7.0291 trillion. We attribute this achievement to the trust-based relationship that we have built over the years with wide-ranging stakeholders. Yet, stagnancy and complacency are far from our mission, and we are undertaking strategies to grow even further. This is clearly demonstrated through the split of Hankook Tire (a newly-created entity) from Hankook Tire Worldwide (a holding company) in September of last year. In so doing, we have laid the basis to evolve into a major global tire manufacturer through our enhanced specialty in the tire industry, responsible management systems and improved business transparency. As such, we are determined to pursue qualitative growth on the basis of the quantitative progress that has been made over the years in order to realize our vision of becoming a ‘Leading Global Tire Company that delivers value and pleasure to customers’. To ensure quantitative growth, we are stabilizing the operations of our new plants in Chongqing, China and Indonesia and building new production lines. Meanwhile, we are expanding our endeavors to create environmental and social value in addition to investments in technology, quality and services in order to pursue qualitative growth. Our ‘integrated CSR management system’ has been up and running across the company since 2010 to address major issues so as to create environmental and social value. The materiality analysis enabled us to establish the five Focus Areas of: Employee Health & Safety Management, Environmental Management, External Stakeholder Satisfaction Management, Employee Value Creation and Transparency & Business Ethics. In each of these Focus Areas, detailed targets, deadlines and responsible departments were defined in orderto integrate CSR initiatives into our daily operations. Specifically, the CSR Committee was established at our China Headquater in 2012 to develop overseas CSR operational systems in accordance with our global CSR guidelines. Our CSR reports constitute a part of our efforts to advance sustainability management. Though our forth CSR report where we disclosure our commitments made to stakeholders as well as our achievement, we transparently deliver our CSR initiatives and share the value of our sustainability management. As an entrusted corporate citizen, we will comply with UN Global Compact principles and commit ourselves to joint growth alongside our stakeholders. As our journey continues to become a trusted company and pursue balanced growth, your interest and support is greatly appreciated. As an entrusted corporate citizen, we will comply with UN Global Compact principles and commit ourselves to joint growth alongside our stakeholders. As our journey continues to become a trusted company and pursue balanced growth, your interest and support is greatly appreciated. Thank you. Suh, Seung-hwa Vice Chairman & CEO 3 INTRODUCTION DRIVING CSR, DRIVING SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 4 COMPANY PROFILE Launched as Korea’s first tire producer in 1941, Hankook Tire has continued to progress beyond a local player into the world’s seventh largest tire manufacturer, interacting with customers in 180 countries. In the face of 2012’s challenging year, our ambition for continued Company Profile growth never abated and we were committed to delivering high (Unit: KRW ) quality products to our customers through sustained investment Company Name Hankook Tire Co., Ltd and technological innovation. In so doing, we took a step closer to Global Sales KRW 7.0291 trillion* becoming a Leading Global Tire Company, reaching KRW 7.0291 Operating Profit KRW 912.9 billion* trillion in global sales, KRW 912.9 billion in operating profit and an 8% Operating Margin 13%* increase in sales growth. We are also aware of our responsibility as a Total Assets KRW 7.1824 trillion** corporate citizen and are fully committed to ushering in a sustainable Total Capital KRW 3.2214 trillion** future. Our social responsibility initiatives are further reinforced through Date of Establishment Sep. 3, 2012*** IPO (Initial Public Offering) Oct. 4, 2012*** ‘H-LOHAS (Hankook Lifestyle of Health and Sustainability)’, our CEO Suh, Seung-hwa lifestyle campaign, and company-wide integrated CSR management Manufacturing, reproducing and selling tires, system. Business Type tubes and components Our journey will continue to become a global company that is Headquarters 133, Teheran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea (Yeoksam-dong) respected and trusted for its commitment to a sustainable future Telephone +82-2-2222-1000 Hankook Tire Worldwide Co., Ltd. / through balanced growth with all stakeholders. Affiliates Daehwa Engineering & Machinery Co., Ltd. / Hanyang Tire Sales Co. Ltd / MK Technology Corporation ✽ The data combines Hankook Tire’s business results both before and after the spin-off. ✽✽ In a consolidated manner as of the end of December of 2012 concerning the newlycreated Hankook Tire as a result of the spin-off. ✽✽✽ Established as a result of the spin-off of the tire operations of the previous Hankook Tire as of the September 1 of 2012 (the date of the spin-off) and its stocks were listed in the securities market on October 4 of 2012. Mission and Vision MISSION FRAME VISION FRAME MISSION VISION VISION Contribute to Advancements in Driving 2020 A leading Global Tire Company Providing Customers with Value and Pleasure MISSION GOAL BUSINESS PRINCIPLE GOAL Placing customers first 5-1-1 Recognizing talent and potential Global 5th Tire Maker Promoting innovation at work BUSINESS STRATEGIC PRINCIPLE 1st in Profitability Respecting our environment DIRECTION 1st in Quality & Productivity Creating lasting value and profitability for our stockholders CORE VALUES CORE VALUE STRATEGIC DIRECTION We are passionate. We have a goal. Brand Value-up We are innovative. We create possibilities. Quality Level-up We are collaborative. We build trust. Global Growth Acceleration We are global. We share an open mind. Global Operation Excellence 5 PROFILE BRANDS & PRODUCTS Enfren eco is eco-friendly tire, rated grade 1 in energy efficiency and Ventus S1 evo 2 is our ultra high-performance premium tire that takes grade 2 in wet grip. both performance and environmental requirements into account. It delivers outstanding handling and grip performance under any road conditions as well as best-possible driving experience. Hankook is the representative brand of Hankook Tire domestically and internationally and our product line-up consists of the following brand sub-categories by vehicle and product segment. Ultra-high performance tires and racing racing tires Premium sedan tires Eco-friendly tires for the global market Korea’s first eco-friendly tires SUV tires Economical tires for the domestic market Van tires Winter tires (Stud) Winter tires (Studless) Aurora tires target overseas consumers and are mainly mounted on passenger cars. ‘Route Master’, which means tires that know the road well, is under operation as a related product brand. Kingstar targets overseas consumers who prefer economical products and has ‘Road Fit’ as its product brand, which represents product features that best fit the road conditions at hand. HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 6 Integrated CSR Management System CSR COMMITTEE The CSR Steering Committee, which consists of nine subcommittees, helps us consistently undertake company-wide CSR initiatives while the CSR Strategy Committee is responsible for reporting outcomes to the top management and discussing their future directions. IC CSR Strategy Committee INTEGRATED CSR MANAGEMENT CEO of Hankook Tire Worldwide SYSTEM CMO (Chief Marketing Officer) COO in Korea Headquarters CEO COO in China Headquarters COO in Europe Headquarters COO in America Headquarters CSR Steering Committee Product Environment Subcommittee EHS Subcommittee Energy/Carbon Subcommittee Employee Subcommittee Ethics Management Subcommittee Declaration Risk Management Subcommittee We at Hankook Tire aim to build CSR into the fabric of our Corporate Philanthropy Subcommittee corporate culture and into employees’ daily operations. The integrated company-wide CSR management is based Customer Subcommittee on our commitment to delivering the best-possible values Supplier Subcommittee to wide-ranging stakeholders and seeking sustainable development of the mobility industry. CSR Meeting Management Responsibility and Governance Our company-wide CSR initiatives are undertaken through the integrated CSR management system, which is operated Assistant by the CSR Team in the management infrastructure CSR Team administrators in sector. The CSR Steering Committee, made up of nine each subcommittee subcommittees, assists relevant teams in sharing CSR goals and achievements through communication with the CSR Team and in taking stronger action to advance CSR. 7 IC Operation of the CSR Committee 7 Reinforcement of company-wide employee training and Communication 7 Stakeholder Communication and engagement 8 CSR Strategy Committee in China Headquarters 9 IC-1 OPERATION OF THE CSR COMMITTEE To ensure our CSR initiatives to be undertaken in an integrated manner on a company-wide level, our CSR Strategy Committee and nine CSR Steering Committees are operating under our CEO’s leadership regularly making reports and reviews to align CSR achievements and plans. Our CSR accomplishments and plans are closely aligned through regular reporting and reviews between the CSR Strategy Committee and respective subcommittees. Our annual CSR reports are also incorporated into the company-wide mid/long-term strategic guide while the outcomes of the materiality analysis, which is conducted based on internal/external stakeholder surveys, feedback from external professional evaluators, benchmarking of leading companies, and CSR assessments, are reflected in the following year’s strategic guide of each subcommittee. DAILY MONTHLY & QUARTERLY 2ND HALF Main Objectives CSR activities by CSR Steering Review of annual CSR outcomes and CSR improvement activities under Subcommittee/Review of accomplishments finalization/sharing of next year’s relevant action plans and response to CSR issues operational plans Participation of relevant employees Review of progress and strategies Review of progress and resolution of issues Monitoring Process CSR Improvement Initiatives CSR Steering Subcommittees CSR Strategy Meeting Reporting of progress and identification of issues Reporting core issues Reporting year-end outcomes and plans for next year •Implementation of team-specific CSR •Review of CSR guidelines and mid/longterm •Review and feedback of subcommitteeimprovement activities under relevant strategies specific CSR initiatives/outcomes Contents action plans •Sharing of CSR issues and discussion of •Review of annual CSR achievements and Undertaking improvement tasks short-term strategies possible resolutions Improving on KPIs •Sharing and review of core CSR issues IC-2 REINFORCEMENT OF COMPANY-WIDE EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND COMMUNICATION Our CSR education aims to integrate CSR into employees’ daily operations and report the related activities as systemized outcome. In doing so, we are fully committed to building a wider CSR awareness as well as stronger capability to undertake CSR initiatives among all employees. Our goal is to ingrain CSR into the fabric of our corporate culture and into employees’ daily operations. As such, we provided CSR education to all staff to impart its meanings and requirements. Specifically, our newly hired employees are provided with CSR education for basic concepts and knowledge along with overall CSR directions at Hankook Tire. In addition, assistant administrators of the CSR Steering Committee and employees in charge of CSR operations are engaged in education programs and discussions concerning CSR initiatives that are applicable to their own operation. CSR Education Name of Course Content Target Learners Education Round Education Hour Concept and understanding of CSR CSR at Hankook Tire New recruits 217 employees 1st round of education Two hours HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 8 IC-3 STAKEHOLDER COMMUNICATION AND ENGAGEMENT We classify and define our stakeholders according to the size and scope of their impact on our business operation. We ensure that all our employees are aware of major issues raised by stakeholders through varied communication channels and that stakeholder feedback is reflected in our conduct of business to create sustainable values. We categorized stakeholders into core stakeholders (those who are most closely related to our business conduct and directly interact with us) and general stakeholders (those who interact indirectly with potential impact) through the analysis on various stakeholders and external/internal business environment. Furthermore, we are dedicated to sharing our CSR accomplishments and plans with our stakeholders by operating a multiple communication channels to gather their opinions. Stakeholder Model Annual Stakeholder Dialogue Process Core Stakeholders General Stakeholders NPOs/Civil Media ❿ Alignment with Organizations ❶ Analysis of stakeholders improvement activities Customers ❷ Construction and ❾ Incorporation into policies Shareholders/ scheduling of dialogue and future strategies Employees Investors Students/ Competitors Future ❸ Selection of targets by ❽ Compilation of stakeholder Generations stakeholder group feedback Nature/ Ecology/ Suppliers Climate ❹ Survey of stakeholders’ ❼ Performance management Local expectations and demands and reporting Community Central/Local Governments Government ❺ Presentation of CSR ❻ Application and execution commitments Communication Channel by Stakeholder Group Core Stakeholders Communication Channels Key Issues Enhancement of product quality and safety Customers Discussion meetings (with authorized retail stores and retail shops), Extension of product responsibility, Responsible marketing (customers, dealers and Dealer satisfaction surveys, Tire Family magazine, Enhancement of consumer safety/health regarding product use car makers) technology exchange, exhibitions, etc. Communicating with customers and reflecting their opinions, etc. Recognition of diversity and stricter prohibition of discrimination Labor-management consultative meetings, In-house IR, HANA site, Improvement of labor conditions covering workplace safety Employees In-house magazine, Challenge 511, etc. Fair performance evaluation and reasonable compensation Stronger internal communication and labor relations, etc. Support program for suppliers’ competitiveness Quality and environment workshops, (training, technological support, etc.) Suppliers Regular supplier assessments and surveys, etc. Fair trade and mutually-beneficial partnerships Proactive communication and stronger sharing of information, etc. Minimization of environmental impact, Revitalization of local economy Local resident meetings, Educational and livelihood support for the under-privileged in local Local Community Meetings with local government agencies and NGOs, communities Gathering opinions from local communities, etc. Corporate philanthropic initiatives as a way of making social investments, etc. Maximization of business outcomes and shareholder values Board of directors meetings, Shareholder general meetings, Shareholders/Investors Management of organizational transparency and sustainability overseas conferences, IR events, etc. Transparency/ethics management, Integrated risk management, etc. 9 IC Operation of the CSR Committee 7 Reinforcement of company-wide employee training and Communication 7 Stakeholder Communication and engagement 8 CSR Strategy Committee in China Headquarters 9 IC-4 CSR STRATEGY COMMITTEE IN CHINA HEADQUARTERS Our CSR Committee in China Headquarters was established in March 2012 to operate a sustainability management system in China. To advance an integrated CSR management of our Chinese operations, bi-monthly CSR strategy meetings are held under the supervision of the COO at the China Headquarters while monthly EHS operation meeting is held to expand and establish our CSR initiatives on a global level. Operational Structure Role of Committees Take follow-up measures and make continuous improvement related to site-specific key managerial issues Improve shop floor conditions Health and safety management Key Issues Build corporate social responsibility Advance ethics management CSR Committee Employee Corporate Philanthropy EHS Steering Risk Management Ethics Management Subcommittee Subcommittee Committee Subcommittee Subcommittee Responsible Organizations Facility/ventilation General Management Health Promotion Environment and Safety Chemical Substance Improvement •Effective EHS supervision •Employee health •Environmental management •Environmental facility •Chemicals management and management management •Safety and fire management management •Environmental protection •Operational support •Employee training •Certification management •EHS facility improvement facility inspection management •Corporate philanthropy Operational Status Operational EHS operation meetings: Held monthly Schedule CSR strategy meetings: Held bi-monthly EHS operation meetings: CHN) executives in charge of strategic planning Supervisor CSR strategy meetings: COO in China Headquarters Mode of Meeting Shanghai, Jiaxing, Jiangsu, CTC video conferencing Participant Plant managers at each plants, leaders and members of relevant teams May 28: CSR Jul. 25: CSR Sep. 26: CSR Nov. 27: CSR strategic meeting strategic meeting strategic meeting strategic meeting Improve shop Continuously Completed Summary of 2012 Operational Apr. 24: floor conditions at Jun. 26: Aug. 27: Nov. 2: inspect plant air fire-fighting 2012 activities Results of the CSR EHS plants EHS quality EHS EHS inspection in Committee meeting meeting meeting meeting 2011 and Review Improve fireinspection plans Detailed CSR environmental fighting facilities for 2012 plans for 2013 indicators Joining the DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes) Korea The DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes) Korea is the product of joint developments between Dow Jones, the U.S.-based full-service financial index provider and SAM, the sustainability evaluation agency and investment boutique headquartered in Switzerland. Hankook Tire has been incorporated into the DJSI Korea for two consecutive years since 2011 to be widely recognized for the achievements on sustainability management. This motivates our full commitment to stakeholder engagement and the fulfillment of corporate social responsibility in accordance with the integrated CSR management system. HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012 | 2013 10 Materiality Analysis Our materiality analysis was performed based on stakeholder interest and business impact. In doing so, we identified 17 issues that were regarded with relative importance. These issues were further clarified through the CSR Steering Wheel in order to manage them more effectively. Stakeholder Engagement in the Materiality Analysis and Reporting Process Our materiality analysis aimed to identify CSR Focus Areas and key managerial issues that are material to Hankook Tire and stakeholders and thus require intensive management for 2013. The materiality analysis is conducted through the following procedures: extracting a pool of issues through regular annual CSR assessments, conducting media analyses, benchmaking global standards and industry peers, assessing business significance of respective issues that were identified, and evaluating the impact of these issues on stakeholders. 2 15 5 6 9 3 8 7 12 Stakeholder Interest 17 11 10 16 13 1 4 14 Impact on the Business Results of the Materiality Analysis (Ranking by Issue) 2 Clean production (Manufacturing process-energy, water, air, 10 6 Adaptation to climate change 1 water quality, hazardous substances) 11 14 Consumer health and safety (in product use) 2 12 Product quality and performance 12 16 Performance evaluation and appropriate compensation 3 7 Employee safety management 13 13 Responsible marketing 4 1 Ethics (transparent) management (Exaggerated advertising, customer’s data privacy) 5 8 Employee safety management 14 10 Facilitation of the local economy and creation of jobs 6 15 Relationship with the labor union (Human rights/labor rights) 15 11 Gathering of stakeholder feedback in local communities 7 3 Development of eco-friendly products 16 17 Diversity/Ban on discrimination 8 5 Resource management 17 4 Biodiversity/Management of green areas 9 9 Supplier requirement for compliance with CSR principles 11 INTEGRATED CSR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM CSR STEERING WHEEL 2013 We identified the Five CSR Focus Areas of Employee Health and Safety Management, Environmental Management, External Stakeholder Satisfaction Management, Employee Value Creation and Transparency/Ethics Management based on our integrated CSR management system. FOCUS Areas 01 itoring n Mo tant IR D HS ns Co NTE GRAT E EMPLOYEE HE AND SAF ALTH EMENT EM I ET ANAG MANAGEM Y KM CG RIS ENT BL E SI TE FO ON RA CE P S P R RN RE O AN Inte g IE EN VI R CU E Ma rated S0 C ON GO O na 05 V ge Env ME me iro nt NT 2 S tal AL US TRA en nm tem MA ys NSP NA FOC BE ETHI CS MA AR EN GEM CY NA / GE ENT nd hange a ME ate C NT Clim gement CC M a na GHG CSR STEERING WHEEL 2013 E CREATION VALU U S 04 YEE Win-W in EV PLO Su Part pply-C SC M ners hip hain FOC E n tio t ac men Cu e & Q stom ) ua er lit S (C y M atis nt ar an f eme volv CS M ag ak Customer S a ty In en er tisfa c Quality Managemen tion & uni lopm t mm eve Customers and (Genera Co & D CI ES Deale l rs) CS RN TE EX AL ST AK EHO LD E ISF A CTI O N M A N A G E M E N T R SAT FOC 3 US 0 Code Key Managerial Issues Page Code Key Managerial Issues Page 1. Development of an advanced decision-making system 1. Establishment of the company-wide philanthropy system CG through the proactive gathering of stakeholder feedback p.14 CI 2. Expansion of employee consensus and 2. Professional operation of the BOD and its reinforced responsibilities reinforcement of executive capability p.40 3. Development and brandization of specialized programs 1. Selection of major issues concerning key managerial risks IR 4. Reinforcement of communication with local communities and 2. Development of risk management process p.16 identification of local issues 3. Enhancement of company-wide risk response training and the establishment of risk culture CS 1. Win-win customer strategies 2. Reinforcement of customer engagement and communication p.46 HS 1. Establishment of a voluntary safety management system p.20 3. Impressive customer services 2. Enhancement of employee health management CS 1. Reinforcement of product competency IE 1. Green purchasing 2. Establishment of global standard processes p.50 2. Cleaner production 3. Reinforcement of communication p.24 3. Product and environment 4. Management of resources EV 1. Open communication-based management 2. HR systems that offer fair opportunities CC 1. Energy/carbon management p.52 3. Growth-fostering training systems 2. Execution and reduction p.30 4. Work/life balance 3. Supply chain carbon management BE 1. Energy/carbon management SC 1. Supplier management and supplier relations policy 2. Execution and reduction p.60 2. Supplier communication 3. Supply chain carbon management p.34 3. Win-win supplier partnership programs 4. Facilitation of green purchasing HANKOOK TIRE CSR FOCUS AREAS 13 Constant Monitoring Areas cg Responsible Corporate Governance 14 ir Integrated Risk Management 16 CSR Focus Areas Focus 01 HS Employee Health & Safety Management 20 Focus 02 em Environmental Management 02-1 IE Integrated Environmental Management System 24 02-2 CC Climate Change & GHG Management 30 Focus 03 es External Stakeholder Satisfaction Management 03-1 SC Win-Win Supply-chain Partnership 34 03-2 CI Community Involvement & Development 40 03-3-1 CS Customer Satisfaction and Quality Management (General Customers and Dealers) 46 03-3-2 CS Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management (Car Makers) 50 Focus 04 ev Employee Value Creation 52 Focus 05 be Transparency & Business Ethics 60 You may move on to the related page if you click on it. HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 14 Constant Monitoring Areas Responsible Corporate Governance CG RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Declaration Hankook Tire set an example in adopting a professional management system as well as a separation of ownership from management. We are committed to the maintenance of healthy corporate governance as well as reasonable and transparent management practices. Major Shareholders The list of our major shareholders as of December 31, 2012 is as follows. Name of Shareholders No. of Stocks Holdings Rate (%) Cho, Yang-rai 19,807,897 15.99 Cho, Hyun-bum 8,789,241 7.10 Cho, Hyun-shick 7,177,241 5.79 Hankook Tire Worldwide Co., Ltd. 5,697,653 4.60 Total 41,472,032 33.48 Board of Directors Our Board of Directors (BOD) consists of five directors: two internal directors and three external directors, as of March 22, 2013. Directors Name Position Relationship with the Note Largest Shareholder Suh, Seung-hwa Vice Chairman N/A BOD Chairman Internal director Cho, Hyun-bum President Second son Cho, Kun-ho Audit Committee member N/A External director Cho, Choong Hwan Audit Committee member N/A Hong, Seong Phil Audit Committee member N/A * As of September 1, 2012, Hankook Tire Co., Ltd. spun-off, to be responsible for the tire business operations, from Hankook Tire Worldwide Co., Ltd. which is in charge of the investment business as an existing entity. The above BOD list was prepared on the basis of the newly-established Hankook Tire Co., Ltd. Professional Operation of the BOD and Its Reinforced Responsibilities External directors constitute the majority of our Board of Directors and their appointment strictly follows transparent and fair procedures through the External Directors Nomination Committee under the BOD. We ensure that highly experienced individuals are appointed as external directors so that they may assist the company CEO in effective decision-making through advice and consultation and serve as a supervisor for top management. 15 CG Constant Monitoring Areas 14 Decision-making Process at the Top Management Level Central to our decision-making structure at Hankook Tire is our Board of Directors. We continue to expand open communication channels in order to gather stakeholder feedback and reflect it in the decision-making process of top management. Appointment Support, Check Board of Directors Reporting CEO Compilation of stakeholder feedback Compilation of stakeholder feedback Monitoring/Check/ General Shareholder’s Meeting Deliberation of major agendas Reporting Various Meetings Appointment Audit Committee Company-wide discussions Reporting Reporting on and decision-making management information regarding major issues Monitoring/Check/ Deliberation of major agendas Audit BOD Meetings Held in 2012 Regular Meetings Ad-hoc Meetings Major Agenda Attendance of External Directors Reporting and disclosure of the One meeting Three meetings progress concerning the spin-off of 100% Hankook Tire Committees under the BOD Committee Composition Major Function Audit accounting and business operation Investigate corporate financial assets Handle matters stipulated in government regulations and the articles Audit Committee Three external directors of incorporation as well as matters commissioned by the BOD Request directors to report on business operations Request for appointment of external directors Deliberate and decide on general management matters Management Committee Two internal directors Deliberate and decide on financial matters External Director One internal director and Recommend external director candidates Nomination Committee three external directors Internal Trade Committee Three external directors Approval of large-scale related transactions HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 16 Constant Monitoring Areas Integrated Risk Management Key Risks We have identified and managed ten key risks that require company-wide management endeavors in accordance with their features and managerial significance. In 2013, we will choose eight key risks in order to review and redefine existing risks while ensuring that our risk management appropriately reflects fast-changing internal/external business conditions. IR INTEGRATED RISK MANAGEMENT Anti-dumping Fair trade Harassment Labor-management culture Protection Disputes over IP/ Product Liability Environmental of customer trademark rights issues information Constant Risks Our definition of constant risks includes financial risks (minimization of risk exposure in the financial market), currency risks (related to our global operations), and liquidity risks (monitoring of company-wide cash flows). Declaration We prioritize risks caused by uncertainties within our business conduct and build an enterprise-wide integrated risk management system that encompasses both proactive management measures and follow-up response guidelines so as to turn crisis into opportunity. Financial Risk Currency Risk Liquidity Risk Management Responsibility and Governance Company-wide Risk Response Education While our integrated risk management in 2012 was led by the Corporate Strategy Team with the goal of companywide strategic directions under the supervision of executives We continue to provide training in order to build employee consensus on in the Corporate Strategy Department, the responsibility risk management processes and to ensure function-specific well-planned will be transferred to the Risk Subcommittee under the responses. supervision of the Legal Affairs Team to allow for both internal and external specialized review of risks in 2013. The Risk Subcommittee will gather together relevant teams that play a key role in such areas as strategic planning, finance, HR, marketing, communication, quality, R&D, production technology and CSR and discuss roles & responsibilities concerning major risks as well as response directions. One round of education Two rounds of education 17 IR Selection and management of Key Risks 17 Establishment of Risk Management Processes 19 Enhancement of Company-wide Risk Response Training and Establishment of Risk Culture 19 2012 Achievements ●: Completed ◐ : Partially Completed ◦: Not Implemented : Year-round Activity Code Key Managerial Issues 2012 Goals 2012 Achievements Completion Pages Ten key risks were selected and the management of Selection of major issues To disseminate a risk management operational system these risks was announced ● 17 IR1 concerning key risks To select and manage detailed focus risk issues at each Insight was shared concerning potential companyregional headquarters wide risks. ◐ 17, 18 To identify risks Review and manage the risk profile (regulations, cases and ◐ 19 organizations). To evaluate risks Set risk evaluation criteria and estimate evaluation outcomes ◐ 19 Risk issues were proactively identified and addressed. Establishment of risk management IR2 processes To respond to risks Fair trade, trade protectionism, etc. Define risk response measures/analyze causes. ◐ 19 Undertake improved response measures. To monitor risks Select and review monitoring indicators/analyze improvement benefits. ◐ 19 Review the management status/report monitoring results. Enhancement of company-wide To provide education to build employees’ consensus on Hankook Training plans were developed and support was IR3 risk response education and Tire’s risk management processes offered regarding risk response training. ◐ 19 establishment of risk culture – Planning and support 2013 Plans Code Key Managerial Issues 2013 Commitments Deadline Team in Charge IR1 Definition of key risks Define key risks and select detailed issues and a check list. June Legal Affairs Team Establish risk management systems by detailed issue and provide a check list. September Legal Affairs Team Development of risk management IR2 processes by detailed issue Set training plans concerning risk management processes and offer guidelines. By the end of 2013 Legal Affairs Team Perform sensing and monitoring through regular management. By the end of 2013 Legal Affairs Team IR-1 SELECTION AND MANAGEMENT OF KEY RISKS To proactively respond to wide-ranging risks, we keep an eye on factors that cause changes in internal/external business conditions and monitor relevant risks. Specifically, we identify and intensively manage key risks that require company-wide management efforts while ensuring a prompt response to risks when they occur. Disseminating a Risk Management Operational System In 2011 and 2012, risks that required an immediate response to 1 We identify, evaluate and monitor risk factors that may hamper current issues were identified so as to choose ten key risks to be our operations. Furthermore, we prevent operational risks across the managed from the level of top management. Out of these ten key board through the development of response plans. The classification risks, anti-dumping and fair trade risks that emerged as direct issues and definition of internal/external risk factors and corresponding were addressed through detailed measures. To handle anti-dumping company-wide measures allowed us to identify ten risks that required risks (anti-dumping charge raised in Brazil), overall marketing work intensive management, while regular monitoring through companyflow and relevant execution and management regulations were further wide notification helped establish a system to promptly identify key sophisticated and systemized. In addition, continued training allows risks. This is further complemented by interactive communication us to share fair trade risks across the board and related management between top management and employees that aim to select and systems were also enhanced. manage key risks as well as through continued risk training. Identifying Issues by Regional Headquarters 2 In 2013, the company-wide ten key risks chosen in the previous year The identification of risk issues of respective regional were reviewed and redefined, which led to the identification of eight headquarters was first initiated in our Chinese Headquarters in key risks. Meanwhile, we will continue to integrate new risks that occur consideration of its established infrastructure, while other regional due to quickly -changing business conditions and to build on our risk headquarters shared the company-wide ten key risks that were management capabilities. In so doing, we aim to relocate the Risk defined at the Korean headquarters. Our plan for 2013 is to extend Subcommittee to Legal Affairs Team from the Corporate Strategy Team the scope of risk management into overseas subsidiaries through and reinforce the compliance-related aspect of our risk management the development of long-term plans that take a compliance-driven practices. perspective. HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 18 8 Key Risks Anti-dumping Trade Fair trade Harassment Product Liability Quality HR Labor-management culture Protection of customer information Information Environmental issues EHS Security Disputes over IP/trademark rights Selecting and Managing Detailed Risks at China Headquarters 3 4 Constant Risks We have identified and managed regional headquarter-specific We ensure that financial risks (excluding operational risks) are risks in addition to company-wide risks. China headquarters initiated subject to constant management by dedicated teams, not by such endeavors at the end of 2011 and addressed 13 key risks in the Risk Subcommittee. 2012. Furthermore, key items, that are classified into internal/external/ Financial Risk While 2012 was a year filled with economic and other categories, are managed as key risks in order to ensure uncertainties caused by the global economic downturn, such the integration of management capabilities and a systemized risk unfavorable business conditions are expected to continue in 2013 management. Such key risks are regularly monitored by employees due to the fiscal crisis of several countries, a lower-than-expected at regional headquarters and shared among our global staff so as to recovery in global consumption, and currency disputes attributable build a more effective and stronger risk management system. China to the quantitative easing policy adopted competitively by advanced headquarters will serve as the foundation for us to develop and nations. Thus, we continued with our overseas investment to establish expand a systemic and effective risk management system that reflects future engines of growth while maintaining a conservative approach to region-specific features into other regional headquarters. risk management to ensure stable growth. Sustained monitoring and management of financial expenses and currency foreign exchange positions allowed us to minimize our exposure risks in the financial market while our financial market trend reporting system was maintained and improved to enhance the efficiency in decision making at the top management level. Issued Identified at the China Headquarters Consolidation of risk management systems Examination Improvement of the risk management system Integrate key risks from 40 to 38 in 2011 Examine the details of monthly inspections Current status Develop official management manuals Results: The number of constant risks is Risk management system under development Keep a daily check log in accordance relatively higher while that of key risks is low to improve management efficiency with the management manuals Key Management Items at the China Headquarters Management Competition against Automobile New technology Environmental Intellectual property Response to Trade Frictions & eco-friendly environment industry peers industry issues infringement regulatory changes technology Hygiene and stability Firefighting Customer Development of Utility Risk labor-management management management response culture 19 IR Selection and management of Key Risks 17 Establishment of Risk Management Processes 19 Enhancement of Company-wide Risk Response Training and Establishment of Risk Culture 19 Currency Risk As a global company, we use 22 foreign Liquidity Risk We constantly monitor our Korean currencies including the U.S. dollar and euro. As such, we make sure headquarters and overseas subsidiaries for their borrowings, the level of that current transactions (exports and imports) and financial transactions liquidity, and long/short-term cash flows while regularly forecasting future (deposits and borrowings) are made in local currencies and that the cash flows to proactively manage liquidity risks. Specifically, our priority same currency is used in making or receiving payments. In doing so, we is to take a conservative liquidity management approach in response diversify currency-specific risks and retrain foreign exchange positions to turbulent financial market conditions. We also use such integrated while applying currency risk management regulations to address currency financial systems as cash pooling to establish liquidity management positions that exceed acceptable levels. Specifically, our Currency processes in the overseas market. These systems create a common Management Committee meets quarterly under the supervision of our pool of financial resources that are shared by financially-strapped Global CEO to develop currency risk strategies. In avoiding currency subsidiaries and their counterparts with financial surpluses, which helps risks, we primarily use natural hedges that aim to eliminate risks through us minimize liquidity risks and reduce the burden concerning financial the matching of assets and liabilities in foreign currencies. Furthermore, operations as well as financial expenses. Presently, we are developing we do not exclude the use of external risk aversion measures that use our own Global Cash Management System that aims to integrate the financial vehicles within the approved boundary if deemed necessary. financial management of all Hankook Tire affiliates across the world. IR-2 ESTABLISHMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESSES We develop an integrated risk management system and establish the definition and classification criteria of respective risks so as to take a macro perspective in risk management and to address key risks that require intensive management. 1 Operating Risk Processes primarily consisted of response measures and monitoring. Meanwhile, risk Operating Risk Processes The management, identification management processes concerning fair trade and randomly occurring and evaluation of ten key risks were based on our existing anti-dumping risks were launched when major issues arose. Harassment, risk identification methodology, and their risk management processes health/safety and fire risks were handled through manuals and training. Anti-dumping Risk Management Process(Brazil as an example, May differ by country) Additional Preliminary Physical Final Investigation Questionnaires Answers Public hearing answers determination inspection determination initiated sent submitted held submitted issued made issued Within 40 days of when Duty deposits are made after the questionnaire was sent preliminary determination (Tantamount to raising an anti-dumping charge in effect) Investigation period: 12 months from the initiation of the investigation, can be extended for six months IR-3 ENHANCEMENT OF COMPANY-WIDE RISK RESPONSE TRAINING AND ESTABLISHMENT OF RISK CULTURE We develop education manuals to establish renewed awareness and strategies across the company in response to fastchanging business conditions while providing education in consideration of the distinctive features of each respective headquarters. In so doing, we aim to build risk management into the fabric of our corporate culture. 1 Developing and Supporting Integrated Risk Education Plans launch customized education programs for respective risks to assist our Developing and Supporting Education Plans We continue employees in building stronger risk management capabilities. to provide basic-level education to ensure function-specific risk In 2013, the scope of our risk management will be extended from merely response. Our employees who work in relation to financial/legal risks are executing regular check on the list of risks to ensuring an effective risk provided with thorough education programs to effectively handle these management, in addition to regular risk management practices. We aim to risks, as they are sensitive to policy changes and demand a high level of undertake wide-ranging initiatives in each of the eight risk areas: education on expertise. In addition, we offer CSR training and ethics education in a bid to major risk issues, dissemination of relevant legal materials, and the diversification address non-financial risks. We will continue to proactively identify risks and of internal/external channels to communicate the status of risk management. FOCUS 01 HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 20 Employee Health & Safety Management Injury Rate In 2012, the injury rate at Korean plants fell while the number of new recruits rose due to the expansion of overseas plants. Of the total injuries, 27.8% occurred in employees with less than three years of work experience at Hankook Tire. This prompted us to prevent and reduce safety accidents through intensive training for new hires, strengthened safety awareness and the improvement of safe work HS procedures. (Injury rates = [No. of injured employees/No. of employees] x 100, the ratio of injured employees per 100 employees) Daejeon Plant 1.47 HEALTH & SAFETY MANAGEMENT Geumsan Plant 0.69 Jiaxing Plant 1.08 Jiangsu Plant 0.77 Hungary Plant 2.80 Severity Rates The scope of our injury indicator disclosure was extended in 2012 to include overseas plants. We will develop and operate detailed measures to reduce injuries through annual analyses of their causes and management diagnoses. (Severity rates = [Lost working days/work hours] x 1,000, lost work hours caused by injuries per 1,000 work hours) Daejeon Plant 0.39 Geumsan Plant 0.32 Jiaxing Plant 0.50 Jiangsu Plant 0.65 Hungary Plant 0.40 Health Care Recipients (No. of recipients) Daejeon/ Declaration Geumsan Plants and R&D Centers The number of health care recipients dropped by 4.1% due to the intensive We believe that the health and safety of our employees are management of drinking and smoking behaviors, the improvement of work key CSR components and the fundamental driving force environments and stronger training programs. (Health care recipients: employees who are classified internally as those who require continuous observation by behind our sustainable growth. Thus, we are continually medical professionals for health improvement as a result of health check-ups). committed to improving the quality of their work life and offering fulfillment that comes from a company that cares. 2012 1,942 2011 2,025 2010 2,087 Management Responsibility and Governance Smoking Rates (%) The CSR Team in the Business Infra Division of Hankook Daejeon/ Tire Worldwide Co., Ltd. is responsible for the health & Geumsan Plants and R&D Centers safety management of both Hankook Tire Worldwide and While we undertook wide-ranging initiatives to encourage employees to quit Hankook Tire Co., Ltd. At our plants in Korea, China, smoking through anti-smoking signs installed at work sites, intensive patrol of antismoking areas and year-round anti-smoking inspections, the smoking rates rose Hungary and Indonesia, plant managers serve as general slightly against the previous year due to increasing numbers of employees who health & safety managers while each departments are in returned to smoking. (Nation-wide smoking rate in 2012(Korea): 24% / Source: charge of health & safety operations. Furthermore, health Social Statistics Planning Division, Social Statistics Bureau, Statistics Korea) & safety-related decisions are made by the Occupational 2012 20.1 Health & Safety Committee (OHS Committee), and it runs 2011 19.1 through working-level departments. 2010 29.3 21 FOCUS 01 Establishment of Voluntary Safety Management System 22 Enhancement of Employee Health Management 23 Stakeholder Interview Shin, Changsub (Professor, Chungbuk National University, Safety Engineering) Some negative points of safety indicators at Hankook Tire can be translated into higher risks of major injuries in the upcoming years. While the company is engaged in wide-ranging safety management initiatives, it is only through endeavors to eliminate fundamental risk factors that safety accidents are reduced. Given that Hankook Tire’s current injury rate is high, multi-faceted safety measures need to be developed and undertaken through labor-management cooperation. Meanwhile, the number of health care recipients fell due to improving work environments and diverse health care programs. Still, the number of senior workers is set to increase as the company grows older, which will lead to greater risks of musculoskeletal diseases. Therefore, the company will benefit from investing further in preventing such diseases over the long haul. 2012 Achievements ●: Completed ◐ : Partially Completed ◦: Not Implemented : Year-round Activity Code Key Managerial Issues 2012 Goals 2012 Achievements Completion Pages Reduce injury rates by 30% through the expansion of safe Improvement is underway after the risk assessment of model model facilities. facilities through comprehensive safety diagnoses. ◐ 22 Improvement is underway through a separate organization as Reduce injury rates by 30% through the improvement and operation of safe work procedures. safe work procedures needed to be improved as a result of ◐ 22 Establishment of voluntary comprehensive safety diagnoses. HS1 safety management system Improve the operational level of internal assessments to advance the operation of health & safety management The 70% target was not completed (56% achieved). ◦ 22 systems. Reduce loss cost by 50% through the development of fire Fire prevention systems were completed in March. 2013. prevention systems. Their benefits will be identified after March. 2013. ◐ 22 Intensively manage health care recipients who excessively drink or smoke. Medical management and assistance is underway. ● 23 The improvement of ventilation facilities for pressing and rolling Continuously improve the performance of ventilation HS2 Enhancement of facilities. processes at the plant 1of Daejeon and Geumsan Plants was ● 23 employee health management completed. Individual exercise prescription programs and stretching Continuously improve operations that may cause musculoskeletal diseases. promotion events are regularly undertaken. ◐ 23 Their benefits will be identified after March. 2013. ✽ Reasons behind higher–than-previous injury indicators and future plans: Our analyses of higher-than-usual injury indicators found that 27.8% of the total injuries concerned employees with less than three years of service at Hankook Tire. As such, we elevated the level of our safety protection systems and improved safe work procedures in addition to intensive training for new hires so as to prevent and reduce safety accidents. Furthermore, our overseas plants were included in our disclosure of injury indicators in 2012. While China plants (in Jiaxing and Jiangsu) will develop ways to reduce severity rates as they suffer more lost working days against fewer injuries, Hungary plant will focus on training and basic-level disciplines as it has relatively fewer lost working days caused by injuries. Our analyses of injuries at overseas sites will aim to reduce injuries through more detailed analyses and reviews based on annual management diagnoses. ✽✽ Reasons behind the unmet target of health care recipients: While the number of health care recipients fell by 83 persons from the previous year as a result of health check-ups in 2012, this still fell short of our initial target of 10% (approximately 200 persons). The reason may lie in the modification of health care recipient classification criteria, which included those employees who were taking medicine to treat their disease, regardless of their health check-up outcomes. 2013 Plans Code Key Managerial Issues 2013 Commitments Key Index Deadline Responsible Department Reduce injury rates by 30% through the elevation of safety Environment & Safety Team/Facility Maintenance Injury rates Sep. protection systems to that of global leaders. Team/Machinery Engineering Team 3 Reduce injury rates by 30% through the engaging of Injury rates Apr. Environment & Safety Team safety training systems. Establishment of voluntary Environment & Safety Team/ HS1 safety management system Relevant production team/QC Team/ Reduce injury rates by 30% through behavior-based processes. Injury rates Dec. Facility Maintenance Team/ Machinery Engineering Team 3/ Global Technical Support Team Environment & Safety Team/ Develop a company-wide safety information sharing system. Feb. Global Technical Support Team Reduce health care recipients by 5% through stronger Health care initiatives to address three major diseases Aug. Environment & Safety Team/R&D Operations Team recipients (liver diseases, hyperlipidemia, hypertension). Reach 15% of smoking rates through the sustained undertaking Smoking YearEnvironment & Safety Team/R&D Operations Team of health care programs rates round Enhancement of employee HS2 health management Reduce the number of manufacturing processes whose noise level is 85dB or above by more than three through the sustained Aug. Environment & Safety Team/Facility Maintenance Team undertaking of improvement activities. Environment & Safety Team/ Continuously improve the performance of ventilation facilities Oct. Facility Maintenance Team/ (pressing processes of plant 2 within Daejeon/Geumsan Plants). Machinery Engineering Team 3 HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 22 HS-1 ESTABLISHMENT OF VOLUNTARY SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM To develop a voluntary safety management system, we undertake facility safety assessment as well as comprehensive safety diagnoses of operational systems so as to improve on the fundamental causes of injuries. Furthermore, fire safety evaluation allows us to make sustained investments and improvements in order to effectively minimize fire risks. 1 Expansion of Safe Model Facilities 3 Advanced Operation of Health & Safety Management Systems As our injury and severity rates increased from the previous Since our Korean plants became OHSAS 18001-certified year, comprehensive safety diagnoses were performed at Daejeon in 2009, safety training was provided to employees with less and Geumsan Plants from October to November in 2012. Risk than three years of service at Hankook Tire as well as teams that assessments of 26 process-specific facilities and the analyses of frequently suffered accidents so as to raise their safety awareness. accidents that occurred in 2012 allowed us to ensure the safety of In addition, safety awareness videos played on commuting vehicles these facilities and develop ways to make system improvements. and in cafeterias. Furthermore, unsafe behavior prevention programs Facilities that improved in accordance with diagnostic outcomes enabled us to develop disciplinary regulations concerning employees will serve as a reference model for all facilities by offering basic data and supervisors with unsafe behaviors, while diverse initiatives were to facilities that are new or in the process of upgrading so as to undertaken including one-on-one daily safety training as well as fundamentally remove facility-related risks. Such endeavors will cover conventional company-wide safety training. Still, internal OHSAS plant facilities in Korea that are more deteriorated, and will extend to 18001 assessments concluded that our compliance level was lower overseas plants. than our initial target and that further improvements were required. We are determined to successfully undertake wide-ranging initiatives to Improvement and Operation of Safe Work Procedures raise our compliance level in the upcoming years. 2 Comprehensive safety diagnoses led to a conclusion that our current work standards needed significant improvements to allow Development of Fire Prevention Systems Based on Fire 4 for operations that ensure quality in a safe manner. Thus, we aim to Safety Evaluation revise safe work procedures as an integral part of the work standards After fire safety evaluations were completed to reduce fire risks in in order to standardize safe work processes and offer training to raise 2010, their outcomes became the base of our diverse investment employee’s safety awareness. In 2013, an independent task force team initiatives since 2011 to make improvements. In 2012, KRW 980 million will be established to revise work standards while work procedures was invested in installing automated CO2 sprinklers and other types concerning respective process facilities, abnormal operations, of sprinklers, which were completed in March 2013. These endeavors protective gear and hand tools will be standardized. These procedures will enable us to reduce the risk level of certain methods, which were will be registered and maintained as standards and expanded into our found to have high fire risks through the analyses of consulting firms overseas plants. specialized in fire safety evaluations, ranging from 80.5 points to 61.4 points. Specifically, the greatest reductions in fire risk level are expected in those processes that generate dust and high temperatures due to their distinctive features. Our plan is to analyze our achievements in lowering risk levels and identify and improve on additional risk factors. Fire Risks by Grade Grade Risk Level Description Inflammable and combustible substances exist constantly. Severe Over 151 May explode when a fire occurs. Inflammable and combustible substances exist constantly. Heavy 121~150 Not prone to explosion, but may spread across the entire area when a fire occurs. Inflammable and combustible substances exist partially (failures leakages, etc.). Intermediate 81~120 Not prone to explosion, but may spread partially when a fire occurs. Low likelihood of fires that are caused by flammable or combustible substances. Moderate 61~80 Fires may be prevented through maintenance and management. Very low likelihood of fires that are caused by flammable or combustible substances. Light 1~60 Fires may be prevented through maintenance and management. ✽ Risk level calculation method: Dow’ Fire & Explosion Index (F & EI) Developed by Dow Chemical, this Fire & Explosion Index is widely used at chemical plants. A portion of the evaluation items was revised in consideration of Hankook Tire’s unique conditions. 23 FOCUS 01 Establishment of Voluntary Safety Management System 22 Enhancement of Employee Health Management 23 HS-2 ENHANCEMENT OF EMPLOYEE HEALTH MANAGEMENT We believe that employee health constitutes one of the most essential management factors. In 2012, employee’s smoking and drinking was intensively managed with an emphasis on health care recipients and supervisors in order to improve employee health. Furthermore, ventilation facilities were improved to deliver better working conditions and various initiatives were undertaken to prevent musculoskeletal diseases. Intensive Management of Health Care Recipients Who 1 C A S E S T U D Y Smoke and Drink While the number of health care recipients dropped by 83 persons Status of Fatalities and Countermeasures Undertaken from the previous year as a result of the 2012 health check-ups, this fell short of our initial target of a 10% reduction (200 persons). This may be Fatalities in 2012 (Six in total) attributable to the modification of classification criteria; employees who No. of Category Note are taking medication to treat their disease were categorized into health Fatalities One person died after care recipients regardless of health check-up outcomes. A multitude No. of Hankook Tire 4 resignation Fatalities of anti-smoking programs were undertaken ranging from anti-smoking Suppliers 2 education for new recruits and the installation of anti-smoking signs One case related to our at business sites to intensive patrol of anti-smoking areas at business Approved 1 supplier sites and year-round anti-smoking inspections. Still, our smoking Approval of One case related to Occupational Not approved 2 Hankook Tire and the other rates rose from the previous year due to employees who returned Injury to our supplier to smoking. As such, both regular and year-round examinations are No application 3 Three cases related to was made Hankook Tire made as part of the employee health check-up program while relevant regulations were revised along with more intensive education and Suicide 3 One person died after resignation assistance to encourage employees to quit smoking starting from 2013. Acute myocardial Cause of 1 Meanwhile, training was offered to promote healthy drinking habits and infarction Death recommendations were made for moderate drinking for CEOs of our Acute lymphoblastic Approved as occupational 1 leukemia (ALL) injury suppliers and administration staff as well as our supervisors so as to Neurofibroma 1 enhance our safer and more restrained drinking culture. Furthermore, all our employees across all business sites were provided with CPR training One case approved as an occupational injury was attributed to benzene. Between 1996 and 2001, the solvent we used contained benzene, to better respond to emergencies. which meant that it was highly likely that the concerned person was exposed to benzene for five years through the skin, and specifically 2 Continuous Improvement of Ventilation hands. Thus, this case was concluded as an occupational injury. Our existing ventilation facilities were examined and installations * While benzene’s allowable concentration is 1 ppm, the concentration of benzene as well as curved pipe sections were improved to enhance ventilation. contained in the solvent we used between 1996 and 2001 was 0.18 ppm. New ventilation systems were deployed in areas that required additional air movement so as to deliver a more pleasant work environment. In Countermeasures Undertaken at Hankook Tire 2013, investment will be made in the pressing processes of plant 2 We have substituted benzene-containing DN-400 with HV-250, which within our Daejeon and Geumsan Plants to improve their ventilation is toluene and xylene-free, since 2001. While the legal threshold for systems, while self-initiated inspections and monitoring of their methylcyclohexane, which is the highest in terms of weight ratio out of ventilation performance will be reinforced to maintain continuous HV-250 components, is 400ppm, it is less than 4ppm at our worksites ventilation efficiency. according to measurement outcomes. Even after the transition of the chemicals that we use, toluene and other hazardous chemicals are still under strict management through employee health check-ups. We also 3 Continuous Improvement of Processes that Cause installed more local ventilation devices and improved their performance Musculoskeletal Diseases to minimize employees’ exposure to chemicals on the shop floor. Those As part of our endeavors to prevent musculoskeletal diseases, billboards who are in need of follow-up management as a result of medical checkdescribing stretching techniques were installed in front of rest areas, ups are classified into a high-risk group and monitored continuously. appropriate stretching techniques were explained and demonstrated, Furthermore, our suppliers are managed through external organizations and afterwards they were assessed. Such endeavors involved both our that are commissioned to address their health management issues on employees and in-house suppliers while a total of eight teams were behalf of Hankook Tire. We also offer constant guidance to our suppliers awarded for their outstanding performance. In addition, customized on pending issues and encourage them to make improvements. exercise guidance with practical training and group training to prevent Fatalities since 2007 (Unit: No. of persons) musculoskeletal diseases were provided in conjunction with a sports Category 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 lab at Mokwon University as part of our industry-academia cooperation Job-related fatalities initiative through the employee health promotion program application 5 0 0 0 1 0 (Hankook Tire) made to the Korea Occupational Safety & Health Agency. Furthermore, improvement has been made in those jobs that were found to have Job-related fatalities (Suppliers) 0 0 1 1 0 1 musculoskeletal risks as a result of our 2010 inspections. In 2013, ✽ While the number of fatalities reported until last year (CSR Report 2011/12 p25) we will conduct such risk factor inspections so as to identify what to included non-occupational injury-related fatalities, we revised the reporting criteria improve further and will forge ahead to make sustained improvement. to disclose “pre-retirement deaths caused by occupational injuries as well as afterretirement fatalities caused by occupational injuries”. FOCUS 02 HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 24 Environmental Management FOCUS 02-1 Integrated Environmental Management System Consumption of Major Raw Materials (ton/product ton) Major raw materials for tires include rubber, carbon black, steel cord, textile cord and beads. As our production volume increases, so does our consumption of raw materials. IE 2012 2011 0.86 0.85 2010 0.87 INTEGRATED 2009 0.88 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Recycling of treated wastewater (m3) While treated wastewater was recycled at our Geumsan Plant only until 2009, the Daejeon Plant followed suit beginning in 2010. Treated wastewater is primarily used as treatment water for air pollutants and for cleaning water. We undertake sustained initiatives to improve the recycling of wastewater. 2012 588,071 2011 515,125 2010 545,491 2009 242,229 Declaration Hankook Tire is fully aware of the environmental impact Waste Treatment that may be generated from acquisition of materials, (kg/product ton) production, usage, recycling and disposal-its production process is committed to minimizing such impact at every stages of production. We will further focus on developing eco-friendly products to minimize their impact on the Waste is usually treated through landfilling, incineration and recycling. Our environment and to contribute to a greener future. Daejeon Plant operates its own incinerators to provide the steam required for the manufacturing process. 2012 34.49 2011 34.91 Management Responsibility and Governance 2010 39.74 2009 38.97 Our achievements and plans regarding cleaner production and the development of eco-friendly products are evaluated and reported quarterly to responsible executives and annually to the CEO through the EHS Committee and Ratio of eco-friendly the Product Environment Committee. The EHS Committee, products chaired by the production manager of the Daejeon Plant, (Based on product volume) [%] consists of relevant teams from the headquarters, each plants and R&D centers to ensure sustained follow-up We've been producing eco-friendly tire through the entire product life cycle from and improvement on key managerial issues. The Product design to used and disposal. Environment Committee, under the head of the R&D sector, is in charge of developing and implementing plans 2012 54.8 to improve on respective business objectives concerning 2011 20.6 global warming prevention, resource-saving, use of eco2010 7.4 friendly resources, and user safety & comfort. 2009 21.0 25 FOCUS 02 Green Purchasing 26 Cleaner Production 26 Products and Environment 28 Management of Resources 29 2012 Achievements ●: Completed ◐ : Partially Completed ◦: Not Implemented : Year-round Activity Code Key Managerial Issues 2012 Goals 2012 Achievements Completion Pages IE1 Green purchasing To develop and apply green purchasing guidelines Review of actual green purchasing practices (2012) ◐ 26 Use of clean fuel To use clean fuel Addition of two more LNG boilers ● 26 EHS assessment To prevent environmental risks EHS process improvement ● 26 Maximization of operational efficiency of pollution control facilities Stable operation of the high-efficiency prevention facilities (CFRTO) Regular replacements of consumable supplies ● 26, 27 (filling materials, activated carbon) IE2 Cleaner production Application of odor-reducing materials and processing conditions in the plant To minimize emissions of environmental pollutants Consideration of non-discharging outlets in conducting odor ● 26, 27 indexing evaluations Improvement of carbon tank leakage Replacement of aging facilities ● 27 Expansion of wastewater treatment facilities at the Geumsan Plant ● 27 To establish detailed processes to develop Development of eco-friendly review processes regarding eco-friendly products materials/raw materials ● 28 LCA conducted for one PCR and one TBR product model To perform product life cycle assessments Obtained carbon labeling for one PCR model ● 28 49% reduction in rolling resistance from 2007 (K415 standards) IE3 Product and environment To reduce tire rolling resistance Research on design technology of low rolling resistance ● 28 To use raw materials containing less hazardous substances Replacement of low-PAH materials with 100% Korean market products ● 28 Development of compounds for using eco-friendly resources To use eco-friendly raw materials (Full Silica) ● 28 Review of new waste recycling technology To expand waste recycling ● 29 Expansion of recycling of treated wastewater Development of scouring process lines that use recycled water IE4 Management of resources To expand the recycling of treated water through the expansion of Geumsan Plant ● 29 Improvement of existing supply lines To save resources Use of reclaimed rubber on the shop floor ● 29 2013 Plans Code Key Managerial Issues 2013 Commitments Key Index Deadline Department in Charge To ensure an eco-friendly Selection of target suppliers CSR Team & IE1 Green purchasing supply chain management Development of support programs Oct. Purchasing Planning Team To obtain green company Green company certification Oct. Environment & Safety Team certification (Daejeon/Geumsan Plant) Reinforcement of the monitoring of water pollutants and improvement of load Installation of TMS at wastewater treatment plants May Machinery Engineering Team 3 To prevent environmental Expansion of equalization tanks at wastewater treatment plants risks (500 tons) Reinforcement of the monitoring of air pollutant emissions Review of the applicability of odor sensors Nov. Material Test Research Team, Operation and evaluation of atmospheric diffusion modeling Year-round Environment & Safety Team Improvement of the operational efficiency of pollution control facilities IE2 Cleaner production Improvement of the efficiency of high-efficiency control facilities Sep. (CRCO, CFRTO) Environment & Safety Team Replacement of consumable supplies on time Year-round &Machinery Engineering Team 3 (filling materials, activated carbon) Expansion of the compartmentalization of the curing process May To minimize emissions of (general-local ventilation) environmental pollutants Expansion of the odor-control facilities (two units) for the buffing Mar. process Machinery Engineering Team 3 Improvement of the local ventilation system for the extrusion process Aug. Reinforcement of the management of non-point pollution sources Optimization of window ventilation odor reduction facilities Year-round Environment & Safety Team Improvement of capture hoods installed near odor sources To establish eco-design Distribution of eco-design guidelines Aug. CSR Team/ process Application of eco-design tools (LCA, check list) Oct. R&D Strategy Team Product Life cycle LCA for products manufactured in Hungary Sep. CSR Team assessment (LCA) To reduce tire rolling 50% reduction from 2007 ( K415 standards) Dec. PCR Compound Team IE3 Products and environment resistance To produce lightweight tires 7% reduction in weight from 2007 (K415 standards) Dec. PC Development Team, CEP TFT To expand the use of 20% increase in the consumption of full silica compounds Dec. PCR Compound Team eco-friendly raw materials To improve product PCR Compound Team/ 10% improvement in performance from 2007 (K415 standards) Dec. performance on wet roads Vehicle Dynamics Research Team Early stabilization of thermal decomposition facilities Dec. To expand the recycling of Machinery Engineering Team 3/ Expansion of the recycling of waste resources and Year-round IE4 Management of resources waste Environment & Safety Team reduction of waste sources To save resources Use of compounds containing recycled rubber Oct. PCR Compound Team HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 26 IE-1 GREEN PURCHASING We are fully aware of the importance of an eco-friendly supply chain. Thus, we are determined to reduce our environmental footprint by improving the environmental performance of products and processes of our raw material suppliers. 1 Eco-friendly Supply Chain Management The performance of suppliers who constitute a company’s supply We aim to broaden our initial goal of developing and operating chain has a grave impact on the company’s competitive edge. Thus, green purchasing guidelines to include eco-friendly supply chain we offered eco-friendly supply chain management education to our management. In doing so, we shift our focus from simply purchasing employees in charge of purchasing, on eco-friendly supply chain eco-friendly raw materials, to making fundamental improvements management and shared its background information and objectives through reduced environmental impact caused by the products and across the board. We will select target suppliers and develop programs manufacturing processes of our suppliers. to improve the environmental aspects of our supplier’s performance. IE-2 CLEANER PRODUCTION Through the use of clean fuel, we prevent environmental risks and reduce the discharge of environmental pollutants, which minimizes our environmental impact generated through product manufacturing. Use of clean fuel facilities malfunction. In 2013, our R&D centers will develop sensors 1 We have replaced bunker C oil with LNG as boiler fuel since that are specialized for odors generated through tire manufacturing 2009 to reduce our emission of GHG and air pollutants. While our and their applications in order to enhance the accuracy of odor Daejeon Plant made a complete transition to LNG in boiler fuel in measurement. 2010, the Geumsan Plant followed suit in 2011 and 2012 to save Operation of Atmospheric Diffusion Modeling System KRW 2.47 billion in fuel costs. In 2013, the one remaining bunker C As our Daejeon Plant is located near residential areas, the plant oil boiler will be replaced with an LNG boiler at the Geumsan Plant. assessed the sphere of odor influence in surrounding areas in With growing interest in cleaner production in China, our Jiangsu plant accordance with different weather conditions. Wind direction, changed some boiler fuel to LNG in February 2013. temperature, humidity, solar radiation, and atmospheric pressure were measured in real time through the weathering system installed 2 Prevention of Environmental Risks within the plant and the outcomes were organized into a database for Our top priority in reducing environmental risks is to address modeling. Using these results, the plant plans to install odor sensors the impact of odors on the surrounding environment that are to respond to odor-related complaints. generated through the manufacturing process. Thus, we invest in and improve the operational efficiency of pollution control facilities Minimization of the Discharge of Environmental Pollutants 3 while predicting atmospheric diffusion patterns in order to minimize We fully adhere to the legal threshold in discharging disturbances to local residents. environmental pollutants while undertaking continued improvements Pilot test Presently, composite odors are measured and to further minimize such discharges. regulated through air dilution sensory testing. This test method, Expansion of Facilities to Remove Odor-causing however, depends on the individual tester’s sensory detection Substances To minimize the discharge of pollutants from the tire capability and may generate different outcomes in accordance with manufacturing process, we have installed and are expanding highvarious environmental factors. To compensate for this shortcoming, efficiency facilities (CRCO*, CFRTO*) that burn LNG. In 2012, the an odor sensor that enables constant monitoring was installed on the Daejeon Plant operated such facilities for its curing process as well Concentrator Regenerative Catalytic Oxidizer(CRCO) at the Daejeon as its rubber-mixing process. To ensure the stable operation of these Plant in 2012, which was followed by a three-month pilot test. It facilities, operators are trained and standard manuals are defined, was demonstrated that the trajectory of measurement outcomes while pollution levels are regularly measured to maintain an appropriate was related to facility efficiency, although it was hard to establish any level of their operational efficiency. relationship between these measurement values and outcomes from air dilution sensory tests. We believe that the use of odor sensors ✽ CRCO: (Concentrator Regenerative Catalytic Oxidizer): Odor-containing air is absorbed by the zeolite concentrator, the concentrated odor will allow us to identify when to replace consumable components substances are desorbed, the catalytic oxidizer is used to oxidize them at low of pollution control facilities and to take prompt action when these temperatures near 400°C, and they are then released into the air. 27 FOCUS 02 Green Purchasing 26 Cleaner Production 26 Products and Environment 28 Management of Resources 29 ✽ CFRTO: (Concentrator Flameless Regenerative Thermal Oxidizer) : Odor-containing air is absorbed by the zeolite concentrator, thermally-desorbed odors Concentrations of Discharged Water Pollutants at the are burnt at high temperatures near 850°C through RTO (regenerative thermal oxidizer) Geumsan Plant (Unit: mg/L) and are then released into the air. 2009 2010 2011 2012 Installation of De-oilers at Wastewater Treatment COD 7.5 7.5 8.4 8.3 Plants Wastewater from the curing process contains large quantities SS 4.2 3.8 3.2 3.1 of oil substances due to the use of hydraulic curing devices. Such As the Geumsan Plant processes wastewater through its waste water treatment wastewater is the main reason behind the reduced efficiency and plant, it is subject to more stringent regulatory criteria. However, the plant is the increased consumption of chemicals at wastewater treatment successfully maintaining its discharging threshold at an even lower level than the emission permit. facilities. Thus, we installed de-oilers and conducted a one-month (COD legal limit: 20mg/L, SS legal limit: 10mg/L) pilot test. As a result, 99% of the oil substances were eliminated, which would help to save resources. With proven benefits, de-oilers ■ COD 8.4 ■ SS 8.3 are currently in operation at the Daejeon Plant. 7.5 7.5 Endeavors toward Zero Carbon Leakages Since 2011, to prevent carbon leakages from rubber-mixing carbon storage 4.2 tanks installed at the Geumsan Plant, existing old facilities have been 3.8 replaced and safety devices have been strengthened to block carbon 3.2 3.1 leakages in case of abnormal pressures. This was complemented by 2009 2010 2011 2012 the sealing of storage tanks as a way to prevent such leakages from spreading further when they occur. Moreover, dust collector dedicated Concentrations of Air Pollutant Emissions from the to carbon storage tanks were deployed and the capacity of existing Incinerator at the Daejeon Plant (Unit: mg/L) dust collector was increased, which resulted in zero complaints 2009 2010 2011 2012 raised in relation to dust in 2012. Meanwhile, we witnessed increasing Dust 7.4 4.5 4.4 5.1 complaints over the quality of water on rainy days, which is due to SOx 13.2 9.4 6.7 10.8 non-point source pollution. As such, we developed countermeasures NOx 33.1 27.7 36.8 45.5 and are using. At the Daejeon Plant, waste generated within the plant and waste tires collected from outside are incinerated to produce steam required for its manufacturing ✽ Carbon black: Fine black carbon powder used as a major raw material in tire products process. The plan continues to minimize the environmental impact on the surrounding areas caused by the operation of the incinerator. (Dust legal limit: 40mg/L, SOx legal limit: 50mg/L, NOx legal limit: 100mg/L) Sealing of carbon tanks at the Geumsan Plant ■ Dust 45.5 ■ SOx ■ NOx 36.8 33.1 27.7 13.2 10.8 9.4 7.4 6.7 4.5 4.4 5.1 2009 2010 2011 2012 Concentrations of Air Pollutants from Boilers at the Hungary Plant (Unit: mg/L) Before After 2009 2010 2011 2012 Dust 0 0 0 0 SOx 2.9 2.9 0 1.2 NOx 96 97 84.5 84.5 Our Hungary Plant uses LNG as boiler fuel to produce steam. Dust is not generated and other pollutant indicators are well managed under legally -acceptable levels. (Dust legal limit: 150mg/L, SOx legal limit: 35mg/L, NOx legal limit: 350mg/L) ■ Dust 97 ■ SOx 96 ■ NOx 84.5 84.5 2.9 2.9 0 0 0 0 0 1.2 2009 2010 2011 2012 HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 28 IE-3 PRODUCTS AND ENVIRONMENT We define eco-friendly products as products that contribute to the protection of the natural environment through the prevention of global warming and the conservation of resources in their entire life cycle ranging from design to use and disposal. Therefore, we aim to develop our own eco design process that takes environmental impact into account from the initial product development stage. Establishment of Detailed Eco-friendly Product 1 3 Reduction of Tire Rolling Resistance Development Process Our research continues on the platform technology concerning Development Environmental Strategies of Product We structures, raw materials, ingredients and manufacturing process that developed product and environmental strategies in each stage of contribute to high fuelefficiency of vehicles through lower tire rolling the product life cycle based on conclusions drawn from the life resistance. We used the research outcomes to improve the rolling cycle assessment performed in 2012. In 2013, we will distribute our resistance performance of our products by 49.2% from 2007 (K415 eco-design guidelines that reflect these strategies in order to take standards) and aim to reach 50% by 2013. environmental impact into account from the initial product development Meanwhile, simply reducing rolling resistance may hamper braking, stage. Furthermore, eco-design check lists will be used while simplified handling and wear performance. Hence, work is underway to find the LCA will be conducted to reflect its outcomes in one of the product compound that contains the optimized balance between tire-surface evaluation items as part of the product development process. contact pressure and performance level to ensure both driver safety and the product’s eco-friendliness. Our Geumsan Plant is conducting various Definition of Eco-friendly Products certification and safety tests using its wet road performance testing Requirements Methods to Deliver Eco-friendly Performance facility as a way to improve the braking performance of our tires on wet 1. Prevention of roads. Meanwhile, high-speed driving performance tests and R&D are Reduce rolling resistance global warming performed at the testing track installed at the Geumsan Plant and the Optimize product structures European PG (Proving Ground). These new technologies are integrated 2. Saving resources Minimize waste of resources through the optimized development of tire structures into wide-ranging products that are ultimately delivered to our customers. 3. Use of eco-friendly Use of eco-friendly resources resources Use eco-friendly materials including Low PAH oil Replace oil-based materials with eco-friendly ones 4 Lightweight Tires 4. User safety/ Performance on wet surfaces Lightweight tires help reducing the use of raw materials and comfort Noise control improve fuel efficiency through reduced vehicle weight. Thus, R&D efforts are underway at Hankook Tire to improve and optimize each tire 2 Product Life Cycle Assessment component to reduce the consumption of resources and develop lighter In 2011, each PCR and TBR model manufactured at Geumsan products. As a result, we successfully developed optimized structures Plant were subject to product life cycle assessment and it was revealed capable of reducing product weight by 10% in total from 2007(K415 that the greatest environmental impact was caused by the consumption standards). A 6.7% reduction technology is currently applied to products of fuel in the product use stage of the product life cycle. This confirmed and the remaining 3% reduction technology is slated for regular application that reducing tire rolling resistance and making lightweight tires, which by 2015. are related to the amount of fuel consumed while driving, play a key role in reducing the environmental impact of tires. Furthermore, we verified 5 Use of Raw Materials Containing Less Hazardous whether our development of full silica tires and non-pneumatic tires Chemicals brought any improvement from the life cycle perspective and shared the As a way to minimize PAH contained in oil that constitutes tire raw outcomes with our R&D centers. materials, we continue to reduce our consumption of these PAHOur eco-friendly tire model ‘enfren eco’ was certified with carbon labeling containing substances. In 2012, our plants in Korea, Hungary and and we forged the ‘Green Card’ business partnership with the Ministry Indonesia made a complete transition to low-PAH oil in manufacturing of Environment in Korea, which accumulates eco money points when products. At our China plants, low-PAH oil is used for all products except purchasing eco-friendly products, to help establish a culture of low carbon for six types of compounds. and green consumption. In 2013, we will perform life cycle assessments ✽ PAH: Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons of each summer and winter tire produced at our Hungary plant in 2012. Carbon-labeled product – Enfren eco 195/65R/15H Green Card agreement-signing ceremony 29 FOCUS 02 Green Purchasing 26 Cleaner Production 26 Products and Environment 28 Management of Resources 29 IE-4 MANAGEMENT OF RESOURCES We are fully aware of the importance of limited resources and thus are committed to recycling more waste and wastewater to efficiently use resources. Furthermore, we developed and are using technology to maximize the use of recycled raw materials while not compromising our product quality. Expansion of the Recycling of Waste 1 Treated Waste (Unit: ton) Introduction of the Pyrolysis of Tire Derived Fuel Presently, review is underway to introduce a new end of life tire recycling 2009 2010 2011 2012 Consigned recycling 22,571 28,150 30,988 31,037 technology that allows both energy recovery and the sales of byproducts Consigned incineration 5,222 6,336 5,877 5,660 through the landfilling of carbon, oil and gas that are generated through Consigned landfilling 5,167 4,747 5,227 773 the pyrolysis of tire derived fuel (TDF). This new technology may bring such benefits as the replacement of oil imports and the recycling of We fully recognize the importance of resources and undertake various initiatives byproducts as it turns waste into precious resources, rather than for resource management such as the recycling of waste and the introduction of new waste tire recycling technology. simply landfilling or burning it. We are thoroughly reviewing the potential environmental impact of this technology and surveying participating Ratio of waste recycling (%) facilities and their surrounding areas. Through this we hope to develop ways to preserve the environment in order to receive approval from the government. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2 Expansion of the Recycling of Treated Wastewater To minimize our consumption of water resources, the 68.48 71.75 73.65 82.83 wastewater processed at the wastewater treatment facilities of the Daejeon and Geumsan Plants is used for environmental facilities (wet Water Consumption (Unit: 103m3) scrubbers) and cleaning water for other facilities. In 2012, we deployed systems to use recycled water for newly-installed environmental facilities 2009 2010 2011 2012 (One at the Daejeon Plant and four at the Geumsan Plant), which Total consumption 5,973 6,420 7,182 7,101 resulted in KRW 345 million in water bill savings. While our water consumption continued to rise due to growing production volume until 2011, diverse initiatives such as the recycling of treated wastewater enabled us to reduce water consumption in 2012. Saving Resources 3 Water consumption intensity (m3/product ton) Development of Compounds Containing Recycled rubber Recycled rubber is generated from waste tires which are shredded into powder. After the desulfurization process, it could be used for treads and sidewalls and the shredded inner liner(butyl rubber) could applicable for inner liner. Our goal is to increase the use of recycled rubber to 4,300 tons in 2013 and 6,800 tons by 2015. 2009 2010 2011 2012 7.06 6.50 6.71 6.54 Discharge of Treated Water (Unit: 103m3) 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total discharge 1,905 2,014 2,229 2,204 Our water consumption rose due to the decline of recycling of wastewater at the Geumsan Plant for quality issues. In 2012, however, we discovered new applications for recycled water to protect water resources. Discharge intensity of treated water (m3/product ton) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2.25 2.04 2.08 2.03 FOCUS 02 HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 30 Environmental Management FOCUS 02-2 Climate Change & GHG Management GHG Emissions [tCO2-eq/year] Our GHG emissions were calculated from of two Korean and three overseas production subsidiaries under operation. Specifically, our Daejeon and Geumsan Plants have their GHG emissions verified annually by independent third-party organizations to ensure their reliability. (The GHG emissions of our overseas subsidiaries were re-calculated to enhance their accuracy [nation-specific electricity CC emission factors were applied], which caused discrepancies from the GHG emissions presented in our 2012 CSR Report.) Direct Emissions (Scope 1) Indirect Emissions (Scope 2) CLIMATE CHANGE & 2012 234,778 2012 824,802 GHG MANAGEMENT 2011 239,771 2011 781,416 2010 217,594 2010 756,424 2009 189,841 2009 667,788 Our Achievements under the Korea Voluntary Emission Reduction (KVER) Project [tCO2] We minimize our GHG emissions through the two GHG emissions reduction projects concerning boiler fuel transition that are registered in the GHG registry of the Korea Energy Management Corporation. Our GHG emission reductions made between 2009 and 2011 were certified by the Korean government. (GHG emission reductions in 2012 are not certified yet.) 2012 22,411 2011 19,766 09~10 14,963 Energy Consumption [GJ/product ton] While we have undertaken wide-ranging energy saving initiatives to continue to reduce our energy consumption, the replacement of aging facilities and the largescale expansion of environmental pollution control facilities led to an increase in Declaration energy consumption. We are fully aware that endeavors and initiatives to address 2012 17.03 climate change on the global, regional and national level 2011 15.73 constitute critical prerequisites for a sustainable future. 2010 15.85 Thus, we are committed to enhancing our competitive 2009 15.99 edge by preventing business-related risks caused by climate change and turning each crisis into opportunity. Reduction in GHG Emissions and Energy Consumption Management Responsibility and Governance In 2012, a total of six GHG emissions reduction projects were launched at the Daejeon and Geumsan Plants, which resulted in 16,201 tCO 2-eq in reduced Our Energy/Carbon Management Subcommittee was annual GHG emissions and 33.58 TJ in reduced annual energy consumption. (The significant gap between reductions in GHG emissions and energy consumption established in 2010 and is chaired by the chief head of at the Geumsan Plant is attributed to its replacement of bunker C oil with LNG as the Production & Engineering Division. The subcommittee boiler fuel, which drastically cut its GHG emissions. gathers related teams in charge of planning, monitoring, Annual GHG Emissions Reduction Annual Energy Consumption R&D and reduction regarding energy and carbon in 2012 (tCO2-eq/year) Reduction in 2012 (TJ/year) management and is structured to ensure a more effective Daejeon Plant 1,354 Daejeon Plant 26.62 response to climate change. Geumsan Plant 14,847 Geumsan Plant 6.96 31 FOCUS 02 Energy/carbon Management 32 Execution and Reduction 33 Supply Chain Carbon Management 33 Stakeholder Interview Ahn, Joong Woo (Sungshin Women's University, Department of Interdisciplinary ECO science) Hankook Tire achieved a remarkable feat in moving beyond a downstream-driven approach such as mere facility improvements. Rather, it adopted such upstream-driven theoretical and statistical approaches as a life cycle assessment to improve products and the environment, odor sensor pilot testing, and atmospheric diffusion modeling. It is also notable that the company proactively responded to the Carbon Disclosure Project and a pilot emissions trading scheme project of the Korean government while widening the scope of its GHG inventory from Korea to overseas. Still, its mid/long-term vision needs to improve further concerning GHG emissions reduction targets, efforts to reduce the environmental footprint along the supply chain and diversified carbon management practices. I believe that Hankook Tire’s environmental (carbon) management will benefit from reflecting these improvements in its business plans and taking a stronger longterm perspective. Moreover, I recommend that the company join such government projects as the Large/Medium/Small Company Green Partnership and the Carbon Partnership. 2012 Achievements ●: Completed ◐ : Partially Completed ◦: Not Implemented : Year-round Activity Code Key Managerial Issues 2012 Goals 2012 Achievements Completion Pages To calculate GHG emissions generated by The status of logistical data management was analyzed, the calculation logistics activities method for 2013 was determined and calculations were completed. ◐ 32 Public disclosure was completed, and the company received an award To disclose GHG emission sources and volume CC1 Energy/ (CDP 2012) in the disclosure score improvement sector of the 2012 CDP Korea ● 32 Carbon management 250. Mid/long-term targets were not completed yet, but 2013 GHG To develop plans to satisfy mid/long-term GHG emissions reduction targets emissions reduction targets for Korean sites and a company-wide GHG ◐ 32 adaptation roadmap were established. While the 0.5% reduction against 2011 was not achieved, the 2012 To achieve 0.5% improvement regarding energy consumption per product ton (against 2011) global energy intensity target (16.453 GJ/product ton) was exceeded ◐ 33 CC2 Execution and Reduction (16.072 GJ/product ton). To shift to low carbon intensity fuel Fuel transition was completed of two boilers (bunker C oil → LNG) (GHG emissions were reduced). ● 33 To initiate pilot operation of win-win partnership The pilot operation was not undertaken. Supply chain carbon CC3 management programs to help suppliers with carbon reduction The company will lay the basis for a supplier carbon management ◦ 33 activities system in 2013. 2013 Plans Code Key Managerial Issues 2013 Commitments Key Index Deadline Department in Charge CSR Team/ Machinery Engineering Team 3/ To develop mid/long-term Development of mid/long-term reduction plans at Energy Operations Sub Team plans to reduce energy Mar. five production subsidiaries (Daejeon/Geumsan Plant) / consumption (By 2015) Energy/ Global Facility Maintenance Operations Team CC1 Carbon management CSR Team/ Machinery Engineering Team 3/ To review the introduction Energy Operations Sub Team of ISO 50001 (energy Review report May (Daejeon/Geumsan Plant)/ management system) Global Facility Maintenance Operations Team Energy/GHG emission diagnoses and exchange Energy/GHG emission Machinery Engineering Team 3/ Change of the type of steam traps Nov. diagnoses and exchange Energy Operations Sub Team (Geumsan Plant) Reduction of the steam purge of curing devices To introduce new and Introduction of pyrolysis facilities Dec. Machinery Engineering Team 3 renewable energy sources Use of LED lighting CC2 Execution and reduction To use high-efficiency Improvement of the efficiency and capacity of boilers Machinery Engineering Team 3/ Oct. Energy Operations Sub Team devices Installation of automatic boiler water blow devices (Daejeon/Geumsan Plant) To design an energy Facility Maintenance management system Design report Oct. Operations Team (Geumsan Plant) (han-ever) Supply chain carbon To lay the basis for a supplier CC3 management carbon management system Identification of supplier GHG emissions Dec. CSR Team/ Purchasing Planning Team, etc. HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 32 CC-1 ENERGY/CARBON MANAGEMENT We publicly disclosed our 2011 outcomes in building GHG inventory through CDP 2012 and were awarded in the public disclosure score sector of the 2012 CDP Korea 250. We also laid the basis to evolve into a global carbon management company through the identification of our current operational status to calculate logistically-caused GHG emissions and the development of company-wide climate change plans. 1 Calculation of Logistically-caused GHG Emissions Production Volume We aim to widen the scope of GHG emissions calculation from Scope 1 (direct emissions) and Scope 2 (indirect emissions), 2009 2010 2011 2012 which are mandatory requirements under the Korean government’s Total production volume (ton) 845,775 987,316 1,070,231 1,086,322 GHG and Energy Target Management System, to Scope 3 (other indirect emissions) to manage our GHG emissions more 1,070,231 1,086,322 comprehensively. We gathered basic data of our downstream 987,316 (transport and delivery of finished products) and upstream (transport 845,775 of raw and subsidiary materials) logistical operations to identify our status of data management. Our 2013 goal is to gradually expand the scope of GHG emission calculations starting from downstream 2009 2010 2011 2012 operations in Korea and to include Scope 3 GHG emissions caused by employee’s airborne business trips. GHG Emissions Disclosure of GHG Emissions and Their Sources (CDP 2012) 2 2009 2010 2011 2012 We publicly disclosed our global-level GHG emissions, their Total emissions (tCO2-eq/year) 857,628 974,018 1,021,188 1,059,580 sources and climate change adaptation initiatives that span our global Intensity (tCO2-eq/product ton) 1.0140 0.9865 0.9542 0.9754 production subsidiaries through the Carbon Disclosure Project 2012. Specifically, our disclosed score rose significantly from the score Total emissions (tCO2-eq/year) disclosed through our 2011 CDP reporting and this won us an award 1,059,580 1,021,188 in the ‘public disclosure score improvement’ sector of the 2012 CDP Korea Awards. 974,018 857,628 2009 2010 2011 2012 Energy Consumption 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total consumption (TJ/year) 13,528 15,650 16,831 18,504 Receiving an award for outstanding performance in responding to climate Intensity (GJ/product ton) 15.99 15.85 15.73 17.03 change at the 2012 CDP Korea Awards Total consumption (TJ/year) Development of Mid/long-term GHG Emissions Reduction 3 16,831 18,504 Targets and Plans 15,650 While our company-wide GHG emissions reduction target was not yet defined as the status of data management and reduction potential of 13,528 our overseas subsidiaries was not fully identified, our Korean business sites have developed their GHG emissions reduction targets for 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 and are undertaking various initiatives to reach them. Furthermore, action plans were set through the company-wide climate change adaptation roadmap. C A S E S T U D Y To respond to the national emissions trading scheme to be launched in 2015, we voluntarily participated in the ‘2011 pilot emissions trading project in the industrial/power sector’. We were chosen as an outstanding performer in the top 30% as a result of project evaluation outcomes. 33 FOCUS 02 Energy/carbon Management 32 Execution and Reduction 33 Supply Chain Carbon Management 33 CC-2 EXECUTION AND REDUCTION Our top priority is to reduce energy consumption in the manufacturing process in order to minimize the impact caused by energy price fluctuations domestically and internationally, and to put energy/carbon management into action. To reduce our GHG emissions and energy consumption per product ton, we consistently undertake such initiatives as utility improvement, energy recovery and recycling and change in boiler fuel. 1 Reduction of Energy Consumption energy intensity, we successfully outperformed our 2012 global Our sustained commitment to reducing energy consumption energy intensity target (16.453 GJ/product ton → 16.072 GJ/product in the manufacturing process is based on company-wide endeavors ton). Our energy-saving initiatives will further broaden their scope from such as the improvement of aging processes, the installation of highKorean business sites to overseas sites in the upcoming years. efficiency energy-saving devices and the introduction of innovative ✽ Our energy intensity target concerns energy consumption that directly process management systems. While the large-scale expansion of affects production only and is thus different from the total energy consumption intensity. environmental facilities prevented us from reaching our initial target of a 0.5% drop in energy intensity compared to 2011 due to increased Examples of Reduction and Execution Geumsan Plant Replacement of Bunker C Oil with LNG in the boiler fuel The Geumsan Plant shifted from bunker C oil to LNG (liquefied natural gas) to fuel two boilers, which reduced 14,493 tCO2-eq in annual GHG emissions and saved KRW 2.47 billion in fuel costs. In 2013, work is underway to change the boiler fuel from bunker C oil to LNG for the one remaining boiler at the plant in order to conclude a complete transition to LNG. Recovery of Waste Heat from Curing Process and Boiler Drains The plant is operating a system to recover and reuse the heat ventilated to the outside air during the manufacturing process or generated from the boiler’s blow down drains in order to recover energy and save costs, which enabled the plant to reduce 354 tCO2-eq in GHG emissions and KRW 92 million in fuel cost. The system is currently standardized to be expanded into overseas plants. Daejeon Plant Heating Boiler Feed Water through the Use of Heat from Boiler Exhaust Gas As part of its efforts to maximize the recovery and use of energy, fuel economizers were relocated for three LNG boilers to recover the heat source from exhaust gas, which increased the temperature of boiler feed water while reducing the temperature of exhaust gas. This allowed the plant to save 521,545 Nm3/year in fuel consumption and reduce 1,171 tCO2-eq in annual GHG emissions and KRW 368 million in fuel cost. Wireless Leak Detector Installed within the Steam Trap Used for Curing Process The steam trap used for the curing process, which had previously been subject to monthly inspections, was equipped with a wireless leak detector. The detector signals device malfunctions so that the trap can be repaired immediately and the leakage of steam is prevented. The installation of this wireless detector enabled the plant to reduce 39,299 Nm3/year in fuel consumption and 88 tCO2-eq in annual GHG emissions and thus saved KRW 31 million in fuel costs. Shift to High-efficiency Transformers The aging transformer used for the extrusion process in the Daejeon Plant was replaced with a highefficiency mold transformer, which enhanced the quality of the electricity supply and lowered electricity consumption. This allowed the plant to reduce 202,948 kWh in electricity energy consumption, 94.62 tCO2-eq in GHG emissions and KRW 18 million in electricity costs annually. CC-3 SUPPLY CHAIN CARBON MANAGEMENT We continue to review the operation of carbon reduction programs based on cooperation with suppliers and strive to develop a cooperative network to establish a supply chain carbon management system. Operation to Introduce Supplier Partnership Programs of 1 the lack of sufficient preparation. In 2013, however, we will initiate Carbon Reduction our efforts to identify GHG emissions of our suppliers as a way to The initially-planned pilot operation, to work with one supplier renew our commitment to establishing the basis for supplier carbon to introduce supplier carbon management programs, was not management and assisting suppliers’ GHG emissions reduction undertaken due to the difficulty in selecting supplier candidates and activities. FOCUS 03 HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 34 External Stakeholder Satisfaction Management FOCUS 03-1 Win-Win Supply-chain Partnership Supplier CSR Training In 2012, we offered training to 63 raw and subsidiary material suppliers in Korea to emphasize the importance of CSR initiatives and to disseminate our ethics management. SC WIN-WIN SUPPLY-CHAIN PARTNERSHIP Regular Supplier Surveys [No. of Suppliers] Since 2010, we have been surveying our suppliers on their satisfaction with our supplier relation policies and operation as well as soliciting suggestions as a way to broaden mutual understanding with suppliers. 2012 145 2011 135 2010 134 Supplier Satisfaction [Points] Our supplier satisfaction index was generated along with supplier surveys that were conducted on purchasing policies, supplier evaluation systems, supplier differentiation systems, and partnership. Declaration 2012 73.4 2011 74.5 We are committed to a win-win partnership as an enabler for sustained growth and development through a transparent and trust-based relationship with suppliers. Purchasing of Management Responsibility and Governance Eco-friendly Materials The Supplier Subcommittee is responsible for managing [Tons] suppliers and improving supplier relations under the supervision of executives in charge of purchasing We are dedicated to expanding the purchase of eco-friendly materials that is decisions. Our Purchasing Planning Team develops general harmless to the human body and help enhance tire fuel-efficiency as well as the use of materials with reduced odor, thereby contributing to better environmental policies regarding the Supplier Subcommittee and assists performance of our products. respective teams in implementation regarding purchasing, quality, R&D, and ENG* 2012 114.548 2011 74,108 ✽ ENG : Engineering 2010 61,868 35 FOCUS 03 Supplier Management and Supplier Relations Policy 36 Supplier Communication 37 Win-Win Supplier Partnership Programs 38 Facilitation of green purchasing 39 Stakeholder Interview Choi, Young Ho (Orion Engineered Carbons Co. Ltd) Hankook Tire’s HePS helps improve its operational efficiency in working with suppliers, while Partnership Day is celebrated by both Hankook Tire and its suppliers as one of the various communication channels the company operates to share joint future goals. As a supplier, we believe that these endeavors are critical to building stronger partnerships and maintaining cooperative relationships that contribute to reaching Hankook Tire’s growth targets. Improving tire performance to respond to changing trends (such as the labeling system) and being a leader in the global tire market, however, requires that we not only move towards shared goals but also improve the quality of raw materials and develop new product technology. Thus, I believe that wide-ranging mutual multi-level communication channels (technology/R&D Centers ↔ sales/purchasing, management) are needed to share technological and market trends to ensure sustained joint growth of both Hankook Tire and its suppliers. 2012 Achievements ●: Completed ◐ : Partially Completed ◦: Not Implemented : Year-round Activity Code Key Managerial Issues 2012 Goals 2012 Achievements Completion Pages Registration and reception of CSR compliance agreements Supplier management and To support and disseminate CSR to suppliers Supplier CSR & ethics management training ● 36 SC1 supplier relations policy To integrate and standardize supplier Standardization of supplier operational strategies, evaluation methods management on a global level and differentiation strategies ● 36 Facilitation of HePS-based two-way communication To facilitate on-line communication Year-round posting of ethics management brochures on the Assessment of suppliers, feedback facilitation Reinforcement of group notification and HePS portal ● 37 External stakeholder satisfaction management SC2 Supplier communication messaging Supplier surveys Celebration of Supplier Partnership Day To celebrate Supplier Partnership Day Invite all raw material, facility and indirect suppliers ● 38 Supplementation of supplier differentiation strategies To undertake supplier differentiation/ sophistication strategies Provision of additional support (merits) through the verification and ● 38 selection of top-performing suppliers SC3 Supplier Partnership Programs To develop purchasing principles that respect the physical and intellectual property rights Development and posting of purchasing policies on the HePS portal ● 38 of suppliers SC4 Facilitation of green purchasing To purchase more eco-friendly materials Expansion of the share of eco-friendly materials in total purchases ● 39 2013 Plans Code Key Managerial Issues 2013 Commitments Deadline Department in Charge To expand the share of local purchasing Purchasing Planning Team / Mar. Expansion of local purchasing in areas where manufacturing plants are located Purchasing 1 Team Supplier management and SC1 supplier relations policy To expand CSR evaluations and implementation Oct. Puchasing Planning Team Target all suppliers To set CSR-based targets as part of the supplier management system Mar. Puchasing Planning Team To launch supplier chain environmental management CSR Team / SC2 Win-win supplier Partnership Participation in the Green Partnership project (Ministry of Knowledge Economy) Sep. Purchasing Planning Team To use supplier selection and evaluation criteria (including CSR evaluations) on a global level Jun. Puchasing Planning Team CSR-related requirements for suppliers Improvement of the check sheet in consideration of environment, safety, health, Jun. Puchasing Planning Team labor and Human Right. SC3 Improvement of supplier ESG To strengthen supplier differentiation strategies Jun. Puchasing Planning Team Incentives or penalties To improve on QC monitoring Nov. Puchasing Planning Team Follow-up monitoring in accordance with diagnostic outcomes HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 36 SC-1 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT AND SUPPLIER RELATIONS POLICY We pursue partnership management through shared growth with suppliers. In 2012, we provided supplier training to disseminate the importance of CSR initiatives and our ethics management, while assisting suppliers in complying with and implementing CSR requirements. 1 Supplier CSR Training 2 Supplier’s CSR Compliance and Implementation Supplier CSR Training and Dissemination of Hankook C o n s e n t o n s u p p l i e r ’s C S R c o m p l i a n c e a n d Tire’s Ethics Management We offered training to 90 employees implementation and support their implementation We expect from the total 63 suppliers of raw materials in Korea to emphasize the our suppliers to comply with global CSR regulations regarding work importance of CSR initiatives and disseminate our ethics management. hour limits, workplace safety and hazardous chemicals management. In 2013, we will continue to provide such training while reflecting CSR Thus, we obtained the agreement to comply with CSR requirements criteria in comprehensive supplier assessment and offering differentiated from 386 suppliers (32%) out of the 1,205 raw material, facility and incentives based on assessment outcomes. In so doing, we will assist indirect suppliers who work with us. Our endeavors continue to expand suppliers in improving on and undertaking CSR operation. supplier’s’ CSR compliance. Our future plan is to further encourage suppliers to engage themselves in CSR initiatives; those who do not sign our CSR compliance agreement will be limited in using our systems. CONSENT OF CSR COMPLIANCE FOR HANKOOK TIRE SUPPLIERS Child Labor Work Hours We do not hire youth under 17 years old and take special safety We ensure that our employees do not work beyond the maximum measures to prevent any harm from occurring during work for those legally permissible working hours. under 18. Community Engagement Compensation We do not harm the interest of the local community where we are We satisfy the legal minimum wage requirements as stipulated by law based and we contribute to the positive development of the local in compensating employees for their work (including wage). community. Forced Labor Bribery and Corruption We ensure that forced labor is not accepted under any circumstances We develop and implement regulations (or policies) to prevent our and provide regular training to prevent such unfair treatment. employees from giving or taking bribes. These regulations (or policies) should include relevant training, monitoring, and disciplinary and Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining preventive measures in the case of such practices. The compliance We guarantee our employees the freedom to establish and choose and outcomes of these regulations (or policies) should be reported to membership in the labor union of their choice in order to protect their the top management at least once per annum. rights. Environment Harassment and Discrimination We strive to minimize our environmental impact (damage) caused by We develop and implement regulations (or policies) to prevent sexual our business conduct (provision of products or services) and satisfy harassment and discrimination that may affect employees. the legally allowable standards regarding discharge of pollutants. Health and Safety Hankook Tire's Principle for Property Rights We deliver a work environment where employees can stay healthy We respect the physical and intellectual property rights of our suppliers and work safely. and others. 37 FOCUS 03 Supplier Management and Supplier Relations Policy 36 Supplier Communication 37 Win-Win Supplier Partnership Programs 38 Facilitation of green purchasing 39 SC-2 SUPPLIER COMMUNICATION We operate diverse communication channels to widen our mutual understanding with suppliers and to build the foundation for the partnership. In addition to on-line communication based on the strengthened VOC functionality with the HePS, we continue to interact with our suppliers through supplier surveys and supplier events. 1 Facilitation of Online Communication Improvement of Group Notification and Messaging within the HePS We gather and address VOC to facilitate communication with suppliers. Furthermore, our HePS portal is regularly uploaded with postings concerning our ethics management and trust-based supplier relationship and ‘Never Give or Take Holiday Gifts’ campaign. In so doing, we ensure that our supplier policies are transparently shared. 2 Regular Supplier Surveys Annual Survey Conducted and Outcomes Reported We annually survey our suppliers to identify their satisfaction with our Ethics management brochure supplier relations policy and initiatives and to compile their suggestions. The results are used to understand and improve on unsatisfactory practices and are reflected in our win-win partnership policies. While we directly surveyed our suppliers in 2011, an external independent survey organization was enlisted in 2012 to enhance the objectivity of our supplier surveys. In 2012, 126 out of a total of 145 suppliers provided responses to the survey. Additional questions were added to identify their general satisfaction with our respective supplier support programs as well as to pinpoint overall satisfaction as a way to calculate the comprehensive satisfaction index. It was demonstrated that the total satisfaction score fell by 1.1 points to 73.4 points regarding our purchasing system, supplier assessment systems, supplier differentiation programs and partnership. While our suppliers responded positively on the fair transactions, payment conditions and transparency, they demanded that further improvement be made concerning prices & volume and information sharing. These surveys help us gather supplier 'Never Give or Take Holiday Gifts' campaign feedback and integrate such feedback in improving our HePS. Year-round Supplier Communication Systems and Operational Processes Executive Executive Executive Department Executive department department department in charge department Registration of Notice to the Review of Report on the Compilation, opinions and department in application outcome of Submission suggestions charge measures the review HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 38 Outcomes of the Supplier Satisfaction Survey Total satisfaction in 2012 fell by 1.1 points from the previous year to 73.4 points. Total Satisfaction Fairness, payment conditions and transparency were positively evaluated while further improvement was required regarding prices. Assessment systems were necessary (61.9%)/System operations were positively evaluated (62.7%). Supplier Assessment Systems System supplementation is needed to offer differentiated incentives to suppliers based on assessment outcomes and to encourage suppliers to improve further. Positive incentives: Increase in purchasing volume/long-term and stable business relationship, price incentives Supplier Differentiation Programs Negative incentives: Decrease in purchasing volume/more stringent inspections Suppliers were proactive in strengthening their partnership with Hankook Tire and were satisfied with our supplier communication (79.4%). Win-Win Partnership Guaranteed long-term business relationship/transparent and objective evaluation and eased transaction conditions are critical to maintaining supplier partnership Celebration of Supplier Partnership Day 3 We celebrate Supplier Partnership Day to express our gratitude to suppliers for their efforts and cooperation in contributing to the development of Hankook Tire, as well as to share our corporate vision, management principles and mid/long-term plans. Our 2012 Supplier Partnership Day was attended by 159 employees from 118 topperforming raw material, facility and indirect suppliers, in addition to natural rubber suppliers and overseas synthetic rubber suppliers. The event served as a venue for us to communicate our commitment to shared growth with suppliers. Celebration of Supplier Partnership Day SC-3 WIN-WIN SUPPLIER PARTNERSHIP PROGRAMS At Hankook Tire, annual supplier assessments are made and top-performing suppliers are provided with differentiated incentives as a way to boost our competitive edge along the supply chain. We also offer our suppliers training and workshops to help enhance their competitive edge and to open opportunities for shared growth. Purchasing Principle that Respects the Physical and 1 Differentiated Supplier Strategy Analysis and Supplementation of Our Supplier Intellectual Rights of Suppliers We are committed to adhering Differentiation Strategy We develop supplier differentiation to ISO 26000 (international corporate social responsibility standard). programs based on assessment outcomes in order to motivate our Thus, we included our commitment to respecting physical and suppliers to improve their performance, ensure our competitive edge intellectual property rights in our fair operating practice regulations while along the supply chain and achieve shared growth with suppliers. To this establishing additional principles to respect the physical and intellectual end, our supplier differentiation strategy was complemented in 2012 and property rights of others in our CSR compliance agreement. We will its scope will broaden in the upcoming years. Included in our positive abide by such commitment in the upcoming years. (Physical property: incentives offered to top-performing suppliers are: the expanded scope land and buildings; /intellectual property: patent rights and others) of the winning price benefits, differentiated contract payment conditions, shortened electronic bill payment deadlines, guarantee of minimum contract volume and long-term contract periods. Furthermore, strategic partnerships will be forged with professional suppliers with processspecific technological advantages while suppliers who work exclusively with us will be fostered as core suppliers. 39 FOCUS 03 Supplier Management and Supplier Relations Policy 36 Supplier Communication 37 Win-Win Supplier Partnership Programs 38 Facilitation of green purchasing 39 SC-4 FACILITATION OF GREEN PURCHASING We continue to expand our purchasing and use of eco-friendly products as a way to increase the use of eco-friendly materials and manufacture tires that are higher in fuel and performance efficiency. These efforts are not only critical in enhancing the environmental value of our products but also form the key first step in expanding CSR throughout the entire business process of raw materials consumption, manufacturing and sales. 1 Purchasing of Eco-friendly Materials Trend of Eco-friendly Materials Consumption (Unit: ton) Purchasing of More Eco-friendly Materials (low-PAH synthetic rubber, low-PAH oil, silica, light-weight steel cords) Material 2010 2011 2012 Ratio (YoY) Non-petroleum-based silica 13,054 14,070 14,481 103% Our definition of eco-friendly materials refers to materials that contain Lightweight steel cords 3,651 10,926 27,250 249% low or zero PAH substances that are hazardous to the human body and Low-PAH synthetic rubber 57,575 48,294 71,943 149% those that contribute to improving tire fuel efficiency. Newly added to this and oil Resin 818 874 107% definition are raw materials that emit reduced odors in consideration of Total consumption of external environments. These green materials include low-PAH synthetic 74,280 74,108 114,548 155% eco-friendly materials rubber, low-PAH oil, silica, and lightweight steel cords. Consumption ratio 12.6% 11% 16% 5%↑ We have continued to replace PAH-containing oil and synthetic rubber ✽ Calculation methods are different between 2010 and 2011 with those of low or zero PAH. In addition, we consume lightweight ✽ 2012 data is an estimate based on the Korean headquarters earnings. tire materials to develop and manufacture high-fuel efficiency tires while expanding the use of resins with reduced odors to improve the surrounding environment. In 2012, our consumption of eco-friendly materials rose 55% from the previous year to 114,000 tons, which is translates into 16% of our total raw material consumption (11% in 2011). The use of eco-friendly materials, and the development and application of high-fuel efficiency tires are just a few of our endeavors to respond to 2010 2011 2012 eco-labeling programs implemented by the EU and countries around the world. 74,280 74,108 114,548 FOCUS 03 HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 40 External Stakeholder Satisfaction Management FOCUS 03-2 Community Involvement & Development Fundraising at the Online Donation Website ‘Dreamfull’ [KRW 1,000] ‘Dreamfull,’ the online donation website we operate in conjunction with the Corporation Leftovers Love Sharing Community, helps us disseminate the true meaning of charitable contributions to our employees and customers while building consensus and facilitating social contribution initiatives. CI 2013 2012 380,000 255,000 2011 200,000 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT & DEVELOPMENT Donation of Vehicles (Compact Cars) to Social Welfare Agencies [Number of Vehicles (Accumlated)] We continue to expand our support to provide vehicles (compact cars) to social welfare agencies nationwide as part of our social-giving initiatives that are aligned with our core business. 2012 187 2011 147 2010 77 2009 40 Declaration Discussion Meetings We are determined to serve as a direct and indirect with Local Government contributor to the economic development of our nation and Agencies and Relevant local community and take the lead in addressing key local Organizations issues through sustained communication with the local [Number of meetings/month] community. Furthermore, we are committed to fulfilling our We hold discussion meetings year-round with local government agencies, NGOs roles and responsibilities as a corporate citizen as well as and representatives of local communities. creating social values by giving them back to society, and 2012 3.5 seeking co-existence with those who are in need of our 2011 3 positive contributions. 2010 1 2009 1 Management Responsibility and Governance CSR Team in the Business Infra Division is responsible Global Corporate for building corporate philanthropic strategies and Philanthropic Expenditures directions, developing relevant programs and other general [KRW 100 million] management affairs. The Philanthropy Subcommittee, which consists of the Vice President of the Business Our corporate philanthropic initiatives undertaken in countries where we operate Infra Division, CSR Team, Cultural Communication Team, ensure that we identify their community issues and concerns. This assists us in Corporate Communication Team, Operation Support Team, developing nation-specific corporate philanthropic guidelines and in undertaking strategic social-giving initiatives. and the Sharing Foundation, meets quarterly to ensure that our corporate philanthropic initiatives are undertaken in a Korea (Including the Sharing Foundation) 3,223,613,884 KRW way that is integrative and strategic. The subcommittee China 3,672,926 CNY follows the 4-step operational cycle of planning, execution, Europe 128,731 EUR checks and reporting. Indonesia 30,085 USD 41 FOCUS 03 Establishment of the company-wide philanthropy system 42 Expansion of employee consensus and reinforcement of executive capability 42 Development and brandization of specialized programs 43 Reinforcement of communication with local communities and identification of local issues 44 Stakeholder Interview Kim, Jinhui (Community Chest of Korea, Resource Development Division) Our relationship with Hankook Tire was initiated through its ‘Driving Happy Together’ program to help replace old tires with new ones freeof-charge for social welfare organizations. Because these organizations use vehicles to deliver and administer various services, their vehicle tires are often severely worn and their life span is shortened significantly compared to personally owned vehicles. Appropriate replacement of these tires is critical to safe driving, but this is challenging due to the high replacement cost. Being aware of such unmet needs of social welfare organizations, in 2010 the company began to offer free tire replacement services for 1,500 social welfare organizations. This has greatly assisted in ensuring the safer driving of these vehicles, which are an important medium of service delivery. Celebrating its third year, this program will choose beneficiaries through heated public competition this year. In 2013, the program will grow in size in conjunction with the Fruit of Love program. With this, I hope that our nation will be filled with greater contentment through Hankook Tire’s warm-hearted social-giving initiative. 2012 Achievements ●: Completed ◐ : Partially Completed ◦: Not Implemented : Year-round Activity Code Key Managerial Issues 2012 Goals 2012 Achievements Completion Pages Development of an employee volunteerism support program and To expand and organize the Donggeurami Volunteering Team in Korea other policies ● 42 Establishment of the company2012 achievements (221 occasions, 1,336 employees, 16,308 hours) CI1 wide philanthropy system Identification of corporate philanthropic trends of respective nations To globalize corporate philanthropic initiatives where our plants are located, and the development of corporate ● 42 philanthropic guidelines Operational expenses for the 2nd year (KRW 255 million) Participation of other companies (Kyowon Group and four others) Promotion of the online donation Outcomes website ‘Dreamfull’ New members : 7,958(accumulated: 9,966) ● 42 Expansion of employee Donations : 29,455 donations (accumulated: KRW 53,019) CI2 consensus and reinforcement Total donation : KRW 349,135,572(accumulated : KRW 897,245,011) of executive capability Direct employee’s’ participation (gift packaging, encouragement letters) To regularize the donation campaign to Season 2 of the Going to School with Excitement campaign undertaken facilitate employee participation in celebration of our 70th anniversary ● 42, 43 Grant matching program (KRW 201,200,000) Donggeurami Bus to enable the less-privileged to have cultural experiences (Budding Bus***) -Support 75 organizations (343 applicants) -2,948 beneficiaries Development and brandization To develop specialized philanthropic -Total distance traveled: 13,548 km CI3 of specialized programs* programs in Korea** Corporate philanthropic program competition ● 43 Held in conjunction with the Community Relations Center and six companies 23 teams applied under the Hankook Tire’s theme and three of them were chosen. Reinforcement of Discussion meetings held when environmental issues arose due to communication with local the facility expansion of Geumsan Plant CI4 communities and identification To prioritize pending local issues Communication through the invitation of local people and 44 of local issues discussions meetings ✽ Initially titled ‘Development and brandization of representative programs’ in 2012, this key managerial issue was modified into ‘Development and brandization of specialized programs’ to take our corporate philanthropic initiatives a notch higher through the evolvement of specialized programs into representative ones. ✽✽ While our initial plan in 2012 was to develop representative programs in the safety/environment segment, chartered bus support to enable the less-privileged to enjoy cultural experiences became our top priority in order to respond to growing external needs to assist less-privileged children. Meanwhile, a corporate philanthropic program competition was held to identify ideas that will lead to the development of social-giving initiatives in the safety/environmental sector. ✽✽✽ While the pilot program in 2012 was not undertaken under any official title, it was named ‘Budding Bus’ in 2013. 2013 Plans Code Key Managerial Issues 2013 Commitments Key Index Deadline Department in Charge Implementation Support and expansion CSR Team/ To facilitate the employee volunteer group Year-round of employees’ participation Cultural Communication Team Establishment of the companyTo systemize the management of corporate CI1 wide philanthropy system philanthropic initiatives Development of evaluation methods May CSR Team Expansion of tire support activities to a To undertake global common programs Oct. CSR Team/ Relevant local teams global level To expand campaigns to facilitate employee’s’ Continued operation of existing campaigns CSR Team/ Human Resource Expansion of employee Year-round participation in corporate philanthropic initiatives Donation of a small portion of monthly income Management Team CI2 consensus and reinforcement of executive capability Training of promoted employees To expand employee training Year-round CSR Team (promotion candidates) Development and brandization Expansion and stabilization of the cultural CSR Team/ Hankook Tire Sharing CI3 of specialized programs To undertake specialized programs in Korea experience bus program Jun. Foundation Reinforcement of communication CSR Team/ To strengthen the management system of CI4 with local communities and local community communication Establishment of an issue-sharing process Sep. Cultural Communication Team/ identification of local issues Operation Support Team HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 42 CI-1 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE COMPANY-WIDE PHILANTHROPY SYSTEM Our corporate policy supports employee volunteerism to encourage our employees to participate in corporate philanthropic initiatives as a way to expand such initiatives on a company-wide level. Furthermore, our giving guidelines were developed through the identification of corporate philanthropic trends of nations where our plants are based. Expansion and Organization of the Donggeurami 1 2 Glocalization Volunteering Team in Korea Country-specific Corporate Philanthropic Guidelines Employee Volunteerim Policy Previously, an official companyOur global corporate philanthropic initiatives are undertaken primarily wide volunteering organization or regulated policies did not exist, and in those countries where our global operations are based. In 2012, few employees at the Daejeon and Geumsan Plants took the initiative we performed internal/external trends analyses and identified the to volunteer at Hankook Tire. We realized, however, that an official current status of the local communities where we operate to further company-wide volunteering team as well as support policies were evolve these initiatives. This enabled us to learn respective countries’ necessary to encourage all employees to volunteer, and thus developed pending issues and social-giving trends: education and environment operational plans related to the composition, support and management in China, child education and culture in Hungary and education and of an employee volunteering organization. This was completed by livelihood infrastructure in Indonesia. We also identified enormous gaps identifying the operational status of existing volunteer groups and in corporate philanthropic expenditures among countries as well as the through the comparison against external indicators. These operational need for criteria to determine the direction and budget of such initiatives. plans include the composition of our company-wide formal volunteering This prompted us to set the direction and budget criteria for countryteam and corporate support (absenteeism, training, expenditure specific major social-giving initiatives. In 2012, we aim to undertake support) and reward policies (incentives and awards) to promote the global common programs through the free tire support (beneficiaries participation of all employees. In 2013, we will celebrate the launching of differ by country) while using country-specific corporate philanthropic our company-wide volunteering team and facilitate its operation in order guidelines to paint a more detailed picture of our specialized socialto expand employees’ participation in volunteering initiatives. giving projects (programs) that reflect distinctive pending issues. Status of Employee Volunteerism in 2012 No. of activities Volunteer hours Volunteers 221 16,308 hours 1,336 employees CI-2 EXPANSION OF EMPLOYEE CONSENSUS AND REINFORCEMENT OF EXECUTIVE CAPABILITY Our on-line donation website ‘Dreamfull’ allowed us to build employees’ consensus on our corporate philanthropic commitment and facilitate their participation. The donation campaign held in celebration of our corporate anniversary and the year-end grant matching campaign that was initiated in 2011 were undertaken in 2012. These donation campaigns will be established as regular events and be held under the supervision of the CSR Team. In addition, volunteering activities that directly engaged our employees were launched. 1 Facilitation of the Online Donation Website 2 Regular Donation Campaigns Quantitative Growth of Dreamfull Our online donation Continued Operation of the Donation Event in Celebration website ‘Dreamfull’ was launched in 2011 in conjunction with the of the Corporate Anniversary and the Grant Matching Campaign Corporation Leftovers Love Sharing Community as an online corporate Our ‘Going to School with Joy’, an employee donation campaign, philanthropic initiatives, in addition to our existing off-line initiatives. held in commemoration of our corporate anniversary, and the yearDreamfull is growing into a unique type of online donation community end grant matching campaign, have continued since 2011 through the that is the result of a combination of professional assistance (our operation of Dreamfull. Specifically, the year-end grant matching event promotional and marketing capabilities), employees’ donations and included the campaign to post messages of encouragement for children volunteering and NGO’s’ on-the-spot capabilities. In 2012, Dreamfull victimized by sexual assaults, in addition to donations. While donations broadened its scope from donations to serve as a channel to receive made under the ‘Going to School with Joy’ campaign fell to 30% of admissions for the public competition events held by Hankook those made in 2011, our employees’ commitment to this donation event Tire and the Sharing Foundation. In addition, its offline marketing continued to reach KRW 20,478,759 in total in 2012. We are committed activities were undertaken through our existing summer highway to the operation of these two campaigns in 2013 and will launch a safety check campaign. This enabled our employees and customers new initiative to allow employees to donate a small portion of their to easily engage in making online donations and become significant monthly income as a way to engage more employees in our donation contributors themselves to social-giving initiatives. In 2012, Dreamfull campaigns. grew its membership with 7,958 new members (1,307 new members in 2011/9,966 members total) and received KRW 349,135,572 in donations (KRW 332,961,613 in 2011 / KRW 897,245,011 in total), which went to benefit 1,686 (1,307 in 2011) children (or organizations). 43 FOCUS 03 Establishment of the company-wide philanthropy system 42 Expansion of employee consensus and reinforcement of executive capability 42 Development and brandization of specialized programs 43 Reinforcement of communication with local communities and identification of local issues 44 Employee Donation Campaigns Season 2 of the Going to School with Excitement Campaign (Held in Commemoration of the Corporate Anniversary) Year Donations Made Beneficiaries 70 bikes for students to commute to school (one bike for each child from low2011 KRW 10,473,501 (employees: KRW 10,045,001) income families nation-wide), one month’s worth of transportation expenses for 30 children 50 bikes for students to commute to school (one bike for each child from low2012 KRW 9,359,130 (employees: KRW 2,750,530) income families nation-wide), one month’s worth of transportation expenses for 100 children Year-end Grant Matching Campaign Year Donations Made Note 2011 KRW 126,548,700 (employees: KRW 13,260,940) Messages of encouragement posted for children victimized by sexual assaults: 2012 KRW 142,986,602 (employees: KRW 10,466,440) 14,537 postings CI-3 DEVELOPMENT AND BRANDIZATION OF SPECIALIZED PROGRAMS Our existing corporate philanthropic programs were continually operated to provide compact cars to social welfare organizations as well as free tires for charity purposes. Meanwhile, our Donggeurami bus project was newly launched to enable beneficiaries of social welfare facility services and the less-fortunate in our society, who are culturally marginalized due to their limited mobility, to enjoy cultural experiences as a response to growing social needs for mobility support for those in need. Furthermore, corporate philanthropic public competitions were held for the first time to identify new ideas for our socialgiving programs and to develop new communication channels for our philanthropic initiatives. Development of Corporate Philanthropic Programs 1 Launching New Programs As we became aware Specialized for Domestic Conditions of the reduced access to educational/cultural opportunities that Continued Operation of Existing Programs Our commitment to social welfare organizations suffer from due to their shortage of providing vehicles (compact cars) to social welfare organizations has transportation means, in December 2012 we newly launched our continued since 2008 in order to help ensure a more efficient delivery ‘Donggeurami Bus’ project to enable beneficiaries of social welfare of social welfare services and to undertake corporate philanthropic organization and the less-privileged in our society to enjoy cultural initiatives that are closely aligned with our core business. We have experiences. A total of 75 Donggeurami Bus traveled 13,548 km to provided 187 vehicles (compact cars) free-of-charge to social welfare allow 2,948 beneficiaries to enjoy cultural experiences, which were not facilities nation-wide over the years. In 2012, 40 organizations were readily available to them. In 2013, this program was expanded and is chosen out of 540 applicants to be provided with 40 vehicles. currently underway under the officially name of ‘Donggeurami Bus.’ Meanwhile, we receive operational reports from beneficiaries to assess Corporate Philanthropic Public Competitions Our the effectiveness of this program. The analyses of these reports ‘2012 Corporate Philanthropic Program Competition’ was held for demonstrated that our program helped improve the convenience five months between July and November of 2012 in order to identify concerning vehicle operations and mobility through the reduced new ideas for new social-giving initiatives and to develop new operational costs of compact cars, easier access to narrow alleys and communication channels for them. The competition was supervised enhanced availability for women and beginner drivers. The average by the Community Relations Center and the Hankyoreh Economic annual mileage of these vehicles was 10,912 km. In 2013, we plan to Research Institute and jointly organized by Hankook Tire and five use the outcomes of these reports to identify possible improvements other companies. We proposed two themes of Dreamfull-enabled of this program and to provide vehicles with additional options that social-giving initiatives and corporate philanthropic initiatives under contribute to improved safety and operational convenience. the four themes of environment, safety, health and sharing. Out In 2012, our corporate philanthropic commitment was undertaken of the 23 proposals that we received from 12 teams, a portion of not just in Korea but also at our overseas sites. In China, we offered them generated inspiring new ideas for our corporate philanthropic high-pressure sprinkler trucks to the local fire station located near our commitment but they were not immediately take into action, as they Jiangsu plant to ensure safety in case of fires as well as scholarships needed to be modified and refined to ensure their actual execution. to students from low-income families. In Hungary, we continuously The competition will be held in 2013 to help us identify noteworthy sponsored local festivals and further contributed to local culture and ideas while those ideas we found in 2012 will be revised and their arts through the newly -introduced support initiative for the KIDS applicability will be examined. ARC Exhibition, Hungary’s nation-wide art completion for children. In addition, we provided ambulance tires to help ensure safer ambulance operations. HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 44 CI-4 REINFORCEMENT OF COMMUNICATION WITH LOCAL COMMUNITIES AND IDENTIFICATION OF LOCAL ISSUES We regularly communicate with diverse stakeholders such as government agencies & NGOs, heads of local government agencies, local organizations and residents. As these stakeholders are diversified in their composition, they present equally diverse topics to communicate, which makes it challenging to engage them through regular communication. Therefore, we ensure constant communication with these stakeholders as a way to prioritize pending issues in the local communities where we are based. 1 Prioritizing Local Pending Issues In 2012, the Green Environment Exploration program (23 sessions) Identifying Local Issues through the Invitation of Local was created to actively interact with local communities while local Residents and Discussion Meetings We communicate with residents as well as elementary, junior high and high school students major stakeholders in the local communities where we are based in were invited to our plants and provided with an introduction to a consistent and sustained manner. Specifically, our Daejeon Plant Hankook Tire, presentations on wastewater treatment process, tours has received in-person examinations by an assessment team more of our wastewater treatment facility and tire manufacturing facility than once a year since 2008 under the odor reduction agreement and safety training (CPR and the use of fire extinguishers). In so that we signed with Daeduk-gu Office to allow assessments and doing, we did our share in reducing our environmental footprint in communication concerning our environmental issues. Our Geumsan local communities and developed a new communication channel to Plant holds approximately 30 discussion meetings with local promote our commitment to local community development. representatives. The outcomes of these communication endeavors enable us to share with relevant teams such pending issues as environmental conditions and odors in the vicinity of our plants, corporate philanthropy as a means of social investment, the lack of sports and cultural infrastructure. When urgent issues arise, such regular communication is further reinforced to improve on and address these issues, and ad-hoc committee meetings are held to facilitate communication with the local community. INTERVIEW Hankook Tire’s Donggeurami Bus Program for Gomduri Welfare Center Han, So Dam, Social Worker at Gomdurine Gomdurine, located in the city of Uijeongbu, Gyeonggi Province, provides day/short-term care to disabled people. Mainly individuals with grade 1 intellectual disabilities attend our center and they are in high need of experience-based learning to develop social skills, expand their knowledge and reach their potential. I also personally believe that experience-based learning is ideal to help them learn how to act appropriately in public places and encourage other members in our society to eliminate prejudices against disabilities through their interactions with people with disabilities. Those who use our services have rarely had an opportunity for experience-based learning as several of them have multiple physical/intellectual disabilities, which posed grave mobility challenges. Hankook Tire’s Dongguerami Bus program, however, enabled all of these people to overcome their limitations in traveling long distances. They visitied Gwacheon National Science Museum to learn how science impacts our daily life and to use feel-and-touch learning devices that enhance their cognitive ability as well as thinking and creative capabilities. Hankook Tire employee volunteers also provided helpful assistance, in addition to the buses. The one-to-one guardian relationship between our center users and Hankook Tire employees allowed us to safely care for the disabled individuals, who in turn were able to freely tour around the museum and have a wonderful and open learning experience. This one-on-one matching program was the first-ever since we opened in 2000, and it offered an incredibly valuable experience for our center users. I hope that this program as well as our relationship with the Donggeurami Bus program and Hankook Tire employees will continue in the upcoming years. 45 FOCUS 03 Establishment of the company-wide philanthropy system 42 Expansion of employee consensus and reinforcement of executive capability 42 Development and brandization of specialized programs 43 Reinforcement of communication with local communities and identification of local issues 44 MAJOR CORPORATE PHILANTHROPIC INITIATIVES Hankook Tire’s Sharing Foundation Our Sharing Foundation enables us to fulfill our corporate social responsibilities. We extend our helping hands filled with the spirit of sharing and affection to even more people who suffer challenges with their health, education, mobility and livelihood due to economic difficulties. Our journey continues to deliver fulfillment and a sharing spirit to society. Scholarship Assistance for Social Welfare Facilities Scholarship Program Scholarship assistance is provided to high school Assistance for Social Welfare Facilities We provide assistance and university students who are talented and dedicated to learning but regarding facility safety and education, medical services and daily find it difficult to continue their education due to their poor economic equipment to social welfare facilities for children, seniors and the disabled, conditions. In doing so, we provide equal opportunities for learning and group homes, and local children’s centers across the nation so that foster them into capable members of our society. residents at these facilities may live and learn in a better environment. Medical Welfare Programs “Driving for Happiness” Mobility Support for the Less-Privileged Support for Free Charity Hospitals We support operational expenses ‘Tire’ Sharing for Social Welfare Agencies We offer free tires for at Seongga Bokji Hospital (Seoul) and other charity hospitals that provide vehicles used for business purposes at social welfare agencies nationwide free medical care to the homeless, immigrant workers and other poor to improve their operation and to enable service beneficiaries to use a safer populations. In so doing, we assist these members of our community who means of transportation. markedly suffer in the blinders of our medical welfare system due to poverty and disease. By supporting the recovery of their health, we practice and Strollers for Low-Income Multicultural Families We provide strollers promote the value of human dignity. for children from low-income, multi-cultural families to help reduce their childcare burden, build a healthy social cohesion that engages multiEstablishment of Free Hospitals in Third-World Countries Our initiative cultural families and contribute to raising birth rates. to practice the value of human dignity extended its scope from Korea to poverty-ridden third-world countries. Since 2007, we have contributed to Batteries for Mobility Aids for the Disabled We offer free batteries that a healthier world through our support for the construction and operation of power mobility aids (electric wheelchairs and electric scooters) used by free charity hospitals in East Timor, two African countries, Paraguay, and low-income disabled populations to promote safer and more convenient Indonesia. transportation. Support for Children and Youth from Low-income Families Living Expense Support We provide financial support regarding livelihood and education expenses to children from low-income families including children living with grandparents only, children from single-parent families, children living alone without any parental support, and children from families coping with the aftereffects of traffic accidents. In so doing, our goal is to help these children grow up with a firm belief in their dreams and hopes.Indonesia. Donggeurami Camp Our “Donggeurami Hope Camp” and “Donggeurami Science Camp” enable children from low-income families to access cultural activities and experience-based learning to promote their healthy growth. 2012 Achievements and 2013 Plans (Unit: KRW 1,000) Category Program 2012 Achievements 2013 Plans Increases/Decreases Scholarship High school scholarship 72,490 70,000 -2,490 College scholarship 32,593 40,000 7,407 Medical Welfare Support for free charity hospitals 130,000 130,000 Construction of overseas free hospitals 30,000 30,000 Support for Children and Teenagers Support for living expenses 135,000 117,000 -18,000 “Donggeurami Camp” 46,188 40,000 -6,188 Support for Social Welfare Agencies Support for social welfare agencies 200,577 180,000 -20,577 Mobility Support for the Tire Sharing 230,655 250,000 19,345 Less-Privileged Strollers 70,667 90,000 19,333 Batteries for mobility aids 70,840 70,000 -840 Total 1,019,010 1,017,000 -2,010 FOCUS 03 HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 46 External Stakeholder Satisfaction Management FOCUS 03-3-1 Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management (Customers and Dealers) Number of Inquiries at the Customer Service Center [Monthly average] The Customer Service Center serves as a direct communication channel with customers to swiftly and effectively address inquiries regarding products, purchases, and after-sales services. CS 2012 1,176 2011 637 2010 840 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION & QUALITY MANAGEMENT Installation of TV Hankook Tire [Number of dealers] TV Hankook Tire is a communication channel we created for dealers as well as external customers, and was installed at 254 T’Stations nationwide in 2012. 2012 254 Recipients of SMART Care Service [Number of occasions] Declaration We undertake differentiated marketing communication We provided SMART Care Service to help T’Station customers reduce their initiatives to meet the expectations and requirements of financial burden on purchasing tires while addressing vehicle management. customers, and fully commit ourselves to delivering the highest -possible customer satisfaction and value. 2012 2,980 Management Responsibility and Governance Our Customer Subcommittee aims to deliver the highest possible satisfaction and value to customers and dealers. Free-of-Charge The subcommittee consists of five teams, which include Highway Safety KOR)Retail HRD Team, Retail Marketing Team, KOR) Check Campaign [No. of Vehicles] Marketing Operation Team, KOR)TBR Marketing Team and Technical Service Team under the Hankook Tire Korea Our free tire safety check services are provided at major rest areas in Korea to Headquarters Marketing & Sales Department. Our KOR) ensure the safety of customers who travel long distances during the summer Retail HRD Team was created in 2013 to assist our dealers holidays. in boosting their sales competency and performance, and 2012 13,747 to provide proactive communication and services that 2011 17,835 maximize customer satisfaction and value. 2010 17,597 47 FOCUS 03 Win-win customer strategies 48 Reinforcement of customer engagement and communication 48 Customer service 49 2012 Achievements ●: Completed ◐ : Partially Completed ◦: Not Implemented : Year-round Activity Code Key Managerial Issues 2012 Goals 2012 Achievements Completion Pages To offer dealer capacity-building training 1st Smart Academy session (products, importers of commercial vehicles) Visiting service training at 133 dealers (annually) ● 48 To offer basic-level and service training to newly created dealers Eight sessions (annually) of introductory service training for new dealers ◐ 48 Sales rose 130% from the previous year per dealer To operate the Angel (1,004) Program (against the monthly average between Jan. and Feb. in 2012) ● 48 To hold a new product launching event New product launching event CS1 Win-win customer strategies (Ventus S1 evo2, enfren eco) (Geumsan Plant, Apr. 18, 2012) ● 48 To nurture SAs (Store Advisor) dedicated to Creative training delivered through strategic thinking training and retail stores workshops ● 48 137% growth posted by dealers that operated the JUMP program (between May and Aug. of 2012, against the monthly average sales To seek communication innovation through the JUMP program and discussion meetings between May and Aug., 2011) ● 48 Monthly discussion meetings among stores that participate in the JUMP program To increase the number of TV Hankook Tire stores nationwide (360 stores) TV Hankok Tire installed at 256 stores ◐ 48 To take on philanthropic activities in relation to ‘enfren 100 bikes were donated to NGOs through the promotional campaign to eco,’ the newly-launched eco-friendly tire model post messages of encouragement on SNS websites. ● 49 To take on co-marketing initiatives with Kidzania Partnership forged and the program initiated in May 2012 – 80,000 (driving license training program for children) children participated in this program a year ● 49 To launch a new TV campaign titled Reinforcement of ‘The Function of Tires in Driving’ A new advertising campaign titled ‘It is’ was launched. ● 49 CS2 customer engagement and communication To introduce customer DB security solutions Postponed due to reasons related to internal management strategies ◦ 49 To operate the ‘Slow Walking Program’ for customers and the less-privileged Postponed due to a change in its operational concept ◦ 49 Renewal of the T’Station website completed To renew the T'Station website To build a POS system Deployment of the POS system and training of its user manuals ● 49 throughout the entire T’Stations nation-wide To seek communication innovation with Monthly JUMP meetings (communication channels developed between franchises through JUMP Meetings the headquarters and local franchises) ● 49 To wage the summer highway safety Tire inspections made on 13,474 vehicles on six occasions a year at check campaign seven highway rest areas in Korea ● 49 CS staff dedicated to customer consultations are assigned, Enhanced expertise and one-on-one customized counseling / To reinforce the expertise and services of the Customer Service Center 1,176 inquiries addressed on the website/submissions made through ● 49 the customer service section are addressed within 24 hours, gifts presented to customers who raised complaints Mobile Service program benefited 1,329 customer vehicles (annually) To provide Mobile Services to the less-privileged and residents of island regions (1,160 vehicles serviced on seven occasions in island regions/ ● 49 169 vehicles serviced on three occasions for the lessprivileged) CS3 Impressive customer services 3,674 vehicles provided with free F/A technical services (annually) To initiate F/A six service activities (balance adjustment: 2,212 vehicles /alignment adjustment: 375 vehicles / ● 49 basic tire inspections: 1,087 vehicles) To launch the TBR Road Show / To forge marketing partnerships with imported commercial vehicles Postponed due to reasons related to internal management strategies ◦ 49 Increase in the number of credit card companies that provide SMART To initiate SMART Care Service / Care Service (3 6) / expand operational items / Introduction and implementation of the four basic mobile gas gift cards presented to customers (Ticket Monster) / ● 49 principles for stores Establishment of four basic store management principles, expansion and operation of these principles through the use of check lists 2013 Plans Code Key Managerial Issues 2013 Commitments Key Index Deadline Department in Charge To operate the 2nd class of the SMART Academy Implementation Jun. KOR)Retail HRD team To offer Sales & Service improvement training Operation Dec. KOR)Retail HRD team for retail FCs To expand sales channels through the use of open Establishment of collaboration channels CS1 Win-Win Partnership collaboration (four companies) Dec. KOR)Retail Marketing Team To continuously operate the 110% growth (YoY) Dec. KOR)Retail Marketing Team Angel (1,004) program To train dealers on the importance of data privacy Implementation Oct. IT Strategy Team To promote and expand SMART Care Service Sales of Smart care (50,000 units/year) Dec. KOR)Retail Marketing Team To promote and expand TBR Smart care Sales of Smart care (25,000 units /year) Dec. KOR)TBR Marketing Team CS2 Customer communication To facilitate online communication YearKOR)Retail Marketing Team/ Operation (SNS, portals, etc.) round Corporate Communication Team To expand and stabilize the POS system (Smart TS) 80% utilization rate Dec. KOR)Retail Marketing Team To launch the highway safety check campaign Six times a year Dec. KOR)Technical Service Team To provide Mobile Service to the less-privileged Quarterly Dec. KOR)Technical Service Team and those that live in island regions To develop and update customer Monthly Dec. KOR)Technical Service Team CS3 Impressive Customer Services consultation manuals To launch emotional marketing initiatives for YearAll new dealers KOR)Marketing Operation Team new dealers round Develop manuals and damage compensation Development Dec. KOR)Technical Service Team systems to address customer complaints HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 48 CS-1 WIN-WIN CUSTOMER STRATEGIES We define dealers as one of our core customers. We are fully committed to assisting them in strengthening their sales competency and boosting sales, as we believe that their enhanced competency leads to the satisfaction of end-consumers. Moreover, we endeavor to develop innovative ways of operating dealer programs through standardized service manuals and training. 1 Capacity-Building Training for Dealers 4 New Product Launching Events SMART Academy / Visiting Service Training In 2012, Launching of Ventus S1 evo2 and enfren eco In April we provided a phased training program for our retail franchises and 2012, an official ceremony was held to launch Ventus S1 evo2 (highemployees to boost the operational capabilities of dealers, who are performance sports tire) and enfren eco (eco-friendly tire) at the in mutually-beneficial relationships with us. Specifically, our ‘SMART Geumsan Plant. The event was attended by 510 guests including our Academy’ program was launched to support the sustained operation employees and major customers and consisted of an introduction of our dealers; sons and daughters who will be taking over their to new products, sales point training and diverse experience-based parents’ roles as Hankook Tire dealers were educated on the CEO programs such as test driving, plant tours and special events. In so mindset and skills directly required to run their business. In 2012, doing, we helped attendees better understand our new products 17 second-generation dealers were trained for three weeks on while offering new pleasant and valuable experience. dealershop operation, marketing, sales and service skills. Moreover, our dedicated retail education team visited those dealers who find Fostering SA (Store Adviser) Dedicated to Retail Stores it extremely difficult to spare time for training and offered ‘visiting’ 5 Monthly SA Workshops and Training Hankook Tire service training on eight occasions in 2012. became the first in the same line of business to establish and operate the Retail Teams (38 team members) dedicated to offering Basic and Service Training for New business consulting to Hankook Tire’s retail franchises in Korea in four 2 Introductory Training for New Dealers We provided regions across the nation. Our Store Advisors (SA), as part of these a five-day intensive introductory training for new dealers on eight retail teams, are responsible for offering operational assistance and occasions a year to assist them in developing practical capabilities to consulting services based on their professional management expertise resolve sales-related issues through detailed business analysis tools while supporting our franchises in the areas of store operation, and demonstrations, thereby ensuring their ‘soft landing.’. Specifically, promotional activities, sales point training and marketing. These SAs professional Sales Masters were engaged to expand the scope working across the nation are also provided with monthly workshops of the training curriculum for sales and conversation skills that are and strategic training in order to develop a more professional immediately applicable as well as improved communication capacity. consulting/coaching system and facilitate communication. Innovative Communication through the JUMP program 3 Angel (1,004) Program 6 130% Growth in Sales per Store Our Angel (1,004) and Discussion Meetings program awards stores for their achievement in reaching their own 137% increase in the Sales of JUMP Stores and JUMP Workshops sales target as a way to promote their sense of purpose and facilitate Our JUMP program constitutes a profit-improvement technique their operation. This program allowed our overall retail FC sales to rise that aims to assist our dealers in boosting profits and developing 130% against the previous year and demonstrated our commitment customer-driven perspectives. A total of 32 dealers attended the to win-win partnership with customers based on full-fledged sales program for four months between May and August of 2012. This led support. (✽Based on sales between Mar. 2012~Feb. 2013, against the period of to an astonishing 137% growth in sales over the same period last year between Jan. ~ Feb. of 2012) in each dealer shop. Moreover, JUMP workshops are held monthly to share success stories and accumulated know-how from the JUMP program (✽ Sales between May~Aug. of 2012, against the period between May~Aug. of 2011/JUMP program implementation period). CS-2 REINFORCEMENT OF CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT AND COMMUNICATION We provide a wider spectrum of activities for customer engagement and communicate in various ways to evolve our products and services a notch higher. Specifically, TV Hankook Tire and the POS system were deployed at our T’Stations across the nation in a bid to diversify our communication channels. 1 Increased Deployment of TV Hankook Tire share product information and policies and to use it as a service TV Hankook Tire Deployed in New T’Stations TV training tool while providing product information and diverse cultural Hankook Tire is our communication channel that is deployed in content to customers. In 2012, TV Hankook Tire was deployed at a T’Stations to allow for real-time communication between Hankook Tire total of 254 dealers in 2012 and its scope will extend gradually from and external customers & dealers. This enables our dealers to swiftly T’Stations to our remaining dealers. 49 FOCUS 03 Win-win customer strategies 48 Reinforcement of customer engagement and communication 48 Customer service 49 Philanthropic Initiatives Undertaken in Relation to the Launching a New TV Advertising Campaign, ‘The 2 4 Newly-Launched Eco-friendly Tire ‘enfren eco’ Function of Tires in Driving’ Posting Positive Feedback on Social Networking Websites In Launching a New Advertising Campaign Series, ‘It is’ Our launching our new eco-friendly tire ‘enfren eco,’ our goal is to raise previous advertising campaign ‘driving emotion,’ which successfully interest in environmental protection and engage more customers in established Hankook Tire as an emotional premium brand was environmental agendas. As such, we held a promotional event to followed by a new campaign in 2012 titled ‘It is’ that emphasized ‘what encourage the general public to post positive feedback for this new tires have to offer.’ The most fundamental properties of improved product, which led to 193,449 responses posted and 100 bikes braking distance/high-speed driving performance/fuel efficiency donated to NGOs. that customers expect of tires were ingrained in the commercial catchphrase, “When a vehicle is pushed to its limit, this is when tires come to provide what they have to offer.” This allowed us to deliver a 3 Kidzania Co-marketing 80,000 Children Attending the Training Program per consistent brand message and elevate our brand status. Year In May 2012, the ‘Hankook Tire Driver’s License Test Center’ was launched within Kidzania, a theme park dedicated to offering Renewal of the T’Station Website/Development of the 5 wide-ranging job experiences, and established itself as a venue that POS System plays a critical role in developing a culture of child traffic safety, in Renewal of the T’Station Website/Completed Development of addition to offering opportunities to experience the Hankook Tire the POS System The renewal of our T’Station website enabled us brand. Approximately 80,000 children are educated on pedestrian/ to provide a customer-friendly interface, share up-to-date information driver safety a year through the content and driving simulation and offer diverse communication channels. Our endeavors to improve programs that were developed specifically for child learning. We customers’ access to information led to 300,000 customer visits per intend to strengthen such initiatives to position ourselves as a leading year and an 18.6% and 3.8% increase in the number of page views brand that contributes to a culture of safe driving. and visits, respectively, in 2012 against 2011. Meanwhile, the POS system was launched at our T’Stations to ensure a continuous flow of information for our dealers on the basis of accurate sales data. CS-3 CUSTOMER SERVICE To enhance awareness of tire safety, we offered free tire inspections and safety counseling for 13,747 vehicles six times a year at seven highway rest areas across the nation. Specifically, free tire air pressure inspections and vacation supply offers helped our customers enjoy even more pleasant and safer summer holidays. Technical Services for F/A (Fleet Account, Individual/ 1 Highway Safety Check Campaign 4 To enhance awareness of tire safety, we offered free tire Corporate Transport Companies) Customers inspections and safety counseling for 13,747 vehicles six times a year Year-round Technical Services for F/A Customers We offered at seven highway rest areas across the nation. Specifically, free tire air both mobile and year-round technical training for our F/A (Fleet pressure inspections and vacation supply offers helped our customers Account) customers. This was further complemented by the outdoor enjoy even more pleasant and safer summer holidays. vehicle testing conducted for F/A customers who worked with our competitors, which helped enhance the reliability and knowledge Website Q/A Section and Customer Response through of our quality level. Free service checks benefited a total of 3,673 2 Facebook vehicles for 188 days in 2012. To ensure more prompt and effective customer counseling, we assigned on-the-spot CS employees to the Customer Service Center, Smart Care Service/5J Standards Introduced in Each 5 who addressed 1,176 customer counseling sessions per year through Store the corporate website. We also developed a triangular cooperation Expansion of SMART Care Service/Develoment of Store system, which consisted of the Customer Service Center, Corporate Operation Standards through 5J Training Our SMART Care Communication Team and staff in charge of respective products, to Service aims to reduce the cost of tire purchasing and help with offer immediate feedback to issues raised by customers, thus raising vehicle management for customers who purchase tires at the customer satisfaction. T’Station. This constitutes our unique specialized service that is geared toward improving customers’ satisfaction by purchasing our Mobile Service –Mobile Service for the Less-Privileged tires through customized total care while providing wide-ranging 3 benefits that contribute to safer driving. In 2012, the number of and Residents in Island Regions Our Mobile Service vehicles offered ‘visiting’ services to the lesscredit card companies that include SMART Care Service in their privileged and customers living in island regions who are often customer benefits rose from three to six to make this service available neglected in traditional services ensuring driving safety. In so doing, for more customers while the scope of operational items extended 1,329 vehicles received safety checks per year. (1,160 vehicles in from passenger cars to include light trucks. To elevate customer island regions/169 vehicles owned by the less-privileged). Specifically, satisfaction further, our store-specific management standardization free tire safety checks & counseling and tire replacement services, as program was also reinforced;: quarterly clean store campaigns, selfwell as events for disabled individuals were provided in conjunction initiated monitoring, and training to make it mandatory for dealers to with Korea Polytechnics in island regions near Yokji Island, Heuksan issue detailed vehicle maintenance statements were performed under Island and Jeju Island. These events were filled with the spirit of the leadership of the headquarters. sharing and allowed us to deliver truly extraordinary customer services. FOCUS 03 HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 50 External Stakeholder Satisfaction Management FOCUS 03-3-2 Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management (Car Makers) Declaration As a business partner with car makers, we are dedicated to maintaining a sustainable business relationship with these manufacturers by developing technologies that meet their performance requirements and by securing an eco-friendly competitive edge in quality, based on superior products and systemized systems that satisfy global standards. CS Management Responsibility and Governance CUSTOMER SATISFACTION & QUALITY We run an integrated decision-making process that covers all MANAGEMENT relevant segments ranging from defining strategic directions for global OE business to R&D, quality, marketing and sales under the leadership of the head of the Global OE Division. Our strategy to improve quality is specifically geared towards the maximization of R&D and quality competency. This, in turn, bases our communication activities on maximum customer satisfaction between major relevant departments covering marketing and sales and car makers. 2012 Achievements ●: Completed ◐ : Partially Completed ◦: Not Implemented : Year-round Activity Code Key Managerial Issues 2012 Goals 2012 Achievements Completion Pages To develop additional new products that reflect performance requirements of major car makers Development of LRR/Runflat*/Self Sealing** tire technology ◐ 51 Reinforcement ofproduct External certification (one certification from BMW) to become a CS4 competency To sophisticate OE quality management systems supplier for premium OEs for each car maker Zero defects achieved for premium OE projects ● 51 Quality mindset training for operators to respond to quality requirements of car makers To hold car maker business meetings regularly 50 business meetings held with 20 car makers ● 51 Establishment of global CS5 standard processes CSR interview with BMW on Mar. 23, 2012 To bring car maker’s requirements up to date Corrective Action Plan submitted on Aug. 28, 2012 51 2nd Corrective Action Plant to be submitted in Mar. 2013 Reinforcement of B2B magazine advertising in Europe (eight magazines) CS6 communication To expand B2B Communication Outdoor advertising near the BMW headquarters in Stuttgart, Germany ● 51 ✽ Runflat tires: Specially manufactured safety tires that enable vehicles to drive with stability even during potential air leaks caused by punctures ✽✽ Self sealing tires: Safety tires that generate a sealing compound that distributes from the inside to line the tire in the case of tire punctures 2013 Plans Code Key Managerial Issues 2013 Commitments Key Index Deadline Department in Charge To conduct B2B communication regularly Attendance at exhibitions/regular meetings Year-round Global OE Strategy Team CS4 Sustained communication Satisfy car makers’ requirements Implementation Dec. CSR Team To respond to high-level performance Technology development to satisfy OE Development Team/ Reinforcement of product Year-round CS5 requirements from major car makers high-level performance requirements Global OE Technical Team competency To sophisticate the OE quality management system Competitive edge in quality Year-round OE Quality Team ✽ ‘Strengthening product capabilities through the sustained communication with car makers’ was newly added as one of the major 2013 plans. 51 FOCUS 03 Reinforcement of product competency 51 Establishment of global standard processes 51 Reinforcement of communication 51 CS-4 REINFORCEMENT OF PRODUCT COMPETENCY Central to our endeavors to secure product competency that satisfies the requirements of car makers is quality improvement and the development of next-generation technology demanded by the automobile market. Furthermore, we develop eco-friendly and innovative technology while enhancing our competitive edge in quality to build stronger partnerships with car makers. Development of New Products based on Sophisticated OE Quality Management System for Each 1 2 Next-generation Tire Performance Requirements Car Maker Development of Technology that Meets High-level Performance Competitive Edge in Environmental Quality To build stronger Requirements Our research on runflat tires and self sealing tires partnership with car makers, we improved our plant management focusing on remarkably enhanced safety performance continues system to a level that satisfied their environmental standards. This through the analysis of auto market trends and proactive initiatives, enabled us to meet their auditing criteria and become qualified as a in addition to such eco-friendly technologies as LRR (low rolling supplier. Furthermore, we continue to satisfy car makers’ requirements resistance) tires and low-noise tires. In 2012, we were given high concerning tire quality to ensure that our new product supplies are marks for multiple durability and handling performance tests problem-free while providing continuous ‘quality mindset’ training to conducted by Volkswagen and other German car makers. This, our operators under our ‘Quality First’ philosophy. in turn, proved our technological excellence, which contributes to reduced trade off (enhanced performance in one function gives rise to deteriorated performance in other functions) and improved safety. CS-5 ESTABLISHMENT OF GLOBAL STANDARD PROCESSES While maintaining our partnership with global car makers, we develop car maker-related CSR policies and share our CSR initiatives as a business partner while undertaking training programs and other improvement initiatives. 1 Regular Business Meetings with Car Makers 2 Updating Requirements from Car Makers Regular Meetings and Extended Content In 2012, Sharing the improvement of each initiatives We we held more than 50 business meetings with over 20 car makers. regularly update the CSR improvement initiatives demanded by car Specifically, CSR-related feedback and requirements from car makers in order to share our progress with them. Specifically, we makers are reflected in defining short/long-term goals at our CSR discussed the following issues with BMW: mandatory inclusion of Subcommittee, while CSR-related content is reflected in making CSR requirements such as the ban on the employment of teenagers, various presentation materials that are used for OE business which BMW demands all its suppliers to comply with, in signing operation. supply contracts; addition of CSR requirements in supplier evaluation; and the development/implementation of supplier incentive and penalty programs to ensure full compliance with CSR requirements. Hankook Tire and BMW eventually conceded that all mutually agreed upon requirements would be equally observed at the all Hankook Tire plants in Korea and abroad. CS-6 REINFORCEMENT OF COMMUNICATION We will undertake more robust marketing initiatives in order to build stronger partnerships with global car makers and develop mutually complementary relationship with them. As such, we serve as an active participant in major motor shows, exhibitions and world-renowned motor sports events. B2B Communication through Exhibitions and Motor 1 Improved Brand Image as a Supplier to DTM Sports Events We are an exclusive tire supplier to DTM, a world-class motor sports Increased Participation in Exhibitions Our attendance in AUTO competition, participated in by the three major German car makers– China, one of the nation’s leading auto exhibitions, allowed us to BMW, Mercedes-Benz and Audi. Our partnership with these topintroduce our technological advantages and business strategies in our notch car makers is one of the most important contributors to the OE operation while building closer partnerships with various global success of DTM. In 2012, we used the DTM vehicles from these three car makers. Such exchanges were covered by prestigious local media car makers to launch print advertisements with major auto magazines outlets, which further elevated our brand status in China. Presently, in Germany as well as outdoor advertising in automobile-centered we provide our products to Volkswagen, the most popular auto brand cities such as Stuttgart as a way to improve Hankook Tire brand’s in China, and many others. recognition and appeal. FOCUS 04 HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 52 Employee Value Creation TRACK RECORDS OF EMPLOYEE GRIEVANCE Hankook Tire and its labor union ensure that grievances are prevented through a grievance resolution system (based on Korea). Number of Grievance Committee Number of grievances handled meetings (Number of Meetings) (Number of grievances) EV 2012 2011 17 18 2012 2011 32 18 2010 17 2010 17 EMPLOYEE VALUE CREATION AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS PER PERSON [Number of hours] We continue to reinforce our training systems to nurture talented employees with a global competitive edge as a way to achieve our vision to become a 'Leading Global Tire Company'. Korea Overseas plants 2012 86 2012 68 2011 82 2011 64 2010 76 MENTORING PROGRAMS [Number of participants] Our mentoring programs aim to assist new hires and current employees in the Rookie position in adapting to their new roles early on as Hankook Tire staff (based on Korea). 2012 264 2011 227 2010 108 Declaration We share our vision through open communication and TRAINING FOR provide our employees with fair opportunities in promoting FUTURE RETIREES a healthier and happier workplace while working together [Number of participants] for shared growth. Our retiree training programs help future retirees deal with anxiety that often occurs in retirement, to gain confidence to use this opportunity Management Responsibility and Governance as a new beginning and turn retirement into a new positive challenge (based on Korean plants). The Employee Subcommittee, supervised by the Human Trainees (Number of persons) Training completion(%) Resource Management Team, classifies relevant issues into four categories, while initiatives are addressed by each 2012 62 2012 93.9 team (Proactive University, Proactive Culture Team, etc.). 2011 61 2011 98.4 The Human Resource Management Team is responsible 2010 35 2010 92.1 for monitoring relevant teams and offering feedback on Overseas Plants : China (Jiaxing/Jiangsu/Chongqing Plants), Hungary Plant each initiative. The subcommittee holds quarterly to share <The Indonesia Plant was excluded due to its low comparability (newly constructed), and will be included in estimation from 2013> progress on issues in order to create employee value and Company-wide: Korea and overseas regional headquarters/subsidiaries, overseas plants encourage employees to be engaged in their work. 53 FOCUS 04 Open communication 54 Fair Opportunities 56 Growth-fostering training systems 57 Work/Life Balance 58 2012 Achievements ●: Completed ◐ : Partially Completed ◦: Not Implemented : Year-round Activity Code Key Managerial Issues 2012 Goals 2012 Achievements Completion Pages Communication at overseas regional headquarters was facilitated. Project to build core value into daily operation (development of training curriculum) / Support for communication activities in China (Internal IR improvement, mission & vision training, broadcasting, mentoring programs) / Global HR Forum (annually) HR, Employee welfare & benefits schemes were promoted. Continuous training and guidance on performance management (7 training sessions, To facilitate internal communication letters indicating guidelines sent five times, monitoring performed four times) / ● 54, 55 Development of integrated employee handbooks for operators / Communication programs for R&D Center employees (Nine sessions of Making Class, six rounds of EV1 Open communication Dulae Mountain Tour) Communication with operators was strengthened. New communication channels (55 suggestion boxes installed, new e-mail channels for direct communication with plant managers Labor Union Council was facilitated. To sustain a trust-based labor Year-round operation (more than once a month) / Information sharing and discussions management culture between labor and management (monthly) / Joint learning units (two in-house learning ● 55, 56 sessions, seven external learning sessions) Diversity performance indicators were developed. Global HR projects were expanded (Europe, America, Indonesia). To set up fair HR systems R&D HR systems were improved. ◐ 56 EV2 Fair Opportunities Internship Program To review global standards regarding Compliance with human rights/labor standards was reviewed labor practices and establish Hankook (in accordance with ISO 26000). ● 56 Tire’s application criteria Mentoring programs were expanded (for existing R&D employees). To strengthen informal learning Employee idea program (for white collors) was launched. ● 57 Growth-fostering training Job expertise training was facilitated (by function). EV3 systems Infrastructure for global staff job training was strengthened (job-specific training To strengthen job training systems and in-house lecturer fostering courses). / Job expertise training was ● 57 provided for manufacturing staff. / Job training was strengthened for operators. / Internal MBA courses were offered to R&D Center staff. To expand family-friendly management, Use of in-house childcare facilities was increased. childcare facilities, and provide support Childcare leave was established as part of standard corporate culture. ● 58 for married female employees Multicultural family support programs were provided. Work Smart initiatives were continually strengthened. EV4 Work/life balance Meeting and reporting practices were improved at the R&D Center. / Electronic documentary evidence system was introduced. / Paperless on pay statements were To pursue a pleasant work life introduced for operators. ● 59 EAP initiatives were facilitated. Professional counselors were fostered. / Pilot mental health counseling program was established. / On-site parenting class was operated (three sessions in total). 2013 Plans Code Key Managerial Issues 2013 Commitments Deadline Department in Charge Human Resource Management Team / To facilitate internal communication Proactive Culture Team / Kor) Labor Relations Strengthen in-house broadcasting infrastructure and shift to video broadcasting. Jun. Innovation Team / DP) Labor Relations Team / Share a global newsletter format (general+ local). Dec. KP) Labor Relations Team / Establish regular level-specific communication channels for all operators. Year-round R&D Operations Team EV1 Open communication Human Resource Management Team / To maintain a trust-based labor-management culture Kor) Labor Relations Innovation Team / Guarantee legitimate labor union activities. Year-round DP) Labor Relations Team / Operate a constant information sharing system. KP) Labor Relations Team / Strengthen joint corporate philanthropic activities (USR). R&D Operations Team Human Resource Management Team / To establish fair HR systems Dec. G.HR Team / DP) Human Resource Team / Develop and manage global diversity management performance indicators. Nov. KP) Human Resource Team / Develop and use an HR management index (ex. ROI/person, EVA/person). R&D Innovation Team EV2 Fair Opportunities To review global standards concerning labor practices and develop our own application criteria Analyze human rights-related standards of ILO and the UN Global Compact to identify Human Resource Management Team / our own human rights management. Dec. G.HR Team / Use the identified aspects to examine the status of global human rights management Kor) Labor Relations Innovation Team operations. To strengthen informal learning Proactive Culture Team / Year-round Strengthen the operation of the Employee idea program for white collar. DP)Plant Innovation Office / Oct. Introduce an online in-house suggestion program for manufacturing staff. KP)Plant Innovation Office Growth-fostering training EV3 systems To strengthen job training Proactive University / DP) Human Resource Team / Oct. Strengthen training for newly-hired office workers. DP) Human Resource Team / R&D Innovation Nov. Increase the number of in-house lecturers and improve their capabilities. Team /Global Education Operation Team To expand family-friendly management Human Resource Management Team / Internally review requirements of the family-friendly company certification. Cultural Communication Team / Dec. Operate a marriage support program. DP) Human Resource Team / Year-round Provide cultural/leisure programs. KP) Human Resource Team/ Dec. EV4 Work/life balance Review the expansion of female-friendly facilities. R&D Innovation Team / General Affairs Team To pursue a pleasant workplace Apr. IT Strategy Team / Revise internal groupware (mobile office was newly launched). Dec. Labor Relations Innovation Team Introduce a mental health counseling program. HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 54 EV-1 OPEN COMMUNICATION At Hankook Tire, the establishment of a creative corporate culture is supported by open communication with employees. In addition, both online and offline communication channels are constantly expanding to identify possible improvements that may contribute to maximizing employee values. These endeavors encourage our employees to be engaged in the management of the company as well as make their voices to be heard. Internal Communication Integrated Employee Handbook for Operators To 1 Core Value Training Project As our employees previously effectively disseminate our mission & vision structure as well as our only had an abstract concept of our core values (passion, innovation, corporate information to operators who experience relatively low trust and global), we designed training curriculum to share our existing online accessibility compared to office workers, we designed and mission & vision structure (please refer to p. 4 for further information) distributed employee handbooks. These combined the existing TPM and help them internalize and practice our core values. Interviews and handbooks including our mission & vision, HR policies and welfare workshops with top executives and employees as well as an analysis & benefits schemes. We believe that these handbooks will help of literature allowed us to identify 120 concrete demonstrations of our employees integrate our core values into their daily operation. The core values, which were then integrated in the training curriculum. In handbooks also include health tips, financial information, cultural and 2013, we will provide core value training to all employee. travel information in addition to HR and benefits information to be Communication in China Our China regional headquarters widely used by employees. We will ensure that these handbooks stay lacked sufficient understanding of our mission & vision structure updated with useful content. due to lack of training. Thus, six in-house lecturers from the China ✽TPM: Total Productivity Management (Value-driven total productivity management activities) headquarters were trained in Korea on our mission & vision structure in February 2012. These lecturers returned to China to provide Communication Program for R&D Staff Our R&D Center Hankook Tire mission & vision training to 560 employees via 14 endeavors to offer a venue for open-minded communication and sessions during a span of three months from July and October, based to build a culture of fun and creativity as a way to facilitate internal on new hire and floor shop staff training materials. We also assisted communication. In 2012, our ‘Making Class’ and ‘Dulae Mountain our China headquarters in establishing ‘HANA,’ an internal website, as Tour’ as part of such endeavors: nine sessions of the ‘Making Class’ an interactive communication channel. This contributed to sharing our were offered under employees’ favorite themes such as handmade mission & vision structure, removing communication barriers between chocolate, sweet potato cake, ceramics, wine and coffee, and the Korean expatriate workers and their local employees, and creating an ‘Dulae Mountain Tour’ was undertaken six times along the Dulae online community to facilitate innovation initiatives and build its own trekking course located in Daejeon. corporate culture, thereby revitalizing internal communication at the New Communication Channels with Operators China headquarters. We also helped design a new hire mentoring Presently, we use both on/offline channels to facilitate communication program that assists new recruits in adapting to their new role at with operators; 55 suggestion boxes were installed at the Geumsan Hankook Tire while providing operational expertise. Plant as an offline channel, while an e-mail channel was created to Global HR Forum Our Global HR Forum aimed to promote ensure direct communication with plant managers. These means of exchanges and build consensus among HR employees working in communication are under the direct management of plant managers Korea and abroad (Period: Sep. 10 ~ Sep. 12, 2012). The three-day and help us directly communicate with our internal customers on the forum was held at our Academy House in Geumsan, Korea, with an shop floor. In 2013, suggestion boxes will be installed at our Daejeon attendance of 29 HR employees from Europe, America, China and Plant as well. These suggestion boxes will be consistently operated Indonesia. The forum enabled participants to discuss HR issues in in addition to the existing grievance system in order to improve the their regions and shared best practices concerning global HR policies. satisfaction of and communication with employee. Performance Management Training and Guidance Our performance management practices are centered on active Suggestion Boxes Based on Geumsan Plant in Korea in 2012 employee communication. To establish such practices, continued training and guidance were offered throughout the entire performance Suggestions Issues Actions management process for managers. As a preliminary step, seven Stronger antiEmployees’ needs for Anti-smoking handbooks & aids and vitamin smoking rounds of performance management capability training were provided. initiatives anti-smoking initiatives beverages were distributed. Letters indicating performance management guidelines were sent Need to facilitate Sports activities (bowling) and other means were Conflicts among five times while managers and team members were encouraged and communication among used as a medium to resolve conflicts and to co-workers co-workers facilitate communication among co-workers. monitored to document their communication records at least four times a year. 55 FOCUS 04 Open communication 54 Fair Opportunities 56 Growth-fostering training systems 57 Work/Life Balance 58 Communication Channel No. Channel Target 2012 Progress New/Additional Plans in 2013 Common Donggeurami World, CSR Reports, Annual Reports 1 Printed Channel Office Workers Boram Journal, Story of Communication We All Share, Operators Monthly Communication (Improvement of Boram Journal) Integrated Employee Common CoP (Community of Practice), Family Plant Tour Program G.CEO meetings, Mentoring, Global HR Forum, Internal IR, TOPRO Office Workers Proactive Conference(R&D Communication) (R&D awarding ceremony), Proactive Conference (R&D Communication) 2 Off-Line Channel Challenge 5.11, Suggestion Boxes, Direct E-mail with Plant Managers, Operators Labor-Management Council, Labor-Management Consultative Meetings, Discussions, Joint Learning Units In-house Broadcasting (Driving Emotion), HANeHR, Performance Management Guideline Letters, Common Global Newsletters, In-house Video Broadcasting Sales News Letters (within Daejeon Plant cafeteria) 3 On-Line Channel Office Workers HANA, Employee Idea Program Operators Direct E-Mail with Plant Managers Online employee idea program for operators Issued Identified in Each Employment Category 2012 Progress 2013 Plans No. Category ISSUE Improvements Made ISSUE Improvements Made Policies and To improve on the promotional point system/objection Policies and systems In-house lecturers were fostered (overseas) systems submission process / job rotation system Office Performance 1 HR facilitation initiatives were strengthened Job process To re-organize the internal groupware (install mobile office) Workers management HANeHR was developed (China, Europe) Job process Benefit schemes To review the expansion of female-friendly facilities Electronic documentary evidence system was launched Encourage employees to build core values in their daily To launch a mental health counseling program Performance operation Policies and → various communication channels were developed To launch an employee idea program and an online management systems communication system for operators and facilitated 2 Operators To undertake PR activities for operators to accurately HR systems and HR system training was offered to operators Wage understand their pay statements wage Paperless of pay statements were introduced for operators To offer training on how to search pay statements online Family-friendly management was expanded To launch H-LOHAS Slow Walking Program for Diversity → support for multicultural families Diversity multicultural families Construction of a new R&D center was undertaken, Policies and Benefits schemes New travel benefits were introduced for employees with To undertake the R&D innovation project systems more than 30 years of service 3 Researchers Policies and systems R&D innovation project was undertaken Job process To undertake the R&D innovation project Career To establish a CDP(Career Development Program) Job process R&D innovation project was undertaken opportunities structure for R&D staff ✽ Based on the internal job engagement survey conducted in 2012 Trust-based Labor-Management Culture Regular Communication with the Labor Union Hankook 2 Year-round Labor-Management Consultative Meetings Tire and the labor union communicate with each other weekly and Hankook Tire and the labor union are engaged in quarterly monthly on detailed progress made by each plant, in addition to consultations that address pending issues that arise in the workplace. attending official consultative meetings. This enables both sides to When issues emerge that require joint discussions between the communicate transparently, eliminate causes of any unnecessary company and the labor union or are related to the improvement of misunderstanding, and build a labor-management culture that allows working conditions, Labor-Management Council meetings are held close and friendly communication. year-round to allow for immediate consultations between relevant Joint Learning Units Hankook Tire and the labor union departments and the labor union, independently from the laboroperate joint learning units to gain knowledge of the latest internal/ management consultative meetings. We ensure that labor and external trends as well as expertise to forge further growth. To this management share information on pending issues that affect both end, Joint Learning Day was celebrated and joint workshops were parties and discuss countermeasures, so as to prevent and settle successfully held in knowledge community format. Hankook Tire mutual conflicts and maintain productive and competitive labor and the labor union will move beyond simply having consultations to relations. actively sharing information and knowledge and seeking joint growth. Labor Union Organizational Chart Based on Korea in 2012 Four members at the head office Chairman Three members at the Geumsan branch Vice Chairman Vice Chairman (Director of Branch) Executive Director of General Affairs Executive Director of Planning Executive Director of General Affairs Executive Director of Organizing ✽A total of seven full-time staff members are dedicated to union work. HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 56 Our Unionized Workers Based on Korea in 2012 Labor-Management Council Based on Korea in 2012 Category Business Site Number of Unionized Workers Ratio Operational Monthly in each business site Cycle (Year-round consultations are made when issues arise) Headquarters 199 4.2% Sharing information on pending issues that affect both labor and (including sales and logistics) management and jointly developing best-possible countermeasures Head Office R&D Centers 322 6.8% (Including production technology) Jan., Sep. Off-duty during New Year’s Day and Korean Thanksgiving Day Apr. Cancellation of the retirement insurance contract Daejeon Plant 2,227 47.1% Achievements May Presentation on the transition to a holding company structure Geumsan Branch Geumsan Plant 1,983 41.9% Jul. Construction of a parking tower, Operational standards for Preparation team Total 4,731 100.0% Aug., Sep. Cafeteria remodeling Sep Gastrointestinal endoscope examinations, Joint safety campaign EV-2 FAIR OPPORTUNITIES We have fair and transparent HR policies for all employees to ensure that the talent-centered management philosophy, a key part of our management principles, is translated into action. Such fair assessment and compensation as well as a corporate culture of communication and harmony enable us to improve our employee satisfaction. Fair HR Systems recruited experienced employees who satisfied the level of capabilities 1 we defined. In responding to the latter, we will hire new recruits and Development of Diversity Management Performance Indicators We are developing our diversity management system advance them to higher levels through the CDP system. In developing to enhance our creativity and flexibility while building competitive the CDP system for the technical workforce, the operational concept advantages as a global company through the increased diversity was defined in 2012 as the first step, which will be followed by the of our employees amid changing global business conditions. Thus, development and implementation of detailed plans in 2013 as the we are identifying the status of our female and disabled employees. second step. For instance, we use the affirmative action management system Internship Program Our internship program is operated proposed by the Ministry of Employment and Labor in managing our to secure outstanding individuals. This program targets university female workers, which has led to the continued recruitment of female students who are seeking jobs and aims to hire talented individuals employees as well as increases in the number of female employees early on and verify their practical capabilities before recruitment. In and female managers (based on Korea: the number of female workers 2012, our internship program helped us recruit 16 such individuals. In rose by 54 from 2011). 2013, we will expand the program to provide fair and transparent and Our aim is not just to promote the employment of women and those employment opportunities with disabilities, but also to establish a corporate culture where individuals of diverse nationalities and races are recruited without 2 Review of Global Labor Practice Standards and the discrimination and work in harmony to reach our creative and Development of Hankook Tire’s Criteria innovative potential. Furthermore, an integrated diversity management ISO 26000-based Review of Our Human Rights and Labor Practices system that befits our status as a global company will be developed We fully comply with international human rights/labor standards. In to enable the management of the ratio of female and disabled workers 2012, we inspected and graded the level of our compliance with and other various indicators, thus contributing to both the quantitative checklist items proposed by ISO 26000 in order to review the scope and qualitative growth of Hankook Tire. of regulation disclosures concerning human rights and labor practices. Expansion of Global HR Projects (Europe, America, Indonesia) These self-initiated assessment discovered (based on Korea) that our Our global HR projects have been in progress since 2011 to support employees held a high level of awareness on social responsibility, that our rapidly growing overseas operation and to grow ourselves into we have well-organized operational systems, policies and practices as a Global One Company. In 2012, these projects were launched in well as effective performance management practices. These have been respective regions of Europe, America and Indonesia. This helped maintained through the integration of social responsibility initiatives us establish the ‘HR Governance’ structure that enables integrated in the entire conduct of business, while our compliance with social support for and management of HR functions at overseas sites and responsibility should be promoted within the sphere of our influence. the development of an integrated global HR system, while defining Sustained maintenance and management is needed through stronger directions for further improvement through the diagnoses of detailed ties with local communities. Our human rights inspection criteria and HR systems. processes, however, needed further improvement as a result of this Improvement of R&D HR systems (Project to Innovate a R&D assessment. While we identified our level of human rights management Operational System) Our Main R&D Center developed technologyat the Korea headquarters, we will use the ISO 26000-based centered recruitment plans, the CDP (Career Development Program) compliance checklist at our overseas sites so as to assess the status system for researchers and an advanced specialist (senior researcher) of our global operations concerning human rights/labor practices. system as a way to establish a systemized talent fostering process and fair HR systems. As part of such endeavors, technologies required for tire R&D were classified into technologies that could be developed by experienced new hires and technologies whose development required the fostering of new recruits into experts. As for the former, we already 57 FOCUS 04 Open communication 54 Fair Opportunities 56 Growth-fostering training systems 57 Work/Life Balance 58 EV-3 GROWTH-FOSTERING TRAINING SYSTEMS To encourage employees to fully engage in generating outcomes as a fundamental engine of growth and to build greater organizational competency, we provide performance management training and job training by position level. Moreover, our mentoring program aims to help new hires adapt to their new roles early on and build organizational culture. Strengthened Informal Learning Programs Introduction and Implementation of the Employee 1 Expansion of the Mentoring Program (for Existing R&D Idea Program for Office Workers In addition to the existing Staff) After the initial pilot operation for existing employees in idea program that targets operators, ‘Proactive 1 GRAND PRIX’ was 2011, our mentoring program extended its scope in 2012. Employees launched to provide easy and interesting ways for office workers to from different departments formed mentoring ties to help them develop suggest their ideas. This program enables office workers to readily their careers through inter-departmental exchanges and seamless cosuggest ideas anytime through the intranet and have their suggestions working. Meanwhile, executives and team leaders were designated evaluated immediately. Since its launch in September 2012, a total as senior mentors, which facilitate the transfer of senior mentors’ of 6,000 ideas were submitted as of December thanks to the keen experience and technical know-how as well as the sharing of interinterest and active participation of our employees. generational issues. It was specifically considered that mentees in their assistant manager position could rarely exchange or communicate with executives and team leaders, which prompted us to let senior managers who were mentors, play an intermediary role to allow for free communication between assistant managers and top-executives. Weekend group volunteering activities and group baseball game outings enabled researchers to meet a portion of their needs for exchanges with other staff. In 2013, our mentoring program will extend its scope to include experienced employees. INTERVIEW Introduction to Proactive 1 GRAND PRIX “Imagine anything by forward-thinking and speak your ideas freely!” Proactive 1 GRAND PRIX is Hankook Tire’s internal idea suggestion program that allows our office workers to enjoy virtual racing competitions and suggest ideas in a simple and fun way. Since it began in September 2012, this program was met with exponential interest and participation of our employees. Our in-house experts who work at Proactive 1 GRAND PRIX award ceremony the very front of our business operations can submit their creative business-driven ideas while sharing and addressing issues of their own and others. They can also note company-wide concerns through this ‘venue for internal communication.’ Three competitions have been held so far to generate various ideas with tangible and intangible benefits including improved job process, reduced costs and productivity gains, and these ideas are constantly registered and applied to actual operations. With Proactive 1 GRAND PRIX that translates small but brilliant ideas into action one by one, we can no doubt expect an even brighter future for Hankook Tire! Proactive 1 GRAND PRIX website Interview with Winners 1. Hwang Kum kang, Raw Material Development Team, Top performer (Suggestion) in the Singaporean Competition Proactive 1 GRAND PRIX offered the great opportunity for us to translate the ideas that usually stay inside our heads, into concrete action and to share them with relevant departments. I expect that we all offer our ideas with the intention they be addressed with thorough follow-up efforts to contribute to the growth of the company and to build a corporate culture where such communication becomes part of our daily operation. 2. Kim Young-woo, Proactive University, Top performer (Operation) in the Singaporean Competition In putting ideas into action, I realized that “ideas truly shine when they are translated into action.” When Proactive 1 GRAND PRIX was first initiated, I thought to myself, “Everybody is busy with their own work and there won’t be many who join this competition.” This changed gradually as the event emerged with importance in multiple departments and the nature of submissions transformed from simply good or brilliant ideas to workable breakthroughs. Finally, when such breakthrough ideas were executed, I exclaimed to myself, “Ah! Proactive 1 GRAND PRIX may become a growth engine for Hankook Tire!” Nowadays, when good ideas come to mind while talking about the company and work, somebody will say, “That idea should be in the Proactive 1 GRAND PRIX competition.” This event has become an essential part of our corporate culture. I hope that Proactive 1 GRAND PRIX become the most valuable contributor to making Hankook Tire a Leading Global Tire Company, and that its culture sustains in a creative manner. HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 58 Strengthened Job Training Expertise Training for Manufacturing Staff Our job expertise 2 Strengthened Infrastructure for Global Staff Job training courses are under operation to enhance engineers’ capabilities Training In response to the quantitative growth propelled by the based on our level/job-specific roadmap. These courses were also construction of new plants and the expansion of existing ones as well combined with job training for new hires with science and engineering as increasing sales, we have continued to improve employees’ job backgrounds to help newly hired engineers adapt to their role early on. performance as a way to build stronger HR competency as an engine In addition, we are currently developing courses to enable our staff to of qualitative growth. While we focused on strengthening job training learn and use new technology in their operation through training on for our sales and R&D staff until 2011, in 2012 our focus shifted to advanced overseas best practices. improving our employees’ functional job capacity including HR & Strengthened Job Training for Operators Our Global planning, innovation, and business management in order to take a Training Center (opened in July 2010), designed to help operators build step closer to reaching our strategic goal of Balanced Growth. Such stronger capacity, provides process-specific practical job training as endeavors started with laying the framework for job-specific training well as job training for facility maintenance staff. In 2012, preliminary systems and creating a list of necessary curriculum courses in order to training was offered to 62 employees to assist local operators at our provide initial job training to our global staff. new overseas plants in building capacity. Meanwhile our overseas plants evolved to operate independently through the training offered In addition, six in-house lecturer development courses were offered, by our Global Masters, who are responsible for offering technological which is an increase of two from 2011, to create a pool of in-house support and fostering locally hired staff at overseas plants. lecturers. In so doing, we were able to develop a stronger infrastructure In-house MBA for Researchers (Executives and Team for global staff job training through the use of internal expertise. Leaders) Our Techno MBA (in-house MBA program) courses were We intend to build on this infrastructure laid in 2012 to provide job provided to 34 R&D center executives and team leaders for 20 weeks training to university graduates who are hired through our public from May to October of 2012. This MBA program aims to foster R&D recruitment process in 2013 and gradually expand its scope to include managers with the right balance between research and management existing employees. capabilities and thus improve our competitive edge in R&D. Course topics included technology strategy management, financial accounting, marketing and human resource management, which are needed for our managers with science and engineering background. This MBA program will be expanded further to cover senior managers. EV-4 WORK/LIFE BALANCE We are committed to creating a workplace where all employees attain a fair work/life balance, enjoy a high quality work life and feel contentment within an organization that cares. We believe that such endeavors will be translated into enhanced trust and satisfaction, as well as improved health and reduced stress for our employees. Expansion of Family-friendly Management 1 Childcare Leave as an Essential Part of the Corporate Increasing Employees Who Use Our Childcare Facilities Culture To make childcare leave an essential part of our corporate Our ‘Hankook Tire Donggeurami Childcare Centers’ assist employees culture as a way to promote a positive work/life balance, we in reducing their child-rearing burden while striking the right balance encouraged our married female employees to take childcare leave in between their professional and personal life in order to fully engage 2012, which doubled the number of employees who used childcare themselves in work. At the headquarters, the center started operation leave from 2011. Our plan for 2013 is to review the family-friendly in December 2010. A house with a grassy playground where 49 company certification, which recognizes companies with outstanding children can freely run about took care of three classes of children family-friendly systems that contribute to employees’ work/life balance. (classified by age) with the help of seven dedicated teachers, as Multicultural Family Support Programs Our corporate of December 2012. The facility has increasingly become a favored culture aims to unite our employees, their families and the company childcare option for our employees due to its top-notch facility and as one. To this end, diverse programs are under operation to engage close proximity (125% increase in the number of children from 2011). employee families. Specifically, in 2012, 36 multicultural employee Our Main R&D Center has been operating a child-care center with a families were provided birthday cakes with congratulatory messages capacity of 88 children since January 2011. As of December 2012, written in the language of the foreign spouse. This initiative will expand 51 children were provided care in four different classes classified by to a ‘specialized multicultural family program’ that enables employee age. These outstanding child care programs and services are provided multicultural families to experience traditional Korean culture and by 11 highly qualified teachers to ensure the healthy growth of our Korea’s unique affection-based relationship. In so doing, we aim to employees’ children (37.8% increase in the number of children from establish a culture of ‘Hankook Tire Family’ that transcends boundaries 2012). of nationality. 59 FOCUS 04 Open communication 54 Fair Opportunities 56 Growth-fostering training systems 57 Work/Life Balance 58 2 Pleasant Workplace Operation of the Grievance Committee at each Plant Based on Korea in 2012 Meeting/Reporting Practice Improvement at the Main Category Daejeon Plant Geumsan Plant Total R&D Center Our Main R&D Center is improving its meeting practices Number of to establish efficient meeting/reporting practices and revitalize its Committee 6 11 17 organizational culture. In 2012, meeting practice improvement Meetings guidelines were distributed primarily to reduce weekday meetings, Number of Grievances 10 22 32 which were followed by constant monitoring and a gathering of Handled feedback to ensure the execution of these guidelines. As a result, the Job rotation: 10 Job rotation: 19 number of weekday meetings at the Main R&D Center fell by 50%. Job rotation: 9 Move into Move into Type of Grievances Move into dormitories: 5 dormitories: 6 In so doing, we aim to minimize meetings that are held simply to dormitories: 1 Move into company Move into company report progress and improve the efficiency of weekday meetings while housing: 7 housing: 7 promoting one-on-one communication between team leaders and members. To establish efficient meeting/reporting practices and to enhance employee’s engagement in their work, our Main R&D Center will continue to monitor, identify and improve on inefficient practices. Electronic Documentary Evidence System Our Work Visiting Parenting Class Our employee assistance Smart initiatives are undertaken intensively with a goal to deliver a programs aim to provide support to employee families, in addition pleasant workplace, reduce low value-added work and save time & to addressing such employee grievances concerning mental health, cost. As part of such endeavors, the electronic documentary evidence stress, conflicts in relationships, career path, and difficulties in adapting system was launched to address issues concerning the printing and to worklife. It was with this objective that our parenting class was storage of evidence documents and to ensure streamlined and more provided to help employees address their grievances concerning child efficient work processes. Our next step will be to deploy a mobile office education and communication with their children, and to contribute to improve the accessibility to our internal groupware. to an educational community of companies, families and schools. In Paperless of Pay Statements for Operators As part of 2012, our employees, who could rarely take time out of their hectic our Work Smart initiatives that aim to save time & cost, printed pay schedules in spite of their high interest in the career development and statements were delivered to those operators who made their initial education of their children, in addition to their spouses, attended three request starting in 2012 based on the agreement reached between sessions of parenting classes that invited expert lecturers (school labor and management. While all our operators previously received principals) to address such topics as children's career development, printed pay statements, paperless pay statements expanded to cover learning guidance and communication. We will ensure that our the entire staff since January 1, 2013. employee assistance programs take employee families as well as our Facilitation of EAP (Employee Assistance Programs) employees. Our in-house grievance counseling program and the Grievance Committee are intended to address wide-ranging issues that our employees suffer. Our entire staff has the opportunity to freely discuss their grievances with counselors at the workplace, while regular training is provided annually to build the capacity of these counselors. Furthermore, counselors at respective business sites are required to complete counselor training courses and obtain necessary qualifications to deliver appropriate services that combine their expertise and experience. If counseling alone is insufficient or further review is required to handle grievances, such issues are immediately addressed through the Grievance Committee jointly operated by the labor union and the company. Meanwhile, a mental health group counseling program was temporarily operated as a pilot project on a quality circle level in order to raise awareness of the growing importance of mental health needs and to pursue contentment on both individual and organizational levels. In 2013, this program will be operated year-round through the opening of in-house counseling offices and the recruitment of dedicated counselors. FOCUS 05 HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 60 Transparency & Business Ethics Transparency & Business Ethics Our ethics management aims to help individual employees as well as stakeholders build and practice proper ethics awareness. Our business ethics are built into our corporate mission and vision to serve as a fundamental requirement to build a transparent and healthy corporate BE culture void of all bribery and corruption. TRANSPARENCY & BUSINESS ETHICS Management Responsibility and Governance The Audit Team, as a dedicated ethics management team, is fulfilling wide-ranging roles and responsibilities including the diagnoses of management activities, audits of online/offline reports, and the operation of the Business Ethics Subcommittee. It is also responsible for responding to job-related ethical risks that may occur during daily business operation and examining our current status regarding ethical management through regular monitoring activities. 2012 Achievements ●: Completed ◐ : Partially Completed ◦: Not Implemented : Year-round Activity Code Key Managerial Issues 2012 Goals 2012 Achievements Completion Pages Registrations were made in three English-speaking countries To register the Code of Ethics at the local sites (U.S., Canada, Australia) ◐ 61 The website was developed through the in-house intranet Ethics management training To open and expand the ethics management website and online training content was loaded on the database ● 61 BE1 and communication To expand ethics management training Ethics training was offered to office workers and operators Expansion of manager training Office workers: 228, operators: 592 ● 61 Ethics management (Flash animation/quiz) 29 training sessions: 15 flash animation sessions, 14 quiz sessions To share ethics management practices e-Ethics Management Letter was sent 12 times (monthly) ● 61 Indicators concerning accounting, purchase, cost, sales and Regular monitoring and To operate the Risk Monitoring System in China HR were developed and operated ● 62 BE2 Evaluation To evaluate the level of ethics management Ethics management indicators were measured and reported ● 62 To send official documents regarding Hankook Tire’s gift refusal policy Ethics management brochures were sent (Jan./Oct.) ● 62 Dissemination of ethics BE3 management to subsidiaries To provide ethics management training to suppliers Not provided ◦ 62 and suppliers 126 suppliers were diagnosed through a consulting company To diagnose the level of ethics management at suppliers working with Purchasing Planning ● 62 2013 Plans Code Key Managerial Issues 2013 Commitments Key Index Deadline Responsible Department To manage the Code of Ethics Revise ethics regulations Expand the dissemination of the Code of Ethics in the language of Audit Team/Corporate Registration By June overseas sites – Hungarian, Indonesian Communication Team Register the Code of Ethics at the local sites of four countries – China, Ethics management training Hungary, Indonesia, Germany BE1 and communication To provide ethics management training Operators and office workers Number of trainees, Online ethics management training Opening of training Round Audit Team Offline onsite training – external lecturers, posters, in-house broadcasting, courses handbooks To advance HRMS – supplementation of existing indicators and Regular monitoring and development of new ones Survey results of the BE2 Evaluation To advance the level of the Ethics Management Index HRMS system Year-round Audit Team from institutionalization development to systemization To expand the scope of the Code of Ethics Development of the Code of Ethics: MK Technology Corporation Code of Ethics revised: ATLASBX, Daehwa Engineering & Dissemination of ethics Code of Ethics By June Audit Team / affiliates Machinery, FRIXA, em Frontier BE3 management to subsidiaries Code of Ethics disclosed: ATLASBX, MK Technology Corporation, and suppliers Daehwa Engineering & Machinery, FRIXA, em Frontier Audit Team/affiliates Customized diagnostic By Audit Team / affiliates Development of ethics management self evaluation indicators for affiliates indicators November 61 FOCUS 05 Ethics management training and communication 61 Regular monitoring and Evaluation 62 Dissemination of ethics management to subsidiaries and suppliers 62 BE-1 ETHICS MANAGEMENT TRAINING AND COMMUNICATION Our Code of Ethics is continually supplemented and its action plans are developed and distributed. Moreover, on/offline training enables employees to build consensus on ethics management and strengthen their capabilities to translate business ethics into action. Detailed ethics management practices are shared through our in-house intranet as part of our training program to enhance employees’ ethics awareness. Opening and Operation of the Ethics Management Website Sharing Ethics Management Practices 1 3 Development of the Ethics Management Website Our In 2012, we were free from business ethics-related problems in-house intranet is loaded with resources for ethics management and issues. Ethics management practices are e-mailed from our CEO practices (learning materials & quizzes and flash animations related to to employees who use our intranet (One System) through the e-ethics ethics management). These materials are organized in bulletin board account once a month to share ethical behavior standards throughout format to enable employees to search for necessary materials, and the company. highlights training for specific events. 4 Registration of the Code of Ethics at the Local Sites Our Code of Ethics was registered at the local sites in three English-speaking countries – the U.S., Canada and Australia. Our initial plan was to establish registration at the local sites of 18 countries, however 15 of them are yet to be completed. In 2013, work is underway to register the Code of Ethics where our plants are based in China, Hungary and Indonesia, and in Germany where our regional headquarters are located. Opening and operation of the ethics management website 2 Expansion of Ethics Management Training Training for Operators and Office Workers To build consensus on ethics management and build stronger executive capabilities in employees, our ethics training is provided to operators in addition to office workers. To prevent ethics risks, 228 office workers and 592 operators in Chief operator and Supervisor positions were trained on success stories and failures of ethics management and the Registration of the Code of Ethics at the local sites application of Hankook Tire’s Code of Ethics and action plans as part of the job level-specific job training in 2012. Completion of Ethics Management Training for Operators Category Chief operator Leadership Supervisor Leadership Power Leadership Pleasant Workplace Total Target Chief operator Supervisor Five to 10 years of experience Over 17 years of experience Training Sessions 5 2 2 4 13 Trainees (Number of persons) 248 82 86 176 592 Completion of Ethics Management Training for Office Workers Category Leader Leadership Senior Leadership Junior Leadership New Recruit Training Total Target Leaders Senior managers Assistant managers New recruits Training Sessions 1 2 4 1 8 Trainees (Number of persons) 20 47 86 75 228 HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 62 BE-2 REGULAR MONITORING AND EVALUATION Our regulations and processes are reviewed through regular evaluations while ethics management is monitored through reports submitted to the Cyber Audit Division. In addition, surveys are conducted to assess employees’ level of ethics management awareness. 1 Development and Operation of the Risk Monitoring System 2 Diagnoses of the Level of Ethics Management in China Ethics Management Surveys 2011, surveys were As organizational segmentation and integration accelerates to build administered and our level of ethics management was evaluated a global competitive edge, the scope of evaluation programs is through our own Ethics Management Index, a customized version of broadening and risk exposures are increasing accordingly. Such the ethics management self-evaluation checklist of the Federation of changing conditions alerted us to the need of an early warning Korean Industries. In 2012, our ethics management operation was program and thus we developed the RMS (Risk Monitoring System) to undertaken to further improve what we achieved in 2011. make all corporate data available for use under the current companyIn evaluating our level of ethics management in 2010, 1,300 people wide resources management system and to serve as a regular were surveyed, out of which 1,200 (92%) responded, and the monitoring channel to improve on inefficient operations. outcomes were similar to those of 2011. This indicates that we are In accordance with the RMS developed and operated at the Korean in the ‘institutionalization’ stage – we are adequately aware of our headquarters, six employees helped build a diagnostic portal system economic and social responsibility and operate various programs and at the Chinese regional headquarters for two months between August systems to meet our responsibility, vulnerable areas continue to exist, and October 2012, which strengthened their own monitoring and and our compliance and achievements are not evenly distributed warning functionality. Working-level job processes were examined and across the entire spectrum of ethics management. Our objective for risk identification cases were organized to create risk indicators on ethics management in 2013 is to evolve from the institutionalization the diagnostic portal through the five modules of accounting, sales, stage to the establishment stage. purchasing, cost and HR. This enabled our Chinese headquarters to operate a system to check abnormal data monthly based on these indicators. BE-3 DISSEMINATION OF ETHICS MANAGEMENT TO SUPPLIERS Because we recognize suppliers as a core partner for sustainable development, we are fully dedicated to offer ethics management training and support ethics management assessment in order to seek mutual growth based on a transparent and trustworthy relationship. Official Notification of Our Gift Refusal Policy suppliers to affiliates to ensure higher efficiency in disseminating our 1 Gift Refusal Campaign during National Holidays As ethics management, rather than prioritizing a one-time annual training. part of our endeavors to disseminate ethics management to suppliers, We will develop an ethics management index for affiliates to enable official notification regarding our holiday gift refusal policy was sent to them to independently evaluate their level of ethics management while 688 suppliers related to facilities, raw materials and quality, while similar motivating them to improve further. announcements were made through our purchasing system (HePS) Ethics Management Assessment for Suppliers As we to ensure that gifts are not given or received on national holidays. recognize suppliers as core partners for sustainable development, we These documents were also sent to 293 suppliers of our affiliates undertake diverse initiatives to build a system to seek mutual growth under the name of the affiliate CEO (ATLASBX, FRIXA, MK Technology based on transparent and trustworthy relationships. Specifically, our Corporation, em Frontier, Daehwa Engineering & Machinery) with the suppliers are engaged in monitoring our performance and sharing belief that these suppliers should be included in this scope. information to advance ethics management together and seek mutually beneficial cooperation along the value chain. 2 Ethics Management Training for Suppliers Ethics Management Training While we offered ethics management training to 46 suppliers and agents in December 2011, we could not reach our target of providing the same training in 2012. This was because sufficient preparations were not made in selecting suppliers and training venues. In 2013, our focus will shift from 63 FOCUS 05 Ethics management managementtraining trainingandcommunication and communication 61 Regular monitoring and andEvaluation Evaluation 62 ethicsmanagement Dissemination of ethics managementto subsidiariesand tosubsidiaries andsuppliers suppliers 62 HANKOOK TIRE’S CODE OF ETHICS (MAJOR POINTS) • Hankook Tire shall regard the Code of Ethics as the standard for all employees’ acts and decision-making. • Hankook Tire shall build mutual trust with all stakeholders by practicing business ethics. The Underlying Spirit Hankook Tire pursues the ‘21st Century Global Standard’ that contributes to the safety and happiness of humanity by creating the world’s best products and services based on the grand vision of “Extending Trust and Value to the World.” This goal can be only achieved when individual employees at Hankook Tire share the utmost ethical values and practice them together. As such, we institute the Code of Ethics based on the new 21st All employees at Hankook Tire are respected and treated with Century Grand Vision and Hankook Tire’s core values of creativity, dignity. Each employee at Hankook Tire voluntarily complies professionalism, goal orientation and accountability. Hankook with and practices business ethics according to the belief that Tire seeks to parallel the following values while encouraging they are positively representing their company and maintaining stakeholders to do so as well through sound business practices: the reputation of both the company and themselves as pure and thriving at all times. High quality production and value for customers Am I not violating any laws? Reward and self-esteem for employees Does it comply with the value of corporate rules and the Code of Ethics? Higher profits and stock value for shareholders Is it socially immoral or unethical? Trust-based relationship for partners Does it impose unfair damage or Sharing the fruits of success with society burden to the company or stakeholders? CHAPTER 1 Hankook Tire’s Management Activities Hankook Tire seeks prosperity for everyone based on mutual trust with stakeholders, customers, employees, shareholders, partners and the society that its management activities are targeting. CHAPTER 2 Work Life of Employees at Hankook Tire Hankook Tire’s employees maintain their own reputation by mutually respecting one another, embodying high moral standards and proper manners, and believing in the maxim, “Honest, fair and proper business ethics shall be prioritized.” While respecting individual expertise and creativity to the utmost and striving to make profits for the company, employees seek to initiate and maintain their own individual growth and corporate development alike. CHAPTER 3 Operation and Practices of Business Ethics Business ethics at Hankook Tire aim to create a corporate culture of trust and value by actively taking part in ethical activities: ethics campaigns, seminars on ethics for partners and enterprise-wide fair transactions. CHAPTER 4 Appendix 1 Hankook Tire’s Code of Ethics shall take effect from August 1, 2001. 2 Hankook Tire’s Code of Ethics shall take effect from February 1, 2005. 3 Hankook Tire’s Code of Ethics shall take effect from July 15, 2007. 4 In the event that this Code of Ethics overlaps or runs counter to the previous similar code, this shall outweigh it in any decision. Appendix UN Global Compact 65 Awards 66 Membership of Organizations and Associations 67 Government Grants and Regulatory Violations 67 Financial Data Summary 68 Employee Data Summary 69 CSR Principle 72 GRI Index Table 74 Hankook Tire Employees Involved in the Preparation of the CSR Report 2012/2013 75 Independent Assurance Statement 76 Global Network 78 You may move on to the related page if you click on it. 65 APPENDIX UN Global Compact Hankook Tire joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in December 2012. The UNGC is an international initiative proposed in 2000 by former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan to call for stronger corporate social responsibility in the four areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and ten principles in respective areas. We report our achievements and future plans concerning our compliance with the UNGC principles through this report. We will fully comply with these principles and in doing so, we will fulfill our role as a responsible corporate citizen. Principle GRI Index Report content Pages Human Rights HR1 HR2 HR3 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Principle 1 HR4 Employee Value Creation internationally proclaimed human rights HR5 52~59 Win-Win Supply-Chain HR6 34~39 HR7 Partnership Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human HR4 Principle 2 rights abuses. HR8 Labour HR5 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Principle 3 LA4 Employee Value Creation 52~59 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. LA5 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and Principle 4 HR7 Employee Value Creation compulsory labour. 52~59 Win-Win Supply-Chain 34~39 Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. HR6 Partnership HR4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in LA2 Principle 6 LA10 Employee Data Summary 69~71 respect of employment and occupation. LA13 LA14 Environment Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Principle 7 4.11 environmental challenges. EN12 EN13 EN14 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater EN18 Principle 8 environmental responsibility. EN21 EN22 EN26 Environmental Management 24~33 EN30 EN5 EN6 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of EN7 Principle 9 environmentally friendly technologies. EN10 EN18 EN26 Anti-Corruption SO2 Transparency/ Business Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Principle 10 SO3 60~63 extortion and bribery. SO4 Ethics HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 66 Awards CERTIFICATES Green/Sustainability Management • DJSI KOREA • Green Star • Supervised by the Dow Jones and • Supervised by the Korea Management Association the Korea Productivity Center • Awarded for three years in a row • Included for two years in a row (2011, 2012) (Green Product Winner in 2011 and before ) Brand Value • Korea-Brand Power Index • National Brand Competitiveness Index • Supervised by the Korea Management • Supervised by the Korea Productivity Center Association Consulting • Rated No. 1 for five consecutive years (2009~2013) • Rated top-performer in the passenger car tire sector for 11 years in a row (~2013) Quality/Technology • Korean Standard-Quality Excellence Index (KS-QEI) • Inno Star • Supervised by the Korean Standards Association • Supervised by the Korea Management Association • Rated No. 1 for four consecutive years • Awarded for three years in a row (Green Product Winner in 2011 and before) Design Corporate Reputation • iF Design Awards • Korea’s Most Respected Company • Supervised by the International Design Forum • Supervised by the Korea Management in Germany Association Consulting • Awarded in the product design segment in the • Selectd for four years in a row (2010~2013) passenger car tire sector in 2012 and 2013 RESULTS OF TECHNICAL JOURNAL TESTS Vantra LT • Rated ‘Very Recommendable’ in a performance test conducted by Promobile (Mar. 2013) Optimo K415 • Rated ‘Very Recommendable’ in a performance test conducted by ‘Autoreview,’, Russia (Mar. 2012) Kinergy eco • Rated ‘Very Recommendable’ in a performance test conducted by ‘TUULILASI,’, Finland (Mar. 2012) • Rated ‘Very Recommendable’ in a performance test conducted by L'argus, France (Mar. 2012) • Rated ‘Very Recommendable’, the highest rating, in a performance test conducted by Icebear W440 ‘ADAC (Algemeiner Deutscher Automobil-Club)’, Europe’s most prestigious automotive industry journal (Sep. 2009) Optimo 4S • Rated ‘Very Recommendable’, the top mark, in a performance test conducted by ‘Auto Bild’ (Sep. 2009) Ventus S1 evo • Rated ‘Very Recommendable’ in a performance test conducted by ‘Evo,’, the U.K. (Mar. 2012) • Rated ‘Very Recommendable’, the highest rating, in a performance test conducted by ‘Auto Bild Sportscars’, Chosen as the ‘Test Winner’ (Mar. 2009) • Rated ‘Very Recommendable’, the top mark, in a performance test conducted by ‘Sport Aut’ (Mar. 2009) • Rated ‘Very Recommendable’, the top rating, in a performance test conducted by ‘Auto Zeitung’ (Apr. 2009) • Rated ‘Very Recommendable’, the highest mark, in a performance test conducted by ‘Auto Motor Und Sport’ (Mar. 2010) • Rated ‘Very Recommendable’, the highest ranking, in a performance test conducted by ‘Gute Fahrt’ (Mar. 2010) • Rated ‘Very Recommendable’, the top mark, in a performance test conducted by ‘Auto Zeitung’ (Mar. 2011) Ventus S1 evo2 • Rated ‘Very Recommendable’ in a performance test conducted by ‘ADAC,’ the largest German auto publication (Mar. 2013) • Rated ‘Very Recommendable’, the highest ranking’, in a performance test conducted by ‘Auto Motor Und Sport’ (Mar. 2012) • Rated ‘Very Recommendable’, the top mark, in a performance test conducted by ‘Gute Fahrt’ (Mar. 2012) • Rated ‘Very Recommendable’, the top mark, in a performance test conducted by ‘Sport Aut’ (Mar. 2012) Ventus V12 evo • Rated ‘Very Recommendable’, the top mark, in a performance test conducted by ‘Sport Aut’ (Mar. 2012) • Named as an ‘Outstanding Product’ by the U.S. premium automobile magazine ‘Car and Driver’ (Jul. 2009) • Rated ‘Very Recommendable’ the top mark, in a performance test conducted by ‘Auto Bild’, Ventus Prime Chosen as the ‘Test Winner’ (Mar. 2009) Ventus Prime2 • Rated ‘Very Recommendable’ in a performance test conducted by Gute Fahrt, Germany (Mar. 2013) • Rated ‘Very Recommendable’, the highest ranking, in a performance test conducted by Test World (Mar. 2012) Ventus R-s3 • Won the tire test held by Japan’s leading modified car magazine ‘Rev Speed’ (Jul. 2010) 67 APPENDIX Membership of Organizations and Associations ORGANIZATION Korea Industrial Technology Korea Fire Safety Federation of Korea International Association Association Korean Industries Trade Association Korea Tire Korea Electric Engineers Human Resource Korea Environmental Manufacturers Association Association Development Forum Preservation Association Korea Industrial Safety Korea Chamber of Korea Management WBCSD-TIPG* Association Commerce & Industry Association ✽ TIPG refers to the Tire Industry Project Group under the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. In 2005, we formed a consultative body along with other ten global tire manufacturers to perform research and cooperate for a sustainable future of the tire industry. Research topics include the identification of the impact of tire particulate matters generated in tire use on the environment and human body as well as requirements for eco-friendly recollection, recycling and disposal of used tires and the environmental impact of tire materials. In so doing, we at Hankook Tire contribute to a sustainable development of the tire industry. Government Grants and Regulatory Violations GOVERNMENT-LED R&D PROJECTS AND GOVERNMENTAL INVESTMENT Name of Project Details Period Government Investment Hankook Tire’s Development of intelligent Developing intelligent tire technology for 2009.06.01-2013.05.31 1,270,000,000 Participation tire systems intelligent vehicles Development of clean industrial Eco-friendly tire manufacturing technology 2010.06.01-2015.03.31 4,338,610,000 Participation source technology through the use of urethane Uni-material Carbon-reducing ketone-based Developing polyketone fiber composite 2010.08.01-2019.02.28 2,814,770,000 Participation premium fiber and resin materials Development of biogas-enabled Developing large-area molding separators 20KW polymer electrolyte fuel cell 2011.12.01-2014.12.31 435,000,000 Participation for 20KW fuel cells systems for buildings Development of grade Y fuel-saving Developing grade Y fuel-saving run-flat tires 2011.12.01-2015.11.31 2,503,000,000 Supervision run-flat tires for passenger vehicles for passenger vehicles Research specialized in nextDeveloping lightweight thin separators for 2012.06.05-2014.12.31 105,000,000 Commission generation military power systems high-output fuel cell stacks REGULATORY VIOLATIONS None HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 68 Financial Data Summary ✽ Hankook Tire Co., Ltd. Consolidated (After spin-off) 1st Fiscal Year: September 1, 2012~December 31, 2012 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL POSITIONS (SUMMARY) (Unit: KRW) Category 1st Fiscal Year ASSETS I. Current assets 3,336,866,821,429 Cash and cash equivalents 485,612,511,828 Short-term financial instruments 194,283,137,919 Accounts receivable and other receivable 1,184,405,376,494 Inventory 1,391,723,116,441 Other financial assets 1,718,889,591 Other current assets 79,123,789,156 II. Non-current assets 3,845,587,622,547 Long-term financial instruments 94,549,542 Financial assets available for sale 2,776,458,300 Tangible assets 3,571,590,661,633 Investment property 50,113,340,579 Intangible assets 116,615,826,494 Other financial assets 14,216,852,881 Other non-current assets 2,461,283,362 Deferred tax assets 87,718,649,756 Total assets 7,182,454,443,976 LIABILITIES I. Current liabilities 2,991,072,223,760 II. Non-current liabilities 969,896,599,121 Total liabilities 3,960,968,822,881 Capital Capital 61,937,534,500 Other paid-in capital 2,992,377,720,089 Earned surplus 211,566,946,419 Other capital components -53,812,774,504 Non-controlling interest 9,416,194,591 Total capital 3,221,485,621,095 Total liabilities and capital 7,182,454,443,976 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (SUMMARY) (Unit: KRW million) Category 1st Fiscal Year I. Sales 2,317,223,403,934 II. Cost of sales 1,561,773,167,029 III. Gross margin 755,450,236,905 Sales expenses 230,195,507,876 Management expenses 169,104,209,121 R&D expenses 47,558,338,001 IV. Operating profit 308,592,181,907 Financial profit 13,767,112,258 Financial cost 50,928,603,584 Other non-operating income 110,828,639,619 Other non-operating expenses 88,730,974,075 V. Income before income tax 293,528,356,125 VI. Income tax expenses 62,514,281,431 VII. Net income 231,014,074,694 VIII. Other comprehensive income -74,106,830,623 IX. Net total comprehensive income 156,907,244,071 69 APPENDIX Employee Data Summary 1. TOTAL STAFF As a global company, we hire both Korean and locally hired staff. The number of total staff, including locally recruited staff, rose 13% in 2012 from 2011, thus contributing to stable employment at home and abroad through sustained job creation. We will continue to create more jobs to meet our mid/long-term business plans. <Company-wide> (Unit: Number of persons) Category 2011 2012 From the Previous Year Number Ratio Number Ratio Number Ratio Korean 6,510 37.30% 6,837 34.6% 327 5.0% Locally Recruited 10,962 62.70% 12,900 65.4% 1,938 17.7% Total 17,472 100.00% 19,737 100.0% 2,265 13.0% 2. STAFF BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE We hire office staff and operators. In 2012, the number of operators rose significantly against that of office staff. This is attributable to the fact that we hired more operators due to the continued expansion of plant facilities, which was spurred by sustained business growth. <Company-wide> (Unit: Number of persons) Category 2011 2012 From the Previous Year Number Ratio Number Ratio Number Ratio Office Staff 4,240 24.3% 4,433 22.5% 193 4.6% Operators 13,232 75.7% 15,304 77.5% 2,072 15.7% Total 17,472 100.0% 19,737 100.0% 2,265 13.0% 3. STAFF BY REGION We manufacture tires in Korea, China, Hungary and Indonesia (seven plants in four nations) and supply them to our customers across the globe through our sales networks established in Korea, China, Europe, America, the Middle East, Africa, and the Asia Pacific (15 subsidiaries and 66 offices). We intend to create jobs on a global level to contribute to revitalizing the global economy. Global Staff by Region <Company-wide> (Unit: Number of persons) Category 2011 2012 From the Previous Year Number Ratio Number Ratio Number Ratio Korea 6,292 36.0% 6,597 33.4% 305 4.8% China 8,210 47.0% 9,130 46.3% 920 11.2% Europe 2,480 14.2% 2,695 13.7% 215 8.7% America 230 1.3% 235 1.2% 5 2.2% Middle East/Asia Pacific / Africa 260 1.5% 1,080 5.5% 820 315.4% Total 17,472 100.0% 19,737 100.0% 2,265 13.0% Locally Hired Staff by Region <Company-wide> (Unit: Number of persons) Category 2011 2012 From the Previous Year Number Ratio Number Ratio Number Ratio Korea 0 0% 0 0% China 8,147 99.2% 9,042 99.0% 895 11.0% Europe 2,398 96.7% 2,633 97.7% 235 9.8% America 200 87.0% 204 86.8% 4 2.0% Middle East/Asia Pacific / Africa 217 83.5% 1,021 93.7% 804 370.5% Total 10,962 62.7% 12,900 65.4% 1,938 17.7% HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 70 4. FEMALE STAFF AND THEIR REINSTATEMENT AFTER MATERNITY LEAVE We hire considerably fewer female staff due to the inherent characteristics of the manufacturing industry. Our operators, who account for 77.5% of the total staff, should be capable of handling heavy tires and this poses grave challenges for women to work in. Still, we are committed to hiring more women in such areas as quality management and battery car transport as a way to increase the number of female operators. Such endeavors allowed us to increase the ratio of female workers by 18.5% in 2012 from 2011, and the ratio of female operators by 31.3% during the same period. Our commitment to increasing female employment will continue in the upcoming years. Employment of Female Staff <Company-wide> (Unit: Number of persons) Category 2011 2012 From the Previous Year Number Ratio Number Ratio Number Ratio Female 1,176 6.7% 1,393 7.1% 217 18.5% Male 16,296 93.3% 18,344 92.9% 2,048 12.6% Total 17,472 100.0% 19,737 100.0% 2,265 13.0% Female Staff by Employment Type <Company-wide> (Unit: Number of persons) Category 2011 2012 From the Previous Year Ratio of Ratio of Ratio of Female Staff Total Staff Female Staff Total Staff Female Staff Total Staff Female Staff Female Staff Female Staff Office Staff 688 4,240 16.2% 753 4,433 17.0% 65 193 9.4% Operators 488 13,232 3.7% 640 15,304 4.2% 152 2,072 31.1% Total 1,176 17,472 6.7% 1,393 19,737 7.1% 217 2,265 18.5% New Female Recruits <in Korea> (Unit: Number of persons) Category 2011 2012 From the Previous Year Number Ratio Number Ratio Number Ratio Female 59 9.6% 75 13.0% 16 27.1% Male 553 90.4% 501 87.0% -52 -9.4% Total 612 100% 576 100% -36 -5.9% Reinstatement of Female Staff after Maternity Leave <in Korean and Overseas Plants> (Unit: Number of persons) Category 2011 2012 From the Previous Year Those Those Those Those Those Those Who Increase in Who Took Who Reinstatement Who Took Who Reinstatement Who Took Returned to Reinstatement Maternity Returned Rate Maternity Returned Rate Maternity Work (%) Leave to Work Leave to Work Leave Korea 10 8 80% 15 15 100% 5 7 25.0% Overseas 24 18 75% 31 24 77% 7 6 2.7% 5. STAFF WITH DISABILITIES Sustained work is underway at Hankook Tire to hire more staff with disabilities. While five staff with disabilities resigned in 2012, we hired seven additional individuals with disabilities, which increased the number of disabled staff by two. We will establish our own diversity management system to ensure diversity in our staff composition <In Korea> (Unit: Number of persons) Category 2011 2012 Number of Disabled Staff 81 83 71 APPENDIX 6. RESIGNATIONS While we had a few resigning staff who moved to other companies due to the revitalizing employment market, the total resignation rate measured against the total number of staff fell slightly in 2012. We are committed to encouraging our staff to fully engage in their job and the company based on our talent-centered management philosophy. In doing so, we will reduce staff resignation and deliver an inspiring and stimulating workplace. In Korea (Unit: Number of persons) Category 2011 2012 From the Previous Year Number Number Number Ratio Office Staff 169 119 -50 -29.6% Employment Type Operators 92 123 31 33.7% ✽ The number of operators who resigned rose due to the increasing number of retired operators (54.0% increase from 2011). 7. AVERAGE LENGTH OF SERVICE We guarantee stable employment based on our sustained growth. The average length of service over the past two years was 11.5 years for Korean staff and 4.9 years for locally hired staff. Our average length of service is increasing slightly compared to our continued recruiting efforts. Company-wide (Unit: Year) Staff 2011 2012 Korea 11.4 11.6 Locally Hired 4.5 5.3 ✽ The average length of service of locally hired staff is relatively short due to their typical status as new recruits hired by newly established overseas plants. 8. AVERAGE WAGE LEVEL AND GENDER EQUALITY IN WAGE LEVEL <Company-wide> All our employees experience equal wage levels and are completely free from any type of discrimination, regardless of their gender. In addition, all our business sites fully comply with minimum wage regulations defined by each respective country and compensate staff above the minimum wage level. Our employees are treated fairly and face no discrimination due to their gender differences in terms of other policies and welfare & benefits. We are committed to continuing to provide a discrimination-free workplace to our employees. HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 72 CSR Principle CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLE 1 Purpose and Intent The CSR Principles are fundamental guidelines to redefine our corporate social responsibility and build CSR into our company culture that serves as the bedrock of our business operations. These principles are the essence of our endeavors for providing the best-possible values to our stakeholders and in fulfilling our roles and responsibilities as a corporate citizen in leading sustainable development and growth beyond the tire industry into an even larger mobility trade. 2 Regular Review and Report Our CSR Strategy Committee annually reviews the CSR Principles and modifies or updates detailed operational guidelines if deemed necessary through materiality analyses including stakeholder dialogue. 3 Integrated CSR Management To propel our CSR activities forward more systematically on a company-wide level, we established the integrated CSR management system in the following way. First, our CSR Strategy Committee functions as the top CSR decision-making body attended by the board of directors and top management. Second, our CSR Steering Committee is operated under an integrated management system, as a working-level association comprised of executives and employees in charge of respective CSR issues. Third, our dedicated CSR Team defines CSR roles and responsibilities such as company-wide CSR planning, operations and CSR report publication. 4 Stipulation of CSR Policy Our CSR policies, systems and issue-specific action plans must be clearly stipulated and disseminated both internally and externally so that they are executed across the board. 5 Regular CSR Diagnosis and Monitoring With our in-house CSR self-evaluation model covering relevant global standards and local regulations, we perform diagnoses and evaluations every year while the CSR Team works with the Steering Committee to constantly monitor progress and outstanding issues. 6 Company-Wide CSR Training and Consensus-Building To disseminate CSR and build consensus among employees, we set up and carry out annual enterprise-wide CSR training plans. 7 Dialogue with Stakeholders and Information Disclosure Our definition of core stakeholders includes customers, employees, suppliers, local communities, nature/ecology/climate, shareholders and investors. We provide regular and official venues for stakeholder dialogue by building permanent communication channels and annual communication plans. Such activities are utilized successfully in setting future business and CSR initiatives. In addition, our CSR and business achievements and plans are disclosed in a transparent and thorough manner through our annual CSR Reports, corporate website and diverse communication channels customized for different stakeholder associations. 8 Integrated Risk Management We ensure systemic management of and appropriate response to non-financial risks (eg. SEE (Social, Environmental, and Ethical) Risk) as well as consistent management of financial risks. In particular, we define all CSR Focus Areas as risk issues and encourage company-wide response measures under the integrated management system of the CSR Steering Committee. 73 APPENDIX ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Our environmental guidelines aim to deliver proactive environment management practices across the entire spectrum of our business activities from production to sales and services in line with our management philosophy and vision, thereby making significant contributions towards a cleaner environment. To this end, we are determined to take action as follows. 1 We recognize the environment as a critical factor in management strategy. 2 With sustained investments, process improvements and ideal appropriate technology, we fundamentally minimize emissions of environmental pollutants and promote recycling. 3 We apply in-house environmental regulations, rules and standards that are more stringent than what is required by law from product manufacturing, to sales, and services to disposal. 4 Our environmental goals and detailed targets are fixed and performed based on the pre-evaluation of our environmental impact, which enables sustained improvements. 5 We train and educate all employees on environmental issues in the confidence that they will come to recognize the impact of their respective responsibilities. 6 To ensure transparency in our environmental management, our guidelines are made available to stakeholders. Moreover, we encourage our affiliated companies to conduct business with a more eco-friendly approach. SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION CHARTER Our Statements 1 We continuously deliver social and environmental values through economic and business activities and contribute to local economies. 2 We promote superior product quality and client safety through customer-oriented management practices. 3 We do our utmost to minimize our environmental footprint throughout the entire business sector and community of our operations. 4 We fully commit ourselves to supporting socially vulnerable and underprivileged populations by bestowing to society the values we generate. 5 We pioneer in making our society healthier through promoting the welfare of our employees and providing local communities with medical support based on our human-focused management philosophy. Characteristics and Direction 1 We ensure that our social charity activities stand congruent with our core business practices so that our corporate capacity may promote social benefit. 2 We focus our company-wide capacities on our main philanthropic programs to ensure that our social contribution activities are executed with clear purpose. 3 Our philanthropic activities are performed practically in ways that can resolve concerns and problems in local community. HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 74 CSR Principle Indicators Details Index Number Description Pages ISO 26000 Strategy and 1.1 1.2 CEO Message 2~3 Analysis 6.2 Organizational 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, CEO Message, Company Profile, Integrated CSR 2~3, 4, Profile 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9, 2.10 Management System 16~19 Report content 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4 About This Report Cover 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, Reporting boundary About This Report Cover Report Parameters 3.10, 3.11 GRI Index Table 3.12 GRI Index Table 74 Assurance 3.13 Independent Assurance Report 76~77 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, Governance Responsible Corporate Governance 14~15 Governance, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, 4.10 Commitments, and Appendix (Membership of Organizations and 6.2 External initiatives 4.11, 4.12, 4.13 67 Engagement Associations) Stakeholder engagement 4.14, 4.15, 4.16, 4.17 Integrated CSR Management System 6~11 Appendix (Financial Data Summary), Community Economic performance EC1, EC2, EC3 68, 40~45 Involvement and Development 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.7, Financial assistance received from 6.8.9, 6.5.5 EC4 Appendix (Government Grants) 67 the government New recruits’ entry wage level against the local statutory EC5 Appendix (Employee Data Summary) 69~71 6.4.4, 6.8 minimum wage Procedures for preferential Economy recruitment of local employees and Employee Value Creation, Appendix (Employee Data 52~59, EC7 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7 the ratio of locally -hired employees Summary) 69~71 in higher management positions Infrastructure investments that Community Involvement and Development, consider public interest as their Employee Health and Safety Management, Customer 40~45, 20~23, 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.4 EC8 top priority and impact of service Satisfaction and Quality Management (Customers 46~49 6.8.5, 6.8.6, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 support activities and Dealers) Understanding and explanation of Win-Win Supply-Chain Partnership, Community 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.6.7, 6.7.8, 6.8, EC9 34~39, 40~45 indirect economic rippling effects Involvement and Development 6.8.5, 6.8.6, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 Raw materials EN1, EN2 Integrated Environmental Management System 24~29 EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, 6.5, 6.5.4 Energy/water Environmental Management 24~33 EN7, EN8 EN11, EN12, EN13, Biodiversity Integrated Environmental Management System 6.5, 6.5.6 EN14 Environment EN16, EN17, EN18, Atmospheric emissions, EN19, EN20, EN21, Environmental Management 24~33 6.5, 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 6.5.5, 6.5.6 wastewater, waste EN22, EN23, EN24 Products and services EN26, EN27 Integrated Environmental Management System 24~29 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.6.6, 6.7.5 Legal compliance EN28 Appendix (Regulatory Violations) 67 Transportation EN29 Integrated Environmental Management System 24~29 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.6.6 Total EN30 Environmental Management 24~33 6.5 Employee Value Creation, Appendix (Employee Data Employment LA1, LA2, LA3 52~59, 69~71 6.4, 6.4.3 Summary) Labor relations LA4, LA5 Employee Value Creation 52~59 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 6.4.5, 6.3.10 6.4, 6.4.6, 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.4, Labor Workplace health & safety LA6, LA7, LA8, LA9 Employee Health and Safety Management 20~23 6.8.8 Education and training LA10, LA11 Employee Value Creation 52~59 6.4, 6.4.7, 6.8.5 Employee Value Creation, Appendix (Employee Data 52~59, 69~71, Diversity and equal opportunities LA12, LA13, LA14 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4 Summary), Responsible Corporate Governance 14~15 Investment and purchasing HR1, HR2, HR3 Win-Win Supply-Chain Partnership 34~39 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.5, 6.4.3, 6.6.6 practices Prohibition of discrimination HR4 Employee Value Creation 52~59 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3 Human Rights Freedom of association and 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 6.3.8, HR5 Employee Value Creation 52~59 collective bargaining 6.3.10, 6.4.3, 6.4.5 Child labor HR6 Employee Value Creation 52~59 6.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 6.3.7, 6.3.10 Forced labor HR7 Employee Value Creation 52~59 Local community SO1 Community Involvement and Development 40~45 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7, 6.6.7 Corruption SO2, SO3, SO4 Transparency/Ethics Management 60~63 6.6, 6.6.3 Society Public policies SO5, SO6 Climate Change and GHG Management 30~33 6.6, 6.6.5, 6.8.3 Anti-competitive behaviors SO7 Transparency/Ethics Management 60~63 6.6, 6.6.5, 6.6.7 Legal compliance SO8 Appendix (Regulatory Violations) 67 6.6, 6.6.7, 6.8.7 Customer Satisfaction and Quality Management Customer health & safety PR1, PR2 46~49 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.7, 6.7.4, 6.7.5 (Customers and Dealers) Company Profile, Integrated Environmental Product information PR3 Management System, Customer Satisfaction and 5 Quality Management 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 Customer Satisfaction and Quality Management Product Product labeling information PR4 46~49 (Customers and Dealers) Responsibility Customer Satisfaction and Quality Management Customer satisfaction PR5 46~49 (Customers and Dealers) 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 Marketing communication PR6, PR7 No Violations 67 Protection of customers’ personal PR8 No Violations 67 6.7, 6.7.7 information Legal compliance PR9 No Violations 67 6.7, 6.7.6 75 APPENDIX Hankook Tire Employees Involved in the Preparation of the CSR Report 2012/2013 General Management Kim, Jong-yune, Yoon, Seong-ha of the Report Publication Planning and Compilation Park, Sun-ah / Lee, Eun-hye of Materials General Management of the CSR Report General Design Management Kim, Dong-wook Design Planning Ahn, Hyo-kak CG Responsible Corporate Governance Governance Hong, Dae-won IR Integrated Risk Management Risk Management Lee, Eun-kyu / Nam, Jae-woon FOCUS 01 Health and Safety HS Employee Health & Safety Management Management Kim, Hack-feel FOCUS 02 Integrated Environmental Jang, Sun-mi Management Response to Climate Change Choi, Yoo-seong Environmental Management Song, Il-kwon / Kwak, Sang-young at Worksite EM Environmental Management Development of Eco-friendly Kim, Byung-seog Products Utility Seo, Keun-seon Energy Management at Park, Chong-jin / Ha, Jae-hyong Worksite FOCUS 03 Win-Win Partnership with SC Win-Win Supply-chain Partnership Suppliers Jung, Pil-goo Corporate Philanthropy Jeon, Seong-youn CI Community Involvement & Development Sharing Foundation Kim, Inn-suk Car Maker Lee, Ju-hee Customer Satisfaction Choi, Myung-ho CS Customer Satisfaction & (Customers and Dealers) Quality Management Communication Cha, Cheol-min / Lee, Chang-yool / Jeong, Beom-min Services and Education Lee, Yun-jae / Kong, Byeong-kwon FOCUS 04 Employee Value Creation Oh, Joon-suk HRM Lee, Sang-min / Kwon, Hyok / Shin, Joon-ho EV Employee Value Creation HRD Lee, Kang-yun / Oh, Hyun-mi / Han, Seung-cheol / Lee, Seung-yeon Work & Life Balance Shin, Dong-soo / Park, Sun-jae / Shin, Kyung-su/ An, Myung-guem Communication Kang, Chang-mo / Oh, Jeong-seok / Park, Chan-yong / Jung, Hae-sun FOCUS 05 Transparency & BE Transparency & Business Ethics Business Ethics Lee, Hai-pung Brands & Products Jeong, Beom-min / Nam, Bo-ra Appendix Government-Commissioned Lim, Kyu-seok R&D Projects HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 76 독립검증보고서 Independent Assurance Statement To the Stakeholders of Hankook Tire Assurance Standards The assurance for the CSR Report was performed in accordance with the following standards. Assurance Scope •AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) •GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3.1 guidelines’ principles for BSI Group Korea Limited (BSI hereafter) performed an independent defining quality assurance engagement of Hankook Tire’s CSR Report 2012/13 (CSR Report hereafter). The CSR Report outlines Hankook Tire’s CSR The assurance team performed a Type 2, moderate level assurance strategies and achievements between January 1 and December 31 engagement in accordance with AA1000 AS (2008) to evaluate of 2012, as well as the company’s action plans for key managerial the nature and extent of adherence to the principles of inclusivity, issues for 2013. The scope of this assurance engagement spans materiality and responsiveness while using GRI’s principles for defining the Hankook Tire headquarters, Daejeon/Geumsan Plants and R&D quality in verifying the reliability of performance data. centers, except for achievements made by a portion of the company’s overseas operations included in the CSR Report as well as the following. Assurance Methodology •Financial data The assurance team undertook the following activities: •GHG emissions data (separately verified) •Additional information available through means other than the CSR •Conducted an informal materiality test based on the analyses of Report such as the corporate website. issues related to Hankook Tire such as media reports, research materials of evaluation bodies, reports of industry peers and competitors then a comparative review of the test results against Responsibility and Independence Hankook Tire’s material issues •Interviewed top management and working-level staff who are The responsibility for preparing this CSR Report lies solely with responsible for managing material issues at the Seoul headquarters Hankook Tire’s top management. BSI’s responsibility is to use and Geumsan Plant professional assurance methodology concerning the assurance scope •Reviewed Hankook Tire’s stakeholder engagement methods and stated above and to offer independent assurance opinions to the top presented feedback management and all stakeholders of Hankook Tire. •Evaluated the information presented by Hankook Tire concerning reporting and management processes that are related to the This is BSI’s first engagement for Hankook Tire’s CSR Report AA1000 Accountability Principles assurance and its assurance team was not engaged in the preparation •Reviewed the process of generating, collating and reporting data in of the CSR Report. The assurance team reviewed report drafts respective areas as well as the evidence and data that support key and offered feedback from the early reporting stage and numerous assertions of the CSR Report modifications were made before the CSR Report was finalized. Furthermore, the assurance team consisted of multidisciplinary experts with wide-ranging technical capabilities and in-depth experience to Conclusions ensure the highest quality assurance services in accordance with BSI’s Code of Business Ethics. The assurance team reviewed the draft of the CSR Report and made feedback and, as necessary, modifications were made. On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing came to our attention to suggest that Assurance Level and Limitations the CSR Report does not properly describe Hankook Tire’s adherence to the Principles of the AA1000APS and related sustainability This assurance engagement constitutes a moderate level assurance, performance. which is more limited in the scope of assurance activities compared to a high level assurance. Such limitations are as follows. Without affecting the assurance conclusions, BSI provides the following opinions based on the AA1000 Accountability Principles of •The assurance team was not involved in Hankook Tire’s stakeholder inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. engagement activities and the assurance conclusions and opinions were prepared through the interviews with Hankook Tire employees Hankook Tire’s integrated CSR management system is demonstrating in respective functions and the review of relevant documents and consistent operation, which ensures that various stakeholder feedback data provided by Hankook Tire. is reflected in its company-wide strategic guidelines and constantly •The interviewees were designated by Hankook Tire and agreed managed through the CSR Strategy Committee and operational upon by the assurance team. subcommittees. Establishing the CSR Committee in China is also a •Data before January 2012 was excluded from the assurance scope. good approach in terms of expanding the CSR system into its overseas operation. We recommend that Hankook Tire should make a clearer arrangement and report on how management role and responsibility for the key issues are assigned at the top CSR governance level (currently, 77 APPENDIX the CSR Strategy Committee) while reporting further on how to align Responsiveness refers to the extent of response undertaken by an the operation of the CSR Committee at the Korean headquarters and organization to stakeholder issues. the CSR Committees in overseas business sites. While Hankook Tire’s mission and vision structure contains its midWe are not aware of any inappropriate responses taken by Hankook term goals and strategic directions, such directions are not clearly Tire in the key issue areas including health & safety. aligned with key CSR issues. If the linkage between the two is more It is recommended that Hankook Tire should provide a more detailed clearly defined, this will give more confidence to stakeholders that disclosure of how health & safety targets, performance and operations the company’s company-wide strategies and its CSR strategies are of Occupational Health & Safety Committee are aligned with the integrated for effective operation. corporate health & safety policy and strategy implementation structure Hankook Tire initiated the assurance engagement from the early i.e. the CSR Steering Committee. drafting stage of the CSR Report, which allowed the company to While many improvements were made during the assurance proactively reflect the feedback of assurance team for the improvement engagement in helping stakeholders understand the progress of of accountability principles as well as the reliability of data during the performance improvement, Hankook Tire should make continuous entire reporting process. efforts to improve the comparability principle through more clear alignment between the goals of previous year and key performances of Inclusivity principle is about ensuring stakeholder engagement in the reporting period. developing and undertaking an accountable and strategic response It is recommended that respective operational committees fully use the to sustainability. SMART principle (specific, measurable, achievable, relevant, and timebased) in setting goals. Hankook Tire is demonstrating a highly commendable approach It is also recommended that Hankook Tire should ensure a more of integrating the principle of inclusivity into its operation with its systemic risk management of its global suppliers and a stronger structure of developing CSR strategic guidelines and implementing reporting of related performances. The first step to this could be it through subcommittees on the basis of the various stakeholders’ to supplement related disclosure for more clear understanding of input including customer requirements, employee surveys, rating stakeholders of the current status of all of its suppliers, which will bodies’ feedback, peer benchmarking and recommendations from be followed by the identification of supplier risks found as a result of the assurance provider. Still, the company lacks of a formal system supplier surveys and CSR assessments, as well as the reporting of to gather feedback from direct stakeholders. Therefore, its inclusivity detailed plans to reduce these risks and relevant achievements. will be strongly improved if stakeholders’ direct feedback is gathered through stakeholder panels by operating it in alignment with the CSR Strategy Committee in determining material issues for CSR reports. Performance Data Hankook Tire’s initiatives to obtain consent from suppliers to comply with CSR principles and to help suppliers with capacity building are We are not aware of any unfair descriptions of data or statements positively evaluated while its future plan to expand CSR assessment presented in the CSR Report. as part of its supplier management system is also considered a good We recommend that Hankook Tire should clearly define and report approach. We recommend that Hankook Tire should develop more the meanings of ‘intensity’ and ‘total volume’ that are used to manage detailed action plans to align supplier assessment outcomes with its quantifiable achievements, and review and improve the related purchasing contracts, and consider suppliers with high environmental management standards according to the definition. and social risks as the top priority in management and support. As the company’s CSR performance management and reporting system matures, a computerized CSR data management system Materiality refers to defining issues that are necessary for stakeholders is recommended to be introduced to support sharing and collating to make informed decisions on Hankook Tire and its impact. of operational performance among the headquarters, plants and subcommittees, and improve the efficiency of CSR data management Based on the work undertaken, we are not aware of any material and reporting. This will enable more efficient internal management issues that were omitted in this CSR Report in relation to Hankook such as managing change of related staff, preventing human error in Tire’s Korean business sites. collating data and expanding the CSR system into overseas sites. A continued improvement of the materiality test process is possible only through the documentation of official procedures that include evaluation methodology, assumptions, decision-making criteria for materiality, and reporting and review processes for the top management. We recommend that Hankook Tire should develop the procedures that align the criteria of determining the material issues JaeHoon Han and regular execution with the corporate risk management so as to Managing Director eliminate overlapping endeavors and support the top management in BSI Group Korea making clearer decisions. 25 June 2013 Furthermore, as Hankook Tire’s CSR system is expanding to overseas site like China, Hankook Tire may benefit from developing materiality procedures for the use of each operating country including Europe, America as well as Korea, taking into consideration of distinctive geological/ political, economic, social and environmental risks & opportunities. HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2012/13 78 GLOBAL NETWORK We deliver tire products that enable safer and more comfortable driving, bringing an increased quality of life and pleasant experiences to our customers around the world. Our sales network spans not only Korea, our headquarters home base, but also China, Europe, America, the Middle East, Africa and the Asia Pacific, offering products that meet various local needs. Offices & Regional Headquarters GEUMSAN PLANT R&D Centers 433 Myeongam-ri, Jewon-myeon, Geumsan-gun, Korea Chungcheongnam-do, Korea Korea 133, Teheran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea MAIN R&D CENTER Tel: 82-41-750-5000 / Fax: 82-41-753-8464 Tel: 82-2-2222-1000 / Fax: 82-2-2222-1100 23-1 Jang-dong, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon, Korea International Tel: 82-42-865-0114 / Fax: 82-42-865-0301 International JIANGSU PLANT HANKOOK TIRE CHINA REGIONAL HEADQUARTERS International No. 1 South Hantai Road, Huaian Economic Development Zone, 10th Floor, Guangqi Tower, 12th Building, No.1001 AKRON TECHNICAL CENTER (OHIO, USA) Jiangsu, China Qinzhoubei Road, Xuhui District, Shanghai, China 3535 Forest Lake Drive Uniontown, Ohio 44685, U.S.A Tel: 86-517-8318-5000 / Fax: 86-517-8318-5100 Tel: 86-21-2422-5888 / Fax: 86-21-3363-7180 Tel: 1-330-896-5295 / Fax: 1-330-896-6597 JIAXING PLANT HANKOOK TIRE EUROPE GMBH EUROPE TECHNICAL CENTER (HANOVER, GERMANY) Dongfang Road, Jiaxing Edz, Jiaxing Zhejiang, China Siemensstrasse 5A, 63263 Neu-Isenburg, Germany Muenchner Strasse 40A1, 30855 Langenhagen, Germany Tel: 86-573-8216-1888 / Fax: 86-573-8220-5086 Tel: 49-6102-8149-0 / Fax: 49-6102-8149-100 Tel: 49-511-6460-970 / Fax: 49-511-6460-9778 CHONGQING PLANT HANKOOK TIRE AMERICA CORP. CHINA TECHNICAL CENTER (JIAXING, CHINA) No. 149 Dong Feng, Jiang Bei, Chongqing, China 1450 Valley Road, Wayne, New Jersey 07470, U.S.A. Dong Fang Road, 314003, Jiaxing EDZ., Jiaxing Zhejiang, China Tel: 86-023-6035-9555 / Fax: 86-023-6035-9418 Tel: 1-973-633-9000 / Fax: 1-973-633-0028 Tel: 86-573-8216-1644 / Fax: 86-517-8318-5100 HUNGARY PLANT H-2459 Hankook tér 1, Rácalmás, Hungary JAPAN TECHNICAL OFFICE (OSAKA, JAPAN) Plants Tel: 36-25-556-011 / Fax: 36-25-556-359 9F, Naniwasuji Honmachi Mid Bldg. 2-3-2, Utsubo-Honmachi, INDONESIA PLANT Nishi-Ku, Osaka 550-0004, Japan Korea Jl. Kenari Raya G3-01 Delta Silcon 5 Indust.Park, Cicau, Tel: 81-6-4803-8871 / Fax: 81-6-4803-8882 DAEJEON PLANT Cikarang Pusat, Bekasi, Java Barat, Indonesia 100 Moksang-dong, Daedeok-gu, Daejeon, Korea Tel: 62-21-8988-0100 Tel: 82-42-930-1114 / Fax: 82-42-931-0597 CHINA 1 REGIONAL HEADQUARTERS 3 PLANTS 15 SALES OFFICES CHINA TECHNICAL CENTER EUROPE MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA / 1 REGIONAL HEADQUARTERS ASIA-PACIFIC 1 PLANT 1 PLANT 9 SUBSIDIARIES 4 SUBSIDIARIES 2 SALES OFFICES 6 SALES OFFICES EUROPE TECHNICAL CENTER JAPAN TECHNICAL CENTER REGIONAL HEADQUARTERS PLANT R&D CENTER SUBSIDIARY 79 APPENDIX Subsidiaries Hankook Lastikleri A.S. Hankooktire Polska Sp.z o.o Dereboyu Cad. Meydan SK. Beybi Giz Plaza N:28 K:21 D:80 Sp. z o.o ODDZIAŁ W POLSCE ul.Bokserska 66, HANKOOK REIFEN DEUTSCHLAND GMBH Maslak, 34398 Istanbul, Turkey 02-660 Warszawa, Poland Siemensstrasse 5A, 63263 Neu-Isenburg, Germany Tel: 90-212-290-3690 / Fax: 90-212-290-3691 Tel: 48-22-395-5735 / Fax: 48-22-395-5749 Tel: 49-6102-59982-60 / Fax: 49-6102-59982-49 HANKOOK TIRE CANADA CORP. Hankook Tire Thailand Co.,Ltd HANKOOK TYRE U.K.LTD. 30 Resolution Drive, Brampton, ON, L6W OA3, Canada 11th Floor, Two Pacific Place Bldg., 142 Sukhumvit Road, Fawsley Drive, Heartlands Business Park, Daventry, Tel: 1-905-463-9802 / Fax: 1-905-463-9792 Klongtoey, Bangkok 10110, Thailand Northamptonshire NN11 8UG, U.K. HANKOOK TIRE DE MEXICO S.A. DE C.V. Tel: 66-2-653-3790 / Fax: 66-2-653-4185 Tel: 44-1327-304-100 / Fax: 44-1327-304-110 Paseo De La Reforma #199, Piso 5, Oficina #502 Hankook Tire Co., Ltd. Bogota Office HANKOOK FRANCE S.A.R.L. Colonia Cuauhtemoc C.P.06500, Mexico, D.F Av. 19 No. 97-05 Of. 701 Bogota, Colombia Central ParcⅡ115 (4eme Etage) Boulevard, Tel: 52-55-5535-1072/1104/1106 Tel: 571-743-4545 Stalingrad 69100 Villeurbanne, France Fax: 52-55-5535-1072/1104/1106 Hankook Tire Co., Ltd. Agencia En Chile Tel: 33-4-7269-7669 / Fax: 33-4-7894-1572 HANKOOK TYRE AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD. San Pio X 2460, Oficina 1604, Providencia, Santiago, Chile HANKOOK TIRE ITALIA S.R.L. Building A, Level 3, 11, Talavera Road, Macquarie Park, Tel: 56-2-2596-8460 / Fax: 56-2-2596-8463 Centro Direzionale Colleoni, Via Paracelso 2, Palazzo Liocorno NSW 2113, Australia Hankook Tire do Brasil servicos de intermediacao de Ingresso 1(Piano 2) 20864, Agrate Brianza (MB), Italy Tel: 61-2-9870-1200 / Fax: 61-2-9870-1201 negocios no ramo de pneus ltda Tel: 39-039-6846-336 / Fax: 39-039-6091-372 HANKOOK TIRE JAPAN CORP. AV. Eng. Luis Carlos Berrini, 550-cj.92, HANKOOK ESPANA S.A. 9th FI, Naniwasuji Honmachi Mid Bldg.2-3-2 Brooklin-Sao Paulo/SP CEP, 04571-000, Brazil Avda. De La Industrias, No 4 Edificio 3, 2-D Parque Empresarial Utsubo-Honmachi, Nishi-Ku, Osaka, Japan Tel: 55-11-3045-0544 / Fax: 55-11-3045-2119 Natea, 28108 Alcobendas Madrid, Spain Tel: 81-6-4803-8871 / Fax: 81-6-4803-8882 Hankook Tire Co., Ltd. Johannesburg Office Tel: 34-91-490-5088 / Fax: 34-91-662-9802 Hankook Tire Singapore Corp. 6D2 Sinosteel Plaza, 159 Rivonia Road, Morningside Ext., HANKOOK TIRE NETHERLANDS B.V 24 Raffles Place #11-05 Clifford Centre, Singapore 048621 Sandton, Johannesburg, South Africa Koerilenstraat 2-6, 3199 LR Maasvlakte Rotterdam Havennumber Tel: 65-6323-7011 / Fax: 65-6323-7077 Tel: 27-11-784-7714 / Fax: 27-11-784-5873 8625, The Netherlands Hankook Tire Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Hankook Tire Co., Ltd. Jeddah Office Tel: 31-181-353010 / Fax: 31-181-362358 22-8, Menara 1MK, Komplecks 1 Mont’ Kiara, No.1 Jalan Kiara, P.O. Box 5922, Jeddah 21432, Kingdom Of Saudi Arabia HANKOOK TIRE BUDAPEST KERESKEDELMI KFT. Mont’ Kiara, 50480, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Tel: 966-2-680-6160 / Fax: 966-2-680-6468 IP Westbuilding, H-1117 Budapest, Budafoki ut 91-93, Hungary Tel: 60-3-6206-1875 / Fax: 60-3-6206-2877 Hankook Tire Co., Ltd. Cairo Office Tel: 36-1-464-3660 / Fax: 36-1-464-3669 Hankook Tire Co., Ltd. India Liaison Office 5 Waadi Nile St., El Maadi, Cairo, Egypt Hankook Tire Sweden AB Unit No.102, 1st Floor, BPTP Park Centra, Sector-30, Tel: 20-2-2750-7136 / Fax: 20-2-2751-4014 Kanalvagen 3A, 194 61 Upplands Vasby, Sweden N.H.8, Gurgaon 122001, Haryana, India Hankook Tire Co., Ltd. Panama Office Tel: 46(0)8-590-839-10 / Fax: 46(0)8-590-839-12 Tel: 91-124-495-8050 / Fax: 91-124-495-8060 Edificio Proconsa 11A-B Calle 50 Panama City / Rep. De Panama HANKOOK TIRE RUS LLC Hankook Tire Co., Ltd. Dubai Office Tel: 507-263-3008 (3027) / Fax: 507-263-3006 Business Center “Art Plaza”, Build.4, 2/4, Luzhnetskaya Al Moosa Tower 2, #1002 P.O. Box 15097, Hankook Tire ASEAN/India Marketing & Sales Nabereznaya, Moscow, 119270, Russian Fed. Sheik Zayed Road, Dubai, U.A.E Gandaria 8, 22nd FI. JI. Sultan Iskandar Muda Kebayoran Lama Tel: 7-495-956-23-40 / Fax: 7-495-956-23-43 Tel: 971-4-332-1330 / Fax: 971-4-332-1314 Jakarta Selatan 12240, Indonesia Tel: 62-21-2930-3860 / Fax: 62-21-2930-3855 KOREA HQ AMERICA 1 REGIONAL HEADQUARTERS 1 REGIONAL HEADQUARTERS 2 PLANTS 3 SUBSIDIARIES 35 SALES OFFICES 10 SALES OFFICES MAIN R&D CENTER AKRON TECHNICAL CENTER Hankook Tire's Previous CSR Reports 2009 2010 2011/12 This report is printed on paper certified as sustainable by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) using soy-based ink. FSC: The mark is awarded to products made of wood that comes from environmentally-friendly forests. 030459 • Date of Publication June 2013 • Publisher Suh, Seung-hwa • Publishing Company Hankook Tire • Planning & Development CSR Team • Art Design & Editing PAOS INC. Tel) +82-2-512-1488 • Printing Han River pinting Co.,Ltd. Tel) +82-2-2267-9010 81 Driving CSR, Driving Sustainable Mobility Hankook Tire (Yeoksam-dong)133, Teheran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea Tel. +82-2-2222-1671~1679 Fax. +82-2-2222-1721 csr@hankooktire.com www.hankooktire.com
