General Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: March 2013 To: March 2014 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Please provide a statement of your company's chief executive expressing continued support for the Gl obal Compact and renewing your company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles (P lease include name and title of the chief executive at the bottom of the statement). Forster offers continued support for the Global Compact and maintains an ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles, with a view to continued improvement. Jilly Forster – CEO Examples (Please click on the links below for examples of statements)Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses (For more information on th e principles, click here) Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e.human rights risk‐assessment). De scription of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. Our Commitment or Policy Forster delivers all work within our 10 commitments, which underpin everything we do. Two of these commitment apply to this principal and are give below: 8. We encourage the highest standards of environmental protection, social responsibility and respect for human rights from our clients. 9. We will not generate profit or revenue from practices that threaten life or have negative social, ethical or environmental impacts. Examples •Reference to (statement of support for) the Universal Declaration of Human Rights or other internatio nal standards • Written company policy on respecting Human Rights and preventing potential abuses (e.g. in code of conduct) • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the principles on Human Rights? •Assessment of Human Rights related risks and impact in industry sector and country(ies) of operatio n (see Risk Assessment Report at www.humanrightsbusiness.org) • Specific goals in the area of Human Rights for the upcoming year Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, reduce Human Rights risks and r espond to Human Rights violations. Within our own core business there is negligible risk that any human rights violations will take place. However, we do ensure that we only work with clients and suppliers that support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. In order to verify this, we vet all potential suppliers and clients against our 10 commitments and business principals, as indicated above. The decision to work with any client or supplier is ultimately a board decision. The process outlined above is longstanding within Forster and will be sustained in the future running of our business. In order to ensure that we are up to date with human rights law and legislation, this is regularly checked (approximately every 6 months) by our Chief Operating Officer and any policy changes ultimately signed off and implemented by the Chief Executive Officer. Examples • Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanism • Awareness raising or training of employees on Human Rights • Consultation with stakeholders and affected parties • Allocation of responsibilities for the protection of Human Rights within your company • Human resource policies and procedures supporting Human Rights Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. N/A Examples • Specific progress made in the area of Human Rights in the past reporting period • Information about how your company deals with incidents of Human Rights violations • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to Human Rights • Periodic review of results by senior management • External audits of Human Rights performance Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the r ight to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation (For more infor mation on the principles, click here) Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights‐related risks and oppor tunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. As for the previous statement, please see below two of our ten commitments, which underpin all elements of our business, that apply to this statement. 8. We encourage the highest standards of environmental protection, social responsibility and respect for human rights from our clients. 9. We will not generate profit or revenue from practices that threaten life or have negative social, ethical or environmental impacts. Within our own core business there is negligible risk that any human rights violations will take place. However, we do ensure that we only work with clients and suppliers that support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. In order to verify this, we vet all potential suppliers and clients against our 10 commitments and business principals, as indicated above. The decision to work with any client or supplier is ultimately a board decision. Our Commitment or Policy Forster’s equal opportunities policy is signed off at board level and all employees of Forster are made aware the policy and practices when they join the company, with copies always available to any member of staff through an shared, accessible system. Equal Opportunities & Employee Development Policy Our beliefs We value and encourage diversity and difference within Forster and believe that we are a stronger company as a result  We benefit from the different experiences and backgrounds that our employees bring with  them to work  We welcome diversity amongst our clients, associates and suppliers  We take the training and development of our employees seriously Our policies  To appoint staff on the basis of the skills and enthusiasm that they bring to the company,  regardless of race, colour, religion or belief, ethnic or national origin, disability, sexual orientation, marital status, age, responsibility for dependents and economic or part-time status or trade union membership or non-membership.  To provide all employees with equal access to stimulating employment and to career  advancement  To give each employee a formal appraisal once a year, backed by a review after six  months  To support employee development with agreed training and development activities  To encourage and support employee involvement in voluntary activities  To support job sharing and part-time working wherever possible  To comply with all relevant equal opportunities legislation  To ensure that all our employees comply with our Equal Opportunities Policies at all times In addition, Forster has a formal policy covering harassment: Harassment Policy Statement We are committed to providing a work environment for our employees that is free from embarrassment, intimidation, threats, discrimination or harassment. Harassment, whether racial or sexual or based on sexual orientation, religion or belief, disability, or age or in the form of bullying will not be tolerated under any circumstances. We recognise that such harassment or victimisation can have the effect of embarrassing, humiliating, offending and demeaning or intimidating the employee against whom it is aimed. As a result, the individual concerned will suffer harmful effects and the effectiveness and efficiency of our Company may be damaged. Racial Harassment can take on many forms. It will include any unwanted non-verbal, verbal or physical abuse, which is racially derogatory and potentially insulting. Examples of racial harassment include offensive and insensitive quips and jokes which are related to a person's race, religion, or ethnic origin; the deliberate exclusion and isolation of an individual; threatening or insulting words or behaviour, and the display of abusive writing or pictures. Sexual Harassment (including harassment relating to gender reassignment) consists of unwanted conduct of a sexual nature. It includes verbal, non-verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature, which the harasser knew or should have known, would cause offence to the victim. Such conduct may include (although this is by no means an exhaustive list), unwanted physical conduct of a sexual nature; inappropriate, suggestive or uninvited comments; displays of sexual or sexually aggressive literature and pictures; unwelcome sexual propositions or repeated unwelcome invitations, lewd comments or insensitive jokes, insulting words or behaviour or the deliberate exclusion and isolation of an individual. Harassment based on sexual orientation, religion or belief consists of unwanted conduct based on the individual’s sexual orientation, or religion or belief, which violates the individual’s dignity or creates an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment for the individual or the deliberate exclusion and isolation of the individual. Harassment based on disability consists of any offensive or intimidating behaviour towards a person because of his or her disability, which may include an impediment of movement, vision or hearing or other physical or mental impairment. Harassment based on age consists of unwanted conduct based on the individual’s age, which violates the individual’s dignity or creates an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment for the individual. Bullying can range from seemingly trivial nit picking to outright abuse against a person. It includes behaviour aimed at creating a humiliating or degrading environment for the individual, aggressive or intimidating conduct towards a person or other actions intended to make the victim’s working life difficult or unbearable. Employees are initially encouraged to resolve any situation of harassment informally by talking directly, politely and unambiguously to the person concerned. It may be sufficient to explain clearly to the person that the behaviour is unacceptable. Where the circumstances are such that it is too difficult to do this, an alternative approach could be to raise the situation informally with a Senior Manager. Forster delivers all work within our 10 commitments, which underpin everything we do. The commitments that apply to this principal and are give below:  We respect and have empathy with the beliefs and aims of all our clients and partners – irrespective of race, gender, sexuality or disability.  We ensure genuine employee participation in the day to day running and overall direction of the company. Every employee has an important 'voice' and is encouraged to use that voice.  We uphold an open, honest and inclusive relationship with all company partners and stakeholders Examples • Reference to ILO Core Conventions or other international instruments • Written company policies to uphold the freedom of association and collective bargaining and the elimination of forced labour, child labour and employment discrimination •written policies that clearly state employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the Labour principles • Assessment of labour‐related risks in the industry sector and country(ies) of operations • Specific goals in the area of Labour Rights for the upcoming year Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by your company to implement labour policies, reduce labour ris ks and respond to labour violations. The process outlined above is longstanding within Forster and will be sustained in the future running of our business. In order to ensure that we are up to date with human rights law and legislation, this is regularly checked (approximately every 6 months) by our Chief Operating Officer and any policy changes ultimately signed off and implemented by the Chief Executive Officer. Examples • Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanisms • Awareness raising or training for employees on labour rights and policies • Describe how the health and safety of all employees is ensured • Describe how your company prevents discrimination of all kinds and ensures comparable pay for comparable work • Consultation with employees and other stakeholders • Allocation of responsibilities for the protection of labour rights within your organization • Human Resource policies and procedures supporting the Labour principles • Participation in international framework agreements and other agreements with labour unions Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Examples • Demographics of management and employees by diversity factors (e.g. gender, ethnicity, age, etc.) • Describe how your company deals with incidents of violations of Labour principles • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to Labour • Periodic review of results by senior management • Specific progress made in the area of Labour during the last reporting period • External audits (e.g. SA 8000) Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies (For more information on the principles, click here) Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental pro tection At Forster, our business is based on our beliefs, encapsulated in our Ten Commitments. As an office-based consultancy whose ‘products’ are largely intellectual, our environmental impacts are relatively low. However, wherever possible we subscribe to a core philosophy of ‘reduce, re-use, recycle’. We also recognise that the activities we undertake or manage on behalf of clients have an impact on the environment and believe that it is our responsibility to minimise this impact. We have an Environmental Policy and an Environmental Management System, both approved at board level. All employees are made aware of policy and systems when they begin working with company and provided with regular updates regarding any changes to amendments to the policy. Our most significant direct environmental impacts relate to the use of: Fossil fuels for transport; Energy for office heating, lighting and power; Paper and waste disposal; Water in our office kitchens and loos The effects of these impacts are already mitigated through: Use of cycle couriers wherever possible; Staff walking or cycling to work or using public transport Incentivised use of company pool bikes Purchase of 100% renewable electricity; Turning off appliances; Double-sided printing; Use of products with a lower environmental impact (including recycled stationary, Ecover cleaners, energy efficient computers, sustainably sourced office furniture, organic food & beverages and on-site bottled tap water) Separation of plastic, cans, glass, paper (white & coloured), cardboard and print toner cartridges for recycling; Reducing water use via dual flush loos and spray taps Working with suppliers who are committed to environmental sustainability Offsetting unavoidable CO2 emissions through an accredited social responsible environmental project. Examples • Assess the environmental footprint and impact of your company • Written company policy on environmental issues, including prevention and management of environmental risks • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the environmental principles • Describe specific goals in the area of the environment for the upcoming year Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, reduce environmental risks and r espond to environmental incidents Our environmental objectives are to:  Encourage walking and cycling on commuter journeys and cycling on business travel  Reduce material consumption and maintain energy consumption at minimum levels;  Use renewable resources where practical, e.g. electricity and ensure that we are working with market leaders through regular review  Continue separating waste for recycling, with the aim of increasing the proportion of recycled material decreasing the proportion of disposed;  Comply with relevant regulations and legal requirements, e.g. the Duty of Care in relation to Waste;  Uphold conditions of subscription bodies including UN Global Compact  Work with clients and suppliers to reduce indirect negative environmental impacts, e.g. impacts of printing suppliers used by us or commissioned on behalf of clients.  Promote our best practice water usage policy  Maintain systems to the level of ISO 14001 Environmental Management Standard accreditation  Specific targets relating to these objectives are documented in our Sustainability Report. Our most recent report was published in November 2012. Examples • Awareness raising or training of employees on environmental protection • Initiatives and programmes to reduce waste materials (e.g. recycling) and consumption of resources (energy, fossil fuels, water, electricity, paper, packaging, etc.) • Activities aimed at improving the energy efficiency of products, services and processes • Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies • Raise awareness among suppliers by asking them for environmental data on their products • Environmental management system with objectives and procedures for evaluating progress, minimizi ng negative impacts and transferring good practices • Allocation of responsibilities for environmental protection within your company Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance In the last year we have:  Reduced our overall gas usage by 19%  Increased our commuter journeys cycled from 5% to 12%  Switched all energy supplies to Good Energy, to mean that 100% of electricity is now purchased from a renewable source, and we are reviewing our gas supply  Reduced paper purchasing by 29% which is an 11% drop per capita The General Management team take monthly readings of all meters and report to the board each month against targets. Examples • Information about how your company deals with incidents • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to environmental principles • Specific progress made in the area of the environmental protection during the last reporting period • Periodic review of results by senior management • External audits of environmental performanceAnti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery (For more information on the principles, click here). Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of anti‐corruption for the company (i.e. anti‐corruption risk‐assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti‐corruption. Forster takes issues of corruption in all its forms very seriously. Any activity that could be interpreted as corruption would involve Gross Misconduct proceedings for the individual involved. Examples • Assessment of risk of corruption and bribery in the company’s industry and country(ies) of operation • Written company policy of zero‐tolerance for corruption, bribery and extortion • Reference to (or statement of support for) the UN Convention Against Corruption and other international instruments • Protocol to guide staff in situations where they are confronted with extortion or bribery • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the anti‐corruption principles • Specific goals in the area of anti‐corruption for the upcoming year Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti‐corruption policies, reduce anti‐corruption risks and respond to incidents. Examples • Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanisms • Awareness raising or training of employees about company's policies regarding anti‐corruption and extortion (e.g. mailings, internet, internal communication, etc.) • Allocation of responsibilities for anti‐corruption within your company • Participation in industry initiative or other collective action on anti‐corruption Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti‐corruption performance. Examples • Information about how your company deals with incidents of corruption • Internal audits to ensure consistency with anti‐corruption commitment, including periodic review by senior management • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to corruption and bribery • Specific progress made in the area of anti‐corruption during the last reporting period • External audits of anti‐corruption programmes
