PT TRAKINDO UTAMA UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 Statement of Continuous Support For Trakindo, our commitment is to continuously build the trust of our customers as well as all the stakeholders. Throughout more than four decades, Trakindo has enjoyed rapid growth as part of supporting the national development efforts in Indonesia. Today, Trakindo is a large company with a well-established reputation. This will not be possible without a relentless commitment to deliver our best. June 2012 marked Trakindo’s commitment to sustainability and corporate citizenship by being a member of the United Nations Global Compact (“UNGC”). For more than four decades, Trakindo has incorporated business strategies, day-today operations and business activities as well as organizational culture in line with the ten universal principles of UNGC. Trakindo has implemented good corporate governance practices that includes compliance with the laws and regulations, respect to high standards of business ethics, compliance with the principles of human rights, continuous employee development and continuous operational improvements in doing our business. The Corporate Citizenship Program in Trakindo has been developed into four pillars – Education, Health, Environment, and Compassionate Relief – which will become the guiding principles of Trakindo towards sustainability. Our involvement in Global Compact helps us to strengthen and broaden the implementation of activities within the ten universal principles. It is also a critical milestone because by joining UNGC, we will expand our working synergy with other member companies in sharing experiences and best practice solutions. We strive to incorporate the ten principles in the way we do our business as part of expanding our sustainability aspiration. We believe that Trakindo is capable of enhancing its contribution to Indonesia’s national development towards the future. In doing so, Trakindo will continuously aim to increase its value to all stakeholders and continue to uphold the highest ethical business conducts in everything and everywhere we do business. Jakarta, 5 June 2013 Bari Hamami The President Director of PT. Trakindo Utama Trakindo Overview PT Trakindo Utama (Trakindo) is the authorized dealer in Indonesia for at Glance Caterpillar products, the w orld' s largest manufacturer of heavy equipment, diesel and natural gas engines, industrial engines and generator sets. Trakindo w as established in 1970 by the founder, Mr. AHK Hamami. The Company became the authorized dealer for Caterpillar in 1971 and now has more than 65 branches throughout the country from Sumatera to Papua. At the end of 2012, Trakindo has more than 7,500 employees. Trakindo is proud to offer a complete line of Caterpillar equipment products designed to w ork hard and built to last. We have a complete selection of Caterpillar engines w ith various capacity ratings, a full selection of Caterpillar equipment, and a complete range of genuine replacement parts for every Caterpillar product, as w ell as new and used Caterpillar parts and equipment. Backed by unbeatable support facilities and an extensive spare parts supply netw ork, Trakindo provides w orld-class service to its customers in the mining, construction, forestry, agricultural, oil and gas, energy, marine, and other industrial sectors. Trakindo has experienced a remarkable journey of more than 40 years, during w hich w e have grow n to become ' The Customer Services Company' and a w orld‐class provider of Caterpillar equipment solutions. Trakindo Four Pillars of Trakindo’s Corporate Citizenship Program: Education Corporate Focus on people development through education and good character building Collaboration of Trakindo’ s employees and their families, students Citizenship and their parents and the local communities. Program: Coop Program w ith 10 SMKs and 5 polytechnics and 40 SDN Program Environment Commitment to energy conservation & pollution control, w ater conservation and w aste management Program: save w ater, save energy, save paper campaign and w aste management i.e. oil and w ater separator. Health Consistently maintain the w orkplace safety and health of our people Program: HIV/AIDS prevention in w orkplace, blood donation, zero accident, one million w ork-hour w ithout LTI. Compassionate Relief Community empow erment for disaster survivors Program: Aceh Tsunami, Mentaw ai Tsunami, Wasior flash flood, Merapi eruption. Employee volunteerism as a part of Corporate Citizenship Program of Trakindo Area 1: Human rights Employee Relations Assessment, Policies, Goals Principle 1: Businesses should The Policies that governs the relationship betw een the employees of support and respect the protection Trakindo w hich relate to Human Rights consist of: of internationally proclaimed human • No pressure or intimidation against fellow co-w orker, boss or rights; and subordinate to either personal interests or interests of other internal and external parties. Principle 2: make sure that they are • No resentment and adverse actions, such as physical and verbal not complicit in human rights threats against other employees w ho are reporting misbehavior abuses. • No action and or statements that can be interpreted as humiliation, harsh w ords, or profanity tow ards colleagues or subordinates. • No action or statement that contain elements of harassment associated w ith ethnics, religion, race, color, nationality, gender, culture, age, veteran status and other matters relating to the norm decency and manners. • No benefits of the position to compel and provoke cow orkers, superiors or subordinates for particular or other interests w hich are believed and considered to be harmful to the company • In developing career, all employees shall dissociate, avoid, and prevent unfair competition. Female has equal rights to take the post in heavy equipment industry Implementation • In the aspect of human rights, in gender equality, every employee of Trakindo, w hether male or female, has the equal right to take the post of Area 1: Human rights top management levels. The opportunity to grow and to pursue a career has proved to be w idely open at Trakindo. The measurable and w ell planned human resource development program is made in the Continued: Management Development Program (MDP). Through this program, the capacity of employees can be w ell prepared before resuming a bigger responsibility at a higher level of career. • The company cares on health, w ork safety, and environment or Safety, Health and Environment (SHE). In these aspects, Trakindo manifests it into a policy, HSE system, and OHSAS 18001 certification. Through OHSAS in all branch offices, Trakindo believes that this can improve the value of the company in the eyes of customers and public. It eventually w ill promote trust to Trakindo. • The employees are included in the social security program (JAMSOSTEK) in accordance w ith applicable law . Measurement of Outcomes • In developing the skills of employees, the company made ​ a design of development program called Individual Development Plan. In this program the employees are valued based on the basic skills and career interests. Regular trainings for continuous Further, they are required to fill out employee development planning forms development of employees to help define their interests and career direction. • The company translates vision, mission and strategy into core values ​ w hich can be measured through Performance Management and Development (PMD) and Assessment Center. PMD is started from the highest level of the company, and trickle dow n to low er level and so forth. PMD is measured to help in managing employee development, developing talent management, helping succession planning of the employees. Promoting Noble Character-Based Education Assessment, Policies, Goals Area 1: Human rights • Trakindo manifests its social responsibility through its Corporate Citizenship Program w hich consists of 4 pillars, namely Continued: Education, Environment, Health, and Compassionate Relief. • In Education pillar, Trakindo promotes a noble character-based education to stakeholders to create qualified human resources. Implementation • Since 1996, through Mitratama Educational Institution, Trakindo provides educational support to high achievement children of the employees. • In commemorating 40 years of Trakindo in 2010, Trakindo show ed its commitment in education by commencing the Educational Program in 40 Elementary Schools in Indonesia. The educational program comprises of school renovation, school assistance through capacity building of the teachers and scholarship for high achievement students. • In supporting the government to develop the life of the Indonesian in education, Trakindo has developed ready to w ork program w ith ten heavy equipment vocational high schools and five polytechnics. • The company is currently has more than 7500 employees. The employee development programs continually run provided by the Educational support to heavy equipment company to the employees, starting from Management Trainee to vocational schools and polytechnics Development program in various levels, in regular basis and as planned. • Trakindo ow ns Training Center facility that received five stars accreditation from Caterpillar Learning System Accreditation for Contamination Control. The facility serves trainings for internal employees as w ell as customers. Additionally, the company has 11 Satellite Training Centers to support company trainings. Measurement of Outcomes • Trakindo has developed close cooperation w ith ten Vocational High Schools and Area 1: Human rights five Polytechnics in heavy equipment studies, namely SMKN 1 Singosari Malang, East Java; SMKN 3 Sorong, Papua; SMKN 1 Mimika, Papua; SMKN 1 Continued: Balikpapan, East Kalimantan; SMKN 5 Makassar, South Sulaw esi; SMKN 1 Lubuk Pakam, North Sumatra; SMKN 2 Dumai, Riau; and SMKN 6 Samarinda, East Kalimantan. After the period, the number w as added to reach 10 schools, namely SMKN 2 Sumbaw a Besar in West Nusa Tenggara and SMKN 2 Bitung in North Sulaw esi. • Trakindo developed a character – based heavy equipment curriculum and received endorsement from Directorate General for Higher Education. • More than 2000 skillful students have been graduated as a result of Trakindo Cooperation w ith Vocational High Schools and Polytechnics in heavy equipment studies. • In the Educational Program in 40 Elementary schools, more than 13,000 students have received impacts, 1,000 teachers have been trained and built their capacity, more than 300 students have received scholarships, almost 500 classes have been renovated and thousands of low -income families have been impacted. • The 40 Elementary Schools based on province: 1. NAD: SDN Muenasah Ara-Aceh Barat 2. Sumatera Utara: SDN 060932Medan 3. Sumatera Barat: SDN 09 Ulakan Tapis-Padang Pariaman 4. Sumatera Selatan: SDN 04 Sungai Rebo, BanyuasinPalembang 5. Riau: SDN 065 Rumbai Pesisir-Pekanbaru 6. Kepulauan Riau: SDN 005 Sekupang-Batam More than 1,000 teachers have been 7. Kepulauan Bangka Belitung: SDN 40 Kacang Pedang-Pangkal Pinang trained by Trakindo Corporate 8. Bengkulu: SDN 02, Pematang Tiga-Bengkulu Citizenship Program 9. Jambi: SDN 4-Jambi 10. Lampung: SDN 1 Bumi Waras-Bandar Lampung Measurement of Outcomes 11. DKI Jakarta: SDN 11 Pagi Tegal Alur-Jakarta Barat Area 1: Human rights 12. Jawa Barat: SDN 4 LeuwiranjiBogor; SDN 07 Cileungsi-Bogor 13. Yogyakarta: SDN Tegalmulyo-Yogyakarta 14. Jawa Timur: SDN 1 Sumbermanjing Kulon-Kab. Malang Continued: 15. Kalimantan Barat: SDN 27-Pontianak Tenggara 16. Kalimantan Timur: SDN 16 Karangjoang-Balikpapan, SDN 003-Sangatta, SDN 027 Samarinda Sebrang-Samarinda, SDN 002 Gunung TaburBerau, SDN 009 BatusopangBatu Kajang 17. Kalimantan Tengah: SDN Ketapang IV-Sampit 18. Kalimantan Utara: SDN 014 Gunung Belah-Tarakan 19. Kalimantan Selatan: SDN 4 Pelambuan-Banjarmasin, SDN 1 Padang PanjangTanjung Adaro, SDN 6 Sungai Danau-Satui, SDN 1Batulicin, SDN 1 Sungai Kapitan-Pangkalan Bun 20. Nusa Tenggara Barat: SDN 2 Maluk-Batu Hijau 21. Nusa Tenggara Timur: SDN Inpres Nunbaun Delha-Kupang 22. Sulawesi Utara: SDN 043-Manado 23. Sulawesi Tengah: SDN Inpres 1 Ujuna-Palu 24. Sulawesi Tenggara: SDN 07 BarugaKendari 25. Sulawesi Selatan: SDN 035 PaopaoMakassar, SDN 264 Wowondula-Sorowako, 26. Maluku: SDN 2 RumahtigaAmbon 27. Papua Barat: SDN Inpres 44 Klamalu-Sorong 28. Papua: SDN AbepantaiJayapura, SDN Timika II-Timika, SDN Inpres PolderMerauke • Training Center and Satellite Training Centers are regularly measured through accreditation of Learning Capabilities and Assessment Tools (LCAT) audit . Before and after renovation of the school Area 2: Labour Assessment, Policies, Goals • Capabilities, qualifications and other Criteria related to w ork is the only Principle 3: Businesses should uphold basis for all decisions related to members and applicants the freedom of association and the • Recruitment of manpow er, training, promotion, dismissal, compensation effective recognition of the right to and other criteria of aw ard or penalties are given and defined fairly collective bargaining; regardless religious background / beliefs, race / ethnicity, personal Principle 4: the elimination of all forms relationships (friendships and kinship),gender preference, age, disability, of forced and compulsory labour; veteran status or any other characteristic w hich protected by law • Creating a w ork environment w hich is free of harassment, such as Principle 5: the effective abolition of harassment against a person because of religion / belief, race / child labour; and ethnicity, skin color, nationality, sex (including Principle 6: the elimination of pregnancy), age, disability, veteran status or other characteristic of discrimination in respect of w hich is protected by law employment and occupation. • Creating human resources strategy based on know ledge through recruitment, trainings and development, posting, rotation, performance management, talent management, succession plan, and other programs. Implementation • One of the core values ​of Trakindo is continuous development of employees. This value has been applied in Trakindo since the beginning of the new recruitment process. The next stage is training and development program of the employees. The program is conducted to encourage employees to improve know ledge, abilities and also to prepare in participation to achieve the vision of the company. Area 2: Labour • 3 types of employee training and development program are:  Technical (solely for serviceman/technician) Technician Development Program (TDP), Mechanic Development Continued. Program (MDP), etc.  Functional Service Management Development Program (SMDP), Parts Management Development Program (PMDP), Finance Management Development Program (FMDP), Branch Management Development Program (BMDP), Management Trainee Development Program (MTDP), Marketing & Sales Development Program (MSDP), Safety Health& Environment Development Program (SHEDP), etc.  Soft skills Coaching and Counseling, Business Process Improvement Simulation, Customer Service Excellence (CSE), Behavioral Event Interview (BEI), Presentation Skill, etc. • 6sigma and continuous development are the methods in the company to implement the business strategy • The company has delivered competencies and cultures to develop ideas and innovation to all employees, and applied in various approaches, such One of the trainings held by Trakindo at as 6sigma methods, continuous improvement aw areness to Management Training Center Development Program (MDP). • The technicians are regularly supervised by certified technician in doing practical w ork or service w ork in w orkshop to master the technical skills as a condition of getting certification. • The company’ s top management gets regular trainings such as INSEAD, 6Sigma DMAIC, 6Sigma Master Black Belt. • The company develops collaborations w ith external institutions to accelerate organizational learning such as w ith INSEAD and ACCENTURE. Area 2: Labour • The company provides learning access for the targeted vocational high schools and polytechnics under Cooperation Program. Graduates from this Continued: program w ill go through the company’ s selection for hiring. Measurement of Outcomes • To translate the vision, mission and strategy, the company measured them through the Performance Management and Development (PMD) and assessment center. • Performance measurement is conducted tw o times a year to give guidance for employee performance. • The company achieved the aw ards in the competition of innovation for project improvement and project new initiatives. • Trakindo has w on four times “ Caterpillar Asia Pacific Dealership Services President Aw ard” , the annual aw ard that organized by Caterpillar AsiaPacific. • Trakindo Serviceman Aw ard Program, an annual program to rew ard and recognize to the achievement of the serviceman in the company. • The company prepared Individual Development Plan (IDP) w hich is assessed based on the basic skills and career interests. • The Training Center of the company received 5 stars accreditation from Caterpillar Learning Capabilities & Accreditation Tools (LCAT) for Contamination Control. • In 2012, the Satellite Training Center in Pekanbaru and Balikpapan earned 3Star Rating through LCAT audit . • From the graduates of Cooperation Program, about 60% have been joined in Technician Development Program (TDP) trainings of Trakindo. Assessment, Policy and Goals Area 3: Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. SHE Policy in Trakindo The Policy stated that Trakindo to: 1. Comply with all applicable government regulations and others requirements Area 3: Environment that are in force. 2. Implement, maintain and prioritize a high quality SHE System at all Continued: Branches and Work areas. 3. Identify all Hazards and effectively manage the associated Risks. 4. Encourage all employees to take full responsibility for all SHE aspects within their work areas. 5. Commit to prevent the injury and illness. 6. Always create and increase Environmental Awareness. 7. Effectively manage all environmental aspects and impacts throughout our work areas. 8. Prevent pollution of environmental degradation. 9. Provide coaching and training to all employees so that they can support the implementation as stipulated in this Policy as well as the requirements of the SHE System, and 10. Ensure that all employees, customers suppliers, visitors and other stakeholders are familiarized with the contents and objectives of this Policy. SHE Department has specific working procedure related to Environmental Management in work areas, such as Manual, SOP (Standard Operating Procedure), WIN (Work Instruction), and Forms. a) The Manual accommodates general regulations of Environmental Management and other substantial aspect that should be stated as guidance. SHE Manual made as elementary guidance for Trakindo to develop, implement, maintain and also improving SHE Management System appropriate with National and International regulation. All related documents like SOP and WIN have to refer to the regulation in this SHE Manual. b) Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) Area 3: Environment PT Trakindo Utama has few SOPs related Environmental Management in work areas, it contains prevail national regulations as reference. The Continued: SOPs are: 1. SHE.SOP.001 SHE Policy, Objective and Program 2. SHE.SOP.003 Risk Management 3. SHE.SOP.015 Management & Control of Toxic & Hazardous Substances 4. SHE.SOP.017 Personal Protective Equipment 5. SHE.SOP.018 SHE Maintenance and Inspection 6. SHE.SOP.019 Waste Management & Control 7. SHE.SOP.023 Emergency Preparedness and Response 8. SHE.SOP.024 Incident Reporting 9. SHE.SOP.025 Incident Investigation Process 10. SHE.SOP.026 SHE Measurement & Monitoring 11. SHE.SOP.027 SHE Preventive and Corrective Action c) Work Instruction (WIN) WIN contains specific instruction of activity process in working area. How Warehouse lighting saving in Trakindo to conduct the operation without contribute negative impacts to employee and environment. The WINs are: 1. SHE.WIN.004 Symbolic Safety Sign 2. SHE.WIN.016 Physical Environmental Condition Compliance 3. SHE.WIN.017 Hydrocarbon Management 4. SHE.WIN.018 Control of SHE Record 5. SHE.WIN.019 Noise Measurement Method 6. SHE.WIN.020 Lighting Measurement Method 7. SHE.WIN.022 Oil Spill Handling 8. SHE.WIN.025 THS Waste Temporary Storage Area 3: Environment Continued: d. The form The form is used to record data and/or as reporting template. It is important when audit to provide actual data. The forms are: 1. SHE.FRM.003 HIRA-ERA 2. SHE.FRM.034 List of THS 3. SHE.FRM.035 Weekly Inspection of THS 4. SHE.FRM.048 Schedule of SHE Measurement 5. SHE.FRM.049 SHE Measurement 6. SHE.FRM.047 Incident Investigation Report 7. SHE.FRM.046 Incident Report 8. SHE.FRM.050 Non Conformity Record 9. SHE.FRM.079 Waste Transfer 10. SHE.FRM.080 Oil Trap System Inspection 11. SHE.FRM.081 Waste Dredging on Oil Trap System Save w ater and w ash hand campaign 12. SHE.FRM.097 Measurement of Sound Pressure Level Area 3: Environment Implementation a) Environmental Training SHE Department holds Environmental Training regularly. The participants Continued: are SHE personnel in all working area and also from supervisory up such as Branch Head or Division Head. 14 Batch 1 15 Batch 2 10 Batch 3 8 76 6 Batch 4 4 32 SHEMDP 5 2 21 2 2 2 2 2 1 0 1 0 1 01 11 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Sumatera Java Kalimantan EIA Batu Hijau Tembagapura Cileungsi HO Number of participants per Batch 40 33 30 20 12 10 8 10 3 5 2 1 0 Sumatera Java Kalimantan EIA Batu Hijau Tembagapura Cileungsi HO Number of participants per Area Area 3: Environment Implementation b) Environmental Campaign Continued: Trakindo cares about environmental preservation, to support the preservation of environmental, Trakindo conducts aw areness such as a campaign below : Wallpaper for computer monitor Pamphlet of Paper-less campaign Email blast to employees Area 3: Environment Implementation c) Community Responsibility Continued: As a form of responsibility tow ards environmental sustainability, Trakindo Balikpapan branch periodically held events of beach cleaning and trees planting around the beach. It aimed to maintain the cleanliness of the beach around the company’ s w ork area and to protect the environment. The event w as carried out by all employees by involving local residents. Tree planting and Beach cleaning activity by Trakindo Area 3: Environment Continued: Measurement of outcomes In 2012, Trakindo Surabaya branch and Samarinda branch w ere certified for Environmental Management System ISO 14001. ISO 14001 certification as a proof that Trakindo strives to preserve the environment in its operations. Certificate of ISO 14001 for Trakindo Surabaya Area 1: Anti Corruption Assessment, Policies, Goals Assessment, Policy and Goals Principle 10: Businesses should • The company committed to implement the principles of good corporate governance w ork against corruption in all its • Based on the Internal Audit Charter w hich w as forms, including extortion and ratified on February 3, 2012, all activities of bribery. Internal Audit should be free from the influence of any element in the Company. • Responsibility for the management of risk inherent in the management of each operating unit. • Appointment of the external auditor is one of the Company' s efforts in implementing good governance, especially in terms of transparency and accountability. Implementation • The structure of Good Governance are as the follow ing: Shareholders General Meeting Board of Commissioners Board of Directors • Directors and Executive Council periodically attend seminars and training programs to ensure that they are updated w ith the latest development, competencies and technology as w ell as applicable law s and regulations Area 1: Anti Corruption • In performing duties and responsibilities to oversee and manage the Company, the Board of Commissioners and the Board of Directors held meetings of the Board of Commissioners and Board of Directors Continued: on a regular basis • Trakindo implements GCG consistently, one of w hich is done through the application of the Code of Conduct. • The company' s policy sets the relationship of Intellectual Property Rights (IPR), conflict of interest, giving and receiving gratification • Trakindo employees are not allow ed to give or promise the gratification to related parties, directly or indirectly. • Employees are prohibited from cutting or taking Trakindo payments to third parties as a rew ard of the performance of duties and obligations. • The company is subject to applicable law s and regulations especially regarding relations w ith the government • Each report, statement, certification w hich addressed to the government should be transparent, clear, accurate, complete and does not contain things that can be misinterpret. • Internal Audit is responsible to the Managing Director, and also report the results of the audit to the Executive Council. Internal Audit is led by a Head of Internal Audit. Trakindo is responsible for fair operating practices • To report risk management, control, and governance processes in the company, w hether they are designed and executed properly to ensure the follow ing objectives:  Risks have been identified and managed appropriately. Area 1: Anti Corruption  Information on financial, managerial, and operations are accurate, reliable, and in timely manner.  Controls are in compliance w ith policies, procedures and external Continued: regulations.  Resources have been economically obtained, efficiently used and properly maintained . • The scope of w ork of Internal Audit is covering all business units w ithin the Company. • The company established a Risk Management Team, led by Head of Internal Audit, to help in formulating Company' s risk management framew ork, consolidate and report key risks identified by the risk management process. • In order to implement the risk management process in the company' s business processes, the company has made ​long-term plans ranging from the establishment of policies and procedures, user identification and risk mitigation plans, periodic reporting format, the launch of the pilot -project risk management and continuous improvement. Trakindo is grow ing to be the “Customer Services Company” Measurement of Outcomes • Shareholders General Meetings consist of Annual General Meeting (AGM), w hich is not less than 6 months after the closing of fiscal year, and Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) • The Company appointed an independent external auditor to audit the financial statements of the Company, based on the Annual General Meeting result. • The External auditor is obliged to maintain the independence, in accordance w ith Standard Inspection of Public Accountant, issued by Indonesian Accountants Association. Thank You
