Corporate Sustainable Development (‘CSD’) Our commitment Computacenter recognises that our people and the societies and environment within which we operate are integral contributors to delivering value and supporting our key strategic aspirations. Whilst we pride ourselves on the provision of technologically advanced information solutions, we recognise that our business occurs within a wider community including employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, business partners and the natural environment as a whole. Since 2007, the Group has been committed to the 10 core principles of the United Nations Global Compact (‘UNGC’), aimed at demonstrating ethical, environmental and social responsibility towards our own workforce and in our business interaction within each community and country in which we operate. In 2009, the Group published its first Communication on Progress (‘CoP’) on the UNGC website, followed by our second, third and fourth CoPs in April 2010, 2011 and 2012. Additionally, the Group retains its membership of the FTSE4Good Index Series. The Group’s CSD Policy is annually reviewed by the highest governance structure, the Group Board, and the policy is executed and monitored through the facilitation of the Group CSD Committee, constituted out of representatives from across the Group as a whole. Integral to our commitment, we strive to incorporate the UNGC and its principles into our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. We do this through the development, communication East Kent Hospitals University and implementation of relevant policies to manage and monitor East Kent Hospitals University NHS Foundation Trust serves a our progress towards these principles. Since our commitment to wide geographical area. With its main hospital sites some miles the core principles, we have adopted and revised a number of apart, the trust’s clinicians frequently had to travel to attend policies and procedures across the Group. meetings and conduct training sessions. The trust recognised We support public accountability and will publish, as part of travelling was not an efficient use of clinicians’ time. In addition our annual Business Review, a Report on Progress. We are to the impact on productivity, the trust was also keen to reduce also communicating our sustainability efforts and achievements travel expenditure and its impact on the environment. with all our shareholders in the Annual Report and Accounts, The trust partnered with Computacenter to design, implement as well as on our Company website. We believe that what is and support a sophisticated video-conferencing solution. not measured is not effectively managed and in line with this, The solution includes high-definition displays to enable we are endeavouring to identify at least one standard indicator clinicians to share images from the hospital’s Picture Archiving (‘SI’), as recognised by the Global Reporting Initiative (‘GRI’), and Communications System, such as x-rays and scans. per core principle. In this regard, we recognise that suitable GRI The quality of the images is crucial for accurate diagnosis. data for capturing across the Group will only be available once we have fully embedded our SAP ERP system, Group-wide. ‘The video-conferencing project has demonstrated how Much work remains to be done over the coming years, in investment in technology can help reduce costs, increase relation to the measurement indicators we elect to demonstrate efficiency and improve patient care. This was a groundbreaking our progress. We actively seek to collaborate with and project for us, which has proved to be a great success thanks encourage our suppliers, contractors and customers to to the collaboration and hard work of all involved.’ operate in a similar socially responsible manner, as guided Tracey Miles, by the UNGC 10 principles. We have already secured Head of Supplies & Procurement, support from the majority of our suppliers and contractors, East Kent Hospitals University, NHS Foundation Trust but we acknowledge that this is an ongoing task. Mike Norris Chief Executive Officer 11 March 2013 General overview of 2012 During the whole of 2011 and 2012, Computacenter was actively involved in designing and implementing a Group-wide SAP ERP system. Both our UK and Germany operations have migrated onto this single platform, with our France operation due to migrate over the course of the first half of 2013. Much resource and time was, and continues to be, dedicated to this project and we are pleased, in light of these demands, to have managed to maintain our CSD standards and not allowed them to deteriorate. Our longer-term aspirations are to improve our CSD standards. Human rights 1(a). Support and respect the internationally ‘Principles of Employee Behaviour’ information is available proclaimed human rights – Human Rights on all intranets across the Group 2012 objectives and achievements – SI not formalised 2013 objectives • Maintain human rights awareness through the Company’s • Maintain human rights awareness through the Company’s ‘Principles of Employee Behaviour’ ‘Principles of Employee Behaviour’ In Germany, 16 workshops were attended by the • Enhance focus through a Sustainable Development management team where Human Rights and Leadership Principles week in April 2013, in France issues were highlighted • Further extend the LEO (Lebensereignisorientierte In France, more than 500 members of staff were trained Mitarbeiterentwicklung) programme in Germany, on sustainable development principles with a roll-out of a ‘Healthy Leadership’ module 1(b). Support and respect the internationally 75 per cent of French management attended the Stress proclaimed human rights – Health and Safety Prevention awareness workshop 2012 objectives and achievements – SIs = AIR and AFR* • Establish an e-learning platform in Germany to facilitate • Maintain the Accident Incident Rate (‘AIR’) at below the availability to all of a variety of health and safety 2.5 and the Accident Frequency Rate (‘AFR’) below 1.0 presentation awareness modules In the UK, the average AIR reduced to 0.79 (2011: 0.95) e-learning platform not yet finalised and remains subject and the average AFR declined to 0.44 (2011: 0.52) to further discussions with the Works Council In Germany, the average AIR reduced to 0.99 (2011: 1.35) 2013 objectives and the average AFR declined to 0.55 (2011: 0.76) • Maintain the AIR at below 2.5 and the AFR at below 1.0 In France, the average AIR increased to 1.41 (2011: 1.36) • Establish an e-learning platform in Germany to facilitate and the average AFR declined to 0.76 (2011: 0.78) the availability to all of a variety of health and safety • 100 per cent of French management to attend the Stress presentation awareness modules Prevention awareness workshop * AIR – Number of accidents per 1,000 employees. AFR – Number of accidents per 100,000 working hours. 2. Ensure that the Group is not complicit in human Revised questionnaires have been drafted in Germany. rights abuses In France a new questionnaire was circulated to vendors. 2012 objective and achievements – SI not formalised 2013 objective • Continue to maintain key and new vendor assessments • Continue to maintain key and new vendor assessments through the vendor conformance questionnaire and through the questionnaire and monitoring of the returns monitor the returns The Supplier Assessment questionnaires returned are all reviewed for bribery exposure and this information is shared between the various companies in the Group Labour standards 3. Uphold employees’ freedom of association Positive interaction with a Works Council and an agreement 2012 objectives and achievements – SI not formalised on Stress in The Workplace concluded in France • Maintain current status and reassess vendor conformance, 2013 objective through the review of questionnaire responses • Maintain current status and reassess vendor conformance, Revised questionnaires have been drafted in Germany. through the review of questionnaire responses and maintain In France a new questionnaire was circulated to vendors. positive interaction with all Works Councils • Initiate new Works Council activities and processes Corporate Sustainable Development (‘CSD’) continued Labour standards continued 4. Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour 2013 objective 2012 objectives and achievements – SI not formalised • Maintain current status and reassess vendor conformance, • Maintain current status and reassess vendor conformance, through the review of questionnaire responses through the review of questionnaire responses Revised questionnaires have been drafted in Germany. In France a new questionnaire was circulated to vendors. 5. Abolish all forms of child labour 2013 objective 2012 objectives and achievements – SI not formalised • Continue to develop young careers and seek assurance • Continue to develop young careers from all key vendors that no child labour is deployed, on In the UK, the graduate development programme was behalf of the Group, in non-European geographies repeated with a further intake of six graduates. The Handelsblatt fund Junge Carriere’s seal of a Fair Company was retained at Computacenter Germany and the Exploras programme, which regulates the conditions for working students at Computacenter Germany, was continued 6. Support equality in respect of employment and The UK pension scheme is ‘automatic enrolment ready’ occupation and eliminate all discrimination for the April 2013 ‘go-live’ 2012 objectives and achievements – SI = Increase in staff • Progress the gender equality agreement reached with the utilisation of the UK Benefits@Computacenter website employee representatives in France • Re-evaluate the benefits plan in the UK for Agreement reached competitiveness from suppliers • Sign up to the French government initiative, Parenthood All benefit suppliers were reviewed and enhanced offerings Charter and commence initial actions aligned to the incorporated onto the ‘Benefits Choice’ platform charter’s principles • Consider a programme in the UK to focus on ‘work-life’ Signed up to the Charter and implementation of the balance principles underway Work-life balance awareness week arranged and 2013 objectives corporate fitness club rates promoted • In France, reinforce awareness during the Sustainable • Increase awareness about the availability of the Employee Development week and concluded a mandatory Assistance Scheme (‘EAP’) in the UK negotiation on the gender equality agreement Awareness programme launched on UK Company • Continue the Family Service offering in Germany Intranet explaining the availability of the EAP to staff • Prepare the UK pension scheme for the automatic enrolment process Environment 7. Apply precaution to activities which can impair • Achieve certification to ISO 14001 level 2 of the 1, 2, 3 the environment Environmental Standards in France 2012 objectives and achievements – SI not formalised Certification to ISO 14001 level 2 achieved • Continue to monitor the energy consumption levels at the • Relocate French Head Office and warehouse to ‘friendlier’ Group Head Office and the CO2 emissions of the UK and environment facilities Germany vehicles, with the aim of improving further Relocation completed Energy consumption, per head, at the Group Head Office 2013 objectives reduced marginally over 2012, but encouragingly, an • Continue to monitor the energy consumption levels at the estimated 64 million kwh Green Climate Change Exempt Group Head Office and the CO2 emissions of the UK and electricity was purchased for all the UK locations, including Germany vehicles, with the aim of improving further the data centres • Achieve certification to ISO 14001 level 3 of the 1, 2, 3 The average CO2 emitted per UK fleet vehicle reduced further. Environmental Standards in France In Germany, the ‘Green Fleet’ programme was expanded. Environment continued 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater Group subsidiary and re-use and recycling specialists, involvement in the community RDC, joined a select band of organisations to have won 2012 objectives and achievements – SI = Track and monitor all three Queens Awards, following the most recent grant charity fundraising activities of the prestigious Queens Award for Enterprise for • Exceed the current level of charity fundraising activity International Trade in 2012 Employees in the UK raised nearly £73,612 (2011: 2013 objectives £83,000) during 2012, for the chosen charity partners. • Aim to improve on the current level of charity Support for the Hertfordshire Fire and Rescue dogs fundraising activity continued as well as support as a founding member of • Continue to track and monitor charity fundraising activities Herts 100 Computacenter France continued its support to NGO Aide et Action • Continue to track and monitor charity fundraising activities and awards of note 9. Encourage the development of environmentally Green IT Advisory services in France extended to recycling friendly technologies and WEEE compliance offerings and innovative work 2012 objectives and achievements – SI = Proportion of station virtualisation projects customer contract wins where ‘Green IT’ was part of the 2013 objective contract scope • Continue to track customer demand for ‘Green IT’ offerings • Continue to track customer demand for ‘Green IT’ offerings In 2012, 12.53 per cent (2011: 16.10 per cent) of new contract wins included a ‘Green IT’ brief • Computacenter France will expand on its ‘Green IT’ Advisory Services for customers, with the addition of audit and consulting services Anti-corruption 10. Impede corruption in all its forms, including • Maintain a register of gifts and hospitality and review the extortion and bribery register at appropriate intervals 2012 objectives and achievements – SI not formalised Registers of gifts and hospitality are maintained within • Maintain an awareness of anti-bribery and the prohibition various departments across the Group of improper business practices and comprehensively 2013 objective investigate all reported instances of suspected improper • Invite an external review into the adequacy of the Group’s practices. Awareness sessions across the Group to Anti-bribery policy and procedures and implement plans ensure alignment to the Code of Conduct following the review’s findings Awareness training sessions, both in-person and online were delivered to all staff across the Group. The majority of sales staff have acknowledged their understanding of the Anti-bribery Code of Conduct. Additionally, Computacenter’s Anti-bribery Code of Conduct has been communicated with the majority of all suppliers and vendors across the Group Stephen Benadé Company Secretary 11 March 2013
