Issue 2013 Balance Key data on sustainability within the Lufthansa Group www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility You will find further information on sustainability within the Lufthansa Group at: www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility Order your copy of our Annual Report 2012 at: www.lufthansagroup.com/investor-relations 1 Source: Lufthansa Annual Report 2012 2 For the reporting year 2012 the following companies are included: Lufthansa (including Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti, Eurowings, Contact Air, Augsburg Airways), Lufthansa Cargo, Germanwings, SWISS (including Edelweiss Air) and Austrian Airlines. Excluding the services of third parties as the company can influence neither performance nor the equipment operated (see also table “Share of third parties” on page 70). 3 Types of flights taken into account: all scheduled and charter flights. 4 See also table “Fuel consumption” on page 70. 5 Companies referred to as in 2, but including the services of third parties, as these contribute to the Group’s results. Types of flights as in 3, but including ferry flights, as these represent costs. 6 Balance: segments (operational perspective); Annual Report: distance (customer perspective); one distance can include several segments, e.g. in the event of stops en route. 7 Balance: on the basis of all passengers aboard; Annual Report: on the basis of all revenue passengers. 1 Lufthansa Group At a glance Business performance data1 2012 2011 Change Revenue million € 30,135 28,734 + 4.9 % of which traffic revenue million € 24,793 23,779 + 4.3 % Operating result million € 524 820 – 36.1 % Profit/loss from operating activities million € 1,311 773 + 69.6 % Net profit/loss for the period million € 990 – 13 Total assets million € 28,419 28,081 + 1.2 % Cash flow from operating activities million € 2,842 2,356 + 20.6 % Capital expenditure million € 2,359 2,566 – 8.1 % Equity ratio percent 29.2 28.6 + 0.6 P P Personnel data 2012 2011 Change Number of employees (on 31.12., respectively) 116,957 116,365 + 0.5 % of these, in Germany 67,620 67,263 + 0.5 % of these, outside Germany 49,337 49,102 + 0.5 % Staff costs1 million € 7,052 6,678 + 5.6 % Revenue/employee1 thousand € 257 249 + 3.0 % Staff costs/revenue1 percent 23.4 23.2 + 0.2 P P Average age years 41.3 40.8 + 0.5 Y Part-time ratio, absolute percent 27.9 27.1 + 0.8 P P Part-time ratio, men percent 13.7 13.3 + 0.4 P P Part-time ratio, women percent 45.3 44.2 + 1.1 P P Share of women in management percent 13.6 13.6 ±0PP Environmental data2,3 2012 2011 Change Resource consumption Fuel consumption4 tonnes 8,878,926 9,023,671 – 1.6 % Fuel consumption, specific, passenger transportation l/100 pkm 4.06 4.18 – 2.8 % Fuel consumption, specific, freight transport g/tkm 230 231 – 0.7 % Emissions7 Carbon dioxide emissions tonnes 27,968,627 28,424,568 – 1.6 % Carbon dioxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation kg/100 pkm 10.24 10.53 – 2.8 % Nitrogen oxide emissions tonnes 136,805 133,903 + 2.2 % Nitrogen oxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation g/100 pkm 50.0 49.4 + 1.2 % Carbon monoxide emissions tonnes 19,416 20,152 – 3.7 % Carbon monoxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation g/100 pkm 7.8 8.2 – 5.2 % Unburned hydrocarbons tonnes 2,096.0 2,252.8 – 7.0 % Unburned hydrocarbons, specific, passenger transportation g/100 pkm 0.8 0.9 – 8.2 % Transport performance data Balance2,3 Change Annual Report5 Change Number of flights6 1,003,182 – 0.9 % 1,033,588 – 1.6 % Passengers carried 7 100,938,009 + 2.9 % 103,051,000 + 2.4 % Freight and mail carried tonnes 1,972,357 – 7.0 % 1,972,357 – 7.0 % Seat kilometers offered, SKO million pkm 256,536 + 1.3 % 259,861 + 0.6 % Freight tonne kilometers offered, FTKO million tkm 14,468 – 3.3 % 15,249 – 6.2 % Tonne kilometers offered, TKO million tkm 39,819 – 0.6 % 40,064 – 1.8 % Passenger kilometers transported, PKT7 million pkm 207,747 + 2.5 % 204,775 + 2.2 % Freight tonne kilometers transported (incl. third-party performance), FTKT million tkm 9,266 – 4.6 % 10,203 – 6.1 % Tonne kilometers transported, TKT million tkm 30,126 + 0.2 % 29,754 – 0.5 % Contents 1 At a glance 4 About this report 6 Focus topic Fuel efficiency 14 The Lufthansa Group 16 Business segment Passenger Airline Group 18 Business segment Logistics / Business segment MRO 19 Business segment IT Services / Business segment Catering 20 Corporate responsibility 26 Stakeholder dialogue 30 The Lufthansa Group fleet 36 Economic Sustainability 38 Group strategy 41 Management and corporate structures 41 Corporate governance and compliance 43 Data protection at the Lufthansa Group 44 Infrastructure 46 Social Responsibility 48 HR management 51 Numerous activities for a culture of diversity 55 Employment policy based on partnership 59 Corporate training and continuing education 61 Employee safety and health protection 64 Climate and Environmental Responsibility 66 Environmental strategy 68 Kerosene and emissions 71 Fuel efficiency: Every drop counts 76 Using biofuels opens up perspectives 78 Emissions trading and aviation tax 79 Environmental management 81 Energy and resource management 86 Noise 90 Research projects 92 Corporate Citizenship 94 Social commitment 95 HelpAlliance: Employees set examples of solidarity 98 Cargo Human Care: Concrete help for people in Kenya 100 Environmental sponsorship 102 Cultural commitment 104 Sports sponsorship 108 Glossary 114 Editorial information Balance 2013 Dear Readers, As a company with global operations, we know that treatAlongside the care and protection of the environment and ing people and the environment in responsible ways is a the reduction of noise, the Lufthansa Group is also actively fundamental factor for our success. We are committed to engaged in a wide range of social issues. We promote corporate responsibility, because our company’s success junior scientists, participate in research projects, sponsor and competitiveness go far beyond growth and profitability. mass and disabled sports, and support social and cultural With our corporate program SCORE, which we launched projects as well as aid associations – particularly the last year, we have set the course for sustainable economic HelpAlliance, which was founded by Lufthansa employees. success. And we have come a good bit closer to our goal Especially in the social area, our scope of action is defined of achieving a lasting improvement in our economic result. not only by current laws but also by many self-imposed SCORE is on track and will make a decisive contribution obligations, as our ten-year membership in the UN Global to ensuring that we can continue to invest in innovative Compact illustrates. In the course of the reporting year, for services and products for our clients, in our employees as example, we anchored the principles of sustainability even well as in environmentally sound technologies in the future. more strongly in our procurement guidelines and reinforced our compliance program further. In the area of perIn the overall context of our value-oriented corporate sonnel, we again launched projects that will further fortify management, responsibility for climate and the environthe culture of diversity within the Group and help prepare ment has always been a top priority for us. The largest our management for future challenges. fleet renewal program in the history of the Lufthansa Group means we are making perceptible progress in reducing For more in-depth insights concerning our commitments in emissions of pollutants and noise. Last year, the passenthe framework of corporate responsibility, I highly recomger airlines of the Lufthansa Group consumed only 4.06 mend the present report and wish you a thought-provoking liters of kerosene per passenger and 100 kilometers on read. average. This is about 3 percent less than the preceding year – and a new record result. When it comes to fuel consumption, economy and ecology go hand in hand. Therefore, it makes sense in all respects that we improve even further in this area. Currently, we have 236 new aircraft on order. With these new deliveries, we will essentially be replacing older aircraft. In addition, we have set up our new Fuel Efficiency department, which will allow us to optiChristoph Franz mize in an even more focused way and to harness savings Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO potentials all across the Group. Deutsche Lufthansa AG Lufthansa Group 3 About this report The present Sustainability Report Balance informs stakeholders and the interested public about the goals, activities and advances of the Lufthansa Group in the areas of business, social responsibility, environment and corporate citizenship. The data presented in this report refer to the financial year 2012. The understanding of corporate responsibility at the Methodology of calculations Lufthansa Group is based on the following five dimensions: Kerosene in absolute terms • Economic sustainability The calculation of kerosene consumption is based on actual • Social responsibility flight operations (i.e. using actual load factors and flight • Climate and environmental responsibility routings), according to the so-called “gate-to-gate” princi• Corporate governance and compliance ple. This includes all phases of a flight – from taxiing on the • Corporate citizenship ground to flying detours and in holding patterns in the air. The section “Corporate governance and compliance” is Emissions in absolute terms part of the chapter “Economic sustainability.” The calculation of emissions from flight operations is based on the actual transport performance (i.e. actual load factors) Scope of consolidation and the actual absolute quantity of kerosene consumed Reporting with regard to transport performance, kerosene during the year in review. In this context, each aircraftconsumption and emissions from flight operations in the engine combination that exists in the fleet is considered financial year 2012 is – unless noted otherwise – based on separately, and the corresponding values are calculated by the following scope of consolidation: means of computer programs provided by the respective aircraft and engine manufacturers. The annual average flight • Companies: Lufthansa German Airlines (including profile of each subset in the fleet is then fed into these proLufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti, Eurowings, Contact Air1 grams. This allows us to determine emissions in relation to and Augsburg Airways 2), Lufthansa Cargo, Germanwings, flight altitude, distance flown, thrust and load. This approach SWISS (including Edelweiss Air) and Austrian Airlines. is necessary for nitrogen oxides (NOX ), carbon monoxide Excepted are third-party services, as Lufthansa has no (CO) and unburned hydrocarbons (UHCs) in particular. Carinfluence either on their performance or on the aircraft bon dioxide (CO2) emissions do not require special calculathey operate. tion methods, as they are generated in a fixed relationship to the quantity of kerosene burned. The combustion of 1 tonne • Types of service: all scheduled and charter flights. of kerosene generates 3.15 tonnes of CO2. Specific consumption and emission values Calculating specific consumption and emissions entails expressing absolute values in relationship to transport performance. For example, the ratio “liters per 100 passenger kilometers” (l/100 pkm) is calculated on the basis of actual load factors, distances actually flown and the kerosene actually consumed. The distances used in the calculations 1 The cooperation with Contact Air ended in September 2012. 2 Augsburg Airways will fly on behalf of Lufthansa until the end of the summer are great-circle distances. timetable 2013. 4 Lufthansa Group Balance 2013 Evaluation and validation of data and information Disclaimer in respect of forward-looking statements The data included in this report has been collected and proEnvironmental management system cessed with the utmost care. Nevertheless, errors in transThe data used in this report were collected by means of mission cannot be ruled out entirely. Information published Lufthansa’s environmental management system. This sysin this report with regard to the future development of the tem also determines the methods for data verification and Lufthansa Group and its subsidiaries consists purely of foreits transmission to the division Group Environmental Issues. casts and assessments and not of definitive historical facts. The basis for data collection is Lufthansa’s own EnvironIts purpose is exclusively informational, identified by the mental Database. use of such cautionary terms as “believe,” “expect,” “forecast,” “intend,” “project,” “plan,” “estimate,” “count on,” or Accuracy “endeavor.” These forward-looking statements are based on The figures shown in tables and illustrations are rounded, all discernible information, facts and expectations available whereas the values or percentages indicating changes from at the time. They can, therefore, only claim validity up to the the previous year always refer to precise figures. Therefore, date of their publication. it is possible that a specific value may remain the same from one year to the next, while a relative change is indicated. Since forward-looking statements are by their nature subGiven that certain percentages are rounded, their addition ject to uncertainties and imponderable risk factors – such as may also lead to results that differ from the addition of nonchanges in underlying economic conditions – and rest on rounded percentage shares. For example, such rounded assumptions that may not or divergently occur, it is possible percentage shares may not add up to 100 percent, even that the Group’s actual results and development may differ though it would be logical to expect a sum of 100 percent. materially from those implied by the forecasts. Lufthansa makes a point of checking and updating the information Comparability it publishes. It cannot, however, assume any obligation to Due to changes in the portfolio over the past years, the adapt forward-looking statements to accommodate events figures pertaining to personnel and environment in this or developments that may occur at some later date. Accordreport are only to a limited extent comparable with those ingly, it neither expressly nor conclusively accepts liability, reported for the previous years. For example, the coopernor does it give any guarantee for the actuality, accuracy ation between Lufthansa and the regional airline Contact and completeness of this data and information. Air ended in September 2012. There are also certain differences in approach compared to the Annual Report 2012 when calculating passenger numbers and the related indicators (see explanations relating to the table “At a glance” on page 2). Publication dates of this report Balance, the Sustainability Report of the Lufthansa Group, is published once a year in a German and an English edition. The preceding edition was published on 22 June 2012. Additional information on the Internet In addition to this report, Lufthansa also informs readers via the Internet about the activities in the area of sustainability within the Lufthansa Group. www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility Lufthansa Group 5 Fuel efficiency The harmony of ecological and economic goals is especially pronounced in the area of fuel efficiency. This is why this topic is at the top of our environmental agenda. Energy efficiency in flight operations is a central factor for the Lufthansa Group’s business success and an important pillar of our active environmental management. Balance 2013 CO2 emissions: Reducing environmental effects Aviation’s share in global CO2 emissions is 2.46 percent. The Lufthansa Group does everything in its power to reduce its specific CO2 emissions further and to fly into the future as efficiently and environmentally compatibly as possible. Each tonne of kerosene that the Lufthansa Group conserves relieves the environment of 3.15 tonnes of CO2. Fuel: Largest operative cost item 7.4 bn. € 6.3 For years, the cost item “Fuel” has had an ever-growing impact on the bn. € Lufthansa Group’s budget. At about 7.4 billion euros, the fuel costs in 2012 5.0 bn. € were about 50 percent higher than in 2010. The Group-wide fuel purchases now come to more than 20 percent of total operating expenses. 2010 2011 2012 Competency: Team of experts established To achieve sustainable conservation effects concerning fuel consumption, the Lufthansa Group has put the topic of fuel efficiency at the top of its agenda. On 1 May 2013, the Group opened its newly set-up Fuel Efficiency department. Eleven experts from different Group companies work around the clock to develop and implement measures to reduce fuel consumption. New efficiency record: 4.06 l/100 pkm With a kerosene consumption of 4.06 liters per passenger and 100 kilometers, the Lufthansa Group set a new efficiency record in 2012 (-2.8 percent 4.06 l/100 pkm compared to preceding year). In absolute terms, the Group managed to conserve no less than 144,745 tonnes of fuel and thus to emit over 455,000 fewer tonnes of CO2. Lufthansa Group | Focus topic Fuel efficiency 7 Interview with Jens Ritter Head of Fuel Efficiency and Senior First Officer Deutsche Lufthansa AG You’ve been heading the newly created departIn which areas do you see the largest savings ment “Fuel Efficiency” since 1 May 2013. potentials? What tasks are you faced with? Out of costand eco-consciousness, we want to use Clearly in the area of new technologies. Modern aircraft each tonne of kerosene as efficiently as possible. To are made of more lightweight materials, have more effithis end, we are taking steps to intensify the successcient engines and feature improved aerodynamics. Curful exchange of information between the Group comparently, we’ve more than 200 new aircraft on order. But for nies. This will allow us to take better advantage of the our existing fleet as well we have promising projects to diverse know-how and expertise within the Lufthansa increase efficiency, such as engine modifications or the Group to develop even more ideas and implement use of low air resistance paints. We also need to supmore new projects. Nearly every area of an airline has port our dispatchers and flight crews with modern IT, so an influence on fuel consumption or fuel efficiency. This that they can determine optimal flight routings and flight is precisely our starting point for achieving progress in altitude profiles – and even adapt these in flight. We see a shared and comprehensive way. a great potential in this area and have amassed a lot of know-how as well. And weight is a perennial topic. How do you identify conservation potentials? Unnecessary load costs us a third of its weight in fuel on each long-haul flight. Almost every day we receive suggestions for improving fuel efficiency from colleagues in all areas of the company. Being a pilot, how can you apply your aeronauThis gets us a good step further. But in the future we want tical know-how to efficiency improvements? to open up new potentials more systematically. To do so, we are pursuing two approaches: First, we’ll set up a fuelAs a pilot, I have to make decisions in flight that have efficiency information management system to generate an immediate effect on fuel efficiency. The first considnew ideas continuously and methodically. Here we’re in eration is always safety; it is and remains the first goal close coordination with the experts at Lufthansa Technik, for our flight operations. Fuel efficiency doesn’t contrawho’ve run a highly successful innovation management dict this, but rather complements our efforts to ensure for some time. Second, we want to utilize a sophisticated safety under all circumstances. This is an important facIT system to analyze at which points our flight operations tor. For example, we want to provide our cockpit crews can become even more efficient. with the best-possible information, so that they can make the safest and most efficient decisions. This means, for instance, that we make current wind and weather models available aboard the aircraft, that we give the crew information about short-term changes in traffic or weather situations at airports and that we pass reports received from preceding aircraft – such as about turbulences – to following aircraft in real-time. For all these topics, my aeronautical experience is naturally helpful. 8 Lufthansa Group | Focus topic Fuel efficiency Balance 2013 “An Airbus loses a few kilos” On 18 December 2012, Lufthansa experts launched a specific campaign to identify potentials for weight reductions: All loose items in the cabin of a Lufthansa Airbus A340-300 were put on the scales. Anyone who thinks that noting the weight of things like clothes hangers, magazines, trolleys, blankets and pillows is going too far is greatly mistaken. A mere 100 kilos less weight on each aircraft of Lufthansa German Airlines lowers fuel costs by 2.6 million euros per year – and avoids quite a few tonnes of CO2 emissions. Lufthansa Group | Focus topic Fuel efficiency 9 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 10 Lufthansa Group | Focus topic Fuel efficiency Balance 2013 Nico Buchholz Alexander Spahn 1 Executive Vice President Group Fleet Management 2 Managing Director SPIRIANT, the equipment subsidiary of Deutsche Lufthansa AG LSG Sky Chefs With the largest fleet modernization program in the Our lightweight trolley ‘Quantum’ is a real gain for the company’s history, we also make enormous progress environment: It’s a third lighter than the preceding model regarding eco-efficiency. and is currently being introduced on the entire Lufthansa long-haul fleet. Joachim Buse Dr. Georg Fanta 3 Vice President Aviation Biofuel Deutsche Lufthansa AG 4 Director Aircraft Painting Lufthansa Technik AG We place great expectations on alternative fuels. They In our Multifunctional Coating research project, we lighten the burden in both economic and ecological ditested the advantages of flow optimizations by means of mensions. Naturally, this must not be at the expense of artificial surfaces modeled on sharkskin. The expected fuel food production and biodiversity. savings potential: 1 percent. Björn Ostertag Daniel Meier 5 Head of Fuel Efficiency and Punctuality Lufthansa Cargo AG 6 Technical Pilot A320 SWISS Weight reductions on our existing MD-11 freighter Our new A320, like those at Lufthansa, is fitted with fleet help us to save on fuel long-term. And with the new sharklets. On longer routes, these 2.4-meter-tall wingtip Boeing 777F, we’ll soon have the most efficient freight extensions enable fuel savings of up to 4 percent. aircraft in operation. Matthias Langko Gerhard Baumgarten 7 Section Manager Engine Life Cycle Services 8 Director Sales, Marketing & Product Development Lufthansa Technik AG Lufthansa LEOS With the Cyclean Engine Wash, we developed an innoOn the ground as well, we examine all options for reducvative method for cleaning engines that has led to measuring fuel consumption. At the moment, we’re testing Taxiable kerosene savings. The engines now run at lower temBot, a new type of hybrid tow truck. We expect this innoperatures and thus burn less fuel. vation to give us a great savings potential and to ease the environmental burden. Lufthansa Group | Focus topic Fuel efficiency 11 The four-liter aircraft Did you know? On average, German aviation consumes about 4 liters of kerosene to transport one passenger over a distance of 100 kilometers. This topic is taken up by the Federal Association of the German Air Transport Industry (BDL) in its current ad campaign, whose slogan “Four get you further” illustrates the high level of eco-efficiency of German airlines. According to a representative survey by the Wahlen Research Group, almost half of Germans estimate the average consumption of aircraft to be ten times higher. With its ad campaign, the BDL aims to contribute to fact-based information for the German public. www.die-vier-liter-ﬂieger.de 12 Lufthansa Group | Focus topic Fuel efficiency Balance 2013 An eye on emissions Improvement in Air transport is incorrectly perceived as being especially energy efficiency harmful for the environment. The fact is that global air traffic’s share in CO2 emissions resulting from the combussince 1990 tion of fossil fuels such as coal, oil and kerosene is 2.46 percent. The greenhouse gas CO2, which is responsible for climate + 37 % change, is above all emitted by electricity and heat generation, industry and other modes of transport. Nevertheless, every reduction in fuel consumption eases the burden on the climate. That is why the members of the Federal Association of the German Air Transport Industry (BDL) have worked successfully for years on using energy ever more efficiently. (BDL member airlines) Global CO2 emissions 2.46 % 6% Households from the combustion of Air transport fossil fuels 41 % Electricity 23 % and heat Transport 10 % Other 20 % areas Industry Source: International Energy Agency (IEA) 2011, values 2009 Reduction of the CO2 reduction goal absolute CO2 emisby 2050 compared sions from German with 2005 domestic flights from 1990 to today – 50 % – 14 % (All airlines offering German domestic flights) (International air transport industry) Lufthansa Group | Focus topic Fuel efficiency 13 Balance 2013 The Lufthansa Group Deutsche Lufthansa AG is an aviation group with worldwide operations that is structured into more than 400 subsidiaries and associated companies. Beyond passenger and freight transport, the company’s activities also in­ clude services in airline catering, maintenance and overhauls of aircraft as well as information technology. In organizational terms the Lufthansa Group comprises five business segments: Passenger Airline Group, Logistics, MRO (Maintenance, Repair, Overhaul), IT Services and Catering. www.lufthansagroup.com 103,051,082 passengers in 2012 627 aircraft in the Group’s possession 116,957 employees, worldwide 1,972,357 tonnes freight/mail in 2012 Lufthansa Group 15 The five business segments of the Lufthansa Group Passenger Airline Group The business segment Passenger Airline Group is the Lufthansa Group’s core business. It comprises Lufthansa German Airlines (Lufthansa includ­ ing Germanwings and regional partners), SWISS, Austrian Airlines as well as the equity shares in Brussels Airlines, SunExpress and jetBlue. The air­ lines of the Lufthansa Group occupy top ranks in their respective sectors and position themselves as quality carriers. In the summer timetable 2013, the airlines of the Lufthansa Group offer flights to 285 destinations in 102 countries on four continents from their hubs in Frankfurt, Munich, Düsseldorf, Zurich, Vienna and Brussels. This offer is complemented by numerous code­share flights. Lufthansa Lufthansa German Airlines comprises the companies in the airline category. To increase the satisfaction of its cus­ Lufthansa, Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti, Eurowings, tomers further, Lufthansa expands its product portfolio con­ Augsburg Airways and Germanwings. Thanks to a modern tinuously. One of the measures being planned is and high­quality product, a unique lounge concept and inno­ to equip its entire long­haul fleet with a Premium vative services concerning all aspects of flying, Lufthansa Economy Class, starting in 2014. This new German Airlines and its full range of products enjoy the high­ product closes the gap between the est recognition and renown worldwide. In 2012, Lufthansa superior Business Class segment and again received a number of important awards. In a customer the classic Economy Class. service survey carried out by the company Service Value, Lufthansa was elected Germany’s “Service Champion 2012” www.lufthansa.com Germanwings Germanwings GmbH is a fully­owned subsidiary of airline in the low­cost segment. In future the Deutsche Lufthansa AG. Since 1 January 2013, decentral­ Lufthansa Group regional subsidiary Eurowings ized European services of Lufthansa German Airlines – will fl y on behalf of Germanwings. The home meaning those outside of the Frankfurt and Munich hubs base of Germanwings is Cologne/Bonn – are being shifted commercially and organizationally to Airport. Germanwings, forming a company based on German­ wings GmbH. The “new Germanwings” is Germany’s third­largest airline. Offering an innovative and high­quality product and brand concept, it positions itself as a quality www.germanwings.com 16 Lufthansa Group Balance 2013 SWISS Swiss International Air Lines (SWISS) is part of ments the portfolio of offers. In the financial year Switzerland’s tradition in civil aviation. SWISS is a fully­ 2012, SWISS carried 15.8 million passengers, owned subsidiary of Deutsche Lufthansa AG. From its hub again surpassing the preceding year’s record. in Zurich and the airports in Basle, Geneva and Lugano, SWISS connects Switzerland with the world. With its modern products, SWISS positions itself in Economy as well as in Business and First Class as a quality airline and premium brand. The leisure travel airline Edelweiss Air, which is con­ solidated within the SWISS Group, successfully comple­ www.swiss.com Austrian Airlines Austrian Airlines is Austria’s largest airline and maintains an million passengers. On 1 July 2012, Austrian international route network with about 130 destinations. Aus­ Airlines transferred its flight operations to the trian is a fully­owned subsidiary of Deutsche Lufthansa AG. fully­owned subsidiary Tyrolean Airways. Its home base in Vienna offers an advantageous position in the heart of Europe, which makes it an ideal hub between east and west. Passengers flying on this quality airline bene­ fit from excellent service and the proverbial Austrian hospi­ tality. In the financial year 2012, Austrian Airlines carried 11.5 www.austrian.com Equity shares Brussels Airlines (equity share of 45 percent) Brussels Airlines is Belgium’s largest airline. Since June to Europe’s key regions, 19 destinations in 2009, Lufthansa has held an equity share of 45 percent in Africa and two cities on the U.S. east coast. the company’s parent, the holding company SN Airholding with headquarters in Brussels. Since 2011, Lufthansa has also held a purchase option for the remaining 55 percent of equity. From its hub in Brussels this quality airline flies www.brusselsairlines.com SunExpress (equity share of 50 percent) SunExpress is a joint venture of Lufthansa and Turkish Air­ airline offers numerous direct connec­ lines. Since its founding in 1989, it has developed with pro­ tions within Turkey. nounced dynamism. Today SunExpress ranks among the market­leading airlines on routes between Germany and Turkey. Besides connections to its three hubs Antalya, Izmir and Istanbul, SunExpress operates numerous nonstop flights from Germany to twelve Turkish cities. In addition, the www.sunexpress.com jetBlue (equity share of 15.85 percent) jetBlue Airways is a U.S. passenger airline with headquar­ ters in New York. It was founded in 1998 and started opera­ tions in 2000. Lufthansa holds a 15.85 percent equity share in jetBlue and is thus the first European airline to have made a significant investment in a U.S. airline. jetBlue’s home base is at New York’s John F. Kennedy Airport (JFK). www.jetblue.com Lufthansa Group 17 Business segment Logistics / Business segment MRO / Lufthansa Cargo AG Lufthansa Technik AG Lufthansa Cargo AG is the specialist provider of logistics Lufthansa Technik AG is the world’s leading manufacturer­ services within the Lufthansa Group. It ranks among the independent provider of technical aircraft services. The market leaders in the international air freight business. emphasis is on the maintenance, repair and overhaul of civil Lufthansa Cargo offers a worldwide network, the shortest aircraft as well as engines, electrical equipment and com­ transport times and high quality standards in many product ponents (Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul, MRO). The areas, some of which are highly specialized. The emphasis fully­owned subsidiary of Deutsche Lufthansa AG attends to of Lufthansa Cargo lies in the airport­to­airport freight busi­ more than 730 customers worldwide, which include mostly ness. The logistics specialist operates its own fleet of airlines and operators of government aircraft and VIP jets 18 Boeing MD­11F freighter aircraft and holds an interest but also aircraft leasing companies. Within the Lufthansa in the cargo airline AeroLogic (equity share of 50 percent), Group, Lufthansa Technik is responsible for the reliability among others. Lufthansa Cargo offers a comprehensive and value retention of the fleet. Lufthansa Technik com­ route network with more than 300 destinations in about prises six product divisions: maintenance, aircraft overhauls, 100 countries, which is complemented by cooperations with engines, components, aircraft systems (landing gear and other cargo airlines and air­freight­related partner compa­ airframe related components) as well as cabin completion nies, including SWISS WorldCargo and Air China Cargo. and maintenance of VIP aircraft. Its MRO network unites 30 The product portfolio of the fully­owned subsidiary of technical maintenance operations worldwide. The com­ Deutsche Lufthansa AG includes standard and express pany has direct and indirect participations in 55 corpora­ freight, along with special freight as a significant corner­ tions. Hamburg is the most important location for Lufthansa stone. The latter includes the transport of live animals, Technik’s maintenance operations, cabin completion for VIP valuable cargo, mail, hazardous goods and temperature­ aircraft, engine and component maintenance, the logistics sensitive goods. The main transfer point is Frankfurt Air­ center, and the design and production facility. The largest port. There are also close ties to the Group companies maintenance stations are in Frankfurt and Munich; addi­ SWISS and Brussels Airlines. The company’s headquar­ tional stations are located at all larger German airports and ters is in Frankfurt. about 50 other locations worldwide. Lufthansa Technik AG has its headquarters in Hamburg. www.lufthansa-cargo.com www.lufthansa-technik.com 18 Lufthansa Group Balance 2013 Business segment IT Services / Business segment Catering / Lufthansa Systems AG LSG Sky Chefs Lufthansa Systems AG offers consulting and IT services LSG Sky Chefs is the global leader in airline catering and for selected industries and has a worldwide leadership role the management of all in­flight related service processes. in the aviation industry. With its comprehensive portfolio of The Group comprises 151 companies at 211 locations in products and services, the fully­owned subsidiary of Deut­ 52 countries. In 2012, this wholly­owned subsidiary of sche Lufthansa AG covers the entire spectrum of IT ser­ Deutsche Lufthansa AG produced 527 million in­flight meals vices. It ranges from consulting to the development and for more than 300 airlines worldwide – including nearly all implementation of tailor­made industry solutions and the international as well as numerous national and regional operation of solutions in its own data centers. In their work, carriers, network carriers, charter companies and low­cost the experts of Lufthansa Systems combine many years of airlines. The Group’s parent company, LSG Lufthansa Ser­ project experience with comprehensive technological know­ vice Holding AG, has its headquarters in Neu­Isenburg near how, profound industry knowledge and proven expertise Frankfurt. In the area of airline catering, LSG Sky Chefs in analyzing complex business processes. Given the high offers a complete range from premium meals produced to level of complexity of IT projects, project management has a order all the way to cost­efficient snacks. Based on its far­ key role in keeping implementations on schedule and within reaching experience, the Group has developed tried­and­ budget. As a certified SAP partner, Lufthansa Systems tested methods which ensure that customers always receive also covers the entire service range for SAP systems, from first­rate quality. Further performance parameters are culi­ design and adaptation to implementation, consolidation and nary excellence and innovation, authentic regional cuisines maintenance. Worldwide, more than 300 airlines – as well from the airline’s international network, and an innovative as about 150 companies in such industries as transport and and appealing menu design. Beyond that, the company logistics, manufacturing, media and publishing, energy and offers a broad range of in­flight products and services at the health care – rely on the expertise of Lufthansa Systems. highest level of quality and reliability. Additionally, the Group The company has its headquarters in Kelsterbach near has begun to open up associated markets such as railway Frankfurt. In addition, Lufthansa Systems maintains branch and school catering as well as supplying the retail sector. offices in Germany as well as at locations in 16 countries. www.lsgskychefs.com www.LHsystems.com Lufthansa Group 19 Corporate responsibility Shaping the future together Corporate responsibility is an important variable in securing the future viability of the Lufthansa Group. Responsible entrepreneurial practice has been firmly rooted in the Group’s corporate culture and in its corporate strategy for many years. In this context, “shaping the future together” is the guiding principle of our leadership practice, which is aligned with sus­ tainability. The basic prerequisite for sustainable management practice Our understanding of corporate responsibility is economic sustainability. This is where the Lufthansa The Lufthansa Group follows the principles of entrepreneur­ Group’s corporate program SCORE comes in (see “SCORE: ial practice, which are firmly anchored in the company’s our corporate program is on track” on page 38). It makes values and management principles, including its Mission a significant contribution to the Group’s ability to apply cor­ Statement. In our corporate strategy we set ourselves the porate responsibility comprehensively in the future as well. goal to increase company value, to expand and strengthen Entrepreneurial practice that is aligned with the principles our leading market position by taking an active part in shap­ of sustainable economic development generates more than ing the evolution of the aviation industry, to improve cus­ financial strength and increased competitiveness. The prin­ tomer satisfaction and to apply sustainable business prin­ ciple of corporate responsibility aims above all at closely ciples in both the economic and ecological sense. To depict interlinking economic, social and ecological factors and corporate responsibility in all its dimensions and to make it ensuring that these influence each other. As the goal is to understandable for stakeholders, the Group has developed keep these dimensions of sustainability in a constant equi­ a model comprising five dimensions or subject areas: eco­ librium, the Lufthansa Group consciously selected Balance nomic sustainability, social responsibility, climate and envi­ as the title of its sustainability report – not least to illustrate ronmental responsibility, corporate governance and compli­ the responsibility for a world based on adjustments among ance and corporate citizenship (see illustration at right). the numerous interests represented by the Group and its stakeholder groups. Sustainable corporate management is a fundamental underpinning of our activities. In this context, it is our goal to apply innovative services and products to create long­term positive value for our shareholders, customers, employees and for the good of society. By making a contribution to earnings, our corporate program SCORE creates an important prerequisite and the necessary scope of action for sustainable business practice. Christoph Franz Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO, Deutsche Lufthansa AG 20 Lufthansa Group Balance 2013 Climate and environSocial mental responsibility responsibility Economic sustainability Presentation on the topic of corporate responsibility during the Lufthansa Group’s Environmental Forum Economic sustainability The focus of our attention is on our customers and their mob­ Corporate ility needs. In our endeavors to improve and evolve con ­ governance and Corporate tinuously, we count on long­term value creation, a circum­ compliance citizenship spect management of opportunities and risks, a consistent management of our supply chains and a constructive dia­ logue with our stakeholder groups. Our goal: to increase the company’s value by applying sustainable business principles. Social responsibility The Lufthansa Group applies strict moral standards to its Corporate governance and compliance own actions. Our corporate culture is characterized by the The Lufthansa Group regards effective, responsible corpo­ fair treatment of and diversity among staff. The health and rate governance and control, and careful adherence to laws safety of our employees enjoy the highest priority, as do and regulations as self­evident – and it expects the same broad offers for continuing education and the possibility to of its suppliers. Openness and clarity in communications balance their professional and private lives. create the conditions for maintaining and expanding the trust of investors, employees and the public at large. Corporate citizenship The Lufthansa Group supports projects in areas of social Climate and environmental responsibility concerns, culture, education, environmental sponsorship The Lufthansa Group uses all available means to lower and sports. In addition, the Group’s employees are commit­ its specific CO2 emissions, implements environmental ted to social concerns through volunteer work – including for management systems and expands these measures further. the organizations HelpAlliance or Cargo Human Care. Moreover, we continuously increase resource and energy efficiency and actively participate in noise and climate research projects. Our environmental and climate protection goals are guided by the established four­pillar strategy for air transport (see illustration on page 66). Especially in times when companies and managers are the targets of public criticism, anchoring sustainability and shouldering responsibility are impor­ tant values for creating credibility. This applies as much to conducting business as to respecting ecological and social aspects. Against the background of the company’s current restructuring processes, this is a particular challenge. But sustainability in this context also means creating new structures to be able to operate successfully long­term. Simone Menne Chief Officer Finance and Aviation Services, Deutsche Lufthansa AG Lufthansa Group 21 Regular exchanges at the upper management level By contrast, the company was not able to obtain a listing The Corporate Responsibility Council (CRC) ensures the in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) even though effective management and control of all topics and proces­ its score was again higher. The analysts identified opti­ ses with relevancy for sustainability within the Lufthansa mization potentials mainly in the topic areas supply chain Group. The CRC is headed by the Senior Vice President management and corporate citizenship. At the same time, Group Strategy. This interdisciplinary and interdepartmental the Lufthansa Group achieved very high scores in the committee is situated at the upper management level and areas efficiency, environmental policies and environmental provides the fundamental framework for the activities and management system. We always take external feedback projects in this area. Apart from the Senior Vice President concerning our sustainability activities very seriously and Group Strategy, the CRC’s members include the heads of aim at continuous improvements on this basis. the Group departments in charge of political issues, envi­ ronmental issues, human resources, legal issues, communi­ Furthermore, numerous other institutions have given awards cations, investor relations, controlling and corporate sourc­ in 2012 to the companies of the Lufthansa Group for their ing. The council meets twice a year. efforts in the area of corporate responsibility. For an over­ view of the most important highlights and awards in the area of Corporate Responsibility, see pages 24 and 25. In aviation there is a great deal of harmony between economic and ecologi­ cal goals. The latest aircraft generations are not only more fuel­efficient and thus significantly more cost­effective to operate, but they also make an important con­ tribution to reducing emissions of pollutants and noise. Lufthansa is investing in modernizing its fleet like never before. In a parallel move, substantial sums are also being invested in active noise protection. Carsten Spohr Chief Executive Officer Lufthansa German Airlines, Deutsche Lufthansa AG Sustainability activities are recognized again Forerunner in the UN Global Compact Respected external sustainability analysts and rating agen­ The Lufthansa Group is committed to the principles of the cies regularly review and evaluate the Lufthansa Group with UN Global Compact, the largest initiative worldwide for regard to sustainable business practices. As a result, the responsible corporate management. In 2002 Lufthansa was aviation company was able to maintain its position in 2012 the first aviation company to become a member of the initi­ in several sustainability indices, including the FTSE4Good ative that had been set up two years earlier by the then UN and the ESI (Ethibel Sustainability Index). Additionally, the Secretary­General Kofi Annan. The participating companies renowned rating agency ECPI, which specializes in sustain­ have agreed to align their business activities and strategies ability, included the Lufthansa Group in two of its indices with ten universally accepted principles concerning human during the reporting year. The Group has also participated rights, labor standards, environmental protection and anti­ since 2006 in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). The corruption measures (see details on page 23). goal of this independent investor initiative with worldwide scope is to persuade companies not only to disclose their Since then, the company has launched numerous programs CO2 emissions but also their strategies to reduce them. In and activities whose scope was guided by the principles of 2012, the Lufthansa Group again achieved an improved the UN Global Compact. This includes the Compliance Pro­ rating compared with the preceding year. gram (2004), the Strategic Environmental Program (2008) and the greater emphasis of the topic of corporate responsi­ bility in the Procurement Guideline (2012, see on page 23). In addition, the then Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, Wolfgang Mayrhuber, signed an international CEO declaration in December 2008 concerning compliance with and promoting human rights within the company’s sphere of influence. At the same time, the company asks its employees to participate in an e­learn­ ing program on the topic of human rights on a page of the 22 Lufthansa Group Balance 2013 UN website. The Sustainability Report Balance documents the progress achieved in each reporting year concerning the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. The Lufthansa Group is a member of the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC Deutschland), which defines rules and standards for business. For example, the ICC has been active for more than 30 years in combating corrup­ tion and ratified an environmental charter as long ago as the early 1990s, which shows a fundamental shift in how Ten principles of the UN Global Compact companies perceive their responsibility for the environment. Human rights In addition, Lufthansa is a member of Deutsches Netzwerk • Businesses should support and respect the protection of interna­ Wirtschaftsethik e.V. (German Network for Business Ethics) tional human rights within their sphere of influence and and of Transparency International. • make sure their own corporations are not indirectly linked to human rights abuses. Even more sustainability in procurement Labor In the context of the 2012 update of its procurement guide­ • Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the lines, the Lufthansa Group placed even more emphasis on effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor; corporate responsibility. Now all suppliers must agree to • effectively abolish child labor; and several obligations in the areas of social responsibility as • eliminate any discrimination in respect of employment and well as climate and environmental responsibility as part of occupation. standard contracts. They must adhere to the ten principles Environment of the UN Global Compact and the four core labor stan­ • Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environ­ dards of the International Labor Organization (ILO). Sup­ mental challenges; pliers also must respect the Lufthansa Group’s Environmen­ • undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsi­ bility; and tal Protection Guidelines and permit unannounced audits • encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally carried out by the aviation group. And lastly, suppliers must friendly technologies. grant Lufthansa the right to terminate contracts in the event Anti-corruption of breaches of the obligations named above. By including • Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including these stipulations in contracts the Lufthansa Group ensures extortion and bribery. that the topic of sustainability is taken seriously and filled with life along the supply chain as well. www.unglobalcompact.org Alongside their professional qualifications it is the basic ethical attitude of managers and employees at the Lufthansa Group that is a culture­defining factor with decisive importance for our long­term success as a company. This is even more crucial than ever at a time when we’re joining forces to set profound change in motion. Stefan Lauer Chief Officer Group Airlines & Corporate Human Resources, Deutsche Lufthansa AG (until 30 June 2013) Lufthansa Group 23 Corporate Responsibility Highlights and awards* 2012 3/9 4/24* 2/2 Positive test results on biokerosene Scientists of the German Aerospace Center confirm that the biosynthetic LSG Sky Chefs Seattle: award-winning commitment to environmental issues Lufthansa Group extends partnerkerosene which the Lufthansa Group The LSG Sky Chefs operations in ship with the German Sports Aid used in scheduled flight operations Seattle receive the “Green Gateway Foundation between Hamburg and Frankfurt is Environmental Excellence Award” in The Group will remain a National suitable for everyday use. the category “Environmentally­friendly Sponsor of the German Sports Aid performance.” Foundation for another four years. 3/19 1/12 Lufthansa Technik starts operation of cogeneration plant in Hamburg This plant allows the provider of aviation services to First scheduled transatlantic avoid emissions of 7,200 tonnes of CO2 per year. flight with biofuel in the USA For the first time, a Lufthansa Boeing 747­400 fueled with about 40 tonnes of a biokero­ sene mix flies from Frankfurt to Washington D.C. 4/3 5/8* Launch of a research cooperation Lufthansa Group receives the award to produce biokerosene “Gold Eco Airline of the Year” Deutsche Lufthansa AG will in future The U.S. trade publication “Air 2/6 cooperate closely with Leuphana University Lüneburg and INOCAS, a company specialized in raw Transport World” honors the Lufthansa Group for its commitment to environ­ mental and sustainability issues. Presentation of the project “Management materials concepts. The goal is to Landscape 2020” develop application­oriented solu­ Based on this project, the Lufthansa Group tions for producing alternative fuels aims at increasing diversity within the ranks of in sustainable ways. its managers. 3/8* LSG Sky Chefs Hong Kong: honored for reducing CO2 emissions 5/18-25 The Hong Kong airport operator Lufthansa Festival of Baroque Music (AAHK) honors the local LSG Sky This festival has been part of the Chefs operations with the “Most Lufthansa Group’s commitment to Effective Carbon Reduction – Gold sponsoring cultural events for 28 years. Award.” 5/23 Lufthansa CityLine again recertified and revalidated Once again, Lufthansa CityLine receives official proof of successful environmental management. 7/7 5/24* Climate research on scheduled flights 8/16* The Lufthansa Airbus A340-300 “Fraport Energy Award” for LSG Sky Chefs AIRail serves as “Viersen” has been collecting atmo­ LSG Sky Chefs Frankfurt International GmbH receives a model worldwide spheric trace elements in the service the “Fraport Energy Award” 2012 in the category The cooperation between of science for a year. “Greatest Savings.” Lufthansa and Deutsche Bahn receives the Global AirRail Award as the “Integrated Air­ Rail Partnership of the Year.” 7/8* “Airline Strategy Awards”: Lufthansa Group ranks first The respected British trade publi­ cation “Airline Business” honors the Lufthansa Group with first place at the “Airline Strategy Awards” in the 9/5* category “Environment.” “World Savers Award” for the Lufthansa Group For the second time in a 6/5-6 row, the Group is honored for its commitment to sustainable business prac­ tices – with the first prize in 10/31* Research project “burnFAIR” at the “Woche der Umwelt” in Berlin During the “Woche der Umwelt” (Week of the Environment) in Berlin the Lufthansa Group presents 7/9 the category “Doing it All” at the “World Savers Awards” of the U.S. travel magazine “burnFAIR,” the first regular use of biokerosene in sched‑ Lufthansa Cargo has already Condé Nast Traveler. Environmental award uled flight operations. Germany’s Federal President in replaced half of its freight contain­ “ÖkoGlobe 2012” for cooperation with the Deutsche Bundesstiftung Umwelt ers with new lightweight models Lufthansa Cargo (German Federal Environmental Foundation) had invited Germany’s largest freight airline is The freight airline receives companies to participate in the event, which took place currently replacing its transport con­ this award for the develop­ in the garden of Schloss Bellevue. tainers, meaning that about 5,000 ment and operation of new lightweight containers will be in lightweight containers. service in the years ahead. 11/28 Commitment to climate research The Lufthansa Airbus A340-600 “Leverkusen” has covered 2 mil­ lion flight kilometers in the context of the research project CARIBIC. 6/22 8/1* Balance 2012 is published Christoph Franz, Chairman of the Executive Seeheim honored as Board and CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, “Certified Green Hotel” presents the Lufthansa Group’s sustainability The Lufthansa Training & Conference Center report at a press conference. Seeheim has been certified by the German Association of Travel Management for its sustainable characteristics. Stakeholder dialogue Continuous exchanges with stakeholder groups The Lufthansa Group places great importance on a regular and trusting dialogue with all stakeholder groups. These include customers, suppliers, investors, lawmakers, municipalities, neighbors and scientists as well as employees. The aviation group always makes their interests, expectations and experiences part of its business actions.  Suppliers  Customers  Capital market In 2012, these were the most important stakeholder  Contractual  Consumers  Investors activities: partners  LOHAS (Lifestyle  Shareholders of Health and  Analysts Survey of experts Sustainability)  Rating With the goal of identifying and prioritizing sustainability agencies topics, we conducted an expert survey involving 21 different stakeholders in 2012. This meant mostly personal interviews with status customers, representatives of non­governmen­  Employees  Governments tal organizations, people living near airports, investors, cus­  Employee  Legislators tomers, employees and scientists. representatives Lufthansa  Politicians  Authorities Group The spectrum of topics comprised all dimensions of corpo­ rate responsibility. Respondents could indicate the impor­ tance they attach to individual activities of the Lufthansa Group on a scale from 1 (very important) to 6. The goal was  Science N on­governmen­  Neighbors to determine how the Lufthansa Group is perceived by stake­  Research tal organizations  Local holders concerning these sustainability­related topic areas  Education (NGOs) communities and where the Group should increase its activities. The  Organizations  Society results of this survey gave the Lufthansa Group important  Consortia  Publicity indications for further developing and expanding the dialogue  Social networks with stakeholder groups. For example, since the beginning of 2013 the new format “Key phrase of the week” has made an additional information service concerning topics from all areas of sustainability available at our website. www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility 26 Lufthansa Group Balance 2013 Passengers/customers Investors Customers are always at the center of the Lufthansa In the financial year 2012, the Lufthansa Group informed Group’s attention. Their satisfaction is an important con­ its investors in the usual timely, comprehensive and factual cern for the aviation company. For this reason, Lufthansa manner to give them a current and transparent picture of the German Airlines has continuously and systematically used Group and its perspectives. This is a fundamental prerequi­ the CPI (Customer Profile Index) for more than a decade site for gaining and maintaining the trust of shareholders. to measure how satisfied its passengers are. The index is Members of the Executive Board and employees of the composed of customer evaluations that depict the entire department Investor Relations informed institutional inves­ service chain and thus expresses overall customer satis­ tors about the development of the Lufthansa Group at quar­ faction. The scores show that the CPI increased by 83 terly conferences as well as during 18 road shows and nine points to 7,731 points in 2012. Further improvements could investors’ conferences. In this context, they also conducted be observed in particular concerning the evaluation of the more than 200 individual and group discussions. Additon­ timetable, punctuality, ground product and the general atti­ ally, representatives of Investor Relations answered all tude toward Lufthansa German Airlines. questions from private investors at three dedicated forums. The offer for individual investors is complemented by “Share­ More than 1,000 top customers participated in a “Passen­ holder Information,” which was published twice in 2012. ger Experience Day” in May 2012 at the Airbus A380 main­ tenance hanger in Frankfurt to gain more insights about In addition to the regular annual and quarterly reports, the Lufthansa. They were able to see for themselves, for Lufthansa Group publishes “Investor Info” on a monthly instance, that both the investments of billions of euros for basis to inform the capital market about the latest develop­ new aircraft, services and products and the corporate pro­ ment in the traffic figures of the flying companies and cur­ gram SCORE share a common goal: to expand the position rent topics from across the Group. In addition, providers of of the Lufthansa Group as number one in Europe and as outside capital and bondholders may receive the publica­ one of the leading aviation groups worldwide in the future as tion “Creditor Info” several times a year, containing infor­ well. The “guest of honor” of this event was the new mation relevant for their concerns. All publications, financial Lufthansa Boeing 747­8. reports, presentations, background information, speeches and current news are available on the Internet to anyone interested. www.lufthansagroup.com/investor-relations Lufthansa Group 27 Employees During the reporting year, the company again intensified its communication activities with employees in Germany and abroad by launching new dialogue formats, such as “Ask Franz,” “Breakfast with the Board” and “Board in Dialogue.” The Executive Board and representatives of the expanded top management of the Lufthansa Group are in regular dialogue with the employees to inform them about the company’s development and to learn as much as possible about their wishes, expectations and needs. “Ask Franz” is a new dialogue platform on the intranet that allows employees to ask their questions concerning current topics directly. Once a month, the Chairman of the Board personally responds to the three most important questions in a video interview. In 2012, the scope of topics ranged “Ask Franz” – Once a month, the CEO answers from the corporate program SCORE and the company’s employees’ questions on current issues in a video interview. economic situation to the new business model of German­ wings and issues related to fleet strategy. “Breakfast with the Board” gives employees from different business segments the opportunity to discuss the current situation of the Lufthansa Group with a board member in a relaxed atmosphere and thus to obtain information firsthand. “Board in Dialogue” is a dialogue event that makes Lufthansa’s Executive Board available to the managers and employees of a particular location. More than 50 such events are scheduled to the end of 2014 at the Group’s worldwide locations. They aim at intensifying the direct dia­ logue with employees, to get a feeling for their mood and to further increase transparency. At the same time, it is an important concern for the board to contribute to the under­ standing of the strategy and to shape the company’s future together with the employees. “Breakfast with the Board” – The Executive Board explains its positions and fields questions at these small­group dialogue events. Concurrently, the established, decentralized Town Meet­ ings at many locations again offered a platform in 2012 for exchanges between management and employees at Group companies. Such meetings took place, for example, at the company’s locations in Berlin, Singapore and New York as well as at Eurowings in Düsseldorf and Lufthansa Cargo in Frankfurt. In addition, local managers maintain a regular dialogue with employees, as demonstrated by the example of the “m.i.n.d. Lounge” (German acronym for “employees – information – news – dialogue”) at Lufthansa German Airlines. This series of events offers the employees in the operational areas at the Frankfurt station a guided tour of the company’s strat­ egy, competitive environment and current projects. The per­ sonal dialogue with a group or department head comple­ ments these events. About 2,000 employees visited the first “Executive Board in Dialogue” – More than 50 of these events series with 170 events during the reporting year. have been planned worldwide to the end of 2014. 28 Lufthansa Group Balance 2013 In addition to dialogue­based communication formats, the area of competition and regulation by providing a spon­ employee surveys provide important mood “snapshots” sored professorship. concerning the employees’ satisfaction. This includes the “Employee Feedback Management,” which Lufthansa Third “Cargo Climate Care Conference” implemented in 2012 for the eighth time. Under the motto The ongoing dialogue with customers, scientists, environ­ “Your Opinion Counts” many employees again participated mental organizations and lawmakers is an important con­ in the survey (see “Employee Feedback Management” on cern for Lufthansa Cargo. Thus, on 24 April 2013 the logis­ page 58). tics specialist organized its third environmental conference. Against the background of the omnipresent climate debate, Lawmakers numerous industry experts made presentations and dis­ The Lufthansa Group also maintains a comprehensive and cussed the megatrends in logistics and the resulting envi­ ongoing dialogue with representatives of Germany’s federal ronmental requirements, including those requirements de­ and state governments. The Group is also active at the veloped on the basis of a futuristic study that presented five international level to make its position clear in the context logistics scenarios. The Senckenberg Museum in Frankfurt, of proposed legal and regulatory guidelines. Additionally, with its captivating climate exhibit “Planet 3.0,” was the the aviation company’s experts contribute their expertise to venue for this event. During the conference Lufthansa Cargo numerous projects and initiatives, such as the planned uni­ presented the Cargo Climate Care Award – whose motto fied airspace over Europe. was “More ideas for lower emissions” – to customers and employees whose innovations and commitment helped Municipalities and neighbors improve the climate balance sheet of air cargo. The Lufthansa Group also maintains intensive exchanges with mayors and municipal administrations of the commu­ Environmental Week nities around its most important company locations. For At the invitation of Germany’s Federal President, the example, the Group has been actively involved since 2009 Lufthansa Group participated in the “Environmental Week” in Frankfurt in the “Airport and Region Forum” in order to which took place in the park of Schloss Bellevue in Berlin. develop effective noise protection in cooperation with the At the beginning of June 2012, the Group presented its partners in the forum (see “Noise” on page 86). research project “burnFAIR” which served to test the use of biokerosene on a Lufthansa Airbus for six months under The information center of the “Environment and Commu­ the conditions of scheduled operations (see “Using bio­ nity House” in Kelsterbach near Frankfurt, which opened fuels opens up perspectives” on page 76). in April 2013, is a visible expression of the efforts aimed at creating good neighborly relations. The history of the expan­ sion of Frankfurt Airport is shown in all its aspects under the title “Protest. Mediation. Dialogue. The Frankfurt Airport, the region and its people.” There are also interactive exhibition spaces dedicated to topics such as “Noise and sound” or “Aviation and environment” as well as the airport’s impor­ tance for the economy and the job market. In addition, the house will offer temporary exhibits on specific topics lead­ ing to the opportunity to discuss technical subjects. The most important goal is to improve the communications and the cooperation between Frankfurt Airport, its users and its neighbors in a continuous and lasting manner. Together with other system partners, Lufthansa supports the project with contents and funding. System partners, scientists and researchers The Lufthansa Group maintains continuous exchanges with scientists and researchers. The scope ranges from working with students and doctoral candidates to the annual orga­ nization of the worldwide student competition Lufthansa Case Challenge and concrete research cooperations. For example, the Group closely cooperates with the European School of Management and Technology (ESMT) in Berlin Exhibition space with interactive displays at the Information Center and supports the expansion of the competency emphasis in of the Environment and Community House. Lufthansa Group 29 The Lufthansa Group fleet Billions for quieter and more efficient aircraft Aircraft are the Lufthansa Group’s most important means of production. A modern and well­structured fleet is the basis for economic success, as it secures the competitiveness of the aviation group. Advanced aircraft increase passenger comfort and by means of their efficiency reduce not only fuel and operational costs but also the environmental effects of fly­ ing, as they emit less CO2 and noise. The Lufthansa Group works continuously on modernizing its The aircraft on order cover the growth and replacement fleet and has added numerous new, fuel­efficient aircraft, needs for the short­ and medium­haul segments until 2025. such as the Airbus A380 or most recently the Boeing 747­8. “We always adapt our fleet in a proactive manner to secure In addition, on 13 March 2013 the Supervisory Board existing markets and to open up new ones,” explains Nico approved the acquisition of a total of 108 further new air­ Buchholz, Executive Vice President Group Fleet Manage­ craft for the Group: six Boeing 777­300ER aircraft for the ment at Deutsche Lufthansa AG. “This fleet modernization Lufthansa subsidiary SWISS as well as two Airbus A380s allows us to position ourselves successfully in the highly and 30 Airbus A320ceo (Current Engine Option) aircraft competitive passenger business, to grow further and to fly and 70 Airbus A320/321neo (New Engine Option) aircraft more economically and environmentally compatibly at the for Lufthansa German Airlines. same time.” Overall, the Lufthansa Group expects a total of 236 aircraft Shared specifications mean lower costs with an order value of 22 billion euros (at list prices) to be The aviation group is planning harmonized basic standards delivered by the end of 2025. This is the largest investment for its flying companies concerning the equipping of aircraft in the fleet in the company’s history. and cabins. Harmonizing interests and pooling purchasing power leads to cost advantages when ordering aircraft and spare parts, for example. Additionally, maintenance proces­ ses can be adapted. The basic version of a type of aircraft is to be agreed jointly within the Group to give the Group air­ lines the reference point for individual detail specifications, which should deviate as little as possible from one another in the interest of flexibility. 627 aircraft in the fleet The Lufthansa Group added 41 aircraft to its fleet in 2012. On 31 December 2012, the Group fleet comprised 627 air­ craft. This includes the aircraft of Lufthansa German Airlines (including Germanwings and regional partners), SWISS, Austrian Airlines and Lufthansa Cargo. All Lufthansa Group aircraft are continuously being optimized with regard to noise emissions and fuel consumption. A Lufthansa Boeing 747­8 30 Lufthansa Group Balance 2013 Frau Merkel German Chancellor Angela Merkel, State Prime Minister Matthias Platzeck and Lufthansa Group CEO Christoph Franz (and others) during the naming ceremony of the Boeing 747­8 “Brandenburg” at the ILA Berlin Air Show 2012. Traditionally, aircraft in the Lufthansa fleet are named after German cities and states. With the launch of the Lufthansa A380 in 2010, international metropolises also became sponsoring cities. An overview of current developments at the Group layer, the strata of air between the hot, fast exhaust jet from companies: the engine’s turbine and the cold bypass stream that flows around the engine’s core. Additionally, the chevron concept Lufthansa German Airlines is used for the external edge of the nacelles of the engines, Lufthansa German Airlines continues to make significant which lowers the noise emissions generated at that point. investments in modernizing its fleet. In 2012, the airline took Lufthansa was involved in the development of this type of delivery of two further Airbus A380s and the first four Boeing noise­reducing jet engine. In 2001, the airline and the Ger­ 747­8s from the manufacturers, among others. At the same man Aerospace Center used overfly measurements to time, the airline introduced its new full­flat Business Class demonstrate that chevrons on the exhaust nozzle reduce the seat on the Boeing 747­8s and the newly delivered Airbus exhaust jet noise of an Airbus A319 engine by about 1 dB(A). A330­300s. Another advantage of the Boeing 747­8 in comparison Boeing 747-8 – the “Queen of the Air” with the predecessor model is the lower level of mainte­ On 1 June 2012, Lufthansa German Airlines became the nance costs. Lufthansa has ordered 19 of the new long­haul first airline worldwide to launch scheduled services with aircraft. the new Boeing 747­8, which some enthusiastically call the “Queen of the Air.” The Boeing 747­8 is an aircraft A320, A320neo and A321neo on approach newly developed in its entirety and based on the positive Lufthansa German Airlines will receive 22 new Airbus A320s characteristics of Boeing’s 747 family, which has proved by early 2015, the first of which was delivered on 27 Febru­ successful at Lufthansa for more than 40 years. The wings ary 2013. All aircraft of this type are equipped with so­called of the Boeing 747­8 are characterized by a significant sharklets. These wing extensions are bent upwards and improvement in aerodynamics and have newly developed reduce the lift­related resistance at the wingtips – where the wing tips. high pressure on the wing’s underside and the low­pressure of the wing’s top side balance each other and produce so­ In addition, the aircraft offers perceptible improvements in called vortices. Consequently, only relatively small bound­ the area of environmental effects. The GEnx­2B67 engines ary vortices are produced. The airline has calculated that consume less fuel and thus achieve a 15 percent improve­ an A320 with sharklets can achieve fuel savings of up to 4 ment in fuel efficiency and CO2 emissions per passenger. percent and a corresponding reduction in CO2 emissions, Thanks to the so­called chevrons on the exhaust nozzle and depending on route lengths. As fuel savings are above the nacelles of the newly developed engines, noise emissions all realized during a flight’s cruise phase, Lufthansa traffic are 30 percent lower than those of the predecessor model. management will deploy the A320s with sharklets primarily These chevrons cause a better mixing of the turbulent shear on longer European routes. Lufthansa Group 31 Fleet modernization at Lufthansa CityLine: A Germanwings Airbus A319 Embraer 190/195 aircraft score points with low emissions values. Lufthansa CityLine Germanwings Embraer 190/195s replace Avro RJ85s “Highly reliable” Airbus operator After 18 years of service, Lufthansa CityLine bids farewell to The Lufthansa subsidiary Germanwings operates a pure its Avro fleet: On 27 August 2012 the last of 18 Avro RJ85s Airbus A319 fleet. Aircraft manufacturer Airbus has given made its final scheduled flight. The airline is replacing the the airline an award for the “Highest reliability of all Airbus 93­seat Avro with the Embraer 190/195. This modern twin­ operators” in the category Airbus A319. At the beginning of engine aircraft with 100 to 120 seats is characterized by 2013 the airline took delivery of four new Airbus A319s. Two high levels of fuel efficiency and low emission values for more aircraft of this type will be added to the fleet in 2014. pollutants and noise alike. It consumes just over 3 liters of kerosene per passenger and 100 kilometers – an extremely SWISS low consumption value for a regional aircraft. By retiring the Airbus A330-300s replace A330-200s Avros, Lufthansa CityLine has taken an important step for­ In 2012, SWISS replaced more long­haul Airbus A330­200 ward in modernizing its fleet. aircraft with the larger and more efficient A330­300s. The latter consume about 11 percent less kerosene than their The Lufthansa subsidiary has focused on the Frankfurt and predecessors. SWISS will operate a total of 15 A330­300s Munich hubs since September 2012. The previous diversity in the future. In addition, the airline will take delivery of 30 in its fleet has been limited to Embraer and Bombardier CRJ CSeries aircraft from Bombardier starting in 2014, which aircraft. This reduces the organizational and operative effort will replace the Avro RJ100 regional aircraft currently in in flight operations and maintenance – which also lowers operation. operating costs. Austrian Airlines Homogenous A320 fleet is the goal The Austrian Airlines Group is making headway in standardiz­ ing its medium­haul fleet. In the future, Austrian will operate a homogenous A320 fleet for its continental operations. In addi­ tion, the airline phased out the last Boeing 737s in its fleet in spring 2013. Meanwhile, Austrian Airlines has transferred its flight operations to its wholly­owned subsidiary Tyrolean Air­ ways and therefore now flies “operated by Tyrolean.” Starting in 2014, SWISS will receive the highly efficient CSeries aircraft manufactured by Bombardier. 32 Lufthansa Group Balance 2013 Lufthansa Cargo will receive five Boeing 777F freighter aircraft. A Boeing 777 of Lufthansa subsidiary Austrian Airlines Lufthansa Cargo: Boeing 777F set to arrive at the end of 2013 Lufthansa Cargo will receive its first two Boeing 777Fs at the end of 2013. Three further aircraft will be delivered in 2014 and 2015. The Boeing 777F is considered the most modern, efficient and quietest freight aircraft in its class. According to its manufacturer it offers higher efficiency and greater capacity than any other twin­engine freighter, especially on long­haul routes. The Lufthansa Group fleet As per 31.12.2012 (changes compared with 2011) in possession1 age1 in operation2 age2 Lufthansa 360 (+ 5) 10.9 (– 0.6) 276 (+ 1) 12.2 (– 1.0) LufthansaC ityLine 34 (– 7) 9.3 (– 0.3) 60 (+ 3) 5.6 (– 0.7) Air Dolomiti 6 (± 0) 11.2 (+ 1.0) 16 (± 0) 8.3 (+ 0.2) Augsburg Airways 0 (± 0) 0.0 (± 0) 14 (± 0) 8.0 (+ 1.4) Contact Air 0 (± 0) 0.0 (± 0) 23 (– 6) 22.4 (+ 4.6) Eurowings 1 (– 4) 10.0 (+ 0.5) 23 (± 0) 2.7 (+ 1.0) Germanwings 32 (+ 2) 7.0 (+ 0.6) 32 (+ 2) 7.0 (+ 0.6) SWISS (including Edelweiss Air) 92 (– 1) 11.8 (+ 0.3) 91 (+ 5) 11.8 (+ 0.3) Austrian Airlines 84 (– 4) 13.5 (+ 1.0) 78 (– 3) 13.6 (+ 1.0) Business segment Passenger Airline Group 609 (– 9) 592 (+ 2) LufthansaC argo 18 (± 0) 14.7 (+ 1.0) 18 (± 0) 14.7 (+ 1.0) Business segment Logistics 18 18 Lufthansa Group 627 (– 9) 11.2 (– 0.1) 610 (+ 2) 11.0 (– 0.3) 1 Aircraft in the Group’s possession 2 Aircraft operated by the Group 3 Operations of the last two Fokker 100s for SWISS ended in January 2013. Lufthansa Group 33 The operating fleet of the Lufthansa Group Lufthansa and regional partners LH: 22 aircraft, 120 seats, 1,950 km range Boeing 737-500 LH: 14 aircraft, 140 seats, 2,000 km range Boeing 737-300 LH: 10 aircraft, 526 seats, 12,000 km range CL: 19 aircraft, 120 seats, 2,450 km range Airbus A380-800 EN: 6 aircraft, 120 seats, 2,450 km range IQ: 5 aircraft, 120 seats, 2,450 km range Embraer 195 LH: 4 aircraft, 362 seats, 13,100 km range CL: 9 aircraft, 100 seats, 3,390 km range Boeing 747-8 Embraer 190 IQ: 9 aircraft, 76 seats, 1,020 km range DHC 8-400 LH: 19 aircraft, 3521 seats, 12,500 km range CL: 12 aircraft, 90 seats, 2,260 km range EW: 23 aircraft, 90 seats, 2,260 km range Boeing 747-400 CRJ900 CL: 20 aircraft, 70 seats, 2,310 km range CRJ700 LH: 24 aircraft, 306 seats, 12,600 km range Airbus A340-600 EN: 10 aircraft, 64 seats, 900 km range ATR72-200 LH: 22 aircraft, 2661 seats, 11,100 km range Airbus A340-300 Germanwings LH: 18 aircraft, 2211 seats, 10,000 km range Airbus A330-300 4U: 32 aircraft, 1501 seats, 3,500 km range Airbus A319-100 LH: 59 aircraft, 200 seats, 2,900/4,350 km range Airbus A321-100/200 Lufthansa Cargo LH: 49 aircraft, 168 seats, 3,020 km range Airbus A320-200 LH: 35 aircraft, 138 seats, 3,260 km range LH: 18 aircraft, 516 m3/89.4 t, 7,000 km range Airbus A319-100 Boeing MD-11F 34 Lufthansa Group Balance 2013 SWISS and Edelweiss Air Austrian Airlines LX: 15 aircraft, 219 seats, 10,500 km range OS: 4 aircraft, 3091 seats, 11,500 km range Airbus A340-300 Boeing 777-200 LX: 13 aircraft, 236 seats, 8,400 km range OS: 6 aircraft, 2401 seats, 9,800 km range Airbus A330-300 Boeing 767-300 LX: 7 aircraft, 2001 seats, 3,200 km range OS: 6 aircraft, 200 seats, 2,360/3,500 km range Airbus A321-100/200 Airbus A321-100/200 LX: 23 aircraft, 1681 seats, 3,650 km range OS: 13 aircraft, 1741 seats, 4,300 km range Airbus A320-200 Airbus A320-200 LX: 7 aircraft, 1381 seats, 3,000 km range OS: 7 aircraft, 138 seats, 4,500 km range Airbus A319-100 Airbus A319-100 LX: 20 aircraft, 97 seats, 3,000 km range Avro RJ100 OS: 4 aircraft, 184 seats, 4,680 km range Boeing 737-800 WK: 1 aircraft, 332 seats, 10,000 km range OS: 15 aircraft, 100 seats, 2,000 km range Airbus A330-300 Fokker 100 OS: 9 aircraft, 80 seats, 2,085 km range HB-IQZ Fokker 70 WK: 1 aircraft, 285 seats, 11,500 km range Airbus A330-200 OS: 14 aircraft, 76 seats, 1,630 km range DHC 8-400 HB-IHX WK: 4 aircraft, 1681 seats, 4,950 km range Airbus A320-200 Legend 4U = Germanwings CL = Lufthansa CityLine EN = Air Dolomiti EW = Eurowings IQ = Augsburg Airways Range indicated in general with maximum number of passengers or payload, LH = Lufthansa, Lufthansa Cargo respectively. Number of aircraft in operation on 31.12.2012 LX = SWISS OS = Austrian Airlines 1 maximum number of seats, different versions in operation WK = Edelweiss Air Lufthansa Group 35 Balance 2013 Economic Sustainability The Lufthansa Group counts on increasing the company’s value longterm by following the principles of sustainable business. With our corporate program SCORE, we aim to increase the operating result sustainably to 2.3 billion euros by 2015. This requires efficiency increases at all levels and in all business segments. At the same time, we are investing in competitive infrastructure and innovative products. 524 operating result 2012 in million euros 2,500 individual SCORE projects drafted 618 SCORE earnings contribution 2012 in million euros 800 SCORE projects have already been implemented Lufthansa Group | Economic Sustainability 37 Group strategy SCORE: our corporate program is on track The Lufthansa Group’s corporate program “SCORE – Change for Success” is on schedule and in 2012 even achieved results that were significantly ahead of the objectives. By now, SCORE comprises more than 2,500 individual projects, of which about 800 have already been implemented. They all share the goal of reducing costs, increasing revenues and above all optimizing structures. In this way, the Group secures its capacity to actively shape the future over the long term. SCORE helps the Lufthansa Group to grow profitably in the future and to maintain its room for maneuver in shaping investments in a modern fleet and innovative products. This secures the company’s competitiveness and thus jobs over the long term. In this way, the entire Group also becomes more efficient, faster and more agile in the market, which makes it more attractive for customers, investors and employees at the same time. SCORE allows the Lufthansa Group to participate in shaping changes in the aviation industry from a position of strength. To this end, SCORE is to improve the operating result to 2.3 billion euros by 2015 in a sustainable manner. “The corporate program SCORE strengthens the Lufthansa Group. We need this strength to make comprehensive investments for our customers and to take an active part in shaping the airline industry,” explains Christoph Franz, Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa AG. As a verb, SCORE means “to achieve something” and “to pick up points.” The program’s name is also an acronym of the initial letters of the fi ve focus areas on which SCORE concentrates: synergies, costs, organization, revenue and execution. 38 Lufthansa Group | Economic Sustainability Balance 2013 The SCORE program is geared to three levels: Group-wide But there are more areas where the Group companies are projects, joint projects of the airlines in the Passenger Aircurrently expanding their cooperation and organizing an line Group, and projects within individual companies. Each increasing number of joint projects. The best example of a project passes through fi ve phases: from concept, evalusuccessful cooperation of the Group airlines is the setting ation and detail planning to implementation and measurup of a department in charge of the Group-wide SCORE ing success. The SCORE tracker gives everyone involved project Fuel Efficiency (see “Fuel Efficiency: Every drop an instrument with which to monitor the current status of a counts” on page 71). The airlines are also assessing how given project. redundant structures in distribution and at stations can be eliminated, and they are defining shared processes on the Comprehensive Group-wide projects ground. One of the measures the Lufthansa Group is planning in the framework of SCORE is to combine administrative activities in finance, procurement and human resources and to introduce more efficient processes in the administration of the entire Group. For example, the company is working on standardizing the posting and settlement systems in accounting as well as the ordering procedures in procurement across the Group in order to reduce costs. The aviation company has to cut 3,500 administrative jobs worldwide over the duration of SCORE. These changes will affect the company’s locations in Cologne, Norderstedt and Hamburg in particular. Current plans call for the closure of headquarters in Cologne by the end of 2017, involving about 365 jobs. During the same period, the location of Lufthansa Revenue Services GmbH in Norderstedt is to be closed, affecting about 350 jobs. Additionally, Lufthansa is planning to shift 80 percent of the 200 jobs in Financial Services at the Group’s administrative center in Hamburg to a specialized service center. Management is in discussions and consultations with employee representatives to find socially compatible solutions for the employees affected. Solid result in a difﬁcult business climate “SCORE creates the base for sustainable growth and jobs The Lufthansa Group increased its revenue in financial year 2012 that are secure long-term – but to achieve this the Lufthansa by 4.9 percent to 30.1 billion euros. At 524 million euros, the Group has to reduce its personnel costs significantly. The Group’s operating result was down 36.1 percent on the fi gure for planned steps are painful, but there’s no way around them. the previous year. The main reason for this decrease in the operating result was the cost of fuel, which rose by 1.1 billion euros There is no doubt that it is the Executive Board’s responcompared with the previous year. sibility to keep an eye on the entire ship. We have the re sponsibility for about 117,000 employees worldwide,” The Lufthansa Group’s broad strategic lineup again had a positive says Christoph Franz. and stabilizing effect on the company’s net result in 2012: All service-related business segments increased their operating results compared with the previous year. Joint projects of the airlines One of SCORE’s tasks concerning the airlines within the In its first year, the corporate program SCORE produced an earnings contribution of 618 million euros – about 300 million Passenger Airline Group is to further harmonize the types euros more than planned. Making better use of synergies in of aircraft they will operate in the future. Working in close purchasing, coordinating the timetables of all Group airlines, coordination, the departments aircraft procurement, MRO adapting capacities and lowering personnel costs through more and marketing are currently developing basic specificaeffi cient processes in administrative areas all contributed to this improvement, as did numerous measures which had been initiattions for aircraft and cabins that the individual airlines can ed before the offi cial launch of SCORE but whose positive effects use to define their detail specifications. This harmonization on earnings were only felt in 2012. For more information see the means more than cost advantages when ordering aircraft Annual Report 2012. and spare parts as maintenance procedures can also be www.lufthansagroup.com/investor-relations standardized (see “Billions for quieter and more efficient aircraft” on page 30). Lufthansa Group | Economic Sustainability 39 Projects at individual companies With numerous SCORE projects, Lufthansa German Airlines aims at improving its economic efficiency for the long term. For example, the long-haul business is to become even more profitable than before by operating the latest aircraft models. Additionally, the airline is examining structures and processes in all areas on the ground, including those in administration and passenger handling. Once implemented, the measures of the SCORE program ensure that the company can react significantly faster to changing market conditions and customer requirements. Furthermore, since 1 January 2013 Lufthansa has trans‑ ferred the commercial and organizational aspects of its European connections outside the Frankfurt and Munich hubs to Germanwings, forming a company on the basis of Germanwings GmbH. In the past, both airlines offered The “new” Germanwings positions itself as a intra-German and European direct flights. The “new” and quality airline in the low-cost segment. upgraded Germanwings positions itself under the motto “inexpensive, but not cheap” as a quality product in the lowcost segment. By accomplishing this strategic setting of New dialogue formats for informing employees switches, Lufthansa has created the prerequisites for again The Group has also given high priority to comprehensive­ly flying profitably on European routes. informing employees about the reasons why SCORE is necessary. “Dialogue is at the very top of my list,” empha­ sizes Christoph Franz. To explain the background of the corporate program to employees, the company has estab­lished several new communications formats. (see “Continuous exchanges with stakeholder groups” on page 26). Additionally, representatives of the Group-wide SCORE teams have participated in departmental meetings on request since September 2012. Thanks to the format “Book a SCORE member” the SCORE experts have since reached more than 1,600 employees at about 50 events and re­sponded directly to their questions. This offer of dialogue will continue in the usual form in 2013 and can now also be booked as a web conference. This makes it possible to reach stations outside Germany and teams who work at several locations in a simple and quick way. Discussion on the harmonization of aircraft cabins in the framework of the SCORE project 40 Lufthansa Group | Economic Sustainability Balance 2013 Management and corporate structures Lufthansa is a German stock company with headquarters in Cologne. The company employs the dual management and supervisory structure ordinarily followed in Germany. The Executive Board is solely responsible for steering the company, aligning it strategically and increasing its value longterm. The Supervisory Board appoints, advises and supervises the Executive Board. Deutsche Lufthansa AG fulfills two functions: It is the ultimate parent company and the largest operating company within the Group. Shareholder structure declaration of conformity pursuant to the German Corporate Governance Code, see the Group Management report in the The Lufthansa share has been traded on German stock Annual Report 2012 on page 24. exchanges since 1966. It is represented in the German Share Index DAX and is part of the Prime Standard of Furthermore, Lufthansa voluntarily signed up for the joint Deutsche Börse (German Stock Exchange). Lufthansa fultransparency register of the European Commission and the fills the highest level of international transparency requireEuropean Parliament. The goal of this public register, which ments re­lated to this standing. The company’s share capiwas set up in June 2011, is to increase the transparency of tal is divided into 459.9 million registered shares, which decision-making processes within the EU and to ensure that are held by about 352,000 shareholders. At the end of the interactions between EU institutions and organizations, 2012 the free-float quota for Lufthansa shares was at 100 associations and companies are in conformity with current percent. 40.1 percent of the equity capital was held by law and are carried out on the basis of ethical principles. By private investors, and 59.9 percent by institutional investhe end of 2012 more than 5,000 representatives of interests tors. The share of German shareholders was 66.0 percent. had registered. To maintain its international traffic rights and air transport oper­ating permit, Lufthansa must be able to prove The Lufthansa Compliance Program at any time that the majority of its shares are in German Compliance describes all measures that ensure the lawful possession. conduct of companies, their executive bodies and employ­ ees with regard to adhering to laws. The Compliance Program, which Lufthansa established in 2004, aims at keep­ Corporate governance ing employees from breaking the law and training them in and compliance applying and interpreting legal norms. As an aviation company with global activities, the Lufthansa Group advocates In the Lufthansa Group, corporate governance is expressed fair competition, integrity and responsible action. The comas responsible company management and control that pliance guidelines are in unison with existing guidelines, is aligned with sustainable value creation and adheres to programs and work regulations at the Lufthansa Group. high international standards. It is of central importance for in­creased transparency vis-à-vis shareholders and the con­ t­inuous rise of trust in the company’s management. The German Stock Corporation Act and the German Corporate Governance Code are key elements in this context. Deutsche Lufthansa AG fulfills the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code with few exceptions. For the Lufthansa Group | Economic Sustainability 41 Organization Corporate Compliance The Compliance Office, which was set up on 1 October The module Corporate Compliance bundles those inter2007 within the central legal department, is responsible for nal regulations that are considered essential for Lufthansa the implementation, development and communication of from a legal perspective and makes these transparent for the Lufthansa Compliance Program. In addition, the variemployees. ous Group companies have named Compliance Commissioners and Compliance Managers. The Compliance Regular training Office coordinates the investigation of circumstances releAutomated IT processes ensure that all employees and vant to compliance and in this context serves as a contact executive bodies at Lufthansa participate once a year in point for cartel and investigative authorities. In such cases, the web-based trainings relevant for them (eLearning Lufthansa fully cooperates with the authorities. The core courses). The employees of the subsidiary companies components of the Lufthansa Compliance Program are its can also access these eLearning courses and are partially compliance guidelines. These are binding internal regulaincluded in automatic mailings of materials. As a completions that give employees a precise framework for action ment to eLearning courses, the Compliance Office regularly which guarantees a standardized and law-abiding external offers trainings involving the participants’ physical presence. conduct for Lufthansa. The company is not willing to toler­ Compliance trainings are also an integral part of leadership ate possible violations of law on the part of its employees. seminars, management courses and other internal continuCulpable breaches of law lead to consequences under ing education and training events at Lufthansa. labor law and may also entail personal liability. Ombudsman system The Lufthansa Compliance Program currently comprises The ombudsman system, which has been implemented four building blocks: Competition, Capital Market, Integrity worldwide, is an integral and tried-and-tested part of and Corporate Compliance. Lufthansa’s Compliance Program. It was introduced on 1 December 2007 and serves both as an additional preCompetition Compliance ventive measure against economic crimes. Relevant inforThe module Competition Compliance introduces employ­ mation can be given by employees or by third parties to ees to the relevant regulations of cartel legislation, so as an ombudsman outside the company, either by telephone, to minimize or exclude risks for Lufthansa in this area. All in writing or in person. This function is fulfilled by a lawyer employees handling issues relevant to a cartel are trained who is fully bound by the legal obligation of professional in the fundamental regulations of European and national secrecy and also has the right to refuse evidence vis-àantitrust legislation. vis any public investigative authorities that might become active. The ombudsman passes any information received Capital Market Compliance on to Lufthansa while respecting absolute confidentiality The module Capital Market Compliance gives employees concerning the name and identity of the informant. The an overview of current capital market law, such as regurevealing of an informant’s identity to Lufthansa or third lations relating to insider trading or ad hoc publicity. In parties without his or her consent is therefore ruled out. this way and by means of appropriate training all employ­ ees and company bodies concerned receive an in-depth Monitoring and reporting insight into regulations of the securities trading law. All Compliance Commissioners of the Lufthansa Group meet once a quarter. Their goal is to inform about current Integrity Compliance new developments in the area of compliance and initiate With the module Integrity Compliance, Lufthansa docuthe implementation of relevant measures. ments its fundamental approach of law-abiding conduct in business relationships. The obligation to adhere to In addition, self-audits and external audits take place to non-corrupt and ethically correct conduct flows naturally evaluate the effective implementation of the compliance from current law, the internal compliance guidelines and program with reference to the current requirements in the Lufthansa’s memberships in relevant national and intercontext of the accounting modernization law. Furthermore, national organizations. Examples of these are Lufthansa’s the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee is informed commitment to the principles of the UN Global Compact twice a year about current developments as they relate to and its membership in Transparency International. The compliance issues and the current state of the program’s Integrity Compliance guideline provides support in han­ implementation within the Group. dling invitations, gifts and other attentions. 42 Lufthansa Group | Economic Sustainability Balance 2013 experts advise individual departments when new systems are introduced or when processes are designed or changed. Issues related to data protection and economic consider­ ations can thus be optimally coordinated at an early stage. The central point of departure for identifying and avoiding data protection risks is to increase employees’ and manag­­ ers’ awareness. In 2012, the data protection experts therefore again intensified both the information provided and the trainings offered to employees worldwide by means of online learning programs. In addition to web-based train­ ings they offered open and closed events requiring physical attendance as well as working tools for specific topics. In 2013, information stands at different company locations helped to inform employees about more in-depth and current topics, such as the correct use of social media and mobile devices. In addition, Corporate Data Protection expanded its base during the reporting year both in Germany and abroad, thus expanding the reach of the company’s central data protection team. Over the past years, a special area of conflict has developed Information stand on the topic of data protection in data protection law because foreign authorities increas­ at the Lufthansa Aviation Center in Frankfurt. ing­ly demand passenger information related to passport and/ or reservation data. On the one hand, Deutsche Lufthansa Conscientious and secure: Data AG is subject to data protection laws that apply to German companies; on the other hand, airlines also have to adhere protection at the Lufthansa Group to the immigration and security regulations of destination countries. However, this problem can only be solved at the Handling personal data in a conscientious and secure political level. manner is the very basis for trusting business relationships. Data protection must shield the Lufthansa Group’s cusFor a service company such as the Lufthansa Group, the tomers, shareholders, suppliers and employees from any protection of personal data has special economic imporinfringement of their privacy due to incorrect handling of tance. Such companies can only provide their services their personal data. Data protection is the responsibility of optimally if they know who their customers are. Against this the Execu­tive Board or the management board of a Group background it is heartening that the aviation company was company. They are supported in exercising this responsi‑­ not affected by any punishable infringements in the protecb­ility by the department Corporate Data Protection, headed tion of customer data in 2012. by Dr. Barbara Kirchberg-Lennartz. The framework for data protection at the Lufthansa Group is provided by the Corporate Data Protection Guideline, which is based on laws such as Germany’s Federal Data Protection Act and accepted principles of data protection. Corporate Data Protection comprises the obligations relat­ed to adhering to data protection and provides rules that ensure procedures in conformity with data protection across the Group, that make data protection risks transpar‑ ent and safeguard against such risks. The task of the department Corporate Data Protection is to ensure that the Lufthansa Group as a whole adheres to the stipulations of the Federal Data Protection Act, to familiarize employees with the relevant areas of the Act and to carry out data protection audits. Additionally, the data protection Lufthansa Group | Economic Sustainability 43 Infrastructure Competition is decided on the ground as well According to forecasts by the International Air Transport Association (IATA), the number of passengers in civil aviation will reach about 3.6 billion worldwide in 2016. This is an increase of 800 million passengers over 2011. To be able to handle this growth, aviation needs demand-related and appropriate infrastructure at airports. For this reason, the Lufthansa Group makes continuous investments in terminals, buildings and hangars, as well as functioning, efficient and optimally interlinked processes on the ground, to secure the competitiveness of individual locations and ultimately that of the entire Group. Here is an overview of key events in the reporting year: Frankfurt A-Plus pier inaugurated On 2 October 2012, Frankfurt Airport inaugurated the A-Plus pier, the westerly 800-meter expansion of Terminal 1. The new pier increases the capacity of Germany’s largest hub by 6 million passengers per year. The new building is used exclusively by Lufthansa and its partners in the Star Alliance and is above all geared at handling wide-body aircraft such as the Airbus A380 or the Boeing 747. For passengers, the new pier means signifi cantly simpler and faster transfers at Lufthansa’s most important hub. In addition to passenger comfort, environmental protection was given high priority. Among other features, the building’s insulated outer skin and the intelligent, automated building technology ensure that the A-Plus pier consumes 40 percent less energy and emits 28 percent less CO2 than was stipulated in the 2007 Energy Conservation Act. Construction of modern logistics center approved On 19 September 2012, the Lufthansa Supervisory Board approved the construction of a modern logistics center at Frankfurt Airport. The Project LCCneo was set up to plan and realize the new building, which was designed in accordance with the latest logistics standards and is to replace the now 30-year-old Lufthansa Cargo Center. Construction work will be carried out on the existing plot while operations continue; it will start step by step at the end of 2013. The investment in the building will come to a mid three-digit million euro amount. Thanks to its state-of-the-art technical infrastructure and automated storage logistics, the new hub will allow faster processing times at signifi cantly reduced unit costs, while substantially increasing the service quality for the customers of Lufthansa Cargo at the same time. The company plans to construct the building in accordance with the stringent Gold Standard of the German Sustainable Building Council. 44 Lufthansa Group | Economic Sustainability Balance 2013 Hamburg New workshop and ofﬁce building In February 2013, Lufthansa Technik started construction work on a new workshop and offi ce building in Hamburg, which will also provide space for the important Central Material Technology department. In the construction of this new building, the Lufthansa subsidiary counts on long-term investments on the basis of advanced energy standards. It will feature modern insulation, use of rainwater and partially-greened roofs. Upon completion in spring 2014 the new building will replace an existing offi ce building that is cost-intensive and no longer up-to-date. Munich Berlin New maintenance hangar Lufthansa Technik has invested 16 million euros in a new maintenance hangar at the future Berlin Airport, which offers space for fi ve short-haul and mediumhaul aircraft or one wide-body aircraft up to the dimensions of an Airbus A340. The new hangar is above all characterized by its high level of energy effi ciency. New terminal satellite On 23 April 2012, the cornerstone was laid at Munich Airport for the satellite building at Terminal 2, which is to start operations in 2015. The airport operator, Flughafen München Vienna GmbH, and Lufthansa jointly operate Terminal 2 and decided in favor of an expansion as the current capacity of about 25 million passenNew terminal gers per year is exhausted today. The satellite At Vienna Airport, the new Austrian Star gives the international hub additional handAlliance Terminal “Check-in 3” was inauling capacities of 11 million passengers per gurated on 5 June 2012, and has since year. The building is designed in accordance been used by Austrian Airlines, Lufthansa, with the principles of sustainable construcSWISS and other members of the Star tion, which improves its CO2 balance sheet Alliance. The terminal represents a mileby 40 percent compared to the two existing stone in Austrian aviation and improves terminals. the quality of the travel experience for passengers, as it shortens transfer times and allows comfortable transfer paths. Long lines at the gates also a thing of the past due to central security checks. Lufthansa Group | Economic Sustainability 45 Balance 2013 Social Responsibility In 2012, the Lufthansa Group began – as part of its corporate program SCORE – to adapt its structures, develop future-oriented HR strategies and establish change management even more strongly than before as a classic management discipline. In this context, we also developed new dialogue formats in Germany and abroad to intensify the exchange between employees and managers. Our investments in training and continuing education as well as our activities to promote diversity across the Group continue to have a high priority. 145 million euros spent for internal educational measures 13.6 percent of all managers are female 1,632 young people are receiving professional training at the Lufthansa Group 147 nationalities are represented in the Lufthansa Group, worldwide Lufthansa Group | Social Responsibility 47 HR management Actively shaping change Rapid changes in working environments, increasing complexity in everyday professional life, lack of qualified personnel, demographic change and globalization – the issues that a modern HR management must take into account are now more comprehensive than ever. Alongside the multilayered demands on work processes and competencies, the lifestyles of employees and managers have also become increasingly diversified. For the economic success of the Lufthansa Group, it is cruThe Lufthansa Group defined and implemented numerous cial to further develop its HR management under considermeasures in 2012 to further develop the Group’s manageation of the above variables and in harmony with Group ment landscape systematically. This package of measures strategy. Therefore, against the backdrop of its SCORE prois the basis from which the company intends to control and gram, the aviation company began in the reporting year to advance the necessary changes successfully. And some adapt structures, develop future-oriented HR strategies and objectives have already been reached: establish change management more firmly than ever as a classic management discipline. Among the milestones of the reporting year were a Groupwide cultural and structural analysis as well as an intensive The project “Management Landscape 2020” – which was debate regarding the company’s management and change launched in 2011 by the Lufthansa Group’s Executive Board cultures. In addition, the Lufthansa Group restructured its (see also Balance 2012 issue on page 46) – was further HR organization and adapted its mission statement so that developed in 2012 with a strong focus on the components leadership competencies are now the focus of attention. “Leadership” and “Cultural transition.” The goal is to include the company’s managers even more actively in the ineviFurthermore, the Group began in 2012 to make the process table reshaping and reorganization of structures and proof filling vacancies more transparent by publishing job offers cesses. Moreover, the planning, implementing and monitorin middle and upper management Group-wide. The goal is ing of change processes are to be given perceptibly more to reach the entire spectrum of potential candidates and to weight. For managers, this means expanding their theoretconsider all of them in the selection process. Diversity criical know-how through sound practical experience. They teria will also play a greater role in filling management posimust also acquire additional expertise by means of targettions – as previously defined in Management Landscape ed continuing education – in areas such as complexity and 2020. Flanking these efforts are an array of measures which diversity management, transformational leadership style, the aviation company has implemented to accompany the customer-driven sustainable entrepreneurship (smart busiprocess of change. ness), as well as change and talent management. 48 Lufthansa Group | Social Responsibility Balance 2013 Interview with Dr. Bettina Volkens Senior Vice President Corporate Personnel From 1 July 2013 Chief Officer Corporate Human Resources and Legal Affairs Deutsche Lufthansa AG You are head of the Group’s HR division, We’re in a difficult situation at the moment: On the one and from 1 July 2013 you will also be its hand, we have to take steps to adapt personnel levels; board member in charge of corporate human on the other, we have to retain employees and manresources and legal affairs. What are some of agers who work with commitment and pleasure for the the tasks that you are faced with? Lufthansa Group. This demands that we treat all parties concerned with transparency, fairness and appreciation. Together with all business segments, we want to posiIf we don’t do that, we might in a worst-case scenario tion the Lufthansa Group for the long haul as an attracjeopardize the future of all employees at the Group. tive employer in the international competition for qualified personnel. We need employees and managers who work with passion and enthusiasm and are proud of their Which measures are you planning concretely? company. The Lufthansa Group is a fascinating company with numerous employment and development options We support employees and managers in the process – and that is to stay the same. It is indispensable for a of professional reorientation. That’s why we created the popular employer to have the right strategy and approCOMPASS program, which provides professional and priately adapted structures. At the same time, it’s only in confidential help. This might be changing jobs within the accord with a strong corporate culture that the company Group or assistance with an external job search – such as will be able to successfully maintain its market position when employees are affected by personnel restructuring long-term in a rapidly changing competitive environment processes or no longer see any perspectives within the – of this I’m deeply convinced. company and so express a desire for support. I think that a company is well advised not to leave its employees to their own devices, especially during critical phases. How do you intend to bring this about? Many of our employees have done a great job for many We need a corporate culture that is characterized by years or even decades. In such situations, change can be openness, courage and the willingness to change as well very difficult. But it can also be a fresh start. We also know as by appreciation and respect in dealing with each other. that many employees have very close ties to Lufthansa. At the core this means a sense of togetherness – between As an employer, we take a keen interest in keeping it that the individual business segments, among managers and way. What’s more, we observe time and again that indivibetween managers and employees. Above all, it’s impordual employees or managers want to rejoin the company tant that people in all their diversity work well together. It’s after a certain time elsewhere. The experience that these in this sense that we want to further develop the Lufthansa colleagues gather outside the Lufthansa Group is quite Group’s corporate culture. valuable and therefore we want to keep the contact with them even after they have left the company. Lufthansa Group | Social Responsibility 49 What is the role of managers in changing corporate culture? The Lufthansa Group is undergoing a comprehensive transformation toward becoming a durably competitive company. However, this process will only be successful if managers and employees are ready for and open to fundamental changes. Much depends on our managers, whose task it is to initiate change and to In 2012, the Lufthansa Group defined and implemented numerous measures question the status quo, but also to keep the tried and that systematically develop the company’s management landscape further. tested. They also have to make not only inconvenient but also innovative decisions and give their employees Measures 2013 orientation. The Lufthansa Group has undertaken all necessary steps to adapt its HR policies to current and future challenges. It is our task to support managers and employees in Its “homework book” for 2013 is already well filled: this phase of upheaval. This is why we launched the project “Cultural Transition & Leadership.” It bundles all • Fine-tuning HR management in accord with strategy, approaches, resources and measures that are needed structure (structural organization and process organifor change management, transformation support and zation) and corporate culture. These must be optimally leadership development. Furthermore, we support adapted to each other at all times. our managers in handling resistance and emotions in • Intensifying communications concerning the process of a professional manner, enduring states of limbo and change with special attention paid to the new leadership getting employees enthusiastic about the necessary guidelines. The same applies to the trialogue between changes. All of this requires continuous communicathe Executive Board, managers and employees. tion, active diversity and ongoing curiosity. • Providing professional and confidential support for employees affected by personnel restructuring proBeyond that, we need to ask critically which managers cesses or seeking a new career challenge. The program can drive cultural change. How do we identify those COMPASS was set up for this purpose (see page 57). who’re really able to form a corporate culture that per• Adapting management diagnostics and the management mits and promotes the most diverse ideas, points of grading system. view, interpretations and solutions? In the final analysis, this is also a question of diversity when selecting managers – in terms of age, gender, internationalization and backgrounds of experience. The HR management of the entire Lufthansa Group assumes a central role in this task: It initiates change, drives it forward and supports employees and managers along the path toward a fundamental transformation. 50 Lufthansa Group | Social Responsibility Balance 2013 Numerous activities for a culture of diversity In the wake of reorienting its HR management, the Lufthansa Group launched numerous initiatives in 2012 to foster diversity across the Group and to take best advantage of its potential as a strategic competitive factor. For instance, management positions are now being filled with an even stronger emphasis on diversity aspects than before. Women in management positions At a glance: The Lufthansa Group has set itself the goal of increasing the share of women in management positions by 30 percent by 2020, compared with the end of 2010. In Germany, this 116,957 employees, of whom corresponds to a Group-wide share of 20.2 percent. At the end of 2012, this value stood at 15.5 percent – worldwide at 44.7 % are women. 13.6 percent. The Group has turned its particular attention to increasing the number of female managers at the upper levels of management, and it therefore launched compreThey represent hensive measures in this area in 2012. Below is an overview 34.5 % of all employees with of these measures. staff responsibility, “Focus Track” is a program aimed at paving the way for more women to reach senior positions. It also comprises 13.6 % of all managers, the sub-project “GoAhead,” which specifically targets women who strive for a managerial position. By February 5.3 % of all pilots. 2013, four three-day events had taken place in the context of “GoAhead,” resulting in the promotion of a number of Worldwide, participants. The resonance among the young managers – and representatives of management who attended the 147 nationalities are repreevent series as guests – was therefore highly positive. Given the success of “GoAhead,” Lufthansa decided to continue sented in the Lufthansa Group. and further expand this training format. In terms of content, emphasis is placed on subjects such as networking comThe average age is petency, personality, self-management and career planning. Meanwhile, certain business segments have also begun to 41.3 years. launch programs aimed at increasing the share of women in senior management positions. As per 31.12.2012 The Group monitors and steers the success of all measures designed to increase the share of women on the basis of the personnel ratios “Share of women in management positions,” “Share of women with staff responsibility” and “Share of women in the cockpit.” Lufthansa Group | Social Responsibility 51 Expansion of child-care infrastructure More leeway for working parents: This is provided by the comprehensive child-care options that Lufthansa offers for its employees. During the reporting year the company invested in its cooperation with Terminal for Kids GmbH, so that an increased number of private child-care places are now available to Lufthansa employees with children under three years of age. In addition, young mothers and fathers can turn to the tried-and-tested pme Familienservice, with which Lufthansa has cooperated since 1992; the linkup saw its 20-year anniversary in the reporting year. This companyindependent consulting and placement service supports employees in their searches for private child care options, household help and in the framework of “Elder Care” for The share of women in the cockpit currently stands at 5.3 percent. care personnel. Emergency and vacation child care, a service that is logiSuccess story Cross-mentoring cally aligned with the needs of working parents, is provided To strengthen one’s own leadership qualities and gain by “Fluggiland” whenever kindergartens are unexpectedly insights into other corporate cultures – that’s the goal of the closed or child minders cancel appointments. cross-mentoring program, which Lufthansa initiated in 1998. The 14th edition of this cross-industry qualification offer In summer 2013, the Lufthansa was run in October 2012. Its concept is for a young female Group will set up its own full-day manager or manager-in-the-making of one company to vacation child-care service for the form a tandem for a limited time with an experienced male first time at the Lufthansa Aviation or female mentor at a higher hierarchical level of another Center in Frankfurt for employees’ company to exchange views and to learn from each other. children between the ages of Currently, Lufthansa takes part in this “double change of six and twelve. Under the motto perspectives” with 12 mentees and provides the same “Happy-go-luckies – Children connumber of mentors. The cross-mentoring program is presquer Lufthansa’s world,” these kids ently supported by eight other companies: Axel Springer, will participate in a program of fun Bosch, Commerzbank, Deutsche Bank, Fraport, Hewlettand exercise as well as insights into Packard, Merck and Sanofi. their parents’ work environment. Leadership in part-time jobs Employees who have found a good balance between their Supporting change in the role of fathers work and private lives are healthier, more satisfied, more The number of fathers who desire a more active role in motivated and more effective. This also leads to benefits their families is growing – among Lufthansa employees for the Lufthansa Group. Hence the company has offered as well. This is reason enough for the aviation company to its employees a broad range of flexible work time models support employees who would like to take paternity leave for many years. Among these, FlexCareers is a relatively to look after their children. In the reporting year, the comrecent offer that makes possible leadership on a part-time pany organized numerous presentations and discussion basis. This offer is in keeping with the times and is primarily events on the compatibility of career and family, which met directed at managers who have far-reaching family obligawith lively interest. Lufthansa is planning to intensify its tions and a particular need for part-time work. Moreover, commitment to this subject area and to expand its counFlexCareers is designed to help avoid bottlenecks in filling seling and information offers in cooperation with the orgakey positions in the future and thus cushion the effects of nization Väter gGmbH in 2013. demographic changes. Although a survey shows that only 18 percent of men aspire to a part-time management position, 48 percent of women do so. To tap this potential, HR management started in 2012 to proactively offer individual work-time consultations that pay particular attention to parttime models for managers. 52 Lufthansa Group | Social Responsibility Balance 2013 Looking beyond borders Every day, employees from the most diverse countries and cultures meet within the Lufthansa Group. With the aim of optimizing the cooperation within intercultural teams, the first Awareness Day for employees in the administration took place in September 2012 in Frankfurt. HR management and employees from very different backgrounds designed and organized this cultural dialogue entitled “Diversity@Work.” The event focused on sharing general information about countries such as Japan, Austria, India, Portugal and Thailand, to name but a few. Furthermore, Lufthansa employees gave their colleagues insights into national customs, traditions, religions as well as verbal and nonverbal habits of their native countries. A similar goal is pursued by the multiday continuing-education event “Kulturraum” for pursers Culture dialogue event 2012 at the Lufthansa Aviation Center in Frankfurt and flight attendants: It gives them regular opportunities to expand their intercultural knowledge with service-specific aspects – in particular with regard to the Lufthansa markets India, Japan, China and Korea as well as the Arabic countries. Inclusion of people with disabilities The Lufthansa Group owes its economic success to all its employees – including those with disabilities. Physical or psychological limitations do not necessarily limit a person’s performance or motivation. Therefore, it is an important goal of the Group’s human resources policies to include people with disabilities in professional settings and to grant them equal opportunities. This is achieved primarily by means of workplaces which have been adapted to their actual This information stand addresses pursers and flight attendants at the continustrengths and potentials and thus help them produce results ing education event “Kulturraum.” that are comparable to those of non-disabled employees. In 2012, the share of employees with disabilities at Lufthansa Furthermore, the Executive Board maintains a regular diain Germany stood at 3.8 percent (preceding year: 3.4 perlogue with the representatives of the Group’s disabled cent). While some Group companies exceed the legally employees. The focus of these discussions is on subjects defined minimum quota of 5 percent, the flying companies such as individual support for employees with handicaps do not ordinarily reach this level. This is due to legal regulaor ways to continually increase the share of people with distions that prohibit airlines in Germany in almost all cases to abilities within the company. employ people with disabilities aboard aircraft. As an expression of its social responsibility for people with On 13 March 2012, the first Inclusion Day took place at disabilities, the Lufthansa Group sponsored the film project Lufthansa under the motto “Top on the job – Despite dis“GOLD – You can do more than you think.” The documenability.” The goal was to reduce contact fears and prejuditary tells the story of three world-class athletes before and ces and to join forces to advance the change in attitudes during the Paralympics in London (see “A perfect match” (see Balance 2012 “People with disabilities” on page 53). on page 104). An internal inclusion award was given in the context of this event to three different company areas. Lufthansa Group | Social Responsibility 53 Share of women in management positions1 Average age2 Lufthansa Group, in percent Lufthansa Group, in years 2012 13.6 2012 40.2 42.4 2011 13.6 41.3 2010 13.1 2011 39.6 14.7 41.9 2009 40.8 2008 14.6 39.5 2010 2007 15.0 41.8 40.7 2006 12.9 2009 39.0 2005 12.7 41.5 13.3 40.3 2004 2008 39.1 2003 12.3 41.5 40.4 Share of women with staff responsibility 1 2007 39.0 Lufthansa Group, in percent 41.4 34.5 40.3 2012 2006 38.9 2011 35.5 41.3 2010 36.8 40.2 2005 38.8 2009 41.5 41.1 2008 38.0 40.1 2007 35.8 2004 38.3 40.6 2006 34.7 39.6 2005 32.5 2003 37.7 40.2 2004 32.0 39.1 2003 28.0 female employees male employees all employees Part-time employment Part-time work by Group companies Lufthansa Group, in percent in percent 45.3 Group 27.9 2012 13.7 27.1 27.9 DeutscheL ufthansa AG 46.8 44.2 43.5 2011 13.3 Group abroad 15.2 27.1 16.4 2010 43.9 LufthansaT echnik 10.7 13.6 10.2 26.9 LufthansaC argo 18.7 2009 42.7 18.0 14.0 Lufthansa Systems3 21.7 26.9 21.0 2008 42.7 LSG Group 14.6 14.0 15.5 26.5 2012 2011 2007 43.8 14.3 Age structure at the Lufthansa Group2 26.8 2012, in percent 2006 42.6 60 and over 3.3 13.7 55 – 59 7.3 25.7 2005 41.1 50 – 54 12.3 13.0 18.8 45 – 49 24.6 40.3 40 – 44 16.1 2004 13.9 35 – 39 13.7 24.6 30 – 34 13.2 2003 35.5 15.1 25 – 29 10.0 23.5 4.6 20 – 24 female employees male employees all employees 18 – 19 0.5 As per 31.12.2012 under 18 0.2 1 Scope of consolidation without LSG outside Germany, SWISS Aviation Training, EdelAG, AirPlus International Inc., LH Malta Finance Ltd. weiss Air AG, SWISS European Airlines, SWISS Aviation Software, Traviaustria, LH 2 Scope of consolidation partially without LSG outside Germany, Lufthansa Malta Malta Holding Ltd., LH Malta Aircraft Leasing Ltd., Shannon Aerospace Ltd., LH TechHolding Ltd., Lufthansa Malta Aircraft Leasing Ltd., Lufthansa Technik Philippines nik Malta Ltd., LH Technik Airmotive Ireland Ltd., LH Technik Switzerland GmbH, LH Inc., Shannon Aerospace Ltd., Lufthansa Technik Malta Ltd., Lufthansa Technik AirTechnik Budapest Repülögeb, Hawker Pacific Aerospace Inc. (US), LH Technik Landmotive Ltd., Lufthansa Technik Budapest Repülögeb, Hawker Pacific Aerospace Inc. ing Gear Services UK Ltd., BizJet Int. Sales & Support Inc., AirLiance Materials LLC, (US), BizJet International Sales & Support Inc., AirLiance Materials LLC, Lufthansa LH Technik North America Holding Corp., LH Systems Americas Inc., AirPlus Air TravTechnik North America Holding Corp., LH Malta Finance Ltd., Lufthansa Technik el Card Vertriebsges. mbH, LH Flight Training Berlin GmbH, AirPlus International Ltd., Landing Gear Services UK Ltd. 54 Lufthansa Group |S.r.I., AirPlus International Social Responsibility AirPlus Payment Management Co. Ltd., AirPlus International 3 Selected companies only Balance 2013 Employment policy based on partnership Creating viable conditions for the future The Lufthansa Group’s success depends greatly on the ideas, enthusiasm and commitment of its employees. Therefore, the aviation company attaches the greatest importance to providing its employees with an attractive working environment and appropriate salaries. Likewise, it is an established tradition to balance the economic interests of the company and the expectations and needs of the employees at all times in a fair and trusting manner. It is tried-and-tested company policy to clarify conflicts of provided for a 3.5 percent pay increase, backdated to 1 interest between company management and the employee January 2012, for ground staff employed in Germany under representation in an open and transparent manner. A fair collective agreements. This corresponds to an annualized approach to coexistence in all areas of the company creates increase of 3.2 percent. In addition, other allowances and the necessary balance to advance the Lufthansa Group’s supplements were increased moderately, and specific reguposition in the market. The growing plurality of opinions and lations were agreed upon for the business segments Cateropinion leaderships – analogous to social developments ing and MRO. Ver.di terminated this wage agreement with as a whole – is an increasing challenge for all parties condue notice on 31 January 2013. The negotiations between cerned. The guidelines for their joint efforts are flexibility and AGVL and ver.di to conclude a new pay agreement for these the ability to react within the market. employees were begun in February 2013. Partnership in collective agreements in Germany In their fourth round of wage negotiations, the Air Transport Lufthansa employs its staff under conditions that provide Employers’ Federation and the ver.di union reached an them with social and material security not only during but agreement on 1 May 2013. This agreement provides for pay also after their professional lives. These are established rises differentiated for the first time according to the perforon the basis of collective agreements which the company mances of the different business segments. It is valid for a negotiates with its union partners Vereinte Dienstleistungsperiod of 26 months from 1 February 2013 to 31 March 2015. gewerkschaft (ver.di), Vereinigung Cockpit (VC) and Unabhängige Flugbegleiter Organisation e.V. (UFO). Overall, 97.5 New wage agreement for cabin staff percent of the Lufthansa Group’s employees in Germany 2012 was the year of dialogue about the need to make are covered by collective agreements (pay settlements and changes in remuneration schemes. Even before the terworks agreements). The goal is to treat all employee groups mination with due notice of the wage agreement for cabin within the company fairly and justly – a standard that is staff on 31 March 2012, an intensive exchange of ideas faced with an increasingly challenging framework of conditook place with the Unabhängige Flugbegleiter Organisations owing to the plurality of unions within the company. tion (UFO) concerning the conditions of a new, sustainable pay system. The negotiations that followed failed to lead to a Pay negotiations with ver.di for ground staff solution for this difficult issue. The result was that the cabin At the beginning of 2012, the Air Transport Employers’ Fedstaff entered into a labor dispute with the company in late eration (AGVL) and the trade union ver.di agreed on a wage summer. The breakthrough was finally achieved in the arbisettlement valid until the end of January 2013 for the ground tration proceedings led by former government economic staff of Deutsche Lufthansa AG in Germany. The agreement advisor Professor Bert Rürup. Lufthansa Group | Social Responsibility 55 In a balance between personnel policy and economic conDistribution of employees within the Lufthansa Group siderations, the compromise includes a revision of the basic 2012, changes in percent remuneration scale for flight attendants and an increase of 2012 2011 change all pay levels by 100 euros (except the final pay level, which Group 116,957 116,365 + 0.5 is increased by 50 euros) from January 2013. In addition, all of which Passenger Airline Group 55,236 55,361 – 0.2 members of cabin staff receive a one-off payment of 320 of which Logistics 4,606 4,624 – 0.4 euros and an increased profit-share payment. To cushion the cost increases from these pay rises, the flight attendants of which MRO 20,282 19,975 + 1.5 and pursers agree in return to a one-time waiver of their of which IT Services 2,766 2,820 – 1.9 annual pay-level upgrades. Additional measures to increase of which Catering 30,088 29,586 + 1.7 productivity in continental traffic are also to be implemented. of which Others 3,979 3,999 – 0.5 In response to existing and anticipated overcapacities in the Lufthansa Group: Jobs around the world cabin area, the parties to the wage agreement consent in 2012 solidarity to a working-time corridor that makes both workFrankfurt am Main 36,751 ing hours and salaries flexible within a margin of up to 5 Hamburg 9,953 percent for the next 24 months. In return, operations-related Munich 10,438 layoffs are ruled out until the end of 2014. Cologne 2,514 Berlin 1,348 With regard to the planned transfer of point-to-point routes Rest of Germany 6,616 outside of the Frankfurt and Munich hubs to Germanwings, a range of assurances – especially the safeguarding of Total in Germany 67,620 existing wages and benefits – have been agreed upon for Rest of Europe 22,628 the employees affected. thereof Vienna 5,175 Zurich 7,327 To secure a long-term perspective for cabin staff at Lufthansa, Africa/Middle East 2,169 the wages of newly-hired flight attendants follow a new North/Central America 13,574 pay scale with higher starting pay, lower final-level salaries South America 3,163 and an overall development of remuneration related to the Asia/Pacific 7,803 increase of experience. The introduction of an annual working-time model provides additional options for leveling out Group total 116,957 the demand swings that are typical for the industry in the course of the year. Employees by group and gender 2012, in percent Following the past wage freezes for cabin staff, the arbitraWomen 44.7 52,294 tion proposal strikes a fair balance between the employees’ Men 55.3 interests through an appropriate pay increase with long-term 64,663 job security guarantees and Lufthansa’s interests through Apprentices 26.5 practicable solutions in a demanding competitive environ1,632 73.5 ment. By agreeing to a well-balanced structural reform in Ground1 37.8 80,774 62.2 the cabin, the employees have made an important contribuFlight2 61.7 tion at the wage agreement level to the corporate program 34,551 38.3 SCORE. Cockpit 5.3 8,867 94.7 Cabin 81.1 25,684 18.9 female employees male employees 1 without apprentices 2 consists of cockpit and cabin As per 31.12.2012 56 Lufthansa Group | Social Responsibility Balance 2013 Negotiations started with cockpit staff The wage agreement for cockpit staff concluded in 2011 ended on 30 April 2012. The union Vereinigung Cockpit (VC) terminated this agreement with due notice and initiated discussions about a new agreement. Concerning this employee group as well, the challenge is to strike a balance between the different interests against the backdrop of a difficult competitive situation. Here also, Lufthansa will continue to seek solutions together with VC by pursuing a constructive dialogue. Active pay and social policies abroad as well Internationalization and globalization offer a broad range of opportunities for the business and personnel processes across the Group. As a company with international operaThe COMPASS program offers professional and confidential tions, Lufthansa’s pay and social policies are guided by support for career reorientation. the respective general conditions in individual countries. The focus is on the long-term definition of the conditions of employment, which depend on employee needs, operational requirements and the local labor market – including compensation rules, working conditions and pension schemes. Lufthansa defines these agreements in cooperation with internal employee representations. COMPASS – Program for professional reorientation The Lufthansa Group assumes responsibility for its employIn all countries where Lufthansa acts unilaterally, the comees in times of change as well. As an expression of its pany uses benchmarks and macroeconomic data, such long-term personnel policy, the aviation company launched as inflation, to assess salaries once a year for their viabilthe COMPASS program, which supports employees and ity in the context of the market and competitiveness. In this managers in successfully repositioning themselves profesway, Lufthansa offers a continuous evaluation and adaptasionally. For this purpose, the Group cooperates closely with tion of working conditions for its locally employed staff. In leading personnel consulting companies. countries with very high rates of inflation, this assessment is carried out every six months and ordinarily leads to pay COMPASS specifically targets employees and managers in increases. Moreover, Lufthansa enters into pay negotiations Group functions and at Lufthansa German Airlines whose with employee representatives not only in countries where jobs are threatened or who voluntarily seek new professional it employs a higher number of people (such as France, Italy challenges. In principle, the COMPASS program consists and India) but also in countries where it has no more than of the following performance elements: a confidential initial 15 to 20 employees (such as Ghana and Ethiopia). discussion, a comprehensive consultation concerning the professional reorientation, and a company-related job marAs a member of the UN Global Compact, Lufthansa has ket based on current contacts of the Lufthansa Group and documented its support of the freedom of association and available exclusively to all program participants. the right to collective bargaining for all its employees worldwide. Employees in any country where Lufthansa compaAll contact with the COMPASS office is voluntary and is nies are active are free to organize themselves according to handled confidentially. There are no costs for employees legal conditions and thus participate in shaping their workand managers who want to take advantage of the program. ing conditions. The placement service is offered for up to six months and comprises both an assessment of the client’s current personal and professional position and an analysis of his or her strengths and opportunities. In addition, the placement experts identify options for action and support the COMPASS participants in all phases of the application process. Lufthansa Group | Social Responsibility 57 Employee Feedback Management: Knowing what matters most to employees Employee surveys are an important instrument for the Employee surveys at the Group companies Lufthansa Group to obtain a comprehensive picture Using the standardized Employee Commitment of the mood within the company. With its Employee Index (ECI), a quantitative internal benchmark can be Feedback Management (EFM), the aviation group has established Group-wide. The ECI is employer indeestablished an efficient, standardized process for this pendent and calculated on the basis of four questions, purpose. One of its aims is to facilitate a company-wide which must be a constituent part of each employee dialogue between managers and employees. “In diffi survey. Lufthansa Cargo has already integrated these cult times especially we need a strong sense of comquestions. In 2012, the logistics specialist surveyed its munity within the employee ranks to solve problems,” employees for the 14th time in a row. With a grade of says Matthias Borchers, Vice President Personnel 2.17, the Cargo employees ranked their employer Development at Lufthansa German Airlines. higher than ever; the participation rate reached 77.9 percent. Lufthansa Systems carried out its first worldIn 2012, under the motto “Your opinion matters,” wide employee survey, in which 73 percent of its Lufthansa German Airlines and all Group functions employees participated. And Lufthansa Technik again gave their employees the opportunity to provide feedasked its employees to give its managers feedback back concerning their satisfaction with the job, the on their leadership performance: As part of the “Great immediate work environment and the company in genPlace to Work®” initiative, the employees of Lufthansa eral for the eighth time. Worldwide, 22,634 employees Technik, Lufthansa Technik Logistik, Lufthansa Technik participated in the survey. At 60 percent, the participaMaintenance International and Lufthansa LEOS took tion rate was only slightly below the record result of part in the survey. Appraisal sessions involving super64 percent in 2011. visors and employees complement the manager feedback, which aims among other things to strengthen Company-wide comparisons open and fair dialogue about problems within teams Lufthansa had the survey analyzed by an external institute. and by extension to improve the work situation. The results for 2012 were published in the form of 1,400 individual reports and are freely available to all employees. The EFM has been carried out annually since 2011. This yearly basis serves the company’s efforts to carry out the measures derived from feedback in a timely manner and to monitor their success. In this way, the Group ensures the sustainability of its EFM process. 58 Lufthansa Group | Social Responsibility Balance 2013 Corporate training and continuing education Identifying talents – Fostering potentials The Lufthansa Group is convinced that investments in the training and continuing education of its employees and managers pay off – independently of the general economic development. The better an employee is qualified, the better he or she can help to boost the company’s innovative capacity and competitiveness. With the Lufthansa School of Business, the Group operates Germany’s first corporate university. Therefore, despite the current climate of change, the Group projects and best-practice models in the area of technolincreased its expenditure for internal educational measures ogy-supported knowledge management. For example, in 2012 by 18 percent to 145 million euros. Including the Ronald Urgast, who is responsible for education manageGroup airlines, the number of participant days increased by ment and education controlling at Lufthansa, again served 7 percent to 727,000. Systematic monitoring ensures that on the jury of the European Award for Technology Supall training and continuing education measures have the ported Learning (eureleA), formerly the eLearning Award. intended success. The focus is on events targeted at acquiring and expanding professional and personal Top spots for the Lufthansa Group in employer rankings competencies. Placing at the top of leading rankings year after year documents the aviation company’s high level of attractiveness as Lufthansa School of Business an employer in Germany. In the reporting year, for instance, It is an important concern for Germany’s first corporate this was evidenced by the “trendence Graduate Barometer university to facilitate the optimal interlinking between the 2012” among university graduates, who voted the company employees’ individual development and the company’s ecointo fourth place on the list of top employers. Lufthansa also nomic requirements. Whether job starters or experienced ranked fourth in a survey conducted among more than professionals: The guiding principle of lifelong learning 23,000 university students by the consulting company stipulates that employees need to acquire new knowledge Universum Communications. on a continuous basis. That is why the Lufthansa School of Business (LHSB) provides employees of all ages and hierTalent management archical levels with a broad range of offers that are tailorThe Lufthansa Group has launched diverse programs to made for specific target audiences – including training boost the internationality among its talented career-starters courses, management programs as well as dialogue and with academic degrees. The “ProTeam General Managenetwork platforms. The LHSB cooperates with selected ment Trainee” program, for example, allows university gradinternational organizations, business schools and academic uates to form a comprehensive picture of the professional institutes. perspectives in the Lufthansa Group by means of presentations and project assignments in Germany and abroad. This To support the necessary changes in the area of personnel offer has also been made available to trainees at SWISS in at the Lufthansa Group (see “HR management” on page 2013. More diversity within the company is also generated 48), the Lufthansa School of Business organized numerous by the employee engagement and development program specific training courses on the subject of diversity in 2012. “explorers.” Its ninth year, which took to the starting blocks Moreover, it expanded its classic “blended learning” portin November 2012, comprises 147 young managers from all folio with offers in the area of “mobile learning.” In the Group companies who would like to advance their professireporting year, the company again supported outstanding onal and personal development. Lufthansa Group | Social Responsibility 59 Training and continuing education have a high priority at the Lufthansa Group. Lufthansa Case Challenge: Group photo of the 2012 finalists at the Lufthansa Training & Conference Center in Seeheim Professional training in 56 professions Lufthansa Case Challenge 2012 The Lufthansa Group’s education spectrum is as diverse as Innovations in the aviation industry: That was the topic of its product portfolio: To assume its social responsibility in the third edition of the “Lufthansa Case Challenge” coma comprehensive way, the company currently trains young petition, which the Lufthansa Group again organized in people in 56 professions. This number also includes the the reporting year jointly with the EBS Business School. dual courses of study, which were followed by 400 young Bachelor’s and Master’s students from around the world people in the reporting year. Against the background of took advantage of the opportunity to develop futuristic conthe Bologna reform, which the Group accompanied and cepts and attempt to qualify for the final round, which took supported actively from the start, Lufthansa has gradually place from 15 to 17 October 2012 at the Lufthansa Training switched its Group-wide entry-level training programs to & Conference Center in Seeheim. As in previous years, Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees over the past years. only the six best of the total of 105 applicant teams from 20 countries got the chance to present their ideas in person In 2002, Lufthansa launched the online career portal to a jury composed of top managers from the Lufthansa Be-Lufthansa.com, which is now used by the majority of job Group and EBS experts. applicants for their initial contacts with the Lufthansa Group. Additionally, information about professional perspectives is also available to job seekers on Facebook and Twitter, and since December 2012 via a new career blog. Yet the professions that committed young people may choose at the threshold to their working lives are not only those with a technical, business or IT orientation. In Germany the company’s Medical Service, for example, has for many years offered a three-year course leading to qualification as a medical assistant. That professional training at the Lufthansa Group not only challenges but also advances talent is illustrated by the distinction awarded to two young female employees as Germany’s best apprentices: one as an aviation service professional, the other as an aircraft equipment mechanic. To encourage girls and boys early on to break through the classic divisions of “female” and “male” jobs when choosing a profession, the Group again participated in 2012 and 2013 in the annual Girls’ and Boys’ Day. With the same goal, SWISS participated in Switzerland’s National Future Day in 2012. 60 Lufthansa Group | Social Responsibility Balance 2013 Employee safety and health protection For a safe and healthy professional life The healthier and more motivated our employees are, the better they are able to perform. Safe working conditions that aim at maintaining health and well-being are, therefore, an integral part of the Lufthansa Group’s job safety and health protection programs. As the business activities of the individual Group companies vary significantly, the requirements on job safety and health management also vary. So it is only logical that these are essentially organized in a decentralized manner. The Medical Service, with its physicians specializing in occupational, aviation and tropical medicine, looks after all health-related concerns that Lufthansa Group employees might have. This department works in close contact with Group Employee Safety, Lufthansa’s Social Counseling Service and the health experts at the various Group companies. The working group Health has established itself as a forum for regular interdepartmental exchanges; it meets four times a year. Medical Service: certiﬁed with DIN EN ISO 9001 In order to fulfill the steadily increasing legal requirements in health care even more effectively, the Medical Service had its quality management system successfully certified in 2012 in accordance with DIN EN ISO 9001. The Medical Service had intensively prepared for the audit by the certification organization CERT iQ since 2011. The certification applies to the locations in Frankfurt, Munich, Hamburg and Cologne comprises the following areas: occupational, aviation and tropical medicine, Aero Medical Center, administrative control, Passenger Medical Care and Social Counseling Service. With the goal of securing and further expanding the achieved standards in quality management (QM), the Medical Service has begun to train internal QM commissioners. Furthermore, the Medical Service will assume the medical consultation and the quality management of all medical transports – including those that require the use of Lufthansa’s fl ying intensive-care unit, the Patient Transportation Compartment (PTC), which is unique worldwide. Lufthansa Group | Social Responsibility 61 Effective management of employee safety The Group department Employee Safety works closely with physicians, social counselors, employee representatives and the responsible staff at the companies of the Lufthansa Group. Its goal is to assure and increase the employees’ health and employability sustainably – particularly by determining and evaluating hazards in the workplace on a regular basis and by implementing measures that reduce the number of work-related accidents and illnesses longterm. In addition, the department’s experts are concerned with identifying risk factors of work-related illnesses at an early stage and warding these off. Their tasks also include measures to promote health, safety training, instruction of employees in the noise laboratory as well as expansion and updating of health-related information on the company’s intranet. Social Counseling set up this information display circuit for the annual Health Week campaign. A permanent exhibition at the Lufthansa Base in Frankfurt has provided information about the subject of job safety since November 2012. Safety commissioners from cockpit Social Counseling and cabin were actively involved in conceiving and impleThe Lufthansa Social Counseling Service has served the menting the exhibition. It offers above all information on the Group’s employees as a central contact point for private, subject of cabin air. The main goal is to sensitize employees financial and family-related problems as well as for jobto the correct evaluation of smells and signs of smoke genrelated conflicts since 1985. This offer is a voluntary social eration aboard aircraft. service provided by the Lufthansa Group and has an important function in fulfilling the public welfare obligation The safety and health of passengers, crew members and in the context of job safety and health protection. The employees has the top priority for the Lufthansa Group. Social Counseling Service has a presence at numerous Therefore, the Group is even more committed than before locations in Germany, including Frankfurt, Munich, Cologne, to researching technical and operational topics and coopNuremberg, Hannover, Berlin, Düsseldorf and Stuttgart. Its erates closely with engine and aircraft manufacturers to service portfolio comprises five areas: individual psychodevelop effective preventive measures. This includes the social counseling, coaching and counseling of managers clarification of so-called smell events in aircraft cabins, and officeholders, team counseling and conflict moderawhich have occurred repeatedly in the past and led to contion, prevention, and corporate health management. The troversial discussions in the media. Social Counseling Service publishes an annual activity report. In addition, it works actively for the various health For this purpose, a measurement case has been available campaigns within the Lufthansa Group. for use in analyzing possible harmful substances since April 2013. Lufthansa intends to use this case on selected In 2012, numerous campaigns to support employee health flights to attempt to record changes in the composition of again took place at Lufthansa’s German locations. cabin air during a smell event. The goal is to identify and quantify substances potentially present in the cabin air and to optimize the objective assessment of such events. Particular attention is given to organic phosphates such as Trikresyl phosphate (TCP), Tributyl phosphate (TBP) and Triphenyl phosphate (TPP). Development partner for the project is the renowned Hannover Medical School. A total of 15 rotations with the Airbus A380 are planned. The final scientific analysis of all measuring data is expected in the fourth quarter 2013. 62 Lufthansa Group | Social Responsibility Balance 2013 As the title sponsor of the Frankfurt half-marathon since 2009, Lufthansa sets an example for promoting mass sport in the Rhine-Main area. Company and mass sports People who regularly engage in sports activities not only do something good for their bodies. They also create a form of compensation for the many demands that work and family place on them every day. As an active contribution to preventive health protection, the Lufthansa Group has always supported its employees with a comprehensive offer of sports that aims to cover all preferences. Instead of top performance, the emphasis is on the joy of movement and the satisfaction of shared experience, which also has a positive effect on the company’s working atmosphere. In 2012, 7,196 Lufthansa employees participated in Germany in sports associations with their various disciplines. The campaign “Lufthanseaten laufen” (“Lufthansa employA rowing team from the Lufthansa sports association in Hamburg participated in the world’s largest rowing regatta at the end of October 2012, the “Head of ees run”) has invited employees since 2009 to get some the Charles” in Boston. fresh air and clear their minds. In this spirit, 1,225 Lufthansa employees participated in the JP Morgan Corporate Challenge on 14 June 2012 in Frankfurt. In fact, the aviation company has provided the second-largest team at Europe’s largest inter-company run for a number of years. In addition, the company has committed itself since 2009 as the title sponsor of the Frankfurt half-marathon and thus set an example for promoting mass sport in the Rhine-Main area. Lufthansa Group | Social Responsibility 63 Balance 2013 Climate and Environmental Responsibility The Lufthansa Group assumes its responsibility for climate and the environment. As an innovation driver in the aviation industry, we are committed to numerous future-oriented initiatives and projects that improve the environmental compatibility of flying in sustainable ways. And successfully so: In 2012 we again achieved an efficiency record and improved our specific kerosene consumption by 2.8 percent. 144,745 fewer tonnes of fuel consumed than in 2011 4.06 liters of kerosene consumed per passenger and 100 kilometers 500 fuel efficiency projects launched 2,000,000 flight kilometers in the service of climate research Lufthansa Group | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 65 Environmental strategy Many measures, one goal: To reduce the environmental effects of flying For many years, the Lufthansa Group has done everything in its power to minimize the environmental effects of its business activities at all levels and to use the resources it requires as efficiently as possible. The company’s chief concern is to continuously reduce the carbon dioxide and noise emissions generated by its flight operations. Air transport’s share in global CO2 emissions caused by after. “Since 2008, we’ve increased fuel efficiency within the human activities is comparatively low, at just below 2.5 perGroup by 1.5 percent a year and so have consistently met cent (see illustration on page 13). However, this transport the industry’s goal,” says Dr. Karlheinz Haag, Vice President mode’s share is on an upward trajectory due to the growing Environmental Issues at the Lufthansa Group. worldwide demand for mobility. For this reason, airlines are also faced with the challenge of further increasing the enviTo reach these goals, the aviation industry developed a four ronmental compatibility of flying despite a steadily growing pillar strategy for climate protection (see illustration below), transport performance. which links the various environmentally relevant measures in the areas of technological progress, improved infrastructure, The Lufthansa Group underpins such efforts with the straoperational measures and complementary economic meategic environmental program it set up in 2008. In addition, sures. On the basis of this strategic platform, the Lufthansa the Group supports the industry’s ambitious environmental Group has implemented many measures and launched goals: to improve fuel efficiency by 1.5 percent per year on numerous programs to continuously increase the efficiency average until 2020 and to grow in a CO2-neutral way thereof flight operations. Four pillars for climate protection 1 2 Technological progress Improved infrastructure • Innovation in aircraft and • Improved use of airspace engine technologies • Airport infrastructures adapted • Alternative fuels to needs 66 Lufthansa Group | Climate and Environmental Responsibility Balance 2013 An overview of the most important activities in this area: Promotion of electromobility Airlines must cut emissions and noise to a minimum, not Investment in modern aircraft only in the air but also on the ground. For this reason, the According to the current order status, the Lufthansa Group Lufthansa Group emphasizes the development and trial of will have taken delivery of 236 new aircraft by year-end 2025. electric propulsion technologies for taxiing aircraft. These are above all characterized by low figures for fuel consumption and noise emissions. A modern and sensibly Cooperation with science structured fleet not only forms the basis for lasting economic Be it climate research, electromobility, noise reduction or success but also makes an important contribution to keepmodifications on existing aircraft – the Lufthansa Group ing the environmental effects of flying as low as possible. counts on cooperations with science and research to further improve the Group’s environmental care in a targeted manAnalysis of consumption ner on the basis of sound knowledge. The Group project “Fuel Efficiency” bundles all activities within the Lufthansa Group that aim at using fuel as effiIn addition, the Group actively participates in the work of ciently as possible. These measures include, for instance, numerous associations, committees and initiatives for susintelligent software solutions and procedures to lower kerotainable air transport, including the Federal Association of sene consumption by reducing the weight of aircraft. the German Air Transport Industry (Bundesverband der Deutschen Luftverkehrswirtschaft – BDL) and the EnvironUse of biofuels mental Committee of the International Air Transport AssociLufthansa carried out pioneering work in 2011 by running a ation (IATA). Lufthansa experts also contribute their knowlong-term trial of biofuel in regular scheduled flight operahow to the Single European Sky ATM Research Program tions and demonstrated that biofuels can be used without (SESAR) by working in more than 50 individual projects. problem in everyday settings. Currently, the company is SESAR’s goal is to implement the single airspace above committed to a range of future-oriented projects that focus Europe, the largest climate protection project of European on alternative fuels. The direction of these efforts is set by aviation (see Balance 2012 on page 75). Moreover, the avithe Biofuel Strategy 2020, approved by the Executive Board ation company is active in the communities surrounding airin 2012. ports through expert panels and working groups to search jointly with all parties concerned for practicable solutions in Reduction of noise the area of noise reduction. This is but one example of how Lufthansa works permanently with partners in industry, the Group maintains a constant dialogue with publics and public administrations, academic institutions and research stakeholders whose interests are affected by the company’s to develop perceptible noise-reduction measures. This business activities. manifests itself in concrete efforts, such as the continuous modernization of the aircraft fleet, the ongoing optimization You can find more detailed information on these topics on of the existing fleet and the use of noise-reducing procethe following pages. dures in daily flight operations. 3 4 Operational measures Economic measures • More efficient aircraft sizes • A global, sensibly designed, market• Optimal flight routes and speeds based system for reducing emissions • Optimized processes on the ground to complement the other three pillars Lufthansa Group | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 67 Kerosene and emissions Efficiency record: 4.06 l/100 pkm The Lufthansa Group flies more and more fuel-efficiently: In 2012, the specific kerosene consumption fell to only 4.06 liters per 100 passenger kilometers, after having already reached a record company low the previous year with a value of 4.18 liters per 100 passenger kilometers. This represents a decline of 2.8 percent over 2011. The specific CO2 emissions fell proportionally. In addition, it is especially encouraging that the Lufthansa The Lufthansa Group’s specific kerosene consumption Group’s absolute fuel consumption declined from 9.02 mildeclined in 2012 in all traffic areas: On long-haul routes it lion to 8.88 million tonnes of kerosene – even though the fell from 3.64 to 3.58 liters per 100 passenger kilometers, Group’s flying companies transported more payload and on medium-haul routes from 4.52 to 4.34 liters per 100 carried significantly more passengers to their destinations passenger kilometers, and on short-haul routes from 7.30 during the reporting year. This illustrates that the aviation to 7.02 liters per 100 passenger kilometers. The individual group has successfully continued its decoupling of transport Group airlines, with the exception of Germanwings, also performance from fuel consumption. While the Lufthansa increased their fuel efficiency. As a result, the aircraft of Group’s transport performance has grown by 329 percent SWISS needed only 3.64 liters of kerosene on average in since 1991, its kerosene consumption has only increased by the reporting year to transport one passenger over a dis183 percent (see graph on page 69). The main reasons for tance of 100 kilometers, down from 3.72 liters in the prethis positive development are the continuous measures to ceding year. The SWISS long-haul fleet was especially modernize the fleet (see “Billions for quieter and more effifuel-efficient with a specific kerosene consumption of 3.08 cient aircraft” on page 30) and the reintensified efforts to liters per 100 passenger kilometers. The specific fuel conuse fuel as efficiently as possible (see “Fuel efficiency: Every sumption at Austrian Airlines reached 3.98 liters per 100 drop counts” on page 71). passenger kilometers (preceding year: 4.18 liters) and at Lufthansa German Airlines 4.16 liters per 100 passenger kilometers (preceding year: 4.27 liters). The pure Lufthansa fleet (without regional companies and Germanwings) achieved a specific kerosene consumption of 3.98 liters per 100 passenger kilometers on average. 68 Lufthansa Group | Climate and Environmental Responsibility Specific fuel consumption, passenger transportation active fleet in 2012, in liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l/100 pkm) Group fleet Lufthansa German Airlines Germanwings Long-haul (63 %) Long-haul (58 %) 3.75 l/100 pkm 3.58 l/100 pkm Medium-haul (21 %) Medium-haul (100 %) 4.31 l/100 pkm 4.16 4.55 l/100 pkm 4.55 l/100 pkm l/100 pkm 4.06 Short-haul (15 %) Medium-haul (28 %) 6.87 l/100 pkm 4.34 l/100 pkm l/100 pkm SWISS Austrian Airlines Long-haul (59 %) Long-haul (33 %) Short-haul (14 %) 3.08 l/100 pkm 2.96 l/100 pkm 7.02 l/100 pkm Medium-haul (27 %) Medium-haul (53 %) 4.12 l/100 pkm 3.64 4.47 l/100 pkm 3.98 l/100 pkm l/100 pkm Average specific fuel consumption in l/100 pkm (center of circle) and shares of different traffic areas (segments) in total fuel consumption for pasShort-haul (14 %) Short-haul (13 %) senger transportation active fleet 2012. 7.81 l/100 pkm 7.10 l/100 pkm Definitions of traffic areas: Long-haul more than 3,000 km Medium-haul 800 to 3,000 km Short-haul less than 800 km Specific CO2 emissions passenger transportation active fleet in 2012, in kilograms per 100 passenger kilometers (kg/100 pkm) Group fleet Lufthansa German Airlines Germanwings SWISS Austrian Airlines Long-haul 9.03 9.46 – 7.77 7.45 Medium-haul 10.93 10.87 11.46 10.39 11.26 Short-haul 17.68 17.30 – 19.68 17.89 Total averages 10.24 10.47 9.17 10.04 Decoupling of transport performance and fuel consumption Change compared to 1991 in percent, values for the fleet of the Lufthansa Group 320 % + 329 % 300 % 280 % 260 % 240 % Transport performance 220 % 200 % 180 % + 183 % 160 % Efficiency gain 140 % 120 % 100 % 80 % Fuel consumption 60 % 40 % 20 % 0% 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Fuel Dumps changes Specific fuel consumption, passenger transportation 2012 compared to 2011 in liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l/100 pkm) Events, total 17 +2 2012 2011 changes in % thereof medical reasons 11 +6 Group fleet 4.06 4.18 – 2.8 technical reasons 4 –5 Lufthansa German Airlines 4.16 4.27 – 2.8 other reasons 2 +1 Germanwings 4.55 4.42 + 2.8 Quantity, total 444 tonnes – 15.7 % SWISS 3.64 3.72 – 2.3 Austrian Airlines 3.98 4.18 – 4.8 Fuel consumption1 Passenger transportation 2012 (in tonnes) CO2 emissions NOX emissions passengers freight total share in kilograms/ in grams/ 100 passenger kilometers 100 passenger kilometers Scheduled flights2,3 2012 10.24 2012 50.0 Lufthansa 4,873,880 1,676,438 6,550,318 72.7 % 2011 10.53 2011 49.4 Germanwings 243,541 212 243,753 2.7 % 2010 10.58 2010 48.8 SWISS 1,065,389 374,352 1,439,741 16.0 % Austrian Airlines 568,647 76,467 645,114 7.2 % 2009 10.84 2009 50.0 8,878,926 98.5 % 2008 10.93 2008 50.6 Third parties4 113,896 7,872 121,768 1.4 % 2007 10.88 2007 49.8 Other flights5 13,800 0.2 % 2006 11.05 2006 50.5 2005 11.08 2005 50.8 All flights 9,014,494 100.0 % 2004 11.00 2004 50.6 2003 10.88 2003 51.0 Emissions3,6 2012 (in tonnes) CO emissions UHC emissions passengers ± 2011 freight ± 2011 total ± 2011 in grams/ in grams/ CO2 21,267,096 – 0.4 % 6,701,531 – 5.3 % 27,968,627 – 1.6 % 100 passenger kilometers 100 passenger kilometers NOX 103,813 + 3.7 % 32,992 – 2.4 % 136,805 + 2.2 % 2012 7.8 2012 0.80 CO 16,187 – 2.8 % 2011 8.2 2011 0.87 3,228 – 7.5 % 19,416 – 3.7 % UHC 1,661 – 5.9 % 2010 8.4 2010 0.87 435 – 10.7 % 2,096 – 7.0 % 2009 8.5 2009 0.91 Share of third parties4 2008 8.5 2008 0.96 2012 2007 8.6 2007 0.99 Flights 3.3 % 2006 8.4 2006 0.96 Passengers 2.3 % 2005 8.4 2005 0.97 Tonne kilometers transported, TKT7 0.8 % 2004 8.5 2004 1.00 Fuel consumption 1.4 % 2003 8.8 2003 1.13 Carbon dioxide emissions 1.4 % Specific fuel consumption, passenger transportation in liters/100 passenger kilometers Freight transportation 8 CO2 emissions NOX emissions 4.31 4.36 4.39 4.38 4.32 4.34 4.30 in kilograms/tonne kilometers in grams/tonne kilometers 4.20 4.18 2012 0.72 2012 3.6 4.06 2011 0.73 2011 3.5 2010 0.73 2010 3.5 2009 0.77 2009 3.7 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 0.74 2008 3.6 Specific fuel consumption, freight transportation 8 2007 0.72 2007 3.4 in liters/tonne kilometers 2006 0.58 2006 2.6 2005 0.58 2005 2.6 0.29 0.30 0.30 0.29 0.29 0.29 2004 0.59 2004 2.9 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.23 2003 0.58 2003 3.0 CO emissions UHC emissions 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 in grams/tonne kilometers in grams/tonne kilometers 2012 0.3 2012 0.05 2011 0.4 2011 0.05 2010 0.4 2010 0.05 1 Actual fuel consumption in tonnes from flight operations, based on all flight events. Recorded are consumption values from gate to gate, i.e. including taxiing on the ground and holding 2009 0.4 2009 0.06 patterns and detours in the air. 2 Scheduled flights, charter flights. 2008 0.4 2008 0.06 3 For the reporting year 2012, the following companies have been included in Balance: 2007 0.4 2007 0.06 Lufthansa (including Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti, Eurowings, Contact Air, Augsburg Airways), Lufthansa Cargo, Germanwings, SWISS (including Edelweiss Air) and Austrian 2006 0.3 2006 0.05 Airlines. Excluding the services of third parties as the company can influence neither their performance nor the equipment operated (see table “Share of third parties”). 2005 0.3 2005 0.05 4 Includes flights operated by airlines that do not belong to the Group, which carry out services on Lufthansa’s behalf at short notice, e.g. in the event of capacity bottlenecks. 2004 0.4 2004 0.10 5 Ferry flights, special flights, training flights, test flights, aborted flights. 2003 0.4 2003 0.11 6 Absolute emissions in tonnes resulting from flight operations (all scheduled and charter flights). Recorded are emission values from gate to gate, i.e. including taxiing on the ground and holding patterns and detours in the air (see “About this report Methodology of calculations” on page 4). 7 Excludes road feeder service and partial capacity chartered by Lufthansa Cargo, as no fuel consumption and emissions values are available for this performance. 8 On the basis of freight tonne kilometers (FTKT), transported on both cargo and passenger aircraft. Balance 2013 Fuel efficiency: Every drop counts Fuel is the largest cost item in the Lufthansa Group’s operating expenses – and has been on the rise for years. At about 7.4 billion euros in 2012 – which is about 1.1 billion euros more than in 2011 – the Group’s fuel purchases now account for more than 20 percent of operating expenses. That is why the aviation company has been working flat out to use kerosene as efficiently as possible. Because cutting fuel consumption by just 1 percent can improve the annual result by about 74 million euros. This is why the companies of the Lufthansa Group have been focusing on numerous ways to reduce kerosene consumption. The scope of the measures they have developed in diverse projects ranges from technical solutions and weight reductions to adapting ground handling processes, fine-tuning the network, advancing political structural projects and introducing innovative procedures in flight operations (see overview on page 72). With the introduction of the Group’s SCORE program, which aims at sustainable cost reductions, the topic of fuel conservation has again gained in importance (see “SCORE: our corporate program is on track” on page 38). The Group-wide SCORE project “Fuel Efficiency” In the framework of the Group-wide SCORE project “Fuel Efficiency,” the experts at the Lufthansa Group airlines and Lufthansa Technik collect and share successful, tried-andtested solutions from daily practice to effectively increase the efficient use of kerosene. The project’s declared goal is to intensify cooperation with regard to both exchanging information and implementing concrete projects. For more information on fuel efficiency see page 6. To create the prerequisites for contents and organization, the project is divided into three topic areas. These comPut differently: If an aircraft weighs 100 kilos less on averprise facilitating the systematic exchange between experts, age, a company such as Lufthansa German Airlines stands launching individual projects with exceptional conservation to save 2.6 million euros a year in kerosene expenses. This potentials and establishing standards and structures. is a plus for the environment as well, as a considerable number of tonnes of CO2 emissions are avoided at the same time. Lufthansa Group | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 71 Ground Cockpit • Optimize block times • Use intelligent solutions for planning • Use single-engine taxiing (i.e. rolling flight routings from runway to gate with only one • Tactical Cost Index engine running) • Shorten taxiing times • Optimize planning, control and utilization of aircraft by means of innovative IT solutions • Develop and test alternative proAir traffic management pulsion technologies for taxiing • Participate actively in many proj(e.g. eTaxi or TaxiBot) ects in the framework of SESAR (the research program for the Single European Sky) • Use shorter flight routings • Develop new approach procedures in cooperation Technical performance with air traffic control • Acquire modern aircraft featuring lightweight compound materials and efficient engines • Fit all new A320s with sharklets (upward Monitoring wingtip • Use Fuel extensions) Reporter • Make modi(analysis fications software and thus for the optiaerodymized use of namic kerosene) Weight reduction optimizations on existing aircraft • Use lightweight containers • Participate actively in research • Use lightweight trolleys projects such as “Multifunctional • Install lighter cabin equipment Coating” (sharkskin effect) (e.g. lighter seats) • Use efficient engine washes • Optimize tank fillings (Cyclean Engine Wash) (freshwater, fuel) • Remove all unnecessary items in the cabin Takeoff and approach phases • Use optimized approach procedures (e.g. Continuous Descent Approach) • Use adapted flap settings and thrust Political structural projects reversal • Expand opening of military airspace to commercial air traffic when there is no fl ying by air force. This helps to shorten flight routings. Cruising • Increase fl ying at variable speeds • Optimize flight procedures Measures to increase fuel efficiency within the Lufthansa Group (selection of examples) 72 Lufthansa Group | Climate and Environmental Responsibility Balance 2013 Another project focuses on the Strategic Cost Index. This figure indicates the overall costs incurred for each flight and depends on the load, speed and item costs for crew, MRO and engines. By using the “new” Strategic Cost Index, flight crews are able to calculate this value on a basis that has again become significantly more precise. This is because the system now includes not only time costs (crew and MRO) but also current fuel costs to determine the performance indicator. Once an aircraft has taken off, the Tactical Cost Index comes into play to support the pilots in flying in economically optimal ways. In the future, its calculation will be based not only on the parameters mentioned above but also on current data about weather and the aircraft’s performance. All flights of Lufthansa German Airlines have been Members of the Fuel Efficiency project team during a meeting. planned and operated with the Strategic Cost Index since July 2012. The other Group airlines are currently evaluating Systematic exchange its introduction. All the airlines within the Lufthansa Group have long since had rules and measures to make kerosene consumption as Beyond that, the Group airlines together with Lufthansa efficient as possible. However, a standardized overview of Technik are examining the economic feasibility by type of their many different activities did not exist until recently. “None aircraft of specific technical advancements, such as those of us knew which measures might also be implemented to improve aerodynamics. For example, the experts are by the other airlines,” explains Jens Ritter, head of the investigating whether air resistance at landing gear flaps SCORE project Fuel Efficiency. Since this project’s launch in and passenger doors might be reduced by means of slight spring 2012, the experts of the participating Group compamodifications. And whether the current low-drag operation nies have exchanged information about their activities in the of engine blades can be optimized even further. Lufthansa area of fuel efficiency regularly and even more intensively Technik has compiled packages with measures for techand systematically than before. At the same time, they have nical modifications for the aircraft types operated by the assessed whether these measures might be implemented Group airlines, which the latter are currently evaluating for by the other Group airlines as well. And successfully so: So their applicability. far the experts have launched 500 projects to develop fuelsaving measures, around 200 of which the flying companies Setting up standards and structures will be able to adopt over the shortor medium-term. These In addition to joint project work, the experts have anchored include technical improvements, altered flying procedures standards for goals, monitoring and reporting along with and further weight reductions. communicative and organizational structures within the Lufthansa Group. The result is the new “Fuel Efficiency” Projects with exceptional conservation potentials department, which began its work at Lufthansa German The team headed by Jens Ritter has also identified several Airlines on 1 May 2013 and is responsible for developing individual projects with especially significant savings potenand coordinating all measures to cut the airline’s fuel contials, which are to be implemented by the Group airlines. sumption. Furthermore, the team is responsible for auditFor example, completely clearing out a Lufthansa Airbus ing the other fuel efficiency units and steers all activities at A340-300 drew particular attention. On 18 December 2012, the Group airlines and at Lufthansa Technik which aim at nearly 40 Lufthansa employees unloaded all loose items in increasing fuel efficiency. The department also drives the the aircraft’s cockpit, cabin and cargo hold to weigh and introduction and further development of Key Performance painstakingly catalogue them. This resulted in no less than Indicators (KPIs) valid Group-wide. four tonnes of material – from cockpit documentation, pillows and blankets to torch lights and trolleys. Currently, the A selection of the diverse activities through which the comoperating departments are evaluating which items in which panies of the Lufthansa Group make their contribution to quantities can remain on board, which can be eliminated fuel efficiency is shown on the following pages. and which can be replaced by more lightweight versions. In the future, all airlines within the Lufthansa Group will benefit from the results of this campaign. Lufthansa Group | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 73 Lufthansa European air traffic control organization Eurocontrol. The In the framework of the SCORE program’s “Fuel Efficigoal of this innovation is to equip aircraft with the new ency” project, Lufthansa heads individual projects includADS-B IN technology as a standard. It enables aircraft to ing the above-mentioned “clearing out” of the Airbus transmit their exact positions and identities automatically to A340-300, the Strategic Cost Index and the Tactical Cost ground systems and to process the corresponding informaIndex. tion from other aircraft. With support from this system, pilots are even better able to assess current circumstances in airFurthermore, all new A320s put into service at Lufthansa space, avoid turbulence and reduce CO2 emissions. The iniby the beginning of 2015 are to be fitted with sharklets as tial test results are promising. a standard feature. These upward-bending wingtip extensions reduce fuel consumption and thus CO2 emissions. Austrian Airlines In the reporting year, Austrian Airlines implemented above At the same time, Lufthansa is working on increasing the all a number of measures to minimize the weight of its airnumber of “Fuel Reporter” users. Developed by the airline, craft and thus to conserve fuel. For example, the airline this software package analyzes the impact of various varireduced the number of magazines on board. Furthermore, ables on fuel consumption and automatically generates releAustrian Airlines pays close attention to loading its long-haul vant indicators and reports. So far, the Fuel Reporter is used aircraft optimally to promote kerosene-conserving flying. All by Lufthansa and the regional airlines. However, SWISS is measures are coordinated with the Fuel Efficiency team. highly interested in using this application as well. SWISS is the first airline worldwide to test the new The satellite communication system SATCOM allows shorter flight routings. ATSAW equipment developed by Airbus. This helps Lufthansa Cargo save time, fuel and money. SWISS Lufthansa Cargo In the context of SCORE, SWISS is implementing various Lufthansa Cargo has made an investment in five Boeing fuel efficiency projects and closely coordinates these with 777Fs, the first two of which will be delivered at the end of the Fuel Efficiency team. For example, it is the first airline 2013. These new freighters consume 17 percent less keroworldwide to test the new Airborne Traffic Situational Awaresene on average than the current Boeing MD-11Fs and are ness (ATSAW) equipment in commercial operations on also significantly quieter (see “Billions for quieter and more North Atlantic routes. Developed by Airbus, ATSAW enables efficient aircraft” on page 30). pilots to optimally adapt a flight’s altitude to wind and weather conditions and thus minimize fuel consumption and CO2 Since the winter timetable 2012, the logistics specialist has emissions. also been navigating the first of its freight aircraft with the support of SATCOM – a satellite communications system that In this context, SWISS was selected as one of five airlines makes aircraft reachable worldwide and allows shortened worldwide to participate in the ATSAW pilot project of the flight routings. Using SATCOM, for example, Lufthansa Cargo 74 Lufthansa Group | Climate and Environmental Responsibility Balance 2013 Less fuel, less CO2, less noise: The Boeing 777F will join the Lufthansa Cargo fleet from end of 2013. freighters can now fly from Hong Kong and Guangzhou to Furthermore, the IT service provider expanded Lido/Flight Almaty on more direct routes and thus conserve about 2,000 by adding the high-performance module Lido/Flight Winds, tonnes of kerosene per year. The entire Lufthansa Cargo fleet which visualizes flight routings and other flight-relevant inforwill be equipped with this system by the end of June 2013. mation such as meteorological radar images or information on the airspace situation. This improves the airlines’ ability Moreover, the replacement of standard freight containers to monitor flights in all phases all the way to landing and to made from aluminum with the almost 13 kilos lighter version intervene with support if needed. Airlines are thus able to made from composite materials is progressing. When the further improve the efficiency of their flight operations and more than 5,000 containers have been completely replaced the punctuality of their flights. by the end of 2013, the annual fuel-savings volume will reach 2,160 tonnes of kerosene. Removing the paper-based LSG Sky Chefs navigation kit and document file from the cockpit will proLSG Sky Chefs develops environmentally friendly products, duce another weight reduction of 20 kilos. Lufthansa Cargo such as the lightweight trolley “Quantum” and lightweight also has appointed a Fuel Efficiency manager and some dishes that can also be recycled. For example, Lufthansa of the company’s employees regularly participate in the began in summer 2011 to replace its conventional service SCORE working group Fuel Efficiency. trolleys with the “Quantum” trolleys, which weigh one-third less. For the airline, this means a reduction in kerosene Brussels Airlines consumption of 9,000 tonnes per year and the avoidance In the context of its “b.green” program, Brussels Airlines of about 28,350 tonnes of CO2 emissions. All Lufthansa continuously works on reducing its kerosene consumption long-haul aircraft will be equipped with the new lightweight and the related CO2 emissions. All measures to increase trolley by mid-2015. fuel efficiency are coordinated with the Lufthansa Group’s Fuel Efficiency team. As far back as 2009, the airline received the “Environmental Award” from Brussels Airport for its commitment. Lufthansa Systems Lufthansa Systems developed the flight route planning solution Lido/Flight, which helps airlines to cut their fuel costs by up to 5 percent. This application calculates the most efficient route among the innumerable possible combinations and takes all current flight-relevant data into account to do so. At the same time, users can decide if the route is to be optimized in terms of costs, flying time or fuel requirements. Lido/Flight not only optimizes individual flights but also allows the strategic analysis of future routes and the statistical assessment of individual city pairs. Lufthansa Group | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 75 Using biofuels opens up perspectives The Lufthansa Group accomplished pioneering work by running a sixmonth trial of biokerosene on scheduled flights between Hamburg and Frankfurt in 2011. Carried out in the context of the “burnFAIR” research project, this concrete test proved that alternative fuel is suitable for use under daily operating conditions (see Balance 2012, “Long-term trial of biofuel” on page 67). Even though the scientific data analysis has not been fully completed, there is no doubt that the Group will continue to pursue this promising topic. The main focus is currently on creating availability and increased. This question is important for a number of facsecure supplies of biofuel for the Lufthansa Group. In this tors: including the upcoming use of biokerosene mixes in case, it is important to consider that the large-scale introroutine operations, the operative handling of transport and duction of biokerosene comes with additional challenges in storage logistics with the transition to large-scale producassuring the quality of the kerosene filled into aircraft tanks. tion and the wide-ranging supply at airports including storOn the one hand, new suppliers without the decades of age and throughput of biokerosene blends. experience of the mineral oil companies will be entering the market. On the other hand, the new synthetic fuels will In addition, the Group has cooperated since April 2012 in various ways be composed differently from conventional with the University of Lüneburg’s Sustainability Department kerosene. and Lüneburg-based company INOCAS GmbH. The goal of this cooperation is to develop application-oriented conThe Lufthansa Group actively participates in the project cepts for the sustainable and competitive production of “Quality assurance and sustainability in supplying biofuels raw material for alternative aviation fuels. for aviation” (QuaNatBioL), which is supported by Germany’s Federal Ministry for Economics and Technology. As project Wide-ranging international commitments sponsor, the aviation company cooperates closely with Beyond this, the Lufthansa Group is active in several initiaFraunhofer UMSICHT, Bauhaus Luftfahrt and Technische tives to help advance the development of alternative fuels Universität Berlin. The project’s goal is to evaluate qualityand ensure their sustainability. This includes the nonprofit relevant effects on production processes and to develop Aviation Initiative for Renewable Energy in Germany possible solutions for adapting quality standards. In this (aireg e.V.) and the Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group context, the project partners also include aspects related (SAFUG). With Group company SWISS as an intermediary, to legality and sustainability. the Lufthansa Group also participates in the Roundtable on Sustainable Biofuels (RSB, Lausanne). Furthermore, Deutsche Lufthansa AG will analyze the blending properties of biokerosene and conventional Moreover, Lufthansa is active in the European Advanced kerosene in 2013/2014 on behalf of the EU CommisBiofuel Flight Path initiative, whose goal is to produce 2 milsion. Carried out in cooperation with the German armed lion tonnes of sustainable aviation fuel in Europe by 2020. forces’ Research Institute for Materials, Fuels and LubriIn 2013, the Lufthansa Group provides the chair of this Eurocants in Erding, this joint project determines for various pean initiative. conventional and synthetic fuels how the properties of a given blend change as the share of synthetic kerosene is 76 Lufthansa Group | Climate and Environmental Responsibility Balance 2013 to coordinate closely with Germany’s Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development and Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (German Society for International Cooperation). Moreover, a number of other prerequisites have to be met before biokerosene can be used in daily operations. This includes its proven environmental utility and sufficient availability at an acceptable price. An indispensable criterion for selecting suppliers is that their fuel must be produced in sustainable ways and certified accordingly. For the Lufthansa Group, certification based on the standards International Sustainability and Carbon Certification (ISCC) or the Roundtable on Sustainable Biofuels would be acceptIn 2011, Lufthansa became the first airline worldwide to test able. ISCC is the first officially recognized global certification the use of biofuel in scheduled flight operations. system for sustainability and greenhouse gas emissions and is based on six principles. These require, for instance, that The special importance the topic of alternative aviation biomass be produced in environmentally compatible ways fuels currently holds is illustrated by the intergovernmen– regarding not only the sparing use of resources such as tal agreement between Germany and the United States soil, water and air but also the application of sound agriculsigned in September 2012. Both countries aim at a closer tural practices. The production of biomass must also not cooperation in this area by further developing sustainability violate human rights, labor law or land use rights. The RSB standards, approving production processes and extending standard places nearly the same requirements on biokerothe raw materials base. sene production, while its criteria are in part even stricter. More information on these standards is available at Biofuel strategy 2020 With its Biofuel Strategy 2020, the Lufthansa Group reconwww.iscc-system.org firms its commitment to climate protection. The activities in www.rsb.org its different initiatives serve toward setting up a new supply chain for the future provision of the Lufthansa Group with biofuel. The key principles in this context are to certify By establishing a supply of alternative fuels step by step, cultivation and processing of raw materials and to respect the Lufthansa Group is pursuing demanding objectives: food safety and biodiversity. It is to make a significant contribution toward enabling the company to reach the aviation industry’s ambitious climate To achieve this, in addition to the above-mentioned projprotection goals (see “Environmental strategy” on page 66). ects, the Group will participate in the licensing process for Furthermore, the Group’s strategic environmental program kerosene based on plant oils. The focus here is on anacalls for adding up to 10 percent of a synthetically prolyzing the different ways of gaining and processing raw duced fuel to conventional kerosene by 2020. This goal, materials. It is also of great importance to define the sushowever, also includes the use of synthetically produced tainability aspects along the entire supply chain of biofuels. fuel from alternative sources such as GtL aviation fuels (Gas-to-Liquids). No competition with food stuffs The Lufthansa Group’s biofuel strategy includes plans to www.puresky.de/en have the required cultivation of raw materials organized professionally by specialized agricultural companies and to have it adhere to the regulations of the European directive for renewable energy (EU-RED). The aviation company will use a delivery contract to participate in shaping the ways and means of this raw materials production and thus secure the investments of third parties in the cultivation of sustainably farmed energy plants. The key prerequisite in this context is that the cultivation of the energy plants under consideration must at no time be in competition with food production. For this reason, the Group plans Lufthansa Group | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 77 Emissions trading and aviation tax Unilateral burdens remain The European Union suspended emissions trading for the reporting year 2012 for flights to and from Europe. However, for flights within the community of states – which includes feeder flights to large hubs – airlines still have to prove their emissions rights. This remains a significant disadvantage for airlines with hubs within the EU that serve their intercontinental routes. By partially suspending emissions trading – initially for 2012 In Lufthansa’s estimation, there are significantly more effec– the EU wants to give the international aviation community tive climate protection measures than emissions trading more time to find a global solution for climate protection. limited to the EU. To further reduce its specific CO2 emisWhen the plenary session of the UN air transport agency sions, the aviation industry has developed its tried-andInternational Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) convenes tested four pillar strategy with support from the Lufthansa at the end of September 2013, one of the central topics will Group (see illustration on page 66). It comprises innovations thus be the draft of a standardized worldwide system (global in engine and airframe technologies, improved infrastructure sectoral approach). At the same time, the EU has for the time and new procedures in flight operations. These are combeing averted the threat of a trade dispute with important plemented by globally valid economic instruments, such as aviation nations such as China, India and the United States. market-based mechanisms. In Europe, the largest potential These and about 40 other countries had vehemently resisted for avoiding CO2 emissions is still provided by the planned the EU’s unilateral initiative in emissions trade starting on Single European Sky (SES), a transnationally organized air 1 January 2012. Should the ICAO fail to reach a solution in space management of air traffic control organizations. September 2013, the conflict threatens to flare up again. Besides emissions trading, the national aviation tax, which The German and European aviation industries especially continues to be levied in Germany, constitutes a unilateral have long demanded that the 191 ICAO member states burden that cost German airlines about 1 billion euros in agree on a market-based, globally-valid steering instru2012. For the Lufthansa Group alone, the cost came to ment. For international challenges such as global warm362 million euros. This is a considerable sum, which is not ing can only be solved jointly by all countries and aviation available to the Lufthansa Group for investments in modern companies. Even after partial suspension, the EU emisaircraft and new environmentally compatible technologies. sions trading distorts competition to the disadvantage of In April 2013, the CEOs of the German airlines and airports European airlines. One example: There is no direct conas well as the chairs of employee representations and trade nection on the route Hamburg-Delhi, so passengers must unions in the aviation industry therefore jointly appealed to transfer at a hub. If this airport is located outside of the politicians to create competitive and fair conditions for the EU, such as in Istanbul or Dubai, no costs are incurred industry. This includes the abolition of the aviation tax, which from emissions trading. But it is different for hubs such as Germany’s upper parliamentary chamber demanded with a Frankfurt, Paris or Munich, as the flight segments within the significant majority at the end of 2012. EU are subject to emissions trading and thus the long-haul connection becomes more expensive. This is also true against the backdrop of the relatively low price for the CO2 certificates. The additional costs for the Lufthansa Group come to over 50 million euros, despite the partial suspension of emissions trading for the year 2012. 78 Lufthansa Group | Climate and Environmental Responsibility Balance 2013 Environmental management Coordinating and steering environmental care To minimize the environmental effects of flight and ground operations as much as possible is an important concern for the Lufthansa Group. This endeavor is also expressed by the Group’s Strategic Environmental Program 2020, which was adopted in 2008. Its 15 guidelines point the way toward making mobility as environmentally compatible as possible in the future as well. One of the measures to reach this goal is the continuous expansion of the environmental management both at the Group level and within the individual companies until 2020. The Group-wide environmental goals, strategies and meaIn 2012, the Lufthansa Group made further progress in the sures are coordinated by the Group Environmental Issues area of environmental management structures, as the foldepartment. In addition, the executive divisions and all comlowing examples from the Group companies show. At the panies with environmental relevance have their own envisame time, the company has been successful in integratronmental department, an environmental commissioner or a ing environmental topics even more deeply into its business contact person for this area. The Lufthansa Group’s Enviprocesses than before. ronmental Forum meets twice a year to give the company’s experts in this area the opportunity to discuss current enviLufthansa CityLine ronmental issues. This platform allows the environmental As a distinction for its successful environmental managecommissioners to take advantage of synergies as well as to ment, Lufthansa CityLine received the certificate of the Europresent and discuss new ideas, measures and plans with pean eco-audit regulation EMAS in 2012 for the fifth time in regard to environmental protection. a row. Concurrently, the airline was recertified for its exemplary environmental management system in accordance with the international environmental norm ISO 14001. Both certifications were reconfirmed by the monitoring audit in 2013. This Lufthansa subsidiary has operated a certified environmental management system since 1999 at its three company locations in Cologne, Munich and Frankfurt. Lufthansa Cargo As part of its environmental strategy, Lufthansa Cargo created its environmental management system as an effective instrument to manage and document its environmental measures in a systematic manner. The certification of the environmental management system in accordance with the internationally acknowledged standard ISO 14001 was reconfirmed in November 2012 by external auditors during their annual monitoring audit. Lufthansa’s environmental experts meet twice a year to discuss current topics. “The certification underscores that we assume responsibilLufthansa Group | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 79 ity for our actions and that environmental protection has a high priority within the company,” says Bettina Jansen, head of Environmental Management at Lufthansa Cargo. The environmental management system at the Frankfurt location was certified according to ISO 14001 for the first time in 2008. All German stations followed two years thereafter. Lufthansa Technik Lufthansa Technik is working towards having an environmental management system certified according to ISO 14001 and a job safety management validated according to the job safety specification OHSAS 18001 at all its subsidiaries worldwide by the end of 2013. The technical aviation services provider has itself been certified according to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 since 1999. On 27 March 2013, Lufthansa Technik signed an agreement – together with 14 other Hamburg-based companies – in which it has committed itself to further reducing its energy consumption through voluntary additional measures by 2018 and to reduce its CO2 emissions by 30 percent in the process. Furthermore, Lufthansa Technik set all subThe company restaurant at the Lufthansa Aviation Center in Frankfurt sidiary companies the goal of reducing CO2 emissions by has held the organic certification “Bio” since 2012. 30 percent by 2018. Targeted, programmatic support from mid-2013 is to ensure that existing individual know-how and experience can be applied effectively across the entire LZ-Catering Lufthansa Technik Group. Since December 2010, LZ-Catering has participated in the “Ökoprofit” project of the city of Hamburg. This “ecological project for integrated environmental technology” aims at the systematic implementation of cost-reducing environmental measures in companies. For this purpose, the various resources (such as water and energy) and waste materials are carefully examined and analyzed to optimize or reduce respective consumption or production. The project is a solid base for implementing a planned environmental management system durably. Since 2012, individual Lufthansa company restaurants at the Frankfurt location run by LZ-Catering have also participated in this innovative project. Furthermore, LZ-Catering had the company restaurant at the Lufthansa Aviation Center in Frankfurt certified in accordance with the EU eco-regulation “Bio” Lufthansa Technik has set itself ambitious environmental goals. during the reporting year. A menu prepared exclusively from organically produced ingredients is offered on Tuesdays LSG Sky Chefs and Thursdays. Over the past five years, LSG Sky Chefs has developed and implemented a structured and comprehensive environmenIn July 2012, LZ-Catering also introduced the climate-pretal management system that leads the way in the area of aviserving nutritional concept “Climate Plate” at the company ation catering and is modeled on the standard ISO 14001. restaurants in Hamburg. Each Wednesday, red meat (beef, Located at the Executive Board level, its environmental pork and lamb) and high-fat milk products are avoided in management allows the airline caterer to achieve continwarm dishes for climate protection reasons. With “Climate uous improvements within its global network. The Executive Plate” the Lufthansa subsidiary can avoid about 37 tonnes Board defines environmental goals as measurable indicaof CO2 per year in Hamburg alone. The roll-out for all locators for energy, water and waste management, which the tions in Germany is planned for mid-2013. individual management regions are required to achieve. 80 Lufthansa Group | Climate and Environmental Responsibility Balance 2013 Energy and resource management The Lufthansa Group drives environmentally compatible electromobility concepts forward As an innovation driver in the aviation industry, the Lufthansa Group has also been committed for many years to projects that limit the environmental effects of its ground operations at airports. The focus is on finding effective ways to reduce fuel consumption and emissions of pollutants and noise when taxiing and towing aircraft and when deploying earth-bound vehicles. In this spirit, Lufthansa Technik and its project partners put Airport eM ve v Germany’s first car with inductive charging technology into service in 2011 at Frankfurt Airport – in conjunction with the first inductive charging station (see Balance 2012, “First Airport eMove bundles three subprojects electric car with inductive charging technology” on page 82). Airport eMove binds together various future-oriented electromobility concepts which are set to make the taxiing and Continuous research of alternative propulsion concepts towing of aircraft on the aprons and taxiways at Frankfurt Furthermore, at the beginning of 2012, the company supAirport as environmentally compatible as possible. All these ported the bid of the Frankfurt-Rhine-Main region to become procedures contribute to conserving kerosene or diesel and a “Showcase for Electromobility” in the framework of the thus to lowering emissions of pollutants. Furthermore, they German federal government’s National Development Plan make it possible to avoid a significant part of the noise genfor Electromobility (see Balance 2012, “Towards sustainable erated on the ground. To realize this potential, aircraft are in practices on the ground” on page 82). “Even though the future not to use their engines as propulsion when taxiing region unfortunately did not win the bid, we will naturally to runways, parking positions or hangars. Instead, they are continue our cooperation with the Hessen state government, either to be towed by electrically driven aircraft tow trucks the coordinating office for the Electromobility Model Region (eTruck and TaxiBot) or to be driven by an electric propulsion Rhine-Main and Fraport,” says Markus Pauly, Director Comsystem integrated into the aircraft (eTaxi). Furthermore, the mercials & Development Frankfurt at Lufthansa. One opporAirport eMove project partners advocate the development of tunity to do so is the project “Airport eMove,” for which the a homogeneous charging infrastructure to create the basis for Group and its project partners applied for subsidies from increasing the number of electrically driven vehicles at FrankGermany’s Federal Ministry of Transport, Building and Develfurt Airport. The starting signal for the overall project, which opment, which were granted at the end of 2012. Technische is to run until May 2016, was given in January 2013. The subUniversität Darmstadt provides scientific consulting for the projects of Airport eMove are as follows: project. Lufthansa Group | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 81 Towbarless eTow Truck on a hybrid basis The third subproject involves an electrically driven towbarless aircraft tow truck on a hybrid basis, which Lufthansa LEOS is currently developing together with Kalmar Motor AB. One of the project’s goals is to compare its efficiency and economic viability with those of a diesel driven model. Furthermore, concrete possibilities of deployment must be evaluated and specifications for the construction of a prototype need to be derived. What makes this tow truck so special? Unlike conventional towbarless models, which are designed for aircraft up to a maximum takeoff weight (MTOW) of 160 tonnes, the eTow Truck will be the first worldwide to tow aircraft with an MTOW up to 570 tonnes in a purely electrically driven fashion. It will also manage eTaxi: The revolutionary idea for environmentally friendly ground operations. on-base tows over longer distances of five to seven kilometers, require less maintenance and allow the repositioneTaxi: Electrically driven landing gear for taxiing ing of aircraft. Its lithium-polymer batteries are charged As a result of the eTaxi project advanced by Lufthansa, externally via the mains supply, while a small, additional Lufthansa Technik and partner organizations since the diesel engine (range extender) can be used to recharge end of 2011 (see Balance 2012 on page 82), shortand the batteries during operation as needed. medium-haul aircraft will soon roll on the apron (taxiing) in an environmentally friendly way. This will be made possible by installing an electric motor in the aircraft’s main landing gear. Besides the ecological advantages already mentioned, eTaxi reduces wear and tear on brakes, spares the engines by lowering their operating hours and reduces the risk of damage from objects being sucked into the engines (foreign object damage, FOD). The pilots in the cockpit control the electric motor. In the framework of this project, the technical and operative integration into flight operations is being investigated and developed. TaxiBot: Pilot steers diesel electric powered aircraft tow truck The subproject TaxiBot, whose focus is a hybrid diesel electric powered aircraft tow truck, has advanced the furthest. It too enables commercial aircraft to taxi to the runway with their engines off (dispatch towing). This process is based on a technology patented by Israel Aerospace Industries (IAI) and developed with participation from Lufthansa LEOS. With TaxiBot, commercial aircraft can taxi to the runway with the engines off. Unlike eTaxi, this system requires no or only minimal modifications to the aircraft. And unlike conventional tow trucks, this custom built tractor picks up the aircraft via its nose landing gear using a mounting device with a rotary plate (rotating turret). The rotary plate registers the nose wheel’s steering movements and transmits the chosen angle to the steering mechanism of the TaxiBot’s wheels. After pushback of the aircraft from the gate, the TaxiBot driver hands over the truck’s controls temporarily to the pilot in the cockpit, from whence he or she steers the truck in the Pilot Control Mode (PCM). Once the aircraft reaches the disconnect position, the TaxiBot driver resumes control and separates the tow truck from the aircraft. Only at this point are the aircraft’s engines started. 82 Lufthansa Group | Climate and Environmental Responsibility Balance 2013 In cooperation with Mercedes-Benz, LSG Sky Chefs is testing a catering lift truck powered by natural gas technology. eLift: LSG Sky Chefs develops catering lift Focus on electric cars truck of the future Other companies within the Lufthansa Group also provide Another company setting milestones in electromobility is examples for the consistent advancement of environmentally LSG Sky Chefs. Under the name eLift, the Lufthansa subsicompatible car technologies. For example, Lufthansa Cargo diary and its cooperation partners are currently advancing expanded its vehicle fleet according to energy-efficiency the development of an electrically powered catering lift truck criteria in 2012 and also carried out a six-month practice based on an electrically driven truck chassis, which is to test with an eGolf. Austrian Airlines tested an electrically help reduce CO2 and noise emissions at the Frankfurt hub driven Renault Kangoo Z.E in its MRO operations during the long-term. The goal of eLift is to develop concepts for the reporting year. And since November 2010, aircraft handling electrification of the lift truck’s individual components, such at Lufthansa’s Munich hub has been evaluating the operaas its lifting mechanism. In addition, the cooperation parttion of e-cars. The future use of electric vehicles will depend ners are working on separating the truck chassis and box on not only the further development and capacities of battebody mechanically and energetically to be able to power the ries but also the duration of charging processes. lifting system autarkically and to ensure the independence of future vehicle developments. The project was launched at the beginning of 2013 and has a planned duration until the end of 2015. In addition to eLift, LSG Sky Chefs launched a field test together with Mercedes-Benz involving a catering lift truck on the basis of a Mercedes-Benz Econic model using natural gas technology (NGT). In LSG Sky Chefs’ vehicle fleet since the end of November, this lift truck is also used at Frankfurt Airport. Among the pilot project’s objectives are to clarify the extent to which this truck is appropriate for use in an airport environment and to further the analysis and optimization of loading and unloading processes. The first results of this field test are expected in the second half of 2013. Lufthansa Group | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 83 LSG Sky Chefs: Different types of waste LSG Sky Chefs distinguishes essentially three types of Waste management in catering waste materials worldwide: Recycle, dispose, reduce: Based on this principle, LSG 1. Recyclable on-board waste materials Sky Chefs, the world’s largest provider of airline catering This includes plastic bottles, glass bottles, beverage cartons and management of all in-flight processes, has operated a and cans as well as newspapers and magazines. However, structured, comprehensive environmental management sysrecycling of these materials is only possible if they have not tem for many years. The goal is to recycle as much waste come into contact with food. Otherwise, they must be material as possible – insofar as practicable – and to further treated and disposed of exactly as leftover food. reduce waste quantities continuously. 2. Non-recyclable on-board waste materials Since 2008, LSG Sky Chefs has Non-recyclable on-board waste materials (EU Category I) recorded all waste quantities generinclude all leftover food as well as objects that have come ated at its 117 wholly-owned locainto contact with meals – such as disposable materials, tions in 31 countries. These recorded aluminum packaging of croissants, aluminum covers of values are the basis on which the hot meals and beverage packaging used on meal trays. company sets recycling quotas for The contents of the trash containers on board also fall each location, each country and the into this category. According to the European directive EG entire LSG Sky Chefs Group. 1069/2009, which regulates the handling of foodstuffs in cross-border EU traffic, all wastes in Category I have to As a company operating according to sustainable princibe incinerated or thermally sterilized (autoclaving) without ples, LSG Sky Chefs has developed a comprehensive sysexception. For logistical reasons, however, most airline tem of key performance indicators (KPIs). These KPIs are catering operations do not distinguish between international, used to measure and continuously optimize the success of European and domestic flights, so all non-recyclable onall its measures to reduce waste quantities and conserve board waste materials are incinerated as a rule and thus resources. This includes the indicator “waste per meal in disposed of in a harmless manner. grams,” which the company wants to lower worldwide by a further 2 percent in the three years ahead. Furthermore, 3. Other waste materials there are the indicators “water consumption per meal” and The third group comprises residual waste, which cannot be “energy per square meter of operating surface.” The caterrecycled. Depending on the country, such waste is disposed ing specialist plans to add two more KPIs to the current sysof either in waste combustion or landfills. tem of indicators: “energy per meal” and “percentage share of recycled waste of total waste.” Recycling on board Lack of time and space are the determining variables in beverage and meal catering aboard aircraft – and thus also have an effect on waste management. For example, the incorrect sorting of recyclable wastes cannot always be avoided. To conserve valuable resources nevertheless and to avoid increased disposal costs, specific special criteria are applied to airline catering. For instance, flight attendants are urged to store all items in those places from which they removed them. While open foodstuffs have to be disposed of by means of waste boxes or removal trolleys, empty beer bottles belong back in the beverage trolleys. It is also important not to dispose of liquids by pouring them down drains or toilets. In addition, national disposal guidelines play an important role. 84 Lufthansa Group | Climate and Environmental Responsibility Balance 2013 Resource efficiency in administration as well There are good reasons for the Lufthansa Group to continuously increase the share of recycling paper in its overall paper consumption: It is technically mature, suitable for all uses and its production consumes less water and energy than that of fresh-fiber paper. Currently, the share of recycling paper for printing and copying purposes stands at 78 percent at the Group’s German locations. Only recycled paper with the “Blue Angel” seal is used. This also applies to the production of the Sustainability Report Balance, including this issue. In this way, more than 91 tonnes of CO2 emissions can be avoided and more than 16 million liters of water can be conserved per year. Since September 2012, Christoph Franz, Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, has personally pushed for another significant increase in the Group-wide share of recycling paper under the slogan “CEOs pro recycled paper.” This campaign follows a joint appeal by Information stand for flight attendants on the topic of sustainability and recycling on board. Germany’s Federal Ministry for the Environment, the Club of Rome, NABU and the Initiative Pro Recycling Paper. Information on sustainability Promoting paperless means of communication It is LSG Sky Chefs’ declared goal to realize the highest The Lufthansa Group makes another contribution to energy degree of sustainability in all its processes. In this spirit, the and resource conservation by promoting paperless procescompany has not only developed service trays made from ses with determination. Examples range from electronic sugar cane, which weigh less and reduce greenhouse gas boarding passes to “paperless” cockpits. Beyond that, the emissions by 80 to 90 percent. In 2008, this Lufthansa subcompany is keen on continuously reducing the internal dissidiary also adopted an Environmental Policy, which has patch of documents in the future and increasingly switching since been displayed at all of its locations. Since 2009, the to digital transmissions. company has published an environmental report. In 2012, it also published the white paper “Sustainability in In-flight www.papiernetz.de Services and Beyond,” which describes insights from the airline industry concerning all aspects of sustainability. www.lsgskychefs.com Lufthansa Group | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 85 Noise Numerous measures for active noise protection For many years, the Lufthansa Group has been working to reduce the noise emissions that are unavoidably generated by flight operations in the vicinity of airports. To this end, the aviation company continuously invests in ever-quieter aircraft, refits existing aircraft and introduces noisereducing flight procedures. Moreover, the company is actively involved in noise research and works constructively in expert bodies. As a result, 607 of 610 aircraft operated by the Lufthansa manufacturer (see “Billions for quieter and more efficent Group fulfill today’s most stringent noise standard: the imporaircraft” on page 30). Furthermore, the Lufthansa fleet tant “minus 10 EPNdB” criterion (Effective Perceived Noise will receive from 2015 onward new Airbus A320neo and dB) of the Chapter-4 noise standard of the International Civil A321neo aircraft, whose noise footprints will be significantly Aviation Organization (ICAO). This standard has been in force smaller than those of the preceding models owing to their for new aircraft since 2006 (see diagram on page 87). newly-developed engines. The transport of air freight will cause lower noise emissions in the future as well. At the end By operating the most modern aircraft, the Group achieves of 2013, Lufthansa Cargo will take delivery of its first two the greatest advances in reducing aircraft noise. The best Boeing 777Fs, with another three to follow by 2015. The example is the Boeing 747-8, whose noise footprint is about Boeing 777F is considered the most modern and quietest 30 percent smaller than that of its predecessor model, freight aircraft in its class. the Boeing 747-400. In 2012, Lufthansa German Airlines received the first four of 19 Boeing 747-8s on order from the Research for quieter flying In the framework of the aviation research program set up by Germany’s Federal Ministry for Economics and Technology, the project entitled “Models and Data for the Development of Active Noise Protection Measures in Aviation” (MODAL) was launched in January 2012 (see Balance 2012 on page 86). The goal of this project, which is headed by Lufthansa, is to identify noise sources in existing aircraft fleets (here Boeing 747-400) and to develop suitable measures as needed. Another concern is to improve the assessment of active noise protection measures by means of more accurate calculations. Furthermore, the Lufthansa Group advocates making the taxiing and towing of aircraft as quiet, as environmentally protective and as resource conserving as possible. In the foreground are the research and development of alternative propulsion concepts that allow aircraft either to be towed or to taxi under their own power to and from gates as well as takeoff and landing positions. The aim is to avoid the use of The Boeing 747-8 is significantly quieter and produces fewer emissions than engines on the ground whenever possible (see “Energy and its predecessor model. resource management” on page 81). 86 Lufthansa Group | Climate and Environmental Responsibility Balance 2013 Margins below the noise limit of ICAO Chapter 3 The bar chart indicates the sum of the differences between the measured value and the threshold value Lufthansa Group: active fleet on 31.12.2012 at the three measuring points by type of aircraft (cumuin EPNdB lated margin). Where necessary, the values based on A330-300 LH – 18.4 / – 18.8 the reduced maximum takeoff weight prevailing in flight A330-300 LX – 18.4 operations are indicated. To allow a more transparent A340-300 LH – 22.6 / – 22.9 depiction, an improved method of analysis was develA340-300 LX – 22.1 A340-600 LH – 23.0 / – 23.4 oped for the previous issues of Balance, which include A380-800 LH – 26.7 the individual noise certificate data of all Group aircraft. B 747-400 LH – 12.7 / – 13.3 Different versions of an aircraft model and its engines by B 747-830 LH – 25.6 year of construction are thus better taken into account. B 767-300 OS – 16.6 / – 16.8 While the conservative approach used until reporting B 777-200 OS – 20.4 / – 20.6 year 2008 meant that only the values of the sub-fleet with MD-11F LH – 13.4 / – 13.5 the lowest cumulated margin were reported to describe A319-100 LH – 15.3 / – 19.3 an aircraft fleet, the new analytical method used since A319-100 LX – 18.2 reporting year 2009 means that the value ranges from A319-100 OS – 18.3 / – 19.3 the lowest to the highest cumulated margin are now A319-100 4U – 17.4 / – 19.4 indicated for many fleets. The analysis also takes into A320-200 LH – 13.2 / – 15.9 account any modifications to aircraft or engines that have A320-200 LX – 13.7 / – 15.9 been made in the meantime, thereby leading to modified A320-200 OS – 14.1 / – 15.3 noise data and cumulated margins in certain cases. In A321-100 LH – 15.5 addition, numerous additions and withdrawals in indiviA321-100 LX – 10.2 / – 10.8 dual fleets lead to changes in the value ranges reported. A321-100 OS – 11.5 A321-200 LH – 14.1 / – 14.7 A321-200 LX – 14.4 A321-200 OS – 9.0 B 737-300 LH – 10.3 / – 13.8 B 737-500 LH – 10.8 / – 14.3 B 737-800 OS – 12.9 / – 14.3 ATR72-200 EN – 26.5 Avro RJ-85 CL – 17.1 Avro RJ-100 LX – 16.4 CRJ-200 EW – 28.0 CRJ-700 CL – 16.3 CRJ-900 CL – 16.6 CRJ-900 EW – 16.6 Fokker 70 OS – 24.3 / – 25.2 Fokker 100 OS – 16.2 Fokker 100 C31 – 16.2 ERJ-190 CL – 15.1 ERJ-190 IQ – 15.1 4U = Germanwings ERJ 195 CL – 14.9 CL = Lufthansa CityLine ERJ-195 EN – 14.9 C3 = Contact Air ERJ-195 IQ – 14.9 EN = Air Dolomiti EW = Eurowings DHC8-400 IQ – 25.3 / – 25.6 IQ = Augsburg Airways DHC8-400 OS – 24.5 / – 25.9 LH = Lufthansa, Lufthansa Cargo – 10.02 LX = SWISS OS = Austrian Airlines Grouping of aircraft types according to MTOW: 1 Operations of the last two Fokker 100s for SWISS ended in January 2013. less than 50 t 50 to 150 t more than 150 t 2 New ICAO Chapter 4 limit, which has been effective for new aircraft since This division ordinarily corresponds to a grouping of regional, 2006: – 10.0 EPNdB when compared to Chapter 3. continental and intercontinental aircraft. Lufthansa Group | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 87 Noise protection has progressed a good bit at Frankfurt Airport over the last few years. Beyond that, the Lufthansa Group has cooperated with The second package of measures “Together for the region partners such as the German Aerospace Center (DLR) for – Alliance for more noise protection” will bring further relief more than ten years in the research network “Quiet Traffor people around the airport. At the beginning of 2012, fic.” This initiative counts on the interdisciplinary cooperation Lufthansa, Fraport, the airline association BARIG, Deutof industry, research institutions and transport companies sche Flugsicherung (DFS), the Forum Airport and Region in investigating road, rail and aircraft noise. In the working and the state government of Hessen adopted a total of group Aircraft Noise, for example, the partners have suc19 measures for active noise protection at the important cessfully concluded various research projects in the past international hub in Frankfurt. The first ten of these have years, all of which have provided decisive results in the fight already been initiated. against aircraft noise. The participating partners developed all measures jointly. More noise protection at Frankfurt Airport For example, one of the obligations Lufthansa agreed to Noise protection has progressed a good bit at Frankfurt was to replace a total of 32 older aircraft with quieter ones Airport over the last few years. Two agreements have in 2012 – and it even surpassed this goal. Additionally, the especially contributed to this result: the “First Package of airline is planning to equip its A320-family aircraft with soMeasures for Active Noise Protection” (introduced in June called vortex generators under the wings, which reduce the 2010) and the second package of measures “Together for noise level during the approach phase by up to 2 decibels. the region – Alliance for more noise protection” (signed in These measures are complemented by improved approach February 2012). and takeoff procedures (see interview with Lufthansa Captain Markus Kreher at right). The “First Package of Measures for Active Noise Protection,” which was developed in the framework of the Forum In evaluating approach and takeoff procedures, the reducAirport and Region (FAR), comprises seven projects to tion of other emissions plays an important role alongside the reduce the number of people affected by noise in the area avoidance of noise. By using a modified takeoff procedure, surrounding the airport. Lufthansa takes a leading role in which allows changing from takeoff thrust to climb thrust at the work of the Forum’s “Expert Group for Active Noise an altitude of 1,000 feet (305 meters) instead of 1,500 feet Protection,” which evaluated and analyzed the measures (457 meters), Lufthansa will be able to avoid the emission of with support from Lufthansa pilots. The spectrum of noise18,000 tonnes of CO2 per year worldwide. This procedure relieving steps ranges from replacing the acoustic panels is used in Germany and around the world by numerous airin the engines of the Boeing 737 fleet stationed in Frankfurt lines. Before introducing it in Germany, Lufthansa is planto introducing the segmented approach and increasing the ning trial runs on selected routes from Frankfurt to check its number of arrivals under the Continuous Descent Approach effect on noise in cooperation with the partners in the FAR. (CDA). Since summer 2010, six of these projects have already been implemented. One measure is currently being tested in trial operations. 88 Lufthansa Group | Climate and Environmental Responsibility Balance 2013 Interview with Markus Kreher Captain A320 and Manager Navigation and Airside Infrastructure Deutsche Lufthansa AG Markus Kreher has participated in the development of Which measures are likely to yield the greatimproved approach and takeoff procedures at Frankfurt est successes with regard to active noise Airport. In this Balance interview, he explains the differprotection? ent measures. We hope that all the changes in procedures I’ve menImproved approach and takeoff procedures tioned will reduce noise levels. But some of these are an area of emphasis in the active noise measures are still in the test phase, so we will only be protection at Frankfurt Airport. In concrete able to evaluate them in a few months. The success of terms, what is the contribution of Lufthansa the Tactical CDA, however, can already be measured. and its pilots in this area? And the DFS has already reported on this. Our flight operations are directly and in numerous ways tied into the measures for active noise protection. Have the implemented measures achieved Especially in Frankfurt – our biggest hub – representatives their goals? Can the success be measured? of the Lufthansa fleets regularly take part in expert rounds and work intensively to introduce new approach and takeIn principle, this is possible. But noise measurements are off procedures. One measure that was already implementa highly complex subject. And that’s why we pilots have ed in June 2012 is the Dedicated Runway Operation. This an ongoing exchange with the environmental experts scheduled rotation of different runways for takeoffs leads of the Lufthansa Group, Fraport and the Forum Airport to real and calculable noise breaks. In addition, we pilots and Region, which works closely with the aircraft noise in cooperation with Deutsche Flugsicherung (DFS) now commission. use the Tactical Continuous Descent Approach (Tactical CDA) for landings. It avoids unnecessary flying at low altitudes when the traffic density allows us to do so. Do you also discuss such noise protection What’s more, the angle of approach to the new Runway measures with pilot colleagues at other airlines Northwest has been increased under certain weather within the Lufthansa Group? conditions from 3.0 to 3.2 degrees, which results in higher overfly altitudes. And finally, we’re working on a reduced Flight Operations at Lufthansa German Airlines has landing flap position during approach – when conditions regular exchanges with colleagues at SWISS, Austrian allow. Overall, this is a large package of measures. Many Airlines, Lufthansa CityLine and Lufthansa Cargo and is of these had to pass stringent analyses and safety assessalso in direct contact with the pilots at Condor. A good ments. Several pilot colleagues tested them exhaustively cooperation has grown over the past years, which has in numerous simulator flights. also produced some successes. And that’s something we can be proud of. Lufthansa Group | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 89 Research projects Developing innovative solutions for a sustainable future The Lufthansa Group actively participates in research projects and is committed to innovations that reduce the environmental effects of flying for the long run. To reach this goal, the aviation company cooperates closely with respected partners in science and industry. Their joint projects range from research in the areas of clicompounds aboard the Lufthansa Airbus A340-600 mate protection, the use of biofuels and alternative propul“Leverkusen” at altitudes between 8 and 12 kilometers. Its sion techniques for operational processes on the ground 80 th mission was flown in November 2012. Among the to the development of low-resistance aircraft surfaces and project’s goals is to investigate the intricate processes in resource conserving low-pressure toilet systems on board. the boundary layer between troposphere and stratosphere. The following is an overview of selected examples. These are exceedingly complex, influence the atmosphere’s radiation balance and thus affect the Earth’s cliMeasurement container CARIBIC: mate. Headed by the Max Planck Institute for Chemistry in Two million flight kilometers in eight years Mainz, CARIBIC unites participants including 12 other sciThe Lufthansa Group has supported the European basic entific institutions from all over Europe as well as Lufthansa research project “Civil Aircraft for the Regular Investigation and Fraport. “Projects like CARIBIC can advance climate of the Atmosphere Based on an Instrument Container” research a good bit further, and as an aviation company we (CARIBIC) since 2004. The project’s center piece is an want to contribute to this in the future as well,” says Dr. automated, 1.6 tonne measurement container, which colKarlheinz Haag, Vice President Environmental Issues at the lects data on more than 50 different gases and particle Lufthansa Group. Project CARIBIC: Air intake system under the fuselage Project IAGOS: Measuring probe on the front left-hand fuselage of the Lufthansa Airbus A340-600 “Leverkusen.” of the Lufthansa Airbus A340-300 “Viersen.” 90 Lufthansa Group | Climate and Environmental Responsibility Balance 2013 “Multifunctional Coating”: Lufthansa Technik is testing an innovative “Waliclean”: Technicians at Austrian Airlines developed paint system to reduce air resistance. this new cleaning system for low-pressure toilets. Learning from sharks: Innovative paint system Getting innovative with lemon juice: reduces air resistance New low-pressure toilet system saves In the context of a research project entitled “Multifunctional resources, time and money Coating,” Lufthansa Technik has been testing an innovative Employees of Austrian Technik have developed a revolutionpaint system developed on the basis of technically simulatary cleaning method for aircraft toilets, which is now also ed sharkskin structures since summer 2011. This project is being tested by Lufthansa Technik. This innovative system carried out in cooperation with Airbus and the Fraunhofer not only protects the environment but also saves resources, Institute for Manufacturing Technology and Advanced Matetime and money. Unlike conventional solutions, “Waliclean” – rials (IFAM). For test purposes, the cooperation partners as this system is called – cleans an aircraft’s drain pipes with attached eight 10 by 10 centimeter “patches” to the fusecitric acid instead of chemicals. For this purpose, a solution lage and leading edge of the wings of two Lufthansa Airbus of commercial citric acid and warm water circulates at low A340-300s. This step aims at evaluating the durability of pressure through the wastewater system. Once the cleaning these surfaces under the conditions of real flight operations. process has been begun, the equipment works fully indeShould the paint system prove suitable for everyday operapendently and turns itself off automatically at the end. The tions and feasible in economic terms, its application could use of “Waliclean” avoids not only the disassembly of the help conserve about 1 percent of kerosene. individual segments of the drain pipes but also acid baths, reinstallation work and leakage tests. And the flushed water www.lufthansa-technik.com can then be conveniently disposed of via the sewer system. Austrian Airlines employees Klaus Banny and Robert Hartl received the city of Vienna’s Environmental Award 2013 for their invention. Lufthansa Technik plans to use the ”Waliclean” system starting in summer this year. The preparations for doing so are currently underway at Lufthansa Technik in Frankfurt. www.austrian.com Lufthansa Group | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 91 Balance 2013 Corporate Citizenship The Lufthansa Group assumes its civic responsibility in many ways. In the reporting year 2012, we again supported numerous projects in the areas of social issues, culture, education, environment and sports. Beyond that, we expanded our commitment to humanitarian emergency aid. Of particular importance here are the employee initiatives at the different Group companies. They are an integral part of the Lufthansa Group’s social commitment. 42 HelpAlliance projects providing “help for self-help” 10 sponsorships for outstanding, talented young sportsmen and sportswomen 15,000 visitors to the Crane Information Center 2,000 patients per month at the Cargo Human Care Medical Center Lufthansa Group | Corporate Citizenship 93 Social commitment Every minute counts: Immediate humanitarian aid when disasters strike Whenever earthquakes, floods or droughts threaten human lives, mea‑ sures that ensure immediate survival have top priority. As an aviation company with worldwide activities, the Lufthansa Group has participated for many years in the logistic support of emergency aid to victims by flying relief supplies into disaster areas – usually in close coordination with the German federal government and renowned aid organizations. Special flights operated by Lufthansa Cargo primarily carry food supplies, medications, blankets, tents, sleeping bags and technical equipment. Cooperation with Germany’s relief coalition Lufthansa Cargo signed a cooperation agreement in February 2013 with the relief coalition “Aktion Deutschland Hilft” and its partner “World Vision Deutschland.” The goal is to create a highly professional network of logistics companies and respected German aid organizations, whose support is available at any time and according to defined processes. Airborne ambassador: A Lufthansa Cargo MD-11F with the logo “Aktion Deutschland Hilft” (Campaign Germany Helps). This new cooperation allows the 22 aid organizations that make up the relief aid alliance to put Lufthansa Cargo’s competence and performance in logistics to use for their missions outside of Germany. “World Vision Deutschland” gave significant support to reaching this agreement and entered into an agreement of its own with Lufthansa Cargo. The patron of this initiative is Germany’s Federal Minister of Transport Dr. Peter Ramsauer. “Time is the crucial factor in helping the victims of natural disasters. The swift transport of relief supplies is essential in such cases. Our cooperation with ‘Aktion Deutschland Hilft’ will allow us to be even faster and more effective in getting aid where it’s needed most urgently,” says Karl Ulrich Garnadt, Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO of CEOs Christoph Waffenschmidt (World Vision), Karl Ulrich Garnadt Lufthansa Cargo. (Lufthansa Cargo) and Rudi Frick (Aktion Deutschland Hilft) at the contract signing ceremony on 13 February 2013 in Frankfurt. 94 Lufthansa Group | Corporate Citizenship Balance 2013 HelpAlliance: Employees set examples of solidarity Collecting donations and helping people who lack the bare necessities – this is the guiding principle of the HelpAlliance, a registered charitable aid organization founded in 1999. Its members come from all parts of the Lufthansa Group and as volunteers look after the projects of the HelpAlliance personally – during their time off. The focus of this politically and denominationally indepen1,600 supporting members, who provide a reliable base dent charitable work is on business startups, street-children for the planning process. The volume of donations reached projects, nutritional and healthcare programs, educational 1,004,000 euros in the reporting year. and training facilities, as well as orphanages in Africa, Asia and Latin America. The HelpAlliance has been firmly anchored within the Lufthansa Group since its foundation. In this way, the The HelpAlliance’s activities are divided into long-term projemployee organization enjoys benefits such as four part‑time ects and temporary, results-oriented supported projects; in and full-time employees released from their normal duties addition, the HelpAlliance provides emergency aid when as well as office space and communications infrastructure natural disasters strike. In 2012, the HelpAlliance financed at Frankfurt Airport provided free of charge. In addition, it 42 projects with a total aid volume of 936,000 euros. All receives communications and logistics support from projects aim to provide “help for self-help” that is adapted to Lufthansa. The HelpAlliance’s Annual Report informs about the living conditions of those concerned. On 31 December the charitable organization’s work and its use of funds. 2012, the association counted 15 full members and about Children at a special needs school run by the Prana Project in India. Lufthansa Group | Corporate Citizenship 95 Donations take numerous paths towards a single goal Customers who wish to support the HelpAlliance actively may do so in different ways. They can make a direct donation, become a supporting member, or donate cash amounts to the on‑board collection program “Small change – It’s a big help” (see also box). Since November 2006, participants of the Lufthansa frequent flyer program Miles & More have had the further option of donating award miles in the context of “Miles to Help” to the HelpAlliance and other organizations. Finally, the HelpAlliance has offered child sponsorship programs in India, Thailand and Vietnam since 2008. With monthly amounts that are modest by western standards, these sponsorships give children the opportunity to receive an education and thus to lead a self-determined life. “eFly Campaign”: How boarding passes turned into exercise books On-board collection program Making a small gesture to obtain a big effect – this is what Lufthansa passengers could choose to do from 12 DecemIn 2001, the HelpAlliance launched the cash collection program ber 2012 to 31 January 2013. For each paperless check-in “Small change – It’s a big help” aboard aircraft to give Lufthansa passengers the opportunity to help build bridges toward better that passengers completed on a mobile device or online, lives for people in need. This allows passengers to donate coins the Lufthansa Group donated one sheet of paper to beneand banknotes in any currency that they might be carrying on fit educational projects run by the HelpAlliance in develop‑ long‑haul flights on their way home. Small sealable envelopes are ing nations. On average, every 52 boarding passes saved provided for this purpose in the seat pockets aboard the aircraft. These donations are collected by flight attendants and forwarded added up to one exercise book. To support local econoto the HelpAlliance. Valuable “leftover cash” can also be deposited mies, these books were purchased locally. Overall, the in the donation pillars that are placed in airport employee areas, customers’ choice to do without conventional boarding the Lufthansa Lounges at all German and selected international airports, and the public areas of the Frankfurt and Munich hubs. passes generated a total of about 50,000 exercise books, corresponding to 2.5 million check-in procedures. Following Condor and Brussels Airlines, Austrian Airlines joined the on-board collection program on 1 July 2012. In addition, HelpAlliance donation envelopes have also been provided on all Germanwings aircraft since 15 March 2013. On-board collection program Development of donations1 2012 € 318,380 2011 € 205,362 2010 € 286,184 2009 € 224,053 2008 € 230,433 2007 € 260,939 2006 € 279,575 2005 € 294,870 2004 € 238,023 2003 € 216,539 2002 € 232,692 2001 € 207,175 October 2002: Start of Condor’s participation September 2011: Start of Brussels Airlines’ participation July 2012: Start of Austrian Airlines’ participation 1 As the final figures were not yet available at the close of copy, all figures mentioned for 2012 in this article are preliminary. 96 Lufthansa Group | Corporate Citizenship Balance 2013 HelpAlliance campaign day in Munich The best example in this context is betterplace.org. Since On 10 May 2012, committed Lufthansa fl ying and ground summer 2012, the HelpAlliance has cooperated with this employees organized a campaign day for the HelpAlliance charitable donations platform, which allows users to give at Munich Airport. Their goal was to reach out to passendirect support to specific social projects. This cooperation is gers in the gate area of Terminal 2 by informing them the result of a broadly-designed potentials analysis carried about the HelpAlliance’s work and to generate donations. out previously by “explorers,” the Lufthansa Group’s platThe Lufthansa catering subsidiary, LSG Sky Chefs, also form for young managers. participated in the campaign by providing on-board trolleys on which donation boxes were placed. Furthermore, the volunteers had hands-on support from HelpAlliance patroness Bettina Lauer. The employees of Lufthansa Systems also demonstrated their solidarity with the HelpAlliance by organizing various donation campaigns in the course of the reporting year to beat the publicity drum for a good cause. In addition, the employees of the IT specialist underscored that not only their own social commitment but also that of their employer is important to them in the context of an employee survey. For each completed and returned questionnaire, Lufthansa Systems donated one euro to the HelpAlliance’s women’s project in India. Thanks to donations for the HelpAlliance’s aid project in Vietnam, bicycles could be bought for children from the poorest of backgrounds. Vietnam: Education for abandoned children In 2012, the HelpAlliance placed the emphasis of its fundraising activities on a project in Vietnam’s Ho Chi Minh City, where the it has supported the organization Saigon Children’s Charity for many years. The focus of the aid initiative launched by a Munich-based pilot is on educational programs for children who are especially affected by ostracism because they have a disability or belong to an ethnic minority. During the Advent season 2012, betterplace.org turned out to be an effective instrument to connect the aid project in Vietnam with people who were willing to translate their charitable impulses into cash. Under the motto “Donations instead of gifts,” users could donate money for the purchase of items such as bicycles, to enable boys and girls from the poorest of backgrounds to attend school. The HelpAlliance’s fund-raising platform on www.betterplace.org www.help-alliance.com www.facebook.com/helpalliance www.youtube.com/helpalliance Fund-raising via Web 2.0 www.betterplace.org/en/organisations/helpalliance The rise of the social media in the framework of Web 2.0 has opened up new channels of fund-raising for the HelpAlliance. In this way, the association put the social networks’ potential to good use to inform users on Facebook, YouTube and the HelpAlliance blog about the progress of its aid projects and to generate donations in the reporting year. Lufthansa Group | Corporate Citizenship 97 Cargo Human Care: Concrete help for people in Kenya Cargo Human Care (CHC), a registered charity, is a humanitarian and medical aid project. It was set up in 2007 by employees of Lufthansa Cargo AG in cooperation with physicians across Germany. The impetus came from Fokko Doyen, MD-11F Captain and Lufthansa Cargo Fleet Chief. One day, Fokko Doyen decided to take action in the face of month, more than 2,000 patients receive treatments. For the misery he observed on the outskirts of Kenya’s capital, three years, another area of emphasis has been the orphanNairobi, during his repeated layovers and to launch an aid age The Nest. It offers a safe refuge away from the streets to initiative. In 2011, the first chairman of Cargo Human Care children whose mothers have been arrested. The pediatriwas awarded the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of cians of Cargo Human Care look after the medical needs German for his charitable work. of these boys and girls. Furthermore, Cargo Human Care is concerned with the fate of 224 families who live in two vilLong-term projects lages in the drought-stricken area around Marsabit. Since Cargo Human Care has set itself the goal to make direct September 2011, the CHC has ensured that they are supplied medical aid available to poor, sick and needy people in with food. Beyond this, it also set up a small school for chilKenya and to provide a home and a future for impoverished dren between the ages of four and six years. and neglected orphans. At the center of its activities are the Mothers’ Mercy Home (MMH), a small orphanage near NaiLufthansa Cargo has supported this charitable initiative from robi, and the Cargo Human Care Medical Center, which is its inception by providing capacity aboard its MD-11F freight associated with the orphanage. The Medical Center provides aircraft free of charge. In addition, the logistics specialist medical care for the boys and girls living at the MMH, as well finances the cost of air tickets for German pediatricians, as for sick and needy people in the surrounding area. Every ophthalmologists, ENT specialists, dentists, general Every month, more than 2,000 patients are treated at the Cargo Human Care Medical Center. 98 Lufthansa Group | Corporate Citizenship Balance 2013 A dentist volunteers her services at the Mothers’ Mercy Home in September 2012. practitioners and gynecologists. Three times a month, these committed physicians fly to Kenya to provide three days of treatment to destitute patients on a volunteer basis. To support the work of Cargo Human Care, the association has offered the option of assuming medical and educational sponsorships for sick, handicapped and neglected children living in the proximity of the Mothers’ Mercy Home since 2011. Monthly amounts between 25 and 75 euros are enough to relieve the existential needs of sponsored children effectively (see Balance 2012, page 96). Charity run in the extreme cold: Yukon Arctic Ultra 2013 In February 2013, members of Cargo Human Care spared neither expense nor exposure to the freezing cold to collect funds for their aid organization. Under the motto “Crossing snow and ice for Africa,” they participated in northern Cargo Human Care aims at giving impoverished and neglected orphans both a home and a future. Canada’s Yukon Arctic Ultra, the world’s toughest marathon. They aimed to cover a distance of 700 kilometers in a mere 13 days on cross‑country skies – a challenge including tem‑ peratures as low as minus 50 degrees Celsius and nights in a tent. Although weather conditions eventually forced them to abandon the race, they were able to sign up another athlete participating in the run as a CHC ambassador, who completed the run for them. To ensure that their supreme effort would translate into cash, Lufthansa Cargo employees and other interested supporters were asked to donate 100 euros for any one of the 430 miles covered. In return, they received a certificate signed by the extreme athletes for that particular mile. The fund-raising generated more than 40,000 euros for the humanitarian work of the CHC in Kenya. www.cargohumancare.com www.facebook.com/CargoHumanCare Yukon Arctic Ultra Marathon in Canada: Extreme athletes collected donations for the aid project Cargo Human Care. Lufthansa Group | Corporate Citizenship 99 Environmental sponsorship Focus on crane protection Since the beginning of 2013, the Lufthansa Group has concentrated its commitment in the area of environmental sponsorship entirely on crane protection – and thus on a project close to the heart of the company, which carries the “bird of luck” in its logo. The crane in a circle – One of the world’s best‑known logos. Lufthansa has been committed to protecting the bird in its company logo for more than 30 years. At least ten of the 15 crane species worldwide face an visitors. The CIC offers not only an informative permanent uncertain future, as their breeding, resting and gathering display, which provides comprehensive insights into the areas are increasingly threatened by destruction. To ensure lives of these “cosmopolitans of the air” year-round. But it the survival of these impressive large birds against all adveralso allows visitors to observe the cranes in nature every sity, Lufthansa founded the Crane Protection Germany spring and fall, when these long-distance avian migrants Working Group in 1991, together with Naturschutzbund take a several-week break in the coastal waters of the Deutschland (NABU) and the environmental foundation Western Pomeranian Lagoon Area National Park before fly‑ WWF Deutschland. Support focuses on the Crane Informaing on to their breeding grounds in Scandinavia or their wintion Center (CIC) in Gross Mohrdorf, located in the Rügentering areas in the south. Bock region of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania. Environmental education becoming ever-more important Crane watching draws crowds The annual “Week of The Crane” – which took place from Up to 70,000 of these impressive large birds stop over in 23 to 30 September 2012 for the 14th time – is an impor‑ the Rügen-Bock area every year, making it one of the most tant date in the institution’s calendar. As usual, the program important resting areas for cranes in Europe. As a result, the included lectures and slide shows as well as excursions to Crane Information Center’s attraction for visitors remains at the resting and sleeping areas of cranes around the CIC. continuously high levels. In 2012 it counted about 15,000 Given the rising demand for environmental education, the 100 Lufthansa Group | Corporate Citizenship Balance 2013 Working Group has expanded and adapted its offers in this area. In this way, a range of activities including project days for school classes and kindergarten groups took place in the reporting year. Moreover, the Lufthansa Group supported the production of the new brochure “Cranes – Birds of Luck.” This 29-page publication features many breathtaking photographs and provides interesting facts about the world of cranes (available in German). The 22nd Annual Conference of the Crane Protection Working Group was a magnet for 95 crane experts from all parts of Germany. It took place from 7 to 9 September in the Brandenburg town of Lauchhammer and was dedicated to the topic “Cranes in Post-mining Landscapes.” Projects to band, radio-tag and map cranes Furthermore, several internationally-attended workshops A new information brochure “Cranes – Birds of Luck” dedicated to banding and radio-tagging cranes took place in June 2012. The goal was to equip several dozen cranes in Lower-Saxony and Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania “Crane information mobile” inaugurated with a three‑color code – in accordance with the rules of Since 10 October 2012, the Crane Information Center has the European Crane Banding Group – and in part with been equipped with a mobile information and observation radio transmitters. A further area of emphasis involved the stand: the multipurpose “crane info mobile.” This custommonitoring project in Ethiopia, which the Crane Protection fitted construction trailer permits the CIC to inform its visi‑ Germany Working Group launched in 2007 with support tors even more comprehensively than before. This task is from Lufthansa. In January 2013, the ornithologists travaccomplished by display panels inside the trailer and by the elled to that region for the fourth time to map the locations volunteer rangers who man the crane info mobile. In addiof cranes wintering there. They also documented the types tion, the trailer improves the working conditions of these and extent of hazards to which the migratory birds are hardworking helpers, especially in bad weather. exposed in this African country. www.kraniche.de Cranes are impressive migratory birds. In 2012, about 15,000 visitors came to the Crane Information Center in Gross Mohrdorf to see for themselves. Lufthansa Group | Corporate Citizenship 101 Cultural commitment Understanding even without words The universal language of music can help create links between people – just like the Lufthansa Group, whose flying companies connect people, countries and cultures every day of the year. In the spirit of its social responsibility, the globally-active aviation group has supported outstanding cultural events and institutions for many years. Cologne’s Gürzenich Orchestra Yogeshwar. Its premiere on 23 February 2012 at the soldCologne is home to both the renowned Gürzenich Orchesout Philharmonie in Cologne was also the opportunity for tra and Deutsche Lufthansa AG’s headquarters. In its role both to pursue the question of what constitutes the magic in as First Global Partner, the company has supported the Igor Stravinsky’s “Le sacre du printemps” – and what hap‑ orchestra, which experts consider one of the top ensembles pens in listeners’ minds when they listen to the sounds of in Germany, since 2010. This is the first time that Lufthansa one of the 20th century’s key works. has made a long-term commitment to supporting a German symphony orchestra. In the reporting year, the Gürzenich www.guerzenich-orchester.de Orchestra launched the new concert format “Experiments in Classics” in cooperation with the science journalist Ranga New concert format “Experiment in Classical Music” in cooperation with the science journalist Ranga Yogeshwar. 102 Lufthansa Group | Corporate Citizenship Balance 2013 Successful opening of the 28th Lufthansa Festival of Baroque Music Lufthansa New Year’s concert in Berlin before a sold-out house. Lufthansa Festival of Baroque Music Lufthansa New Year’s Concert Some very special concert experiences were offered to Another occasion for musical delight was the 16th annual the public of the Lufthansa Festival of Baroque Music in Lufthansa New Year’s Concert at Berlin’s Konzerthaus am London. From 18 to 26 May 2012, lovers of historic perforGendarmenmarkt, which took place on 16 January 2013. mance practice were enthralled by the festival’s magic for Under the baton of Aurélien Bello, the highly-talented the 28th time. In the year of the Summer Olympic Games young musicians of the Junge Philharmonie Brandenburg 2012, this musical event steeped in its own tradition left no offered virtuoso interpretations of a number of works by doubt that in the world of music too the highest levels of Grieg, Gershwin and Tchaikovsky, which were rewarded by performance and the competition between the best of the the enthusiastic applause of the audience of about 1,100. best have always determined success. Under the motto The concert is targeted at Lufthansa’s key customers and “Contests, Competition and the Harmony of Nations,” topcontact partners from politics, business and the media. flight ensembles from across Europe offered rare treats Among the concertgoers was Christoph Franz, Chairman of from the baroque repertoire, such as Vivaldi’s opera the Executive Board and CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa AG. “L’Olimpiade.” St John’s Smith Square and Westminster He announced that the company plans to maintain the New Abbey were the two acoustically excellent venues providYear’s Concert as a musical institution, despite the overall ing stellar settings for such musical flights of fancy. need for changes. Not only the numerous festival visitors in London but also SWISS supports important festivals and art fairs the two million plus listeners of the radio programs “Live in Support for leading international cultural events is also Concert” and “Early Music Show” were able to enjoy the important for SWISS. This includes above all the Montreux concerts, as BBC Radio 3 broadcast six of the 12 concerts. Jazz Festival, which the wholly-owned Lufthansa subsidiIn addition to its media cooperation with the BBC, Lufthansa ary supports as a partner. This event draws about 200,000 has worked with its system partner Rolls-Royce plc for many jazz lovers to the shores of Lake Geneva each year in July. years in putting on the festival. SWISS is also a partner of the renowned Festival del film Locarno and the Lucerne Festival, a first‑class classical The 29 th edition of the Lufthansa Festival of Baroque Music music event. Moreover, the airline supports the world’s largtook place from 10 to 18 May 2013. This time, the festival est and most important fair for modern and contemporary adopted the leitmotiv of “Tis Nature’s Voice” and thus art, Art Basel, which takes place every year in early sumenabled internationally renowned artists, choirs and mer. It also supports of the fair’s U.S. branch, Art Basel orchestras to trace the signs of renewal in nature at the Miami Beach. highest musical level. www.swiss.com www.lufthansafestival.org.uk Lufthansa Group | Corporate Citizenship 103 Sports sponsorship A perfect match Fairness, team spirit, precision, top performance: These values, which apply to every top athlete, are also the driving force for the Lufthansa Group and its employees. For this reason, sports sponsorship has long been an integral part of the social commitment of the aviation company, which supports numerous renowned institutions, associations and clubs as a reliable partner. German Sports Aid Foundation National Paralympic Committee Germany Lufthansa has been a National Sponsor of the German Lufthansa has been a co-sponsor of the National ParalymSports Aid Foundation since 2007. This successful linkup pic Committee Germany for many years. In February 2013, was extended by another four years in February 2012. Curthis partnership was extended by another four years to rently, the German Sports Aid Foundation supports 3,800 2016. Moreover, the company supports the disabled sports athletes representing all Olympic disciplines, traditional nonorganization as a co-partner. Olympic disciplines, as well as disabled and deaf sports. The Lufthansa Group provides financial and logistical sup‑ In its role as a partner of athletes with disabilities, the Group port in the framework of this cooperation. This also includes also sponsored the film project “GOLD – You can do more ten sponsorships for outstanding sportsmen and sportsthan you think.” The documentary tells the story of three women with and without disabilities from the foundation’s world-class athletes, on their way to and at the London Paraelite program for talented young athletes. lympics, who surpass their physical disabilities and celebrate remarkable athletic triumphs: the paraplegic German swimFurthermore, the Lufthansa Group is set to provide intensive mer Kirsten Bruhn, the blind Kenyan marathon runner Henry communications support for the campaign “Your Name for Wanyoike and the Australian wheelchair racer Kurt Fearnley. Germany” until 2015. The goal of this fund drive is to motiThe film portrait had its premiere on 26 February 2013 at a vate as many people as possible to become a sponsor of hangar of Lufthansa Technik AG in Hamburg before about a top German athlete by donating as little as 3 euros per 1,300 guests – including about 100 wheelchair users – and month. The Group targets customers and employees with in the presence of Germany’s Federal Minister of the Interior publicity for this campaign. Dr. Hans-Peter Friedrich. The Lufthansa Group accompanied the filming continuously with communications work in In addition, the aviation company has given its support to internal and external media as well as at events. a number of events organized by the German Sports Aid Foundation for many years. This includes its annual Sports www.dbs-npc.de Ball, a fund-raising event that took place on 2 February 2013 www.facebook.de/dubistgold in Wiesbaden for the 43nd time. www.sporthilfe.de 104 Lufthansa Group | Corporate Citizenship Balance 2013 To promote the Germany‑wide release of the film “GOLD – You can do more than you think” on 28 February 2013, the Lufthansa Group launched the internal campaign “Hands up for GOLD.” Its goal was to get employees excited about the motivating message of the film’s title and to gain them as multiplicators. Lufthansa Group | Corporate Citizenship 105 German Olympic Sports Confederation Lufthansa has been an official co‑partner of the German Olympic Sports Confederation since 2006. At the beginning of 2013, this contract was extended by another four years. As the “Airline of Sports,” Lufthansa is also the Official Carrier and flies the medal hopefuls of the German Olympic Sports Federation and the National Paralympic Committee Germany to the Olympic and Paralympic Games. So Lufthansa will also be flying Germany’s athletes to the Winter Games 2014 in Sochi in its capacity as Official Airline of the German Olympic Team. And finally, Lufthansa acts as National Sponsor whenever German cities apply to become a venue for the Olympic and Paralympic Games. www.dosb.de German Soccer Association A close partnership has linked Lufthansa to the German Soccer Association since 2005. This cooperation provides that the airline – as the association’s Official Partner – will transport the German national soccer teams and members of the association’s management to all games, at home and Together for Germany’s Olympic team – Thomas Bach, President of the abroad, until the World Championship 2014 in Brazil. German Olympic Sports Confederation (DOSB), Christoph Franz, CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, and Michael Vesper, Director General of DOSB, (from left) look forward to another four years of close cooperation. www.dfb.de FC Bayern München and Eintracht Frankfurt Furthermore, Lufthansa has been the Official Carrier of FC Bayern München since 2004. In the framework of this partnership, the airline ensures that the professional players of the German record champion stride onto the playing field punctually at all First Division games and cup matches in Germany and all UEFA Champions League games in Europe. In February 2013, Lufthansa extended its contract as Official Carrier and Platinum Partner for another fi ve years, until 2018. As the airline is firmly rooted in the Rhine-Main area, Lufthansa has also supported the soccer club Eintracht Frankfurt since 2008. www.lufthansagroup.com/sports Continuation of a successful cooperation: Lufthansa extends its cooperation agreement with FC Bayern München until 2018 – Carsten Spohr, member of the Executive Board of Deutsche Lufthansa AG (right) and Dr. Reinhold Huber, Senior Vice President Product and Service at Lufthansa (left), with Andreas Jung, FC Bayern Marketing Director, and Karl-Heinz Rummenigge, Chairman of FC Bayern München AG, at the Allianz Arena in Munich. 106 Lufthansa Group | Corporate Citizenship Balance 2013 SWISS supports the international Lauberhorn Downhill ski race as partner and official airline. SWISS As the largest employer in the region surrounding Zurich Airport and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, SWISS sponsors such sports groups as the youth ice hockey team of the Kloten Flyers and is committed to promoting new athletic talent. A further emphasis of its sponsoring activities is on the internationally renowned sports and cultural events organized by the association Top Events of Switzerland. In this way, SWISS is a partner and official airline of the Lauberhorn Downhill ski race and the Omega European Masters Golf Tournament, a partner and official race sponsor of the White Turf St. Moritz horse races, as well as the Official Airline of the track‑and‑field meeting “Weltklasse Zürich.” The high quality of these events and their attractive hospitality platforms optimally support SWISS’ corporate values. Austrian Airlines An affinity for sports is also evident at Austrian Airlines. On the occasion of the Paralympics 2012 in London, this flag carrier and Lufthansa Group airline supported the Austrian Paralympic Committee as a sponsor. In addition, Austrian Airlines was the Official Carrier of the Alpine Ski World Championship 2013 in Schladming. Lufthansa Group | Corporate Citizenship 107 Glossary AEA – Association of European Airlines B.A.U.M. – Bundesdeutscher Arbeitskreis für Umweltbewww.aea.be wusstes Management e.V. – Federal Working Group for Environmentally-Aware Management Aerosols B.A.U.M. was founded in 1984 as the first independent enviAerosols are solid and/or liquid particles that are suspended ronmental initiative of German business. At currently 450 in the air. They reach the atmosphere by means of natural members, it is the largest of its kind in Europe. Lufthansa processes (wind, desert storms, volcanic eruptions) or has been a member of the Working Group since 1997. human activities (combustion of biomass and fossil fuels). www.baumev.de The most important aerosols are mineral dust, sea salt, cellular (biological) particles, soot, organic compounds and BDL – Bundesverband der Deutschen Luftverkehrswirtschaft sulfate. From a climatic perspective, aerosols are the oppo– Federal Association of the German Air Transport Industry nents of greenhouse gases, as they can reﬂect incident light Lufthansa is a founding member of the Federal Association and thus have a cooling effect. of the German Air Transport Industry (BDL), which has represented the interests of the German aviation industry with a aireg e.V. – Aviation Initiative for Renewable Energy single voice since December 2010. Its main goals are to in Germany make politicians and journalists more aware of aviation’s ecoaireg is a registered association of leading German research nomic and employment-related importance and to strengthen institutions, Lufthansa and other companies in the aviation Germany as a business location for aviation in general. industry, and bioenergy producers. The goal of this initiative, www.bdl.aero which was founded in 2011, is to advance the development and introduction of regenerative aviation fuels in Germany Carbon dioxide (CO2) and to inform the public at large about this topic. Gas resulting in nature from the burning or decomposition of www.aireg.de organic masses (e.g. plant material) and from the breathing process of humans and animals. The greenhouse gas CO2 ATM – Air Traffic Management remains for about 100 years in the atmosphere. Scientists Air Traffic Management ensures both the safe and efficient attribute the increase of atmospheric CO2 over the last 100 movement of aircraft in all phases of operations. years to the burning of fossil fuels (e.g. coal, oil, natural gas) by humans. Per tonne of fuel, 3.15 tonnes of CO2 result from Atmosphere the combustion process. Currently, about 2.5 percent of the The whole mass of air surrounding the Earth. It is divided CO2 emissions due to human activities are caused by global into various layers, distinguished from one another by disair traffic. (Source: International Energy Agency (IEA) 2011, tinct differences in vertical bands of temperature. Important 2009 values) for air traffic are the two lower layers: the troposphere and, above it, the stratosphere. The troposphere’s upper boundCarbon monoxide (CO) aries vary depending on season and latitude. They lie at altiChemical compound consisting of one carbon and one oxytudes of 16 to 18 kilometers above sea level at the equator, gen atom, formed in the incomplete combustion process of and at 8 to 12 kilometers above sea level at the poles. The substances containing carbon. For aircraft engines, the level temperature in the tropopause, the transition layer between of CO emissions depends greatly on the thrust level: The troposphere and stratosphere, drops to only about minus 60 emissions per kilogram of fuel burned are higher at idle setdegrees Celsius. It rises again in the stratosphere. The sotings, while taxiing and on approach than during the climbcalled ozone layer is also located in the stratosphere at ing and cruising phases. altitudes of about 25 to 30 kilometers. Today’s commercial aircraft ﬂy at cruising altitudes of between 8 and 13 kilomeCDA – Continuous Descent Approach ters. According to the latest research, air traffic emissions Procedure for a ﬂight’s approach phase that requires less do not contribute to the reduction of the ozone layer. engine thrust and is therefore quieter and more fuel efficient. However, this type of approach is only possible if there are no constraints due to heavy air traffic in the airspace concerned. 108 Lufthansa Group | Glossary Balance 2013 Chapter 4 aircraft the entire company in the form of a single figure about the Aircraft that meet the regulations of the strictest noise procurrent status of customer satisfaction. tection standard currently in force – the Chapter 4 noise standard. The Environmental Committee (CAEP) of the ICAO Decibel (dB) agreed on this standard in September 2001. As a result, Measuring unit for the intensity and pressure of sound. all aircraft newly certified since 2006 must remain cumuThe difference in intensity between the softest sound the latively below the Chapter 3 noise levels by 10 decibels or human ear can perceive and the pain threshold is 1:10 trilmore. The maximum noise emission values for aircraft were lion. To depict this enormous range objectively, acoustics introduced by the ICAO under Annex 16 to the convention uses the logarithmic decibel scale. On this scale, the value on international civil aviation. Noise levels depend on the “0” is assigned to the perception threshold (for a sound aircraft’s maximum takeoff weight and number of engines. of 1,000 Hz) and the pain threshold at the value “130.” An increase of 10 dB corresponds to a tenfold increase in the CDP – Carbon Disclosure Project sound’s intensity. For the perceived volume, a difference of The CDP is an independent organization working for the 10 dB corresponds to half or double the volume. However, public welfare, whose members are more than 550 largethe human ear is not equally sensitive across the entire scale investors worldwide. The goal of this initiative, which range of frequencies. Low and high sounds are not perwas founded in 2002, is to motivate the world’s largest ceived as being equally loud even at the same intensity. publicly quoted companies to make their greenhouse gas For measurements, this difference is equalized and noted emissions transparent and to reduce them lastingly. For this accordingly. The best known such notation is the “A value,” purpose, CDP and its partners developed two indexes: marked by the index dB(A). To measure aircraft noise, the “Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index,” which lists compaEPNdB (Effective Perceived Noise Decibel) unit is used nies that have made their emissions particularly transparinternationally. ent, and the “Carbon Performance Leadership Index,” which takes into account concrete climate protection performance. Deutsches Netzwerk Wirtschaftsethik (DNWE) – German Network for Business Ethics CO see “Carbon monoxide” DNWE is a nonprofit organization, in which Lufthansa has CO2 see “Carbon dioxide” been a member since January 1998. DNWE has about 600 current members, including many from German business, Codeshare politics, religion and science. At the same time, DNWE is a A codeshare is a ﬂight segment that is sold under the ﬂight national association of the European Business Ethics Netnumber of one airline, while being operated either partly or work (EBEN). entirely by another airline. Both companies maintain their www.dnwe.de independent profiles in the market. Diversity Compliance In a corporate context, diversity refers to all characteriCompliance describes the entirety of all measures that stics that distinguish employees from one another. Diversity ensure the lawful conduct of companies, their management management offers approaches for handling human differbodies and their employees with regard to legal directives ences for the benefit of company and employees alike. and interdictions. DLR – German Aerospace Center Corporate responsibility (CR) The DLR serves scientific, economic and social purposes. Corporate responsibility expresses the degree to which a It maintains 30 institutes, testing facilities and operational company assumes accountability for the effects its business sites. Its goal is to help – using the means of aviation and activities have on employees, customers, society and the space ﬂight – to secure and shape the future. In its work, environment. the DLR also seeks cooperation and allocation of research tasks among European partners. Corporate university www.dlr.de Corporate education institution for professionals and managers. See also Lufthansa School of Business (LHSB). CPI – Customer Profile Index Lufthansa German Airlines, in cooperation with renowned institutes, continuously conducts worldwide surveys and thus assesses the level of customer satisfaction. These data are compiled in the Customer Profile Index, which informs Lufthansa Group | Glossary 109 Dow Jones Sustainability World Index FTSE4Good The sustainability index lists the top 10 percent of compaThe index was introduced in 2001 by FTSE, a wholly-owned nies in each industry, whose sustainable approach to corposubsidiary of the London Stock Exchange. It lists only those rate management is exemplary. companies that meet the internationally accepted standards of corporate responsibility in the following dimensions: envieconsense – Forum for Sustainable Development ronmental management, climate change, human and labor of German Businesses rights along the supply chain, corporate governance and An association of globally active corporations and organianti-corruption efforts. Lufthansa has been listed since 2001. zations in German industry that have integrated the guiding www.ftse4good.com principle of sustainable development into their corporate strategies. Lufthansa is a founding member of this crossFuel Dump industry network, which was set up in 2000. Dumping of fuel in ﬂight due to emergency situations. A www.econsense.de procedure used on long-haul aircraft before unscheduled landings (e.g. in the event of technical problems or serious EMAS – Environmental Management and Audit Scheme passenger illness) to decrease the aircraft’s weight to the Colloquially referred to as EU eco-audit regulations. Euromaximum permissible landing weight. In the event of a fuel pean regulations concerning environmental management dump, special airspace is assigned to the aircraft, if possiand certification. ble above uninhabited or thinly populated areas. Fuel is usually dumped at altitudes of 4-8 kilometers. A minimum altiEquivalent continuous noise level (Leq) tude of 1,500 meters and a minimum speed of 500 km/h are The Leq is a measure for the energetic average of all sound required. The aircraft may not ﬂy a fully closed circle. The pressure levels over a defined period of time. All sound dumped kerosene forms a fine mist in the turbulence behind events that differ in intensity and duration are summarized the aircraft. Despite the use of highly sensitive methods of according to mathematical rules. The resulting average analysis, no contamination has been determined so far in value is an accepted and proven measurement of the “noise plant or soil samples after fuel dumps. quantity” occurring over an observed time interval. Global Compact see “UN Global Compact” Ethibel – Ethibel Sustainability Index The independent Belgian agency Ethibel has listed Lufthansa Great Circle Distance in its Ethibel Investment Register and the Ethibel SustainabilShortest distance between two points on the Earth’s surface, ity Index (ESI). The ESI offers institutional investors, asset measured in kilometers (great circle kilometers) or nautical managers, banks and private investors a comprehensive miles. The center of a great circle is the center of the Earth. overview of the financial results of companies that distinguish themselves by pursuing sustainable business pracGreenhouse gases tices. Since the merger with Vigeo and Stock at Stake in Gaseous substances that contribute to the greenhouse 2005, this index has been part of Vigeo. However, Forum effect and have both natural and human (anthropogenic) Ethibel continues to be responsible for the ethical criteria causes. The most important natural greenhouse gases are and the composition of the ESI. Updates of and calculations water vapor (H2O), carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane (CH4); for the index are performed by the internationally renowned the most important anthropogenic greenhouse gas is carindex provider Standard & Poor’s. bon dioxide from the combustion of fossil fuels. It accounts www.ethibel.org for about 77 percent of the greenhouse effect attributable to human activities. Methane, primarily generated by agriculFreight performance (FTKO/FTKT) ture and large-scale animal husbandry, contributes about Airlines distinguish between freight performance offered 14 percent to the anthropogenic greenhouse effect. Other (FTKO, freight tonne kilometers offered) and its sold freight artificial greenhouse gases are nitrous oxide (N2O), ﬂ uoroperformance (FTKT, freight tonne kilometers transported). carbons (FCs and HFCs), sulfur hexaﬂuoride (SF6) and chloSee also tonne kilometers. roﬂuorocarbons (CFCs). Source: World Resources Institute (WRI), 2005. HON Circle Member HON Circle Member is the highest status level that the frequent ﬂyer program Miles & More awards to Lufthansa customers. www.miles-and-more.com 110 Lufthansa Group | Glossary Balance 2013 Hub Low-cost segment In air transport, a hub refers to a central traffic point or an Airlines offering predominantly low fares, but featuring reairline’s transfer airport. Passengers as well as freight are duced or separately charged services on the ground and in transported from their original starting point to one of the the air. Flights are most often operated to/from airports outairline’s “home airports” (hub). From there, they are carried side of major population centers. to their destination by a second ﬂight alongside passengers and freight from other departure points, but with the same Mentoring destination. Instrument for targeted support of junior employees. Focuses on regular personal contacts between mentor and mentee. IATA – International Air Transport Association The umbrella organization of international commercial MRO – Acronym standing for maintenance, repair and overaviation. haul of aircraft www.iata.org MTOW ICAO – International Civil Aviation Organization Acronym standing for maximum takeoff weight of an aircraft A United Nations agency that develops internationally binding norms for civil aviation. Nitrogen oxides (NOX ) www.icao.int Chemical compounds consisting of one nitrogen and several oxygen atoms. NOX is defined as the sum of NO ICC – International Chamber of Commerce and NO2 compounds. Natural sources include lightning and The ICC was founded in 1919 as the World Business Orgamicrobes in the soil. Nitrogen oxides are also generated in nization. More than 1,500 business organizations and over combustion processes under high pressures and temper5,000 corporations are organized in the worldwide frameatures. Both of these parameters have been increased in work of the ICC. Lufthansa has been a member since 1955. modern aircraft engines to significantly reduce fuel conwww.icc-deutschland.de sumption as well as emissions of carbon monoxide and unburned hydrocarbons. However, future combustion ILO standards chambers of an advanced design could help reduce NOX Work standards of the International Labor Organization, emissions by 85 percent. Depending on the type of aircraft which include among others the bans on child labor, forced and operational conditions, this value varies between 6 and labor and discrimination as well as the fundamental right of 20 kilos per tonne of fuel burned. Air traffic has a share of freedom of association for employees. 2-3 percent in man-made NOX emissions. Climate models show that nitrogen oxides have increased the concentration ISO 14001 – International environmental management of ozone at cruising altitudes by a few percentage points. system Companies hereby receive an effective instrument that NOX see “Nitrogen oxides” allows them to take environmental aspects into consideration in decisions relating to corporate policies and to continOHSAS 18001 – Occupational Health and Safety Assessuously improve the situation of environmental care in relament Series tion to all daily tasks. Job safety management system developed by the British www.iso.org Standards Institution in cooperation with international certification organizations. Kerosene Fuel for jet and propeller engines that is chemically simiOzone lar to petroleum. Like diesel fuel or gasoline, kerosene is Molecule consisting of three oxygen atoms formed in the produced by distilling crude oil; unlike these fuels, kerosene stratosphere. The ozone layer located in the stratosphere does not contain halogenated additives. has an important protective function, as it absorbs harmful ultraviolet light. While ozone at higher altitudes is broken Lufthansa School of Business (LHSB) down massively by chloroﬂuorocarbons (CFCs), it develGermany’s first corporate university. It has received multiops close to the ground under the inﬂuence of sunlight from ple awards for the worldwide standards it establishes for the numerous precursor substances (“summer smog”) and irridevelopment and training of professionals and managers. tates the mucous membranes. At current levels, nitrogen The LHSB supports processes of change within the Group oxide emissions from air traffic at cruising altitudes cause an and promotes a shared management culture. increase in atmospheric ozone, analogous to the generation of summer smog, estimated by scientists at 3-4 percent on the heavily-ﬂown North Atlantic routes. Lufthansa Group | Glossary 111 Passenger kilometers (PKO/PKT) includes shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers Measure for transport performance in passenger carriage and others. (number of passengers multiplied by distance ﬂown). Here one distinguishes between available transport performance Sustainable development (PKO, passenger kilometers offered or synonymously SKO, According to the guiding principle of sustainable develseat kilometers offered) and actual transport performance opment formulated in 1987 by the World Commission for (PKT, passenger kilometers transported). Development and the Environment (Brundtland Commission), “sustainable development is a form of development Pro Recycling Paper Initiative that meets the needs of today’s generation without jeoparFounded in 2000, the initiative unites various industries and dizing the abilities of future generations to satisfy their own.” aims at promoting an intensive usage and the acceptance For businesses, this means acting responsibly not only in of recycling paper. Lufthansa is one of the initiative’s foundeconomic matters but also in environmental and social ing members. issues. All three aspects – economic, ecological and social www.papiernetz.de – must be kept in balance. Raked wingtips Tonne kilometer (TKO/TKT) Raked wingtips are specially back-swept, elongated wingMeasure of transport performance (payload multiplied by tips, which improve an aircraft’s lift and its air resistance in distance). One distinguishes between available transport ﬂight – and thus fuel consumption as well. performance (TKO, tonne kilometers offered) and the actual transport performance (TKT, tonne kilometers transported). RSB – Roundtable for Sustainable Biofuels In calculating payloads, passengers are taken into account International initiative to develop a global standardization by means of a statistical average weight. and certification system for agrofuels. Town meeting SAFUG – Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group Information event for employees at different locations of a Initiative of airlines, aircraft manufacturers and providers of company. refinery technology whose goal is to accelerate the development and commercialization of sustainable fuels for the air Trace gases transport industry. Gases of which there are only very small amounts present in the atmosphere (e.g. ozone, methane, nitrous oxide, etc.) Seat kilometer but which are of great significance for the Earth’s climate Measure for the transport capacity available (SKO, seat kiloand the chemical processes in the atmosphere. meters offered). Transparency International Seat load factor (SLF) Anti-corruption organization, of which Lufthansa has been a Passenger-related measure of utilization of aircraft: The ratio member since 1999. of transport performance (PKT, passenger kilometers transwww.transparency.de ported) to capacity (PKO, passenger kilometers offered). UHC – Unburned hydrocarbons SES – Single European Sky Organic mixture of carbon and hydrogen that results from Describes the efforts of the European Commission underthe incomplete combustion of fuels containing hydrocartaken since the late 1990s with the goal of restructuring the bons or from the evaporation of fuel. European airspace in terms of optimizing traffic ﬂows and dissolving the airspace’s fragmented structure, defined by UNEP – The United Nations Environmental Program national borders and interests, by creating a limited number www.unep.org of Functional Airspace Blocks (FABs). UN Global Compact Slot Global network in whose context the United Nations coopDesignated point in time at which an airline may use an erates with private-sector corporations and civil action orgaairport’s runway for takeoff or landing. nizations to advance human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption measures. DeutStakeholder sche Lufthansa AG has been a member since 2002. Groups or individuals who formulate their demands on a www.unglobalcompact.org company (e.g. attainment of corporate goals) and pursue these either personally or through representatives. This 112 Lufthansa Group | Glossary Balance 2013 VOC – Volatile Organic Compounds Volatile organic substances that are characterized by high steam pressure and thus evaporate easily into the atmosphere at room temperature. VOCs are present in solvents, cleaning agents, fuels and other substances. In the presence of nitrogen oxides and intense sunlight, VOCs lead to the generation of ozone. Water vapor The most important greenhouse gas, even ahead of carbon dioxide. Without water vapor from natural sources, the Earth’s surface would be around 22 degrees Celsius cooler. This makes water vapor responsible for two-thirds of the natural greenhouse effect (33 degrees Celsius). For each kilo of kerosene burned, 1.24 kilos of water vapor are released. Concerns that air traffic might increase the concentration of water vapor in the stratosphere and thus change the climate have been refuted by scientific research. The German Aerospace Center (DLR) concluded that even a one hundred-fold increase in the quantity of water vapor emitted by air traffic would not result in a detectable climatic signal. Wet lease Leasing of aircraft including complete crew, maintenance and insurance. Work-life balance Refers to a healthy equilibrium between work and private life. Contact partners You can find contact partners in the area of Corporate responsibility at www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility Please note that www.lufthansa.com is the central contact point for all inquiries concerning customer service. www.lufthansa.com Under the header “Help & Contact” you will find full information on how to contact Lufthansa. Lufthansa Group | Glossary 113 Editorial information Published by Paper Deutsche Lufthansa AG Content: ENVIRO TOP, recycling paper made from 100 % Lufthansa Group Communications, FRA CI recycled paper. Produced without optical brightening Senior Vice President: Jürgen Homeyer agents, without chlorine bleach. Certificate: Environmental label “The Blue Angel” – RAL-UZ 14. Cover: Hello Fat Matt Concept, text and editors (FSC-certified) Media Relations Lufthansa Group, FRA CI/G Director: Christoph Meier Reprints, including excerpts, only with written permission from the publisher and by citing “Deutsche Lufthansa AG” Bernhard Jung as the source (text and images). In this case we ask that you Claudia Walther send us a copy or clipping. in cooperation with various departments Printed in the Federal Republic of Germany and Petra Menke Redaktionsbüro ISSN 1612-0906 Design and production organic Marken-Kommunikation GmbH Copy deadline 31 May 2013 Photo credits Flughafen München GmbH (cover, page 65) Alexandra Lechner (cover, page 46, 52) Andreas Teichmann (page 3, 20) Mehdi Guenin (page 10) BDL (page 12) Airbus (page 14) Airline Strategy Award (page 25) Frank Schuppelius, Schuppelius GmbH (page 29) Lufthansa Cargo (page 44) Fraport AG (page 44, 66, 88) Michael Pasternack (page 49) Jürgen Mai (page 63, 92, 105, 106) Clemens Reinke (page 63) Klaus Leitdorf (page 64) Uwe Schoßig (page 75) Dr. Günter Nowald (page 93, 100, 101) Patrick Kuschfeld (page 93, 98, 99) Stefan Wildhirt (page 94) Cargo Human Care e.V. (page 99) Hyou Vielz (page 102) Picture Partnership (page 103) parapictures film production / Olaf Ballnus (page 105) Fred Joch (page 106) Others: Lufthansa Group photo archive 114 Lufthansa Group Deutsche Lufthansa AG Lufthansa Group Communications Lufthansa Aviation Center 60546 Frankfurt am Main Germany E-mail: lufthansa-group@dlh.de Balance is a registered title. © June 2013 www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility
