Communication on Progress 1 1. Introduction 10 August 2013 To our stakeholders: On behalf of Norrbom Vinding, I am pleased to reaffirm our support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this our third annual Communication on Progress which covers 2012, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Mariann Norrbom, Managing Partner 2 Our values: Respect, integrity and quality We are committed to our responsibility as a provider of top-quality legal services, as an employer and as a corporate citizen. Unity, teamwork and caring for each other We are all for one, one for all and we work together to deliver the best legal solutions to our clients. Motivation, passion and fun To deliver on the above values, we strongly believe that our employees must be motivated and passionate and enjoy their work so that clients and other stakeholders will enjoy working with us. 3 2. About Norrbom Vinding Norrbom Vinding is a medium-sized Danish law firm specialising in management labour and employment law. We have the largest labour and employment practice in Denmark – and in Scandinavia as well. Our unique expertise in labour and employment law builds on 30 years’ experience, and our client base is a mix of national and international companies and organisations. Norrbom Vinding is the Danish member of Ius Laboris, Global Human Resources Lawyers. On a global basis, Ius Laboris counts more than 2 500 lawyers – all of whom are experts in labour and employment law. Although Norrbom Vinding is under no statutory requirement to report on CSR, we recognise our responsibility to promote good corporate citizenship. We work systematically to increase awareness of our responsibility not only as a firm but also as individuals. And as a leading labour and employment law firm, we recognise our responsibility as an employer for the well-being of our employees and for communicating and thus promoting our standards in this area to our stakeholders. Read more at www.norrbomvinding.com. 4 Human rights: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 3. Our approach to the Ten Principles We have decided to approach the Ten Principles in a context that makes sense for us as a law firm. 3.1 Human rights We respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and uphold individual freedom of expression and opinion. Internally, this basic principle is upheld by regular meetings between management and employee groups and bi-weekly office meetings. Employee engagement is a priority and necessity for us. In 2010, we therefore conducted our first employee satisfaction survey, which showed a relatively high employee satisfaction (4.14 on a 0-5 point scale). Even so, various initiatives were launched by management to further improve employee satisfaction and the next survey, which was conducted in May 2011, showed an increase in employee satisfaction to a level of 4.25. Conducted in May 2012, the third survey showed a result of 4.38, yet another clear improvement. This year, however, it was decided to expand the scope of the 2013 employee satisfaction survey. Apart from employee satisfaction, this year’s survey will include a cultural analysis. At present, psychologists have conducted one-on-one interviews with all employees about 5 our culture and whether we live our values, and they are currently in the process of analysing their findings. Therefore, the result of this year’s employee satisfaction survey will not be available until late summer, but we will report on it in our next Communication on Progress. Externally, a tangible expression of our support to fundamental human rights is our partnership with the Danish chapter of Médecins Sans Frontières (Doctors Without Borders). Médecins Sans Frontières is an independent international medical humanitarian organisation that delivers emergency aid in more than 70 countries to people affected by armed conflict, epidemics, natural or man-made disasters, or exclusion from health care. Our support takes the form of pro bono work as well as general and tailor-made training courses in HR law and related areas. This year, we have also continued our support for BØRNEfonden as well. BØRNEfonden is a private Danish organisation, which helps over 70,000 sponsor children and their families and communities in some of the world’s poorest countries. We are currently in the process of discussing the framework for a strategic partnership involving pro bono assistance with the organisation’s HR matters such as providing training courses in HR law and contracts, restructuring the contractual framework, reviewing individual contracts, etc. In addition, we continuously support good causes financially such as families of cancer children, and we regularly donate funds to international disaster relief projects. We are still in the process of considering how to focus our efforts more effectively. ”Médecins Sans Frontières is an organisation based on volunteers and commitment. We send out doctors, nurses and other healthcare professionals to disaster zones all over the world to provide medical emergency aid. This requires a professional administrative organisation. With its dedicated effort and invaluable HR law services, Norrbom Vinding has enabled us to focus all of our energy on what we are here for: Delivering independent humanitarian aid wherever it is needed. Thank you. Thank you very much.” 6 Torill Pallesen Davey, HR Director Goals Internally, we wish to continuously achieve high scores in our employee satisfaction surveys, as this is one way of attracting and retaining the best talent. Externally, we wish to develop and cement our partnership with Médecins Sans Frontières Denmark and BØRNEfonden. In addition, we wish to explore the possibilities of forming similar partnerships in Denmark and internationally, and to find ways to focus our efforts more effectively. How do we monitor and evaluate performance? Internally: We conduct employee satisfaction surveys each year and act swiftly on any concerns shown by the survey to exist among our employees in order to maintain our high satisfaction scores. Externally: We meet with Médecins Sans Frontières Denmark and BØRNEfonden each year to discuss our partnership. Labour: Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 7 7 3.2 Labour (employee rights) Knowledge In a knowledge-driven business like ours, knowledge sharing is crucial. Internally, we have a centralised knowledge acquisition and management function and we hold knowledge sharing meetings and provide training activities for all employees and for individual employee groups. Externally, we share our knowledge with clients and other stakeholders through our e-newsletters, breakfast briefings, seminars and other events. We are also very active organising industry or client seminars and courses, facilitating industry and client networks and participating in national and international lawyers’ associations. In addition, we are pleased to teach and act as external examiners at universities and business schools. For example, our lawyers have been teaching a course on CSR to international students at the University of Copenhagen for several years. Health Health and working environment are two sides of the same story. Both of them affect employees’ well-being and motivation. In our industry, working fixed hours is only an option for some of our employees as lawyers must be available when clients need them, and in some periods the workload will be greater than in other periods. Therefore, it is important for us to focus on working environment and employee well-being. 8 Some of the initiatives we have put in place to promote and protect our employees’ physical well-being include home working (all employees except office services), ergonomic work place assessments, healthy organic lunch, fresh fruit, massage, health checks, training seminars, sports and social activities. Some of the initiatives we have put in place to promote and protect our employees’ mental well-being include offering employees the opportunity to work part time, conducting employee satisfaction surveys and holding employee development interviews, as well as a constant focus on the importance of worklife balance, workplace consultation and continuing professional and personal development and training. As health is an ever present, if not growing, issue in our industry, we continuously hold health-related seminars and courses to support our general employee health programme. And in 2012, our focus was on mental health in particular, building on the courses and seminars held in the past years. Our summer weekend seminar 2012 kicked off the new culture and employee satisfaction survey, which is intended not only to gauge employee satisfaction but also to analyse whether we actually live our values in order to ensure consistency for our employees. As already mentioned, the result of the survey will be available in late summer 2013. For 2013, our focus will expand to also include stressing down and handling the transition from working under great pressure to gradually slowing down. These initiatives and our constant focus on these issues are reflected in the relatively low sickness absence of our employees. 9 Equal opportunities We are committed to providing equal opportunities in recruitment, training, promotion and all other aspects of employment. One tangible result of our policy is the fact that, in addition to our managing partner being a woman, we have an almost equal number of women and men partners and for the time being most of our junior associates are women. Goals We wish to continue our employee health programme to keep our employees healthy and motivated. Our focus in 2013 will continue to be on organic and healthy food as well as on physical activity, teamwork and mental health. We wish to increase employee satisfaction by means of specific initiatives, including by offering courses in personal and professional development, communication and health and by addressing any concerns shown by the employee satisfaction survey to exist among our employees. How do we monitor and evaluate performance? Knowledge: We compare knowledge-sharing data (intellectual capital statements, training activities, courses and seminars) on a regular basis. Health: We compare sickness absence figures from one year to another to monitor employee health. Equal opportunities: We measure our performance in this field by maintaining employee statistics. 10 11 Environment: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 3.3 Environment The environmental impact of law firms and our scope for reducing it may be less large-scale than in other industries. Even so, there is a lot that can be done. We are committed to green IT. Over the past years, we have implemented green IT solutions to reduce power draw and CO2 emissions such as energy efficient computer screens, thin clients, server virtualisation (reducing the number of physical servers to a tenth), data life cycle management, IP telephony and videoconferencing. In addition, the possibility of working from home means reduced CO2 emissions. With regard to the client side, we are in the process of replacing our laptops with the newest and most energy efficient technologies and we are planning to optimise data storage facilities so as to use less power and thus less CO2.In addition, we have had a lighting architect analyse our premises and measure the lighting environment. As a result, we will change a large part of the ceiling lights to ensure the most appropriate and sustainable lighting conditions. We are currently considering other measures which can be implemented to further reduce our carbon footprint. 12 Goals We wish to continue reducing our carbon footprint. How do we monitor and evaluate performance? We have a constant focus on this issue and remind ourselves that we have a moral obligation to minimise our environmental impact. 3.4 Anti-corruption As a Danish law firm, we are bound by the Code of Conduct issued by the Danish Bar and Law Society, the Danish Administration of Justice Act’s provisions on lawyers and the Danish Money Laundering Act. This means, among other things, that we are required to keep confidential all information we receive from clients and to avoid conflicts of interest. As a result of our areas of speciality, we do not receive large money transfers from clients, but even so we have an anti-money laundering policy. Goals We are committed to steering clear of anything that might give rise to ethical or legal concern in this area. How do we monitor and evaluate performance? We continue to comply with the rules we are bound by and continue to carry out our thorough scrutiny of new clients to see if there is reason for any concern in this area. Anti-corruption: Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 13 4. Future initiatives In 2013 and 2014, we will: continue our intensive focus on our employees’ well-being in general and mental health in particular to ensure that our employees are fit to cope with everyday demands continue to conduct our annual employee satisfaction surveys and, if relevant, expand such surveys to also include other important areas focus constantly on our environmental impact to ensure that we keep up awareness Dampfaergevej 26 2100 Copenhagen Denmark www.norrbomvinding.com 14
