Lantrade Global Supplies Ltd Communication on Progress 2013 Page 1 of 16 Table of Contents Statement of Continued Support 3 The 10 Principles 4 Human Rights 4 Labour Standards 7 Environment 12 Anti-corruption 15 Page 2 of 16 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Lantrade Global Supplies (LGS) remains as committed to the 10 principles regarding human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption as laid down in the United Nations Global Compact, UNGC. 2011 has presented challenges as well as opportunities for LGS to show its continued support. We are cautiously optimistic about global economic recovery and have used this year to consolidate our position as an efficient commercial enterprise, whilst continuing to embrace the UNGC in our activities. Retaining our principled approach is paramount as ever and it is with pleasure that I can reiterate our belief in the importance of the UNGC remains strong. We look forward to another year of opportunities to uphold the principles of the UNGC. Lynda ScottTomlin LGS Managing Director Lynda ScottTomlin LGS Managing Director Page 3 of 16 THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT Below is a brief explanation of the ways in which LGS abides by the principles of UNGC. Within this explanation is an outline of company policies, outcomes, and aims for the upcoming year. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human rights. LGS places great value on the Human Rights of its employees. The respect and support of human rights by LGS extends not only to the immediate workplace but rather to all who LGS come into contact with. LGS is very aware that it engages in a worldwide supply management chain, and understands that it is within the company’s responsibilities to ensure that all operations involved in the supply process adopt the internationally proclaimed Human Rights. Page 4 of 16 Current Company Actions Outcomes Policies  Support of Howard  Discrimination of League  Appreciation of employees freedom of throughout the  A large part of our speech and supply chain based work is election expression on age, gender, projects, largely in religion, race, culture Africa. LGS staff  Greater or political is not have been made understanding tolerated due to the aware of the and company’s nonpotential appreciation of discriminatory policy. discrimination, the difficulties particularly against faced by  Thereafter, LGS minority groups, minority groups does not deal with and some have and of the companies which we taken part in importance of see to breach training courses to the democratic human rights. contend such process. behaviour. Future Aims: Support charities who aim to correct the abuse of human rights as much as possible. Page 5 of 16 Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in Human Rights abuses. LGS takes a breach of human rights within its supply chain very seriously. LGS has very clear and accurate communication with manufacturers due to our multinational team, and therefore aims to avoid any misunderstanding when it comes to the human rights of employees throughout the supply chain. Current Company Actions Outcomes Policies  LGS continues to perform regular factory visits. As we have  LGS does not do started offering new business with products the number of  Suppliers any company visits to the suppliers in are made seen to be the supply chain to aware of this violating the check that they adhere and we human rights of to an acceptable level of believe that its employees. human rights has they increased significantly. examine  LGS only takes some of their part in bids  Where a violation of practices as which do not human rights is a result. violate human uncovered, LGS takes rights. immediate action to either insist that practices are changed, or to find a new supplier. Future Aims: To continue to keep vigilant in our choice of suppliers. Page 6 of 16 LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of Association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. LGS values the choices and opinions of our employees. All employees are respected and heard, and we preserve the freedom of association. We have managers in place to improve communication between employees. Collective bargaining in its purest sense is not relevant to this company’s environment, mainly due to the nature and size of the company. However, the spirit of collective bargaining is recognised, and employees withhold the right to voice their opinions collectively as well as individually. After a discussion pertaining to the election of a workers representative, we came to the conclusion that due to the nature and size of the company, it is not the most fitting solution. Instead we decided to maintain constant openness between all staff. Current Company Actions Outcome Policies  Developed  To respect and  Regular communication listen to all meetings between employees. employees. between employer,  Improved working  Employees have managers and environment. the freedom of employees to joining any guarantee  Any issues that arise association. operational are addressed and communication dealt with promptly all around. and accordingly. Future Aims: Although collective bargaining is not pertinent to LGS we will continue to encourage its use throughout our supply chain. Page 7 of 16 Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. LGS is very aware when it comes to the different forms and causes of forced labour. Our multinational, multi-cultural team enables us to effectively communicate with our suppliers and their employees to ensure that forced labour is not part of their practice, and therefore ours, without our knowledge. Page 8 of 16 Current Company Actions Outcome Policies  Staff are  LGS supports a  All employees encouraged to chat charity that have an to factory workers provides shelter employment during regular visits and sustenance to contract. made to production people who have sites. suffered misfortune  Large scale and who are projects are  Regular factory visits homeless. This monitored ensure that we are vulnerable sector of during the aware of the labour society can be entire supply standards employed subject to process. throughout our unsavoury work supply chain. practices. Future Aims: LGS plans to formalise its approach to reducing forced labour by requesting that suppliers confirm in writing that they are not using inappropriate staff in their workforce. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. As a company we condemn any practice of child labour, and work to ensure that it is not used within the company’s supply chain whatsoever. However, discovering the practice of child labour can be challenging, Page 9 of 16 despite regular visits to the factories. If child labour is identified, LGS makes sure that appropriate measures are taken. Current Company Actions Outcome Policies  In an attempt to ensure that  LGS closely child labour is not used at adheres to any point along the supply national labour chain, regular factory visits laws and  LGS does are made. regulations along not with minimum knowingly  If an incident of child labour age provisions. engage with is discovered, LGS takes companies appropriate action against  LGS uses its who practice its practice, by either influence on child labour. working towards changing suppliers to the practices of the promote ethical company or by finding a labour standards. different supplier. Future Aims: To continue to visit new suppliers. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The LGS UK team includes English, Chinese, South African, Algerian, Belgian and Bulgarian employees. This in itself promotes equal opportunities. Page 10 of 16 The company is a Home Office recognised sponsor of non-EU workers Our multicultural team allows for operational communication all through the supply process and therefore leads to better business. Current Company Actions Outcome Policies  When considering the employment of an individual our end decision is based purely on qualifications, skill  A multi – and relevant  All staff are offered cultural and experience. training. multi-talented team.  Employee recruitment, training and promotion records are kept uptodate. Future Aim: Leading by example, we will continue to encourage our suppliers to adopt the same non-discriminatory policies we have. Page 11 of 16 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. We look throughout the supply chain to try to establish whether more environmentally friendly options are available with regards to manufacturing. Current Company Actions Outcome Policies Page 12 of 16  We encourage our clients to organise their required purchases as soon as  Preserving possible so that we the can organise more environment environmentally is a large  We take into friendly transportation factor in our consideration the methods for these quest to impact freight has goods. i.e. sea not air discourage on the the use or air environment.  The company sends transport out e-cards on unless it is of Christmas which absolute saves paper and the necessity. money saved by doing this will be donated to charity. Future Aims: Continue to improve the choice of sea-freight services that we offer our clients. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. LGS is ever conscious of our environmental responsibility and are continually searching for further ways to increase energy efficiency and to promote environmentally friendly practices. Current Company Actions Outcome Policies Page 13 of 16  We are constantly  Where possible we communicating try to find our with our suppliers production source to try to find ways closer to the  Improved to better their destination. productivity environmental of resources. performance.  Try to recycle as much kitchen waste  Reduction in  Environmentally as possible. office waste. friendly practices are promoted in  Re-using partially the office. used paper as scrap paper. Future Aims: Continue promoting environmentally friendly practices as much as possible. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. LGS promotes environmentally friendly and eco-efficient practices by encouraging the use of technologies that have these effects. Current Company Actions Outcome Policies Page 14 of 16  Visiting factories, meeting and talking with suppliers is one  LGS uses way in which we (whenever they keep abreast of have access to)  Environmentally their attempts to the most friendly use the most ecoenvironmentally practices. friendly favourable technology. technology.  We perform random checks on factory production. Future Aims: Continue to improve our technology and encourage others to do the same. ANTI-CORRUPTION Page 15 of 16 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. LGS has committed itself to working against all forms of corruption. We have regular contact with our industry peers and are committed to exposing corruption if and when we become aware of it. Current Company Actions Outcome Policies  LGS does not deal with, or  We do not tolerate  Transparency associate itself any form of with any bribery, extortion  Support towards practice of or corruption combating extortion, within any of our corruption. bribery or practices. corruption. Future Aims: Continue to be vigilant in this regard and to be prepared to work against corruption in all forms. Page 16 of 16
