About the Report This is the first Sustainability Report issued by KB Financial Group at the group level. Sustainability Report of KB Financial Group has been released by its key subsidiary KB Kookmin Bank since 2009, and beginning in 2011, the reporting scope was expanded to incorporate operations at the group level. This report was prepared in accordance with the G3.1 Guidelines of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative), and includes the values and performance of the Group’s sustainability management in relation to economy, environment and society. The period, scope, boundary and contents covered in this report assure the processes recommended by the G3.1 Guidelines. Reporting Period This report covers the period from January to December 2011, and where necessary, includes data for the CONTENTS past three fiscal years from January 2009 to December 2011 in order to show trends in time series. With regard to some material issues, this report covers information collected up to May 2012. CEO’s Message 2 Reporting Scope and Boundary Group Profile 4 In principle, this report covers all domestic and overseas operations of KB Financial Group, but key reporting Corporate Governance 8 scope has been confined to domestic operations except for HR information due to the size and limited business impact of overseas operations. Also with regard to environmental data such as energy, water and Management Strategy 10 waste, the reporting scope has been restricted to key real estate properties directly owned by KB Financial Sustainability Management 12 Group, and where special caution is required, the data scope has been footnoted accordingly. The reporting boundary adopted in this report includes 10 subsidiaries of KB Financial Group – KB Kookmin Bank, KB Finance that Puts People Customer Satisfaction 18 Kookmin Card, KB Investment & Securities, KB Life Insurance, KB Asset Management, KB Real Estate Trust, before Anything Else Prevention of Financial Incidents 20 KB Investment, KB Credit Information, KB Data Systems and KB Savings Bank. Data pertaining to business Financial Consumer Protection 22 partners has been excluded. Products and Services Green Financial Products 28 Usage of the Subject that Enrich the Future Financial Products for Public Benefit 30 Where “KB Financial Group” is used as the subject of a sentence in this report, it is intended to describe matters that are applicable at the KB Financial Group level. Other information only pertaining to respective Socially Responsible Investment 32 subsidiaries is described using the name of the respective subsidiary as the subject. Our Commitment to Green Green Management 38 and Ethical Management Ethical Management 42 To ensure objectivity and fairness, this report has received assurance from an independent assurance provider (see pages 74-75 for Independent Assurance Statement). Going forward, KB Financial Group will Employees who Nurture Their Dreams, Job Creation and Diversity 48 continue to share its sustainability activities, performance and future objectives with its major stakeholders A Workplace that Makes Their Dreams Corporate Culture 50 Cover story through Sustainability Report. Come True KB Financial Group’s sustainability Nurturing Financial Specialists 52 philosophy is to pursue a more prosperous future and make a warmer tomorrow Together for a Hopeful Tomorrow Economic and Financial Education 56 together with people. The Sustainability Report of KB Financial Detailed information regarding this report is When our society becomes prosperous, “KB Good Job”, a Job Matching Program 58 Group meets all GRI G3.1 requirements at available on our website at http://www.kbfng.com, KB Financial Group will also grow, and the A+ level. The GRI has confirmed that we Data Analysis, Retrieval and Transfer System of the Region-specific Social Contribution 60 are compliant with the G3.1 guidelines to an Financial Supervisory Service at http://dart.fss.or.kr, when the hopes of our society grow A+ level. or from the Annual Report of KB Financial Group. bigger, the future of KB Financial Group will also become brighter. Appendix 64 It is our will to share dreams and hopes with the people. 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report &(2ĐV0HVVDJH KB Financial Group ³:HZLOOQRWEDONDWFKDQJHLQQRYDWLRQDQGFKDOOHQJH LQRXUHIIRUWWRZDUGVVXVWDLQDEOHGHYHORSPHQW´ Dear stakeholders, I am deeply grateful for your unwavering support for KB Financial Group and delighted to share our first group level Sustainability Report with you. These recent years have tested companies like few other times in history, yet 2011 turned out to be a particularly challenging year. The ongoing euro-zone crisis and the sluggish economic growth in the U.S. led to mounting uncertainty in the market and lower corporate activity, hurting our competitiveness in the industry and hindering our pursuit of robust growth. 'HVSLWHWKHVHGLI¿FXOWFLUFXPVWDQFHVDOORIXVDW.%)LQDQFLDO*URXSPDGHDFRQFHUWHGHIIRUWWRZDUGVJUHDWHUPDQDJHULDO efficiency through our prudent approach to risk management and cost control. In an attempt to diversify the Group’s business portfolio and secure future growth engines, we spun off KB Kookmin Card in March last year and added 2 KB Savings Bank as another subsidiary to the Group in January this year. In addition, we strove to make changes and 3 innovations in a wide range of areas, such as customer services, product development, green management & environmental protection and social responsibility. $VDUHVXOWZH¿QLVKHGWKH\HDUZLWKRQHRIRXUEHVWSHUIRUPDQFHVDVRIWKHHQGRIWRWDODVVHWVUHFRUGHG.5: WULOOLRQZLWKQHWLQFRPHRI.5:WULOOLRQ.%.RRNPLQ%DQNEHFDPHWKHSLRQHHULQLQGXVWU\WRSURGXFHDUHFRUG KB Financial Group intends to become your companion on the journey .5:WULOOLRQLQWRWDOGHSRVLWVDQG.%/LIH,QVXUDQFH¶VWRWDODVVHWVWRSSHGWKH.5:WULOOLRQPDUN6XFKUHQHZHG toward a more prosperous and hopeful tomorrow. competitiveness in many of our subsidiaries provided a critical turning point for more solid sustainability management. Though we have made considerable efforts to practice our social responsibilities over the past years, )RU.%)LQDQFLDO*URXSZDVD\HDURILPSUHVVLYHSHUIRUPDQFHGHVSLWHGLI¿FXOWLHVKRPHDQGDEURDGDQGRIDQHZ we will still embrace more changes and innovations, instead of resting on our laurels. PLOHVWRQHLQIXO¿OOLQJRXUVRFLDOUHVSRQVLELOLWLHVDVDOHDGLQJ¿QDQFLDOFRPSDQ\ To this end, KB Financial Group will lay the groundwork for sustainability management by In addition, our corporate engagement goes to great length to support local economy and promote the importance of securing future growth engines, while being at the forefront of offering environment-friendly YROXQWHHUZRUN,Q0D\ZHHVWDEOLVKHG.%)RXQGDWLRQDSKLODQWKURSLFLQLWLDWLYHWRSURYLGH¿QDQFLDOVXSSRUWDQG ¿QDQFLDOSURGXFWVDQGVHUYLFHV)XUWKHUPRUHZHZLOOFKDQQHORXUFDSDELOLWLHVLQWRFUHDWLQJDUREXVW VFKRODUVKLSVWRVWXGHQWVLQQHHGDQGLQFUHDVHHGXFDWLRQDORSSRUWXQLWLHV:HDOVRODXQFKHG³.%*RRG-RE´WRKHOSFUHDWH organization committed to transparent and ethical management and a workplace where work and life MREVIRU\RXWKVDVZHOODVWRDGGUHVVPDQSRZHUVKRUWDJHVRI60(V³.%*RRG-RE´DLPVDWFRQQHFWLQJEXVLQHVVHVLQQHHG LVZHOOEDODQFHG:HSURPLVHWRFRQWLQXHRXUHIIRUWVWRJURZLQKDUPRQ\ZLWKWKRVHDURXQGXVDQG RIZRUNHUVWRMREVHHNHUVXVLQJ.%)LQDQFLDO*URXS¶VQHWZRUN:HDUHDOVREXLOGLQJRQDXQLTXHVRFLDOFRQWULEXWLRQPRGHO ³JLYHEDFN´WRWKHFRPPXQLW\ZHEHORQJWRLQDPRUHRUJDQL]HGIDVKLRQ2QO\WKURXJKWKLVGRZH E\FDUU\LQJRXWYROXQWDU\VHUYLFHVXQGHUWKHIRXUFRUHWKHPHV³\RXWK´³JOREDO´³WKHHQYLURQPHQW´DQG³ZHOOEHLQJRIWKH ¿UPO\EHOLHYHWKDWZHFDQHDUQUHVSHFWDQGVXSSRUWLQRXUKRPHPDUNHW.RUHDDQGDEURDG DJHG´ Your unsparing support and encouragement will always remain valuable in our pursuit of mutual KB Financial Group made various efforts to enhance transparency in business practices and independence of the Board growth with society. of Directors. As a result, we won the honorable grand prize in transparent management and were also named outstanding FRUSRUDWLRQLQJRYHUQDQFH:HZRQRYHUDZDUGVDWKRPHDQGDEURDGLQFOXGLQJD3UHVLGHQWLDOFLWDWLRQLQUHFRJQLWLRQRI Thank you. Chairman & CEO .%.RRNPLQ%DQN¶VDQWLPRQH\ODXQGHULQJ:HDOVRUDQNHG1&6, 1DWLRQDO&XVWRPHU6DWLVIDFWLRQ,QGH[ ¶V1RLQWKH KB Financial Group Inc. EDQNLQJFDWHJRU\IRUVL[FRQVHFXWLYH\HDUVWKHDQG.64, .RUHD6HUYLFH4XDOLW\,QGH[ ¶V1RLQWKHFUHGLWFDUGFDWHJRU\ Yoon-Dae Euh 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report *URXS3URILOH About KB Financial Group KB Financial Group is one of the Korea’s Capitalizing on the Group-wide infrastructure, synergies and marketing capabilities, and Ŗ)NQDCN0GVYQTM leading financial institution with over KB Financial Group seeks to improve implement optimal portfolios, and thereby KRW277,600.8 billion in total assets, productivity, promote performance-oriented contribute to the advancement of the the largest customer base and the most culture, establish more advanced and domestic financial industry. extensive branch network in Korea as of proactive risk management, maximize Group the end of December 2011. The Group’s domestic subsidiaries include KB Kookmin Ŗ&QOGUVKE$TCPEJGU (Unit: number) Bank, KB Kookmin Card, KB Investment & Securities, KB Life Insurance, KB Asset Management, KB Real Estate Trust, KB Investment, KB Credit Information, KB Data Systems and KB Savings Bank (added as a subsidiary in January 2012), and overseas subsidiaries include Kookmin Bank Hong Kong Ltd., Kookmin Bank International Ltd. in the UK, and Kookmin Bank Cambodia PLC. in Cambodia. 4 In accordance with the corporate mid5 to long-term growth strategy to respond to the changes in the financial business environment, such as the accelerating globalization in the financial industr y, falling profitability from traditional banking business, expansion of the capital market following the implementation of the Capital Market Consolidation Act, and growing * Listed above are domestic and overseas branches needs for comprehensive financial services, of KB Kookmin Bank. KB Financial Group was established on September 29, 2008 through comprehensive Affiliates stock transfer from major subsidiaries. KB Financial Group at a Glance KB Kookmin Bank is establishing itself as Korea’s Spun off from KB Kookmin Bank as a separate KB Investment & Securities is a full-service securities As a full-service insurance company, KB Life KB Asset Management offers a full spectrum of Date of Establishment September 29, 2008 most premier bank equipped with the top-notch entity in March 2011, KB Kookmin Card is a company with the philosophy of “talent-centric Insurance offers customer-centric financial services asset management services, taking the lead in professionalism in the banking industry as well mono-line credit card company that even pays management,” “transparent management” and under the vision of becoming an “ultra-superior bringing up Korea’s asset management industry Chairman & CEO Yoon-Dae Euh as the best operational infrastructure such as the attention to the potential needs of customers. “pursuit of creativeness (or ingenuity) and new things.” insurance company chosen by customers.” to a new level. No. of Branches 1,283 nation’s largest customer base and branch network. No. of Employees 25,065 No. of Customers 26.73 million Drawing on its in-depth understanding of the Established as a subsidiary of KB Financial Group, KB Data Systems is a financial SI(system integration) Established in January 2012, KB Savings Bank Total Assets(KRW billion) 277,600.8 A wholly-owned subsidiary of KB Financial investment environment for SMEs, KB Investment KB Credit Information is gaining prominence as company specializing in IT project development, IT is committed to fulfilling its intrinsic mission to Total Revenue(KRW billion) 26,484.3 Group, KB Real Estate Trust effectively manages is assisting SMEs in their financial and a company specializing in debt collection with systems operation, the sale of financial IT solution “provide low-income customers with access to Net Income(KRW billion) 2,373.0 the real estate entrusted by customers. management decisions as their partner. stable operations and growth potential. packages, and resale of IT hardware equipment. finance”. 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Domestic Credit Ratings International Credit Ratings Total Assets Total Deposits Customers Based on KB Kookmin Bank AAA Moody’s A1 A Fitch KRW 278 trillion Surpassed KRW 200 trillion 26.7 million Based on the number of retail customers of KB Kookmin Bank) Based on KB Kookmin Bank (Korea Ratings Jul. 7, ’11, Korea Investors Service June 30, ’11, (Moody’s April 14, 2010, Fitch March 2, 2010) National Information & Credit Evaluation Inc. May 16, ’11) 277.6 260.2 212.1 258.8 190.3 196.7 197.6 179.9 169.1 52.5 40.9 43.9 Total Assets Total Loans Deposits Borrowings and Debentures Operational Scale Funding (Unit: KRW trillion) (Unit: KRW trillion) 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 6 3,398.3 7 163.4 2,373.0 146.8 118.3 1.83 651.3 1.19 1.44 539.8 387.9 146.6 NPL Ratio* NPL Coverage Ratio Operating Income Net Income Asset Quality 2TQſVCDKNKV[ (Unit: %) 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 (Unit: KRW billion) 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 * NPL: Non-performing Loan * Operational scale, asset quality, funding and profitability were calculated based on K-GAAP for 2009 data and based on K-IFRS for 2011 data. 2011 Highlight Named Jun. Sep. Dec. May. Outstanding Jun. Included in the Nov. KB Kookmin Jan. Jan. Mar. Mar. Apr. Established Corporation in 2011 KB Kookmin DJSI(Dow Jones Warm winter Bank ranked No. 1 First round of “KB Good Job”, Spun off Launched Created the second KB Foundation Governance/Grand Bank opened its Sustainability Index) sharing event for in the NCSI for the conversation with the a job matching program KB Kookmin Card “KB Hidden Star 500” KB Carbon Neutral prize in Transparent branch office in Ho Asia Pacific for the elderly citizens living sixth consecutive CEO Forest Management Chi Minh, Vietnam third consecutive year alone year 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report &RUSRUDWH KB Financial Group constantly strives to increase corporate value through Maximum remuneration limits of directors over three years after retirement so that their improved corporate governance and build a sound and transparent are determined at the general shareholders’ pay is linked to the company’s long-term *RYHUQDQFH ſPCPEKCNOCTMGV meeting. 100% of long-term performance performance. pay of directors is granted in restricted stock KB Financial Group endeavors to increase corporate value through continued improvement of Attendance Rate by its governance structure while working hard to protect and promote rights and interests of all % of Non-executive Directors No. of Female Directors No. of Board Meetings Non-executive Directors 69.2 1 13 93.5 stakeholders by establishing management accountability and running independent board of directors and audit organization to create a sound and transparent management environment. In recognition of these efforts and the excellence of its governance, KB Financial Group was named % times % “the best company in corporate governance in 2011” by the Korea Corporate Governance Service. Independent and Transparent Board of Directors KB Financial Group runs the Board Steering for Audit Committee members, including Non-Standing 8 Committee, Management Strategy Committee, their recommendation, and running a whistleExecutive Directors Directors 9 Risk Management Committee, Audit blowing system. We run the Audit Committee Yoon-Dae Euh Young-Rok Lim Byong-Deok Min Vaughn Richtor Committee, Evaluation & Compensation made up of five non-executive directors and Chairman & CEO, President, President & CEO, CEO, ING Banking Asia 2011 ESG Evaluation Results of the Korea Committee, Non-Executive Director Nominating we meet all requirements of supervisory KB Financial Group KB Financial Group KB Kookmin Bank Corporate Governance Service Committee, and Audit Committee Member authorities including compliance with laws on Category Evaluation Result Nominating Committee under its BoD. governance structure of domestic financial Environment(E) A Non-executive directors are actively acting as services companies. checks against the management by offering Society(S) A+ dissenting or amended views regarding Performance Evaluation and Compensation Governance(G) A+ agenda items under discussion. The adequacy of operation of the BoD and Overall A+ its committees is evaluated by the Board Non-Executive Directors Protection of Stakeholder Rights We Steering Committee at the end of each year, Committees under the BoD provide video clips on general shareholders’ and non-executive directors are subject Kyung-Jae Lee Jae-Wook Bae Young-Jin Kim Kun-Ho Hwang Jong-Cheon Lee Chairman of the Board Lawyer at Bae Jae Wook Professor of business Adviser at the Korea Professor of business meetings through our website to protect the to self-evaluation, evaluation by Board Law Office administration at Seoul Financial Investment administration at Soongsil Name of Committee Directors rights of shareholders and other stakeholders. members, and evaluation by employees. The National University Association University Board Steering One executive director, five Committee non-executive directors Also to protect the rights of minority shareholders, Board is evaluated across four categories we established a legal basis for the introduction – Board composition and effectiveness, One executive director, two of “concentrated vote”, and enabled minority functions and roles of the Board, Board Management non-standing directors, three Strategy Committee shareholders to exercise their voting rights responsibilities, and protection of shareholder non-executive directors in writing so as to reflect their opinions more rights and shareholder relationships, and Audit Committee Five non-executive directors properly. non-executive directors are evaluated Risk Management One executive director, four in terms of their interest and the level of Committee non-executive directors 'HſEKGPV1RGTCVKQPQH#WFKV(WPEVKQPU engagement in the Board, experience and Sang-Moon Hahm Seung-Hee Koh Young-Nam Lee Jae-Mok Cho Evaluation & We a re e s t a b l i s h i n g a f r a m e w o r k f o r knowledge, and duties and dispositions of One executive director, three Professor at KDI Professor of business President & CEO, CEO, ACE Research Compensation bolstering audit operations by disclosing our directors. School of Public Policy administration at EZ Digital Center non-executive directors Committee and Management Sookmyung Women’s regulations on the appointment procedure University 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 0DQDJHPHQW 9GYKNNOCZKOK\GRTQſVCDKNKV[VJTQWIJXCNWGHQEWUGFITQYVJD[GPJCPEKPI subsidiaries. The Committee convenes every and plans to hold the contest at the group productivity and management efficiency even in the face of the global quarter. level twice a year beginning in 2012. 6WUDWHJ\ economic instability and uncertainty. Idea Contest for Change and Innovation KB Financial Group has held an idea contest each year for change and innovation Market Situation and Strategy Change and Innovation Progress of Change and Innovation The year 2012 is likely to see heightened During 2010 and 2011, KB Financial Group uncertainty due to the excessive household was intent on carrying out initiatives aimed at debts, sluggish real estate market and bringing “change and innovation” to the Group increased geopolitical risks amid continued under the guidance of the holding company concerns about the global economy and in order to improve its core competitiveness stagnant growth. In 2012, KB Financial in major segments of business. In 2012, Group will continue its efforts to turn it into however, our subsidiaries will take the initiative a productivityand efficiency-oriented in facilitating performance-based culture, organization to achieve its goal of “maximizing communication and work efficiencies. profitability through value-focused growth.” Change & Innovation Committee Change 10 With a view to building a platfor m for and innovation activities led by the Group’s 11 sustainable growth, we will move forward Change & Innovation Committee and relevant with four key initiatives in 2012: Improvement consultative bodies operated within the holding of the Group’s productivity and establishment company have been transferred to subsidiaries. of performance-oriented corporate culture, The Group’s Change & Innovation Committee sophistication of proactive risk management, comprises a total of 16 members, including maximization of the Group synergies and the CEO & President of KB Kookmin Bank as marketing capabilities, and optimization of the chairman and other executives from the the Group’s portfolio. holding company, banking and non-banking Four Key Strategic Initiatives of KB Financial Group for 2012 KB Spirit Customer-oriented, Professional, Innovative, Speedy, and Performance-oriented KB Financial Group’s mission is to “touch customers’ hearts”. Five core principles make up the foundation of our mission, all geared towards transforming the Group into a “customer-oriented,” “professional,” “innovative,” “speedy,” and “performance-oriented” organization. It is our resolve to touch customers’ hearts with the best possible products and services and thereby earn their trust and respect. We will strive to satisfy customers through ‘heart-touching sales’ and ‘heart-touching services’ and we are committed not only to achieving the growth of our employees and KB Kookmin Bank Financial Group but also to fulfilling our corporate social responsibilities. 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 6XVWDLQDELOLW\ -$(KPCPEKCN)TQWRYKNNDGEQOGCőſPCPEKCNITQWRVJCVRWVURGQRNGDGHQTG partners and supervisory agencies, and the each issue based on business impact and anything else” by pursuing stakeholder-centric sustainability management major channels we offer for their engagement the level of interest in society. The 5-part 0DQDJHPHQW based on ethical and transparent business practices. are meetings with business partners, materiality test of the AA1000 Stakeholder customer satisfaction surveys, business Engagement Standard (AA1000SE) was used partner satisfaction surveys, employee in the assessment of materiality. The contents awareness surveys and sustainability issue of the Sustainability Report constructed surveys. based on the materiality assessment result Our Approach to Sustainability Stakeholder Engagement were finalized after review by the Strategic Management Stakeholder Survey A “2011 KB Financial Planning Department and Social Contribution Stakeholder Groups and Engagement Group Stakeholder Survey” was conducted Department of KB Financial Group, and KB Financial Group upholds the principles Channels KB Financial Group communicates for about one month to identify major major executives of KB Kookmin Bank and for sustainable growth. We seek to generate with various stakeholders using its nationwide issues of interests among internal and other subsidiaries. profits in an ethical and transparent manner branch network. To clearly understand exter nal stakeholders. Approximately in the course of business operations, while and address major areas of interest by 1,100 stakeholders including employees, Major Issues Identified and Measures carrying out sustainability efforts as a stakeholders, we make sure that sufficient customers and business partners Taken and Reported The measures corporate member of society, taking into communication takes place with each participated in the survey. taken to address major issues identified account the impact on society and the stakeholder to reflect their opinions in our are disclosed in this report. Management environment of our green management, management activities. Our major stakeholder Materiality Test approach to key issues, measures taken and social contribution activities and financial aid groups include customers, shareholders, their results are all disclosed in accordance programs. employees, local communities, business Materiality Test Process In preparing with the GRI Guidelines. While we also tried 12 this Sustainability Report, we created a to include all major issues in the report, 13 pool of 48 issues from KB Kookmin Bank’s explicit disclosures of certain items related Area And Direction of Sustainability Management major issues reported up to 2011, global to stricter regulations concerning capital standards, internal interviews, external media adequacy ratio, low interest rate policy, issues and issues identified from industry growing use of mobile banking and global peers, and then assessed materiality of hedge funds were excluded. Sustainability Issues of KB Financial Group We consider customer We fulfill our social We endeavor to minimize We nurture financial As a financial group of satisfaction as the responsibilities with social and environmental specialists by providing the people, we do our foremost priority products and services risks through green continuous educational best to provide donations, and strive to protect management and and career developmental voluntary work and social that contribute to green customers and increase transparency opportunities while trying to services for public consumers by providing growth and public and ethics through ethical build robust organizational benefit. them with the right benefit and at the same management culture and laborservices and information. time create new value. management relations. 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Interviews with Stakeholders Employee Customer KB Full of Challenging Spirit Virtuousness, a Prerequisite for Sustainable Success Congratulations on the issuance of KB Financial Group’s first Sustainability Report. It wouldn’t be necessary to list all the epithets that describe KB as you already know them well. I feel As many people know, “RockStar Zone” is a new branch channel designed to attract young very comfortable with KB. I think this feeling of comfortableness comes from KB’s organizational customers who are crucial for our future growth and to create a young and dynamic culture. I find culture. Compared to other industries, the financial industry is unique in that sustainable growth is it rewarding to hear from young customers that KB is getting younger and appealing to them as unthinkable without the understanding of customers and relationships with them. a new image and such comments strengthen my resolve to provide them with better services. In this regard, I believe KB already has core competencies in both services at customer contact KF Financial Group, from what I experienced for the past three years, is an organization full of points and customer-centric business process. I think one of the preconditions for being a passion and the spirit of challenge towards its goals. All the employees care for the company and sustainable business is being a virtuous company. Whenever I hear news about a company’s Oh Yoon Dong, Park Kyung Wook, the company has the philosophy that gives priority to talented manpower. I firmly believe that their CEO of Hanlim Architecture social contribution activities, the first thing that comes to mind is that whether the activities will be manager of KB Kookmin common goal of “growing into a global financial group leading the Asian financial industry” will be Group effective or whether the company is really serious about it. Bank’s Yonsei University “RockStar Zone” achieved no matter what. I look forward to your support and guidance for KB Financial Group. KB, in this regard, seems to be serious about helping low-income individuals and other disadvantaged people. I hope that KB continues to contribute to developing the Korean financial industry further and win the trust of all stakeholders. 14 15 Business Partner External Expert What is Win-Win? Sustainability Management Must be Incorporated into Corporate Strategy One of the social topics of increasing attention is mutual growth. Whereas everyone agrees that our society should pursue mutual growth, in reality it is difficult to achieve mutual growth I think KB Financial Group carries out a high level of sustainability activities commensurate with satisfying both large companies and SMEs or both people who have powers and people who its reputation as the leading financial institution in Korea. The Group is already in the industry don’t at the same time. Although a variety of solutions to achieve mutual growth are presented, I leadership position in many aspects, as indicated by its inclusion as a component in the think the real solution would be found easily in a sense. Sung Shin Planning has supplied outdoor Dow Johns Sustainability Asia Pacific Index for three consecutive years. In my opinion, more signboards, indoor signs and POP displays to KB for 20 years and I have never seen one of my fundamental approach to KB Financial Group’s social responsibility lies not only in curtailing its Lee Dong Jin, employees losing sleep over unreasonable demand or unfair contract terms in their dealings with Kim Dong Soo, carbon footprint or engaging directly in social contribution activities but also in seeking ways CEO of Sung Shin Planning Co. Head of Sustainability KB. Whenever I meet people who ask me these questions, I tell them KB employees’ attitudes to provide financial incentives to the SMEs that achieve energy efficiency, thereby encouraging Management Department of or anecdotes about them instead of explaining how their clean contracting or communication Korea Productivity Center them to grow and take on bigger roles in society. Many studies conducted in recent years provide channels work for business partners. Nowadays it seems as if our employees were KB’s honorary statistical proof that companies showing good sustainability performance also produce good ambassadors. I kindly ask for your continued support for mutual growth of KB Financial Group financial results. KB Financial Group will be able to boost its reputation as well as become a and Sung Shin Planning. more attractive company to investors when it pays more attention to sustainability and aligns sustainability with its key strategies. 01 )LQDQFHWKDW3XWV3HRSOH We want to make a better world where everyone can enjoy happiness EHIRUH$Q\WKLQJ(OVH As a leader in Korea’s financial industry, KB Financial Group strives to increase customer satisfaction through differentiated customer relations management. We will continue to actively protect customer information and prevent financial incidents by means of rigorous IT security while providing accurate information to consumers. | Customer Satisfaction | | Prevention of Financial Incidents | | Protection of Financial Consumers 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Finance that Puts People before Anything Else &XVWRPHU KB Financial Group is a financial institution with a comprehensive linealso revamped branch customer satisfaction “Watching” aimed at promoting interest and CSI Survey Result of KB Kookmin Bank Branches up of products and services serving half the population, or 26.73 million index (CSI) survey. During 2011, the branch participating in customer value-centric culture; (Unit: Points) 6DWLVIDFWLRQ customers. We will continue to place the highest priority on customers CSI survey was conducted eight times for “Integration” aimed at sharing consensus a total of 995 branches (compared to 910 on customer value-centric culture through and strive to create customer value. branches in 2010). 28 to 38 customers were communication; “Synergy” aimed at creating surveyed per branch. To increase reliability of synergy from customer-centric CS activities; and the survey, surveyed customers were restricted “Harmony” aimed at building harmony based to those who had visited branches within three on understanding and considerateness. business days prior to the survey date. The branch CSI survey produced 92.88 points in Operation of Customer Value Creation the second half of 2011, higher than the target Council With a view to identifying and of 91 points set for the recent two years. executing CS improvement tasks at the company level, KB Kookmin Card has been (Unit: Points) Creating Customer-centric operating a customer value creation council score Culture since July 2011. A decision-making body Target 1H 2H for increasing customer satisfaction and CS Culture Code In March 2011, KB customer value, the council convenes once 2011 91 92.47 92.88 Kookmin Card refined the Customer Satisfaction a month. Major agenda items discussed 2010 91 92.73 92.89 Charter and CS vision it had shared with KB by the council are concerned with the 2009 90 92.06 92.55 Kookmin Bank in order to reflect internal and identification of company-wide innovative 18 external situations and the company’s business customer satisfaction measures, elimination 19 characteristics (Number One card service that of obstacles to customer satisfaction, puts the highest priority on customer value). and establishment of organic cross-team This was due to the growing need for collaboration for the implementation of fostering customer-centric culture instead of customer satisfaction tasks, and progress We Think of People First training” that combined CS and sales to administering a mere service skill-oriented check and evaluation (feedback) of tasks. approximately 1,150 branches. Our CS training to employees and for changing the Competitiveness of financial services lies in training consists of branch-level training, focus from the provision of customer services how eagerly we take heed of customer needs group training and other training. Smartat the branch level to process-centric operation and how much effort we make to increase CS training, one of group training programs, at the HQs level. To embed the Customer customer value. KB Financial Group, as was provided to a total of 2,500 employees Satisfaction Charter and relevant activities a leading financial services company in in 85 rounds, and Cyber CS education and in our corporate culture, we developed a Korea with the most extensive customer other training courses were provided to new CS Culture Code and tried to reach a base and branch network, serves half of the about 7,600 employees. We also distributed consensus among employees. Our CS Culture Korean population (26.73 million customers). “CS Summary Book and broadcast “CS Code “WISH” embodies our core four values: Customer value is our top priority and as Propose Season II” program” in a bid to such, we do our utmost to maintain great increase sales capabilities. As a result of affection that our customers show for us. these continued efforts, we maintained our ŖMajor CSI Surveys Conducted by Internal and External Parties (Unit: Points) first place standing in the National Customer Subsidiary 2009 2010 2011 The First in the Banking Industry Satisfaction Index for the sixth consecutive Ranked 1st Ranked 1st Ranked 1st to Rank No.1 in the NSCI for the year for the first time in the banking industry. National Customer Satisfaction Index KB Kookmin Bank (71) (73) (73) 6th Consecutive Year (NCSI) of Korea Productivity Center KB Kookmin Card 68 70 71 Branch CS Survey We built a new Ranked 1st Ranked 1st Ranked 1st Korea Customer Satisfaction Index KB Kookmin Bank Tailored CS training KB Kookmin Bank customer satisfaction system to increase (KCSI) of Korea Management Association (69.7) (71.7) (73.9) provided “tailored CS (customer satisfaction) customer value and sales performance and Consulting KB Kookmin Card 62.8 64.6 67.8 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Finance that Puts People before Anything Else 3UHYHQWLRQ KB Financial Group is implementing a high level IT security by acquiring Customer Information Protection System to All employees also receive anti-money Customer/Enhanced Due Diligence (CDD/ EDD) Performed major international IT certifications while striving to prevent financial prevent computer hacking and unauthorized laundering education at least once a year to (No. of transactions) RI)LQDQFLDO incidents by monitoring transactions and protecting personal information disclosure of customer files. Furthermore, raise awareness of financial crime risks. we make sure that all the customer files ,QFLGHQWV more rigorously. unnecessary for business purposes are In particular, the “Daily Check Rules on deleted by providing a list of all the customer Suspicious Transactions related to Major files stored in individual personal computers Social Issues” developed in 2011 contain and any remaining customer files are stored new suspicious transactions, such as a Currency Transaction Report (CTR) Importance of Prevention of requirements for the protection of personal in a separate secured domain. series of transactions related to illegal online Financial Incidents infor mation through eight revisions to gambling executed during the late-night the Customer Information Management Anti-money Laundering hours and holidays with random people (April Financial incidents refer to a broad range of Guidelines since 2004 that stipulate 2011), deposits/withdrawals related to online incidents, including hacking into IT systems, the efficient management of customer Presidential Citation for Money Laundering petty cash frauds through non-face-to-face (No. of transactions) money laundering, transactions under a information, prevention of illegal disclosure Prevention KB Kookmin Bank proactively channels (September 2011), and large-sum stolen identity personal information leakage and protection of personal information. prevents the opening of fraudulent accounts cash withdrawals by customers in petroleumSuspicious Transaction Report (STR) and business disruptions caused by natural In September 2011, KB Kookmin Bank by fully complying with the Customer Due related industries (November 2011). KB disasters. Prevention of these incidents is designated its Head of Compliance Diligence (CDD) obligation in accordance Financial Group was awarded a Presidential therefore essential to ensure continuity and Supporting Department as Chief Privacy with the Act on Repor ting and Use of citation for its anti-money laundering efforts. safety of financial services. In particular, IT Officer charged with the operation of a task Certain Financial Transaction Information security drew keen attention last year when force team (TFT) to reinforce the procedure when executing financial transactions with Self-assessment of Money Laundering (No. of transactions) 20 a computer network at another financial and standard for personal information customers. The Bank has also developed Prevention In 2011, we conducted a 21 services company was paralyzed by a processing. daily check rules for Suspicious Transaction self-assessment of anti-money laundering serious cyber-terror attack. KB Financial Report (STR) to detect some 80 types to identify vulnerabilities in policies Group pays extra attention to reinforcing the Enhanced Information Protection We of suspicious transaction through the and procedures and make necessar y process of preventing financial incidents and augmented the security of existing systems operation of an independent and superior improvements. The self-assessment led to personal information protection by putting by automatically logging any retrievals of compliance information system (CIS). Internal raised awareness of anti-money laundering in place an industry-best IT security system customer information from the computer, control officers from each branch check operations with 94.3% of assessed items and transaction monitoring framework. limiting the number of users allowed to suspicious transactions related to money receiving 5 points (Very High), 5.5% of items extract customer information through the laundering every day and report them to the receiving 4 points (High) and 0.2% of items Presidential citation in money laundering prevention Protection of Personal CRM system, and setting “task object code” Korea Financial Intelligence Unit (KoFIU). receiving 3 points (Average). Information as a compulsory entry item in electronic transactions in order to prevent customer Designation of Chief Privacy Officer BUSINESS CASE information retrievals for non-business KB Financial Group has tightened its purposes. We are also implementing *OREDO&HUWL¿FDWLRQVLQWKH)LHOGRI,7 ŖNo. of Anti-money Laundering Training Sessions Held (unit: time) KB Kookmin Bank was accredited with the two international certifications for its IT service Subsidiary Training Content 2009 2010 2011 management and disaster recovery respectively. BS 25999 is the international certification for 61 76 67 BCP (Business Continuity Plan) management regarding back-up center, disaster recovery system, Anti-money laundering Group training KB Kookmin Bank disaster recovery procedure and other IT-related recovery operations. ISO/IEC20000 is also the Document-based Anti-money laundering 31 34 43 international certification for IT service management areas such as management of IT hardware guidance equipment, monitoring of electronic transactions, response to IT system breakdowns and the Training and documentKB Kookmin Card Anti-money laundering based guidance at 60 procedure thereof. operational sites KB Kookmin Bank is the only bank in Korea to have obtained three international certifications in IT, KB Life Insurance Anti-money laundering Training 5 46 45 together with the ISO/IEC 27001 certification for information security obtained in 2009. KB Investment and Anti-money laundering Training 1 5 5 Securities 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Finance that Puts People before Anything Else )LQDQFLDO KB Financial Group spearheads the effort to protect the rights of Insurance adheres to its internal guidelines and procedures regarding document Bank and KB Kookmin Card conducted predeliberations of promotional materials to No. of Pre-deliberations on Advertisements and Promotional Materials EWUVQOGTUCPFſPCPEKCNEQPUWOGTUD[QHHGTKPIRTQFWEVUCPFUGTXKEGUVJCV &RQVXPHU comply with regulations and policy instruments management, product development-related prevent any use of inaccurate phrases and work guides and product development overdone advertising to comply with the 3URWHFWLRQ process. Financial Business Act revised in the wake of the enhanced consumer protection policy. As a joint venture between KB Financial Written notice containing matters that should Group and ING Group, KB Life Insurance be considered when creating promotional runs a guideline whereby the appropriateness materials was circulated among all the of P/L, insurance coverage and product branches, and each branch also checks if purchase type is reviewed in accordance correct and accurate information has been with ING Group’s product approval criteria. provided to customers using the monthly The company also has an internal procedure compliance checklist. KB Investment & (Unit: times) for approving product development and Securities, as it deals with a number of retail discussing priorities through Product Strategy products such as funds, conducted trainings Committee chaired by its CFO. KB Investment on advertisement review procedures for & Securities also makes sure that all product correct disclosure of product information to developments undergo a product deliberation help customers easily understand various process attended relevant departments. products. 22 K B F i n a n c i a l G ro u p s t i p u l a t e s , i n i t s Education Regarding Financial Consumer 23 Compliance Regulation and Compliance Protection To comply with the relevant Manual, the use of a checklist regarding banking laws revised under the enhanced d i s c l o s u re o f f i n a n c i a l p ro d u c t s a n d consumer protection policy and to raise investment advertisement; deliberation of awareness among employees, employees promotional materials and compliance with received training using advertising samples At the Forefront of Financial Pre-deliberation of Products in Development deliberation procedures; and deliberation reviewed and chosen by Compliance Officer. Consumer Protection KB Financial Group has a process whereby of investment advertisement by the Korea KB Life Insurance added compliance relevant business departments (Sales, Financial Investment Association following education to its training program for The Financial Supervisory Service declared Compliance, Legal, Risk Management, pre-approval by Compliance Officer. insurance agents with a renewed focus on the year 2012 as the “year of innovation Accounting, Customer Satisfaction, Business the prevention of mis-selling and the agents’ for financial consumer protection” in FSS Development, IT, etc.) are involved in reviewing Information Disclosure and Pre-deliberation obligation to explain product details to briefing session. As “greed” has increasingly risks involved, pricing policy, work procedures of Advertisement In 2011, KB Kookmin customers (a total of 35 times). been viewed as the biggest obstacle to and potential breach of customer rights and financial consumer protection in recent interests, and in creating manuals for the years, the issue of social responsibilities newly developed products. Particularly, retail BUSINESS CASE for excessive fees and interest rate spread, financial products, such as insurance products collusion to fix fees, and unfair business or funds available in various contract terms practices is coming to the fore. KB Financial and fee structures, are strictly subject to the .%6DYLQJV%DQN/DXQFKHG Group has put in place processes for fair pre-deliberation process. KB Savings Bank, a wholly-owned 10th subsidiary of KB Financial Group, was established as a disclosure of product information (contract leading savings bank to better serve its low-income customers. terms and commissions), provision of correct Internal Guidelines In addition to the With a view to offering high-quality customer services, creating a clean bank, generating Groupwide synergies and implementing strategic tasks aimed at building a stable growth platform, information in the course of marketing, compliance with the procedures as set forth KB Savings Bank will spare no effort in establishing an exemplary management model and gain and product design based on reasonable in the Regulation on Supervision of Insurance prominence as an outstanding savings bank in Korea. contract terms and commissions to ensure Business recommended by the FSS in that mis-selling is minimized. relation to product development, KB Life SPECIAL PAGE Rock Enjoy the bank! A New Sensation for College Students “RockStar Zone” Online Services Offered by RockStar In order to keep pace with the fast-changing financial industry and new trends “RockStar Zone” Star among youth centered on social network services, RockStar =RQH 1HƀKPG5GTXKEGU1HHGTGFD[4QEM5VCT Targeting college students and future potential customers, RockStar Zones are adds a new dimension to the banking services preferred by college students and other young people. The Bank uses operated in the form of mini-branches located near major the online website (www.kbrockstar.com) and official Twitter universities across the country. The interior of a RockStar (kb_rockstar) to raise awareness of the RockStar brand and Zone is custom-designed based on the colors and symbols disseminate youth content, and actively utilizes new media of respective universities to create a bond with students, and such as SNS, QR Code and smart phones. The online channels RockStar Zones are mostly staffed by the employees who provide a wide range of information such as introduction to ,Q-DQXDU\ZHRSHQHG³5RFN6WDU=RQH´DQHZFRQFHSWEDQNFKDQQHOGHVLJQHGWREHDSSHDOLQJWRFROOHJHVWXGHQWV graduated from the respective universities. RockStar, financeand job-related content, foodstuffs and 5RFN6WDU=RQHVQRWRQO\DOORZFXVWRPHUVWRFDUU\RXWEDQNLQJWUDQVDFWLRQVEXWWKH\DOVRSURYLGHRWKHUYDULRXVVHUYLFHV events appropriate to the needs of college students. VXFKDVYHQXHVIRUVHPLQDUVPLQLFDIpVHUYLFHPRYLHVDQGPXVLF,QDGGLWLRQWRRIÀLQHVHUYLFHV5RFN6WDU=RQHVDOVRRIIHU Beginning with the “Sookmyung Snow Flower Branch” in January 2011, the number of RockStar Zones increased to Youth-focused Products and Services Currently, VHUYLFHVYLDQHZPHGLDVXFKDV7ZLWWHUDQG616 41, including 11 in Seoul, 6 in the metropolitan area, 9 in RockStar Account and RockStar Check Card are offered Chungcheong region, 10 in Yeongnam region and 5 in Honam exclusively for youths. RockStar Account offers various region. Unlike conventional bank branches, RockStar Zones services such as favorable interest rates, fee exemption for offer a variety of participatory events and cultural marketing electronic and ATM transactions as well as favorable exchange programs, such as indie band concerts, chamber concerts, rates, and the number of accounts opened topped 200,000. special lectures for jobseekers, and backpacking trips to RockStar Check Card offers discount benefits tailored to each overseas countries, that are preferred by college students, university. thereby improving KB Kookmin Bank’s young image as well as connecting the Bank to college culture. 24 25 INTERVIEW $1HZ%UHHGRI%DQN%UDQFK Yang Da Won, Business Administration at Kyunghee University As there was no KB Kookmin Bank branch near Kyunghee University, I had to walk all the way to Hankuk University of Foreign Studies. Then, I heard a new KB branch opened in front of our school, so I visited the branch to get my check card reissued. Stepping into the branch, I was surprised to find the interior quite different from other banks. Music was playing and there were a laptop computer, a tablet PC and even the latest mobile phone on the table. I even wondered if they could handle all of the usual banking transactions. Since then, I’ve been going to the branch to use the seminar room there, instead of spending money to have a study meeting at a coffee shop, and I stop by the branch occasionally just to drink coffee. KB Kookmin Bank’s RockStar is becoming a hot issue among college students to the extent that it is often chosen as one of the topics for class presentations. I give my support to the Bank’s new attempt and hope that the Bank keeps coming up with better services. 02 3URGXFWVDQG 6HUYLFHVWKDW(QULFK We create a new future that enables WKH)XWXUH everyone to nurture their dreams KB Financial Group induces our stakeholders to engage in green practices and supports green growth of our society through products and services that aim at pursuing public benefit and enriching life in the future. | Green Financial Products | |(KPCPEKCN2TQFWEVUHQT2WDNKE$GPGſV| | Socially Responsible Investment | 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Products and Services that Enrich the Future *UHHQ)LQDQFLDO KB Financial Group is sparing no effort to promote domestic green loan is granted to fund installation of energy equipment, and repayment is made out of the lifestyle and soon released “KB Kookmin Green Card,” “KB Kookmin Green Business Card,” KPFWUVTKGUVJTQWIJCXCTKGV[QHITGGPſPCPEKCNRTQFWEVU 3URGXFWV money saved from the use of the equipment. and “KB Kookmin Green Check Card.” Green This way, the user can replace obsolescent Card holders receive additional point rewards equipment with energy-saving one without every time they use public transportation or buy technological or financial burden. energy-saving or eco-friendly products and get free admission or discounts at public or municipal Promoting Green Lifestyles facilities. Promoting Green Growth through with loans and other financial services, thus Green Financial Products contributing to building a green economy. KB Kookmin Green Card Series In KB Financial Group will continue to offer wider Companies eligible for our Green Growth 2011, KB Kookmin Card joined the government’s choice for customers by launching additional KB Kookmin Bank has actively sought to fulfill Loan include manufacturers of environment“Green Credit Card” initiative intended to eco-friendly products and bring attention to ecoits social responsibilities to support green friendly products, businesses registered encourage all Koreans to practice a green friendly green growth. growth and has reinforced green finance as new and renewable energy companies, networks with the government and related new and renewable energy producers, agencies. In doing so, the Bank has been general and designated waste recyclers, providing policy advice for green finance signatories to the voluntary agreement on directions, while leading collaboration with green purchasing, ISO14000 series-certified ŖGreen Financial Products of KB Financial Group other financial institutions and exploring enterprises, Energy Service Companies Product name Unit 2009 2010 2011 Characteristics various financial suppor t programs to (ESCO), manufacturers of high-efficiency 28 increase competitiveness of green industries. energy equipment, LED(Light-Emitting Balance KB Financial Group’s flagship green financial product designed 29 KB Green Growth Loan 254.3 821.5 1,379.8 (KRW billion) to provide financing needed for green growth KB Green ESCO, the first corporate loan Diode)-related companies, and companies product designed to support Energy Service with green certifications. As of the end of Balance A loan product designed to support the solar PV (photovoltaic) Loan KB Solar Biz Loan 33.3 65.7 75.0 (KRW billion) business Companies (ESCO), is one of the Bank’s 2011, KB Green Growth Loan outstanding various green financial products designed to totaled KRW1,379.8 billion. Balance New New A product designed to support investing in high-efficiency KB Green ESCO Biz Loan (KRW billion) product release energy facilities support green industries. KB Green ESCO, a Green Business A deposit product which donates 1 percent of interest KB Wisegreen e-Step-Up Term Balance Deposit 208.8 68.4 0.7 payments (before taxes) to green organizations such as the Contribution to Catalyzing Green Loan KB Green ESCO is a loan product Deposit (KRW billion) Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute Industries designed to provide “energy users” with Discounts for use of public transportation/trains, free-of-charge the finance they need to improve or replace No. of accounts KB Kookmin Green Growth Card 30.8 48.2 39.9 nonlife bicycle insurance, carbon cash-back points when using (thousand) KB Green Growth Loan KB Green existing old or low-efficiency energy facilities the card at designated merchants Growth Loan is KB Financial Group’s with high-efficiency ones to save energy. No. of accounts Points when purchasing energy-saving or green products. representative green financial product aimed Once a performance contract is executed Credit Card KB Kookmin Green Card 182 (thousand) Points when using Eco Money merchants at supporting green growth businesses between ESCO and an energy user, ESCO KB Kookmin Green Biz Card No. of businesses 2 Same as above KB Green Biz Check Card No. of businesses 4 Same as above Fund size A collective investment vehicle that invests in BTL projects Korean Peninsula BTL Fund 375.6 530.9 590.3 (KRW billion) designed to improve sewer pipes (17 projects) Fund size Fund Love Your National Land BTL Fund 193.2 300.5 363.2 KB Green Growth Loan Extended (Collective (KRW billion) investment Fund size A collective investment vehicle that invests in new and scheme) New and Renewable Energy Fund 95.6 90.0 85.5 KB Green ESCO (KRW billion) renewable energy businesses or assets (9 projects) 기업대출 출시 Equity-type investment trust that primarily invests in shares Fund size KB Global Warming Fund 6.5 5.2 4.3 of enterprises that are likely to benefit from the growth of (KRW billion) industries related to global warming (Unit: KRW 100 million) 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Products and Services that Enrich the Future )LQDQFLDO KB Financial Group seeks to help the less privileged directly benefit Supporting Mutual Growth to three times the amount deposited, which, in turn, is used as loans for SMEs. The product Microcredit Loans Outstanding by Region HTQOſPCPEKCNUWRRQTVCPFKORTQXGFUGTXKEGUYJKNGUGNNKPIRWDNKEDGPGſV in Partnership with Local 3URGXFWVIRU products to ordinary citizens so that they can indirectly participate in social Governments was developed to support the government’s mutual growth policy. In 2011, loans worth 3XEOLF%HQHILW contribution activities. KB SME Loans under the Mutual Growth KRW32.7 billion were extended to a total of 67 Agreement KB Financial Group provides SMEs through the Agreement. loans to partner SMEs recommended by big businesses under the “Mutual Growth Love My Hometown Deposit and Credit Agreement” signed between large companies Card KB Financial Group rolled out Love My and KB Financial Group to promote win-win Hometown products in 2009 in partnership Helping the Underprivileged or “KB Smile Microcredit” to Serve cooperation between large companies and with local governments. As of the end of Socially Disadvantaged Low-income Earners SMEs. Under the Agreement, large companies 2011, 17,491 deposit accounts amounting deposit a certain amount of money into interestto KRW375 billion and 196,866 credit card KB Financial Group strives to live up to its “KB Smile Microcredit Bank”, KB Financial free or low-interest accounts of KB Kookmin accounts were opened. social responsibilities helping low-income Group’s non-profit foundation for microfinancing, Bank and the Bank sets up a matching fund up families and the underprivileged receive was established in 2009 for the purpose of financial services. We provide direct benefits supporting self-sufficiency of low-income to the underprivileged with necessary people. The foundation provides startup Ŗ2TQFWEVUCPF5GTXKEGUHQTRWDNKE$GPGſV financial products and services while loans, working capital finance and consulting Date No. of Balance giving ordinary citizens the opportunities to services in alliance with the Small Enterprise Product Name Product Features (Description) Launched Accounts (KRW billion) 30 indirectly contribute to society through public Development Agency to the financially 31 KB SME Loan under the Mutual A loan product designed to help SMEs using funds raised under an benefit products. underprivileged who want to regain Loan Jun. 2011 67 32.7 Growth Agreement agreement executed with large companies economic rehabilitation but have no access A product designed to contribute to society by making charitable KB Love My Hometown Deposit Jul. 2011 17,491 375.0 KB Build Happiness Installment Savings to conventional financial services due to poor donations to municipalities designated by customers KB Build Happiness Installment Savings credit ratings or low income status. A demand deposit product exempt from garnishment of relief Vision and Mission of pays interest rate up to 7 percent per annum payments, basic old-age pensions, disability pensions, or child KB Keep Happiness Account Jun. 2011 1,687 0.2 disability allowances so that the account can be solely used to KB Smile Microcredit Bank to assist with economic self-reliance of Major Achievements In December support living the socially disadvantaged, such as relief 2010, KB Financial Group won the Prime An online joint purchase term deposit that offers varying interest recipients, child heads of households, North Minister’s Award in the group category as the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Deposit rates depending on the amount deposited and whether to host the Olympic Games e-Group Buy Mar. 2011 24,146 386.6 Korean defectors, and multicultural families. first bank to carry out economic rehabilitation Winter Olympic Games. 1 percent of interest payments is donated Deposit Designed for low-income earners, the product and “reach-out microcredit programs” for to winter sports organizations offers a a lower than usual pre-termination the underprivileged in partnership with local Arirang UNESCO World Heritage A deposit product designed to collect donations for the purpose of Nov. 2011 4,859 97.7 rate if the account is pre-terminated for governments. In 2011, the Group won the e-Group Buy Deposit placing the song of Arirang on the UNESCO’s World Heritage list reasons of home lease or purchase, marriage, Presidential Award and Prime Minister’s Award A social contribution-type product that provides high interest rates to hospitalization, or admission to a school. in the individual category for excellence in KB Build Happiness Installment Nov. 2011 291 0.1 the socially disadvantaged groups such as basic livelihood security recipients microcredit performance and delinquency rate A social contribution-type product that donates certain portion management. KB Kookmin Love My Hometown Jan. 2009 196,866 of card usage amounts to social contribution activities or to local In July 2011, KB Smile Microcredit Bank Card governments sponsored Credit Card became the first in the banking industry to top A credit card issued to small business owners with benefits the KRW30 billion mark, and as of the end of KB Kookmin Owners’ Club Card May 2011 20,359 including tax service and discounts for refueling, telecommunication service, and purchases at merchandisers 2011, a total of 2,299 loans worth KRW351.5 billion were provided to low-income earners. Funds (Collective Certain portions of distribution fees and management fees are KB Kangaroo Installment Equity Investment May 2006 53,271 139.4 donated to programs for patients with rare and incurable diseases Investment Trust Schemes) and child education A public benefit product designed to overcome low birth rate with Insurance (NP) KB Lady Love Insurance Jun. 2010 9,957 coverage for critical illnesses that can occur in pregnant women 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Products and Services that Enrich the Future 6RFLDOO\ KB Financial Group endeavors to promote sound investment and create ŖEvaluation of Socially Responsible Business Practices of SMEs a sustainable society by taking into consideration in its investment review 5HVSRQVLEOH process the factors that threaten the environment and society. ,QYHVWPHQW Our Efforts to Create a Group makes investment decisions in Sustainable Society accordance with the principles for socially responsible investment. Acting as the chair of W h e n a l a r g e s c a l e f i n a n c i a l p ro j e c t the UNEP FI Korea Group, KB Kookmin Bank causes environmental or social problems, complies with the UNEP FI principles in all financial institutions that fund the project its investment decisions, and determines the find it difficult to escape criticism. Therefore, feasibility of projects based on compliance or there is a growing need to incorporate the non-compliance with the principles. Any project consideration of social risk factors, such as that goes against the principles is classified human rights, as well as environmental risk as being ineligible for investment from the factors, such as environmental destruction beginning. Going forward, KB Financial Group and carbon emissions into the corporate will remain more vigilant to ensure its socially 32 credit and project review process. KB responsible management when making a big role in completing the “clean energy Though the Bank has already been using a 33 Financial Group works to promote sound financial business decisions Jeju Island” by arranging KRW500 billion non-financial indicator, “the level of ethical investment and create a sustainable society funding for the project. management practice,”, we decided to by reflecting environmental and social risk KB Financial Group Selected as a Financial broaden the scope of assessment as the factors in its credit analysis and investment Adviser for New and Renewable Energy Evaluation of Companies’ CSR previous indicator was not enough to fully process. Projects With the growing need for research Practice address a number of social activities such as and investment in new and renewable energy green growth and job creation efforts, which Socially Responsible Investment to cope with climate change, KB Kookmin Evaluation of CSR Practice KB Kookmin are increasingly demanded by stakeholders. and Advice Bank was chosen as the financial adviser Bank evaluates “the Level of CSR Practice” Target companies are classified into A, B, C, for the KRW640 billion offshore wind farm to encourage financial institutions to practice D and E grades according to the degree of Compliance with the UNEP FI’s Principles project under construction by KEPCO E&C in social responsibilities and tighten credit risk socially responsible management practiced for Responsible Investment KB Financial Hanlim, Jeju. The Group is expected to play management. The Bank takes the evaluation and re-assessment is conducted every year for results into account in making credit consistent monitoring. In 2011, a total of 5,655 assessment of SMEs. companies were evaluated. ŖSocially Responsible Investment (Unit: KRW billion) Product Name 2009 2010 2011 New & Renewable Energy Fund Investment 15.0 14.1 13.4 New Technology Investment through Green 1.0 Growth Investment Fund Direct Investment Investment & Lending for Photovoltaic and Lending 163.9 149.9 86.3 Power Generation Direct Investment & Lending for Wind Power 19.5 23.6 23.6 Generation SPECIAL PAGE Ŗ KB Start Account Ŗ KB Kookmin First InvestmentŖ Familial Love Free Installment Ŗ KB Privileged Annuity Account Ŗ KB Retirement Pension 3URGXFWV& purpose Installment Savings Savings Account Services A demand deposit, this product offers preferential rates up to 4 percent at the maximum when account holders set up A deposit account that can be deposited or A retirement pension scheme for old an automatic debit on the account to A free installment savings account with a withdrawn at any time. Targeted at annuity age income security. Under the scheme, Products and Services An installment savings account with interest pay their cell phone bill or credit card compounded monthly. This product is variety of incidental services themed around recipients, this product offers a preferential employers should set aside severance pay payments. Designed exclusively for those familial love rate by applying an additional rate of 2.0% at a third-party financial institution and pay Tailored to Each Stage designed to help entry-level salaried people who start their job career, this product in their 20s and 30s start saving a large per annum to annuity payments for seven out the pensions either in annuities or in a days along with various fee waivers. lump sum payment to retirees. of Life offers transactional convenience and sum of money. profitability through fee waiver for electronic transactions and other benefits. Childhood Adolescence Early Adulthood Middle Age Late Middle Age Senescence (aged between 20 and 35) (aged between 35 and 45) (aged between 45-60) (age 60) Ŗ KB Junior Star Account Ŗ KB Kookmin Junior Star Ŗ KB Kookmin Wise Card Ŗ KB Child Love Card Ŗ KB Kookmin Golden Life Card Ŗ KB Platinum Annuity Check Card 34 35 A savings account for children and A “wise” credit card that grants up to 10 A credit card product designed to support A credit card product designed to support KB Platinum Annuity offers a variety of teenagers, this product allows account A credit card with carefully selected times (5%) more points for the top three happy infant care as well as a frugal family healthy and relaxed life in later years. The old age plans, change of annuity payout holders to transfer their remaining pocket services, preferred by teenagers between purchase categories life product offers benefits related to medical options as well as multiple annuity selection money to “KB Junior Star Installment 14 and 18 years old, such as discounts care, insurance, finance and leisure life. options (whole life annuity, fixed annuity, Savings Account” each month. It also offers at movies, online shopping, bookstores, inherited annuity) preferential interest rates and transaction amusement parks and convenience stores fee waiver to reflect the needs of children and teenagers regarding their financial Ŗ KB Star Variable Annuity Ŗ KB Wise Annuity for 100 Ŗ KB Star Immediate Annuity transactions. Ŗ KB Star Variable Universal Ŗ KB Life Universal Whole Life Years of Age Life for Children Ŗ KB Kookmin Child Love Insurance A protection policy that combines strengths This product offers various types of fund An annuity plan in which the first installment A next-generation life insurance product of whole life insurance and universal choices and delivers a return based on An interest sensitive product designed of annuity is payable after one month, KB that can be passed down from generation insurance. It allows account holders to investment performance. Designed to help to support stable post-retirement life and Star Immediate Annuity is appropriate for to generation. This product offers school choose their main insurance based on customers prepare for their post-retirement prepare for a 100-year lifespan with annuity preparing funds for future inheritance and expense service for children as well as their needs and select additional coverage life, the product minimizes investment planning options that meet different needs old age security at the same time. This product provides coverage for various a variety of fund options for investment from a suite of 19 riders, such as cancer risk by guaranteeing paid premiums of customers. types of diseases and accidents to cope choice diagnosis, critical illness (CI) coverage, upon death or commencement of annuity with serious risks for your beloved children. hospitalization and surgery. payments 03 2XU&RPPLWPHQWWR *UHHQDQG(WKLFDO 0DQDJHPHQW KB is always with you, growing a world of hope together In 2011, KB Financial Group cemented its position as the industry-best low-carbon green financial services company by proactively responding to GHG & Energy Target Management Scheme(GETMS) and implementing smart office operations. The Group complied with laws and regulations through rigorous ethical business practices and also boosted transparency in its operations by promoting anti-corruption practices and human rights. | Green Management | | Ethical Management | 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Our Commitment to Green and Ethical Management *UHHQ In an effort to cope with climate change, KB Financial Group is promoting Target Management Scheme, Etc.” enacted pilot program of the GHG & Energy Target Paper Usage (Unit: ton) industry-leading eco-friendly business practices including the launching of by the government. Built upon the Bank’s Management Scheme where activities included 0DQDJHPHQW KB Greenhouse Gases & Energy Management System (KB-GEMS). two years of experience in the operation of calculation of greenhouse gas emissions the “KB Carbon Emissions Management and exploration of GHG emissions reduction System” developed in 2009 for the first time options. The program was an opportunity in the financial industry, KB-GEMS reflects for the Bank to demonstrate its commitment Calculation is based on KRW17,000 and 2,500 sheets per the government requirements as specified by to carbon reduction and fulfill its social box and a conversion factor of 80g/mm2 GHG & Energy Target Management Scheme. responsibilities as a leading bank in green With the launch of this system, KB Kookmin management. Bank have laid the groundwork for enabling it Business Trip Distance (Unit: km) to systematically manage the entire process Participation in the Pilot Carbon Credit of curtailing GHG, preparing a detailed Trading Program Organized by Seoul statement and monitoring the progress vis-àCity In March 2012, KB Kookmin Bank, for vis the targets, when designated as one of the the first time as a financial institution, joined the organizations subject to the GHG & Energy “pilot program for carbon emissions trading” Calculation is based on the average distance of Target Management Scheme. organized by the Seoul city government. 1.34km/1,000 won per trip derived from the travel Under the program, the Bank sells or buys expenses per annum per subsidiary Participation in the Pilot Program of carbon credits using cyber money on the the GHG & Energy Target Management virtual carbon credit marketplace run by Korea Scheme KB Kookmin Bank voluntarily Environmental Corporation according to its 38 participated in the government’s second emissions reduction targets by 2014. 39 ŖEnergy Consumption and GHG Emissions by Source (Unit: TJ, tCO2e) Energy Consumption GHG Emissions 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Clean and Transparent Business Finance Department in 2009, the first such Diesel 22.46 26.12 27.14 1,563.04 1,817.19 1,888.21 Ethics kind in the domestic financial industry, that Kerosene 2.42 2.12 2.20 163.33 143.20 148.53 aims to develop green financial products Stationary LNG 69.73 66.01 53.58 3,548.70 3,359.18 2,726.60 Combustion The financial services sector is known and engage in green management activities. Propane 0.03 0.02 0.03 1.49 1.19 1.49 to have a relatively low impact on the KB Financial Group’s leadership in green Scope 1 Total 94.64 94.27 82.95 5,276.56 5,230.76 4,764.83 environment in terms of pollution or waste management was proven by its first place (Direct Emissions) Gasoline 138.44 134.14 135.83 9,263.07 8,975.46 9,088.08 of resources. Nevertheless, considering ranking in the financial services sector in the Mobile Diesel 4.67 4.87 4.71 329.06 342.63 331.67 the environmental impact of its business JoongAng Daily’s 2011 Green Rankings. Combustion LPG 0 0.57 7.32 0 33.58 433.34 operations, KB Financial Group promotes “green management” group-wide not only Total 143.11 139.58 147.86 9,592.13 9,351.67 9,853.09 Response to Climate Change to cope with the tightening environmental Sub-Total 237.75 233.85 230.81 14,868.69 14,672.43 14,617.92 regulations but also to uphold its principles KB KB-GEMS Launched To reduce Purchased Electricity 824.75 804.44 809.38 42,726.77 41,674.46 41,930.36 Scope2 for sustainable development. greenhouse gas emissions, KB Kookmin Bank (Indirect Purchased Heat 3.79 3.65 3.40 110.08 106.20 98.75 launched KB Greenhouse Gases & Energy Emissions) Sub-Total 828.54 808.09 812.78 42,836.85 41,780.66 42,029.11 Our management’s commitment to ecoManagement System (KB-GEMS) in December Total 1,066.29 1041.94 1,043.59 57,705.54 56,453.09 56,647.03 friendly practices is becoming an integral 2011. KB-GEMS is a GHG(Greenhouse Gas) part of the organization. For instance, KB inventory system intended to comply with * Stationary combustion and indirect emissions were calculated for 11 large buildings owned by KB Financial Group (Head Offices Myeong-dong, Yeouido and Sewoo Building, IT Centers – Yeouido and Yeomchang, Sales Supporting Centers Jongam Center and Daejeon Call Center, Training Centers – Cheonan, Ilsan, Sokcho and Daecheon), and mobile combustion was Kookmin Bank has been taking the initiative the “Framework Act on Low Carbon, Green calculated for vehicles owned by KB Kookmin Bank. The calculation formula is based on the criteria set out in the Greenhouse Gas & Energy Target Management Scheme. in green business by creating a Green Growth” and “Guidelines for GHG & Energy 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Our Commitment to Green and Ethical Management Greenhouse Gas Reduction Programs to Offset Greenhouse Gases the introduction of a green purchasing system, initiative for businesses whose ten principles Water Consumption (Unit: m3) Activities Along with energy-saving efforts to reduce training and the publicity of green purchasing. address human rights, labor, environment and direct emissions, KB Financial Group also Accordingly, KB Financial Group will assist its anti-corruption. More than 650 companies Reducing Emissions by Saving Resource takes part in carbon neutral programs aimed business partners in reducing greenhouse gas throughout the world participate in the initiative. and Energy KB Financial Group promotes at offsetting carbon emissions. “KB Carbon emissions. energy-saving practices in office, such as Neutral Forest” is the Group’s key program Response to External Assessment maintaining proper room temperatures and to create a green forest and reduce GHG Environment-friendly KB Financial Group has been disclosing using personal mug cups. Since 2009, KB emissions. This environmental protection Communication information on its greenhouse gas emissions Waste Discharge (Unit: kg) Kookmin Bank has undertaken 20 cost program is gaining significance amid the since KB Kookmin Bank became a signatory 2009 2010 2011 reduction tasks, saving approximately worsening climate change due to global Global Initiatives KB Kookmin Bank to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in KRW3.37 billion every year. KB Kookmin Card warming. serves as the chair of the UNEP FI (United 2009. KB Kookmin Bank Financial Group was Total Waste 193,580 212,080 214,885 Discharged designated the first Friday of every month as Nations Environment Programme Finance named a CDP leader in the domestic financial Landfill 65,541 74,660 73,560 “Energy Saving Day” in an effort to promote Voluntary Agreement on Green Purchasing Initiative) Korea Group. UNEP FI is a global sector for the two consecutive year in 2010 Recycled 128,039 137,420 141,325 energy-saving habits company-wide. KB Kookmin Bank signed the “Voluntary environmental partnership between the UNEP and KB Kookmin Bank won an achievement Agreement on Green Purchasing” with the and global financial institutions. Currently, award for its contribution to raising awareness * Water Consumption and waste discharge were calculated for 11 large buildings owned by KB Financial KB Kookmin Bank has been named the Best Ministry of Environment in April 2011. The more than 200 banks and asset management of the importance of the environment in 2011. Group (Head Offices Myeong-dong, Yeouido and Energy-Saving Company for three consecutive agreement, executed between the Ministry companies all over the world participate in Moreover, KB Financial Group has also been Sewoo Building, IT Centers – Yeouido and Yeomchang, years (2009-2011) for its participation in the and major domestic companies, is designed the initiative. KB Kookmin Bank also joined included as a component in the DJSI Asia Sales Supporting Center Jongam Center and Daejeon Call Center, Training Centers – Cheonan, Ilsan, Sokcho “Energy (-) Love (+) Campaign” run by the to promote production, consumption and the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in April Pacific and Korea indexes for three consecutive and Daecheon) Ministry of Knowledge Economy and Korea distribution of green or eco-friendly products. 2009 and has since disclosed its compliance years since 2009. DJSI is a global standard 40 Energy Management Corporation. The Bank Since its implementation in 2005, 123 with the UNGC through Sustainability Report appraising sustainability of global companies. 41 has consistently carried out campaigns for companies have signed the agreement as of every year. The UNGC is a strategic policy avoiding unnecessary waste of resources and the end of 2010. Those who participate in the energy, and raising awareness of the need agreement must develop green purchasing to make energy-saving part of their business guidelines and carry out various activities for operations. the promotion of green purchasing, including BUSINESS CASE 6DYLQJ3DSHUZLWKHVOLSVDQGHGRFXPHQWV In 2011, KB Kookmin Card switched to electronic slips for a variety of slips including common slips Ŗ Paper Use Reduction used for deposits/withdrawals. The Bank also made it a rule to use electronic approvals. Beginning in 2012, the Bank plans to use eco-friendly recycled paper when printing various types of 8,880,000 documents. Approximately 400 million sheets of recycled paper (about 2,750 tons) are expected to be used, saving 20,000 tons of water, 3 million watts of electricity and reducing 143 tons of carbon sheets emissions. Ŗ CO2 Reduction Category Activities Results Remarks Increased 65 tCO2e Carried out a campaign to About 8,880,000 sheets of paper e-mail encourage customers to receive were saved and about 65 tons statement credit card statements by e-mail of CO2 emissions were reduced delivery About 400 million sheets of Use of recycled Used recycled paper to print recycled paper will be used Started paper some 190 types of documents each year, and about 143 tons of in 2012 CO2 emissions will be reduced KB Greenhouse Gas & Energy Management System (KB-GEMS) 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Our Commitment to Green and Ethical Management (WKLFDO 9KVJVJGIQCNQHITQYKPIKPVQCINQDCNſPCPEKCNITQWRNGCFKPIVJG#UKCP writing an article, or interviews with external partners, informing them of the Group’s integrity Hours of Training on Code of Ethics and Internal Controls financial industry, KB Financial Group will take the lead in preventing organizations are allowed based on the pact, and requesting the inclusion of relevant (Unit: hour) 0DQDJHPHQW ſPCPEKCNKPEKFGPVUYKVJKPVJG)TQWRCPFRTQOQVKPIHCKTDWUKPGUURTCEVKEGU relevance to work, and treatment of income provisions in the contracts. The integrity earned from these activities is determined pact enables the Group to combat unethical based on the principle of transparent and ethical business. based on the result of such external activities. practices such as bribery in the contracting Particularly, attendance at domestic or process. overseas training programs or seminars sponsored by third-party organizations is Internal Controls allowed only when the events are relevant to work and are not for entertainment purposes or Compliance Support Program KB do not cause any conflict of interest which may Financial Group has in place an internal control subsequently affect reasonable execution of framework aimed at preventing possible duties. legal sanctions, financial loss or reputational * Sum of hours of training on the Code of Ethics, damage that may arise from violation of compliance and Code of Conduct spent for all subsidiaries. Protection of Whistle Blowers KB laws or regulations by its employees. Our Financial Group runs “Whistle-blowing Center internal control team regularly checks for Ethical Management” in order to protect through monitoring whether internal controls employees who report breaches of the Code are voluntarily and reasonably operated at of Ethics or relevant laws and to prevent the branch level, and provides necessary financial incidents beforehand through proper feedback. To raise awareness of internal 42 checks and balances between employees. controls among employees, we provide 43 various training programs, including online Integrity Pact KB Financial Group has education and group education. We also run increased transparency in the contracting an advanced compliance support system for process by disclosing any conflict of interest effective internal control operations. Clean and Transparent Business Programs to Practice Ethical related to contracts before selecting business Ethics Management BUSINESS CASE In Januar y 2010, KB Financial Group %QFGQH%QPFWEVHQT1HſEGTUCPF'ORNQ[GGU announced the Charter of Ethics for all KB Financial Group’s Code of Conduct is a employees to abide by and held the set of specific behavioral standards employees proclamation ceremony to build consensus must observe in the course of daily business )DLU7UDQVDFWLRQVZLWK%XVLQHVV3DUWQHUVDQG Ŗ No. of Business Partners Evaluated for Ethical Management (KB Kookmin Bank) on ethical management and communicate and it provides for such matters as prohibition Dissemination of Sustainability Management (Unit: number) the Group’s will to act upon it. The Charter on acts that may cause conflict of interest, stipulates corporate ethics sought by the fair execution at work, prohibitions against KB Financial Group makes continuous improvements to its procurement policies and process to ensure ethical and transparent contracting process with business partners. Group for its customers, shareholders, the receiving money, gifts or entertainment, criteria nation and society, competitors and business for using company assets, management of key KB Kookmin Bank has already included non-financial indicators, such as the introduction of ethical management, eco-friendliness of proposed products and social contribution, in the evaluation criteria p a r t n e r s . T h e G ro u p a l s o s e p a r a t e l y information such as customer information, and for registering business partners in the AVL (Approved Vendor List). KB Kookmin Bank has also stipulated work ethics that employees must prohibitions against money laundering acts. inserted a clause prohibiting the provision of money, gifts or entertainment in its standard service Ŗ Business Partner Satisfaction Survey abide by in the course of their business Employees must be well acquainted with these contract. Result (KB Kookmin Bank) (Points) (Unit: score) operations. KB Financial Group strives not standards at all times and promptly report In 2011, the Bank sent a letter to business partners informing them of integrity obligations and only to comply with laws but also to prevent when breaches are perceived. conducted a satisfaction survey on its business partners. To check the adequacy of contract execution, the Bank conducts special inspection every month and ensures that contracts and bidding corruption and create a clean and ethical process are executed in the presence of another employee in addition to the person in charge. business culture. Policies and Procedures relating to External Activities Lectures outside of the Group, SPECIAL PAGE Hidden Beyond Korea Star “KB Hidden Star 500” “KB Hidden Star 500” Results 1st Round: Mar. 4, ’11 2nd Round: Jun. 20, ’11 3rd Round: Nov. 2, ’11 (Unit: No. of companies) 4th Round: Mar. 23, ’12 500 Selection Date Total No. of Applicants 94 118 120 108 440 No. of Companies Selected 38 34 34 42 148 Company Size and Listing Status Business Type About “KB Hidden Star 500” o Manufacturing: 139 o Non-manufacturing: 9 “KB Hidden Star 500” is a key program of KB Financial Group aimed at identifying and providing tailored services for promising small to medium-sized businesses equipped with superior technology, financial stability(credit ratings, etc) and business viability as well as high growth potentials to become global firms. Last year, we provided KRW550 billion in loans, executed US$1.5 billion worth of foreign exchange transactions, granted unsecured loans to employees of 30 companies, and provided 77 cases of consulting services related to investment banking such as bond issuance through the “KB Hidden Star 500”. This year we plan to select an additional 200 companies that are approximately a double of 106 companies selected last year. By 2013, we will select a group of 500 Hidden Star companies and provide them with tailored financial and non-financial services. Going forward, we will continue to fulfill our social responsibilities and contribute to the growth of the national economy, improvement of trade balance and creation of jobs through our “KB Hidden Star 500” program. Credit Ratings Sales Hidden Star Selection Process 44 45 o Average Sales: KRW160.3 bil. In selecting candidates for “KB Hidden Star 500”, we place a higher priority on technology and growth potential indicators, such as the ratio of R&D expenditure to sales and the number of patents owned rather than on current assets owned such as real estate, in order to better reflect the future value of the companies. 1st round evaluation 2nd round evaluation Final evaluation by Operating Margin Share of Exports (over 40 points) (over 60 points) the Selection Committee oAverage Operating Margin : 9.4% oAverage Share of Exports : 44.3% Application Technology development Technology and capabilities of Selection Committee Start infrastructure, business CEO (Chairman Baik Sung Gi, services performance, growth potential, (Technological assessment former president of POSTEC) GZRQTVECRCDKNKV[CPFſPCPEKCN conducted by external Final selection is determined health agencies such as Korea by a majority presence of (checked by branches based Technology Finance members and more than a twoon submitted documents, Corporation or Korea Invention thirds majority vote in favor other data obtained from the Promotion Association) (6 independent members and DART(Data Analysis, Retrieval 6 internal members) and Transfer System) and government agencies 04 (PSOR\HHVZKR1XUWXUH 7KHLU'UHDPV We are creating a fun workplace $:RUNSODFHWKDW0DNHV pursuing work-life balance 7KHLU'UHDPV&RPH7UXH KB Financial Group aims to build a happy workplace where employees can strike a balance between work and life by promoting two-way communication and smart organizational culture. The Group also provides systematic training and career development programs to nurture all of its employees as top-notch financial specialists. | Job Creation and Diversity | | Corporate Culture | | Nurturing Financial Specialists | 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Employees who Nurture Their Dreams, A Workplace that Makes Their Dreams Come True -RE&UHDWLRQ KB Financial Group, with the largest workforce amongst the financial in excess of a certain period of time, their contract turns into one of infinite duration. employees in all working conditions according to the principle of gender equality. Workforce between Banking and NonBanking Subsidiaries EQORCPKGUKP-QTGCNGCFULQDETGCVKQPKPVJGFQOGUVKEſPCPEKCNKPFWUVT[ DQG'LYHUVLW\ We realize a fair hiring process based on the principles of diversity and Internship Program To attract talent and Hiring People with disabilities We equal opportunity. provide career development opportunities to hire employees without any discrimination. individuals, we have been offering internship Except for certain positions where special programs for college students. Interns gain skills are required, anyone can apply for a onsite work experience, from dealing with job regardless of educational background, KB Financial Group Takes the job creation in the domestic financial industry. customers at branches to managing foreign age or major at school. We also offer hiring Lead in Creating Jobs In 2011, we hired 709 new workers, including currencies at the head office depending on programs to protect minority groups such as 23 high school graduates. We operate the team they are assigned to. They can also the disabled. One of the important roles and responsibilities various hiring programs to attract talent and receive training to improve skills, such as of a company is to consistently provide offer competitive annual salaries for new interview skills. Once internship is completed, Hiring Global Talent For the sake of quality jobs to members of society. It is employees. high performers are given preferential treatment securing global competitiveness, we hire also necessary to create an environment such as exemption from job application international talent to develop a cadre of where people are given equal opportunities Reflecting different characteristics of different screening and written test when they apply for global professionals. In 2011, we hired Gender Mix and people from diverse backgrounds can segments within the financial industry, our a position with KB Financial Group. 150 talented global workers, who will be work together. KB Financial Group respects subsidiaries also have their own hiring further trained as the key human resources this principle of equal opportunity and will processes. Our workforce consists of general Human Resource Management and then be put in charge of driving the continue to provide various job opportunities staff, specialists and clerical staff. General Based on Diversity Group’s global business expansion. We 48 to members of society, thereby contributing staff deal with financial product development, plan to actively take advantage of their 49 Total Workforce and New Recruits to the stimulation and growth of the nation’s funds management, sales, marketing, We observe the guidelines set forth in knowledge of local cultures, network and economy. product sales and customer relations the temporary worker protection law and effective communication skills to substantially management; specialists work for more the fixed-term worker protection law with enhance KB’s global business capabilities, Hiring and Retaining Talent specialized operations; and clerical staff are regard to the management of our workforce. including assisting domestic firms to expand assigned to online channel operations, call We hire employees separately for regular into overseas markets. In the financial industry, talented workforce center counseling and other administrative and temporary positions based on job is the barometer of competitiveness. With and support duties. Specialists and clerical characteristics and we do not discriminate a total of 25,065 employees working at KB staff are contract staff working on a fixedWorkforce Breakdown by Contract Type (Unit: person) Financial Group as of 2011, we are leading term basis. When clerical staff get to work BUSINESS CASE (Unit: person) :H+LUH/RFDO6WDIIDQG )RVWHU/RFDO0DQDJHUV KB Kookmin Bank hires local staff at branches as well as fosters local managers in line with the Bank’s global presence expansion. As of 2011, 191 employees worked at overseas offices, a 20% increase from a year earlier, and the number of foreign employees also increased to 120. Also as of 2011, 13.3% of managers at overseas offices were foreigners. 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Employees who Nurture Their Dreams, A Workplace that Makes Their Dreams Come True &RUSRUDWH KB Financial Group is building a corporate culture where our core % of Employees Covered by the Collective Agreement* values are deeply ingrained as well as a happy workplace where the (Unit: %) &XOWXUH management and employees work together for mutual growth through Subsidiary 2010 2011 KB Kookmin Bank 97.95 92.02 active communication. KB Kookmin Card 93.11 KB Real Estate Trust 76.38 78.40 * KB Kookmin Bank, KB Kookmin Card and KB Real Estate Trust have their own labor unions, and the Employee Turnover Rate (Unit: %) KB’s Corporate Culture that related to maternity protection, housing security, percentages in the table represent the percentages Permeates with Core Values medicine, health, education and leisure are in of actual union members relative to the number of employees eligible for joining labor unions. Other place. Every first, second and third Wednesday subsidiaries operate labor-management committees. “ C u s t o m e ro r i e n t e d ” , “ p ro f e s s i o n a l ” , and Friday of each month are designated “innovative”, “speedy” and “performanceas “Familial Love Day,” when employees are oriented” are the five core values that we call encouraged to leave the office on time and KB Spirit. These core values guide behaviors spend the rest of the day with their families. We of our employees. We launched the Group’s also send a birthday message with a small gift webzine “KB Friends” in an effort to facilitate to mark the birthdays of employees’ spouses as communication among all employees. part of family-caring events. Retirement Pension Program We have Protection of Workers’ Rights We strive No. of Employee Grievances Resolved Through the webzine, our employees actively put in place retirement pension programs, to protect workers’ rights, for instance, by Subsidiary 2010 2011 communicate with one another and also Employee Grievance Center In order to which are crucial for improving employee setting a minimum period of notice to be 50 engage in the conversation with the CEO, tune into the voices of employees, we operate productivity and satisfaction, to ensure a given to an employee in the event of material KB Kookmin Bank 162 43 51 KB Kookmin Card 4 club Olympics and many other activities. various channels and systems, including the continuity of economic self-reliance even changes in business, in accordance with the (Unit: case) Employee Grievance Center over the intranet. after retirement Job Security Agreement and the Agreement * All subsidiaries of KB Financial Group have their own A Pleasant and Happy Workplace Prior to regular personnel changes, employees on Company Development Council. For employee grievance programs. can submit their complaints or grievances, such Labor-Management Culture for instance, KB Kookmin Bank sends at least Family-friendly Management We offer a as conflict with peers, sexual harassment or Co-Existence and Mutual Growth 60 days prior notice in the case of dismissal wide array of welfare programs for employees. discrimination through “self-registration”. We or downsizing and 7 days prior notice before 9GNHCTG2TQITCOUHQT1HſEGTUCPF In addition to the four statutory welfare schemes consider it an imperative to address the difficulties We guarantee freedom of association holding a Personnel Committee. Employees (National Pension, Health Insurance, Employment our employees face and make a healthier work and endeavor to maintain win-win laborInsurance and Occupational Health and Safety environment. management relations. Safe and Indiscriminate Workplace Insurance), a variety of welfare programs With due consideration for the characteristics Labor-Management Council We conform of financial business operations, we have to agreements with our labor unions, such as ensured that our Collective Agreement collective agreements and Labor-Management specifies safety and health management, Council Regulations, and operate permanent workplace inspection, periodic medical consultative bodies joined by both the check-ups and operation of recreational management and labor unions. Furthermore, facilities. Besides, we have incorporated into we convene Labor-Management Council four the Collective Agreement compensations times a year and ensure that union members to cover accidents and injuries, group are involved in the Group’s various task force insurance, medical grants, operation of teams, workshops and internal and external medical rooms and sports in the workplace. training programs to promote communication. 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Employees who Nurture Their Dreams, A Workplace that Makes Their Dreams Come True 1XUWXULQJ KB Financial Group provides full support to employees to help materials provided by KB Research Institute diverse cultures and it is expected to raise them become financial specialists through specialized training, and receive a test every week. We also the capabilities of KB Kookmin Card as )LQDQFLDO career development programs, performance-based evaluation and provide other learning materials like “Daily “Korea’s best daily life solution provider.” Knowledge Vitamin” containing articles about Training courses are not uniform; instead, 6SHFLDOLVWV compensation. the economy at home and abroad, financial employees can choose topics of their interest market trends, economic theories and market industry, trends, humanities, history, culture, issues to help trainees grasp trends in sports, etc. and make their own plans. Once domestic and overseas financial markets at a they are finished with training, they must glance. submit a report to share their experiences. MOU signing with the Korea Institute of Finance Global Business Study Groups To Compensation Commensurate develop a cadre of global business experts, with Performance KB Kookmin Bank runs global business study groups. So far, a total of 176 employees have At KB Financial Group, human resources participated in a total of 27 study groups management (HRM) is performance-based. comprising seven languages to improve their Accordingly, outstanding employees are job skills and linguistic abilities essential to rewarded with corresponding compensation becoming global experts. and personnel treatment. KB Financial G ro u p h a s a re a s o n a b l e H R M p o l i c y Global Training IMIG (I MAKE, I GO) in operation whereby systematic talent 52 Global training IMIG is KB Kookmin Card’s development programs are implemented 53 expert development program that affords and performance/competency evaluation is trainees the opportunity to experience conducted by job grade. Nurturing Top-notch Talent job skills, leadership, global competency and organizational management skills. Compared to the other industries, the financial services industry is heavily reliant on Job Certification System To turn our ŖAverage Hours of Training Per Year Per Employee by Subsidiary (Unit: hour) professional knowledge and educational level employees into the market’s best financial of employees. Outstanding job performance specialists and strengthen workforce and professionalism of individual employees competencies, KB Kookmin Bank introduced not only play a key role in supporting the a customized “job certification system” with Group’s sustainable growth, but they also which the Bank is heightening professionalism raise employee loyalty and achievement and sales capabilities of its employees. The drive. We provide tailored training, career Bank also signed an MOU with the Korea development programs and performanceInstitute of Finance to develop training courses based compensation with the aim to turn for each key job functions, such as foreign individual employees into the best financial exchanges and corporate lending. specialists. Financial Market Study Program The Tailored Training and Career financial market study program is designed Development to improve counseling skills of private bankers (PBs) and VIP Managers (VMs). We are striving to develop a cadre of About 900 PBs and VMs voluntarily study financial specialists with a particular focus on financial markets using customized training 05 7RJHWKHUIRU D+RSHIXO7RPRUURZ KB Financial Group provides economic and financial education as its key social contribution effort and is determined to move forward with our job matching program “KB Good Job” more vigorously for local communities. In addition, we will continue with our differentiated social contribution built around the four themes: “youth”, “the environment”, “global” and “wellbeing of the aged”. | Economic and Financial Education | | “KB Good Job”, a Job Matching Program | |4GIKQPURGEKſE5QEKCN%QPVTKDWVKQP| Sharing hopes with neighbors, KB is a beacon of light that brings a brighter future 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Together for a Hopeful Tomorrow (FRQRPLF KB Financial Group’s key social contribution program that differentiates it Middle Age and Late Middle Age Groups We provide financial planning programs Economic and Financial Economic and Financial Education Programs HTQOVJGQVJGTUKUGFWECVKQPKPGEQPQO[CPFſPCPEG%CRKVCNK\KPIQPQWT Education Programs (Unit: Number) DQG)LQDQFLDO UVTGPIVJUCUCſPCPEKCNKPUVKVWVKQPCUOWEJCURQUUKDNGYGYKNNEQPVKPWGVQ for protecting assets and making sound Category 2011 investments for office workers or housewives “Exciting Economy Festival” KB (GXFDWLRQ JGNRNQYKPEQOGRGQRNGICKPſPCPEKCNMPQYNGFIG in middle or late middle ages. To draw Foundation held economic education festivals No. of Programs Implemented 368 No. of Participants attention to the increasing incidence of at 30 local children’s centers in 11 regions 21,357 (excluding events) phishing frauds, we also plan to educate including Seoul, Busan and Daejeon in August them as to how to avoid financial frauds. 2011. 400 children participated in the events. The festival event, consisting of a variety of The Elderly With average life expectancy programs, such as musicals where economic along with the required money being on the activities were acted out, bingo games using rise, elderly people also need be acquainted economic terms, pocket money bookkeeping, with various financial products and services, and Golden Bell, was intended to help children including insurance. In this regard, we will be learn economy with ease and fun. planning senior education programs for the elderly to promote their welfare. ‘KB Star Economy & Finance Class’, An Experiential Education Beginning this The Socially Disadvantaged The socially year, KB Foundation started providing disadvantaged, such as multicultural educational programs for youths in concert families and North Korean defectors, often with KB Kookmin Bank and other subsidiaries 56 find it difficult to receive proper financial as the five-day school week kicked off this 57 services due to lack of financial knowledge. year. Participants experience all aspects of To address these problems and improve economic and financial activities, such as Fundamental Approach Education Tailored to Different their ability to use financial services, we are earning money, saving money, spending to Helping the Socially Groups of People planning basic education about the market money, managing pocket money and making Disadvantaged economy and financial transactions. We donations, using bankbooks and money at KB Financial Group is providing economic are also developing credit management mock banks and stores. Especially, participants Demand for financial education by and financial education as its key social programs for less creditworthy individuals. get to learn what sharing is about by donating laypersons is increasing due to the growing contribution activity. In 2011, we launched KB a certain amount of money accumulated from reliance on private pensions and the national Foundation with a capital jointly invested by deposits or pocket money management. health insurance amid population aging, all subsidiaries for the purposes of providing rising social costs from the increased economic and financial education as well personal debts, and increasingly complex as scholarship programs for our future product structures and resultant risks from generations. As different groups may require BUSINESS CASE the emergence of derivatives and structured different levels of education, we plan to offer securities. Although low-income and less programs custom-tailored to their needs. KB Foundation for Sharing and Volunteering educated people have greater demand for financial services, their access to reasonable Education for Youths Recognizing the KB Financial Group launched KB Foundation in May 2011 to support economic selfreliance of people through economic and financial education, and academic and financial knowledge and information is importance of systematic financial education in scholarship programs as well as to spread a culture of sharing across society. fairly limited. As such, KB Financial Group youth, we try to instill a proper view of money and The foundation started with a KRW20 billion capital jointly invested by all subsidiaries seeks to lead the effort to increase access correct knowledge of the economy in youths. of KB Financial Group including the holding company, KB Kookmin Bank, KB Kookmin to financial services and eradicate financial With the 5-day workweek system taking root in Card and KB Investment & Securities. We plan to increase the size of the foundation by illiteracy by providing more economic and Korea, we mostly arrange experiential programs attracting additional investment from our subsidiaries. financial education for less privileged groups for elementary school students on Saturday. of society, thus contributing to improving the financing environment for low-income people. 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Together for a Hopeful Tomorrow đ.%*RRG-REĒ Taking advantage of its reputation and strong network as a leading consulting services for jobseekers. ſPCPEKCNITQWRKP-QTGC-$(KPCPEKCN)TQWREQPPGEVUVCNGPVGFTGUQWTEGU D-RE0DWFKLQJ to promising SMEs in a program called “KB Good Job.” We remain Hiring Support Service To provide highquality information on job vacancies and 3URJUDP committed to taking the lead in addressing manpower shortages faced by job applicants, we utilize our 1,150 branch SMEs. n e t w o r k a n d t e a m u p w i t h t h e K o re a Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Korea Medium Industries Association, the KOSDAQ Listed Companies Association, Connecting Competent Major Services of “KB Good Job” the Korea Venture Business Association Jobseekers to Promising SMEs and other related agencies to secure a Online Hiring We provide “venues” for pool of promising SMEs. We also work hard The prolonged period of high unemployment gatherings of SMEs suffering from manpower to find talented workforce through MOUs in the wake of the global financial crisis shortages and jobseekers struggling to with the Ministry of Education, Science and poses a risk to the economic recovery find jobs due to lack of information. Hiring Technology, the Small & Medium Business and triggers social worries. As of the end companies and jobseekers can obtain Administration, Korea Polytechnic Colleges of 2011, the domestic unemployment rate an extensive amount of information on and specialized high schools. and youth unemployment rate (aged 15-25 job listings and jobseekers from our jobyears) remained the lowest among the OCED matching website www.kbgoodjob.co.kr. Job Fair to Tackle Youth countries at 3.4% and 7.6% respectively, but Unemployment 58 youth unemployment is still a serious social HR Consulting We offer preferential interest 59 issue. Many young Koreans have difficulties rates for deposits and loans and fee discounts A New Concept Job Fair In June 2011, we finding jobs, while quite a few SMEs are to the member companies that hire young held the “2011 KB Good Job Fair for SMEs” struggling to secure sufficient talent. We are jobseekers and send professional consultants to attended by about 200 cream-of-the-crop successfully operating our job-matching the member companies for financial diagnosis, companies and some 12,300 jobseekers. At program “KB Good Job” employing our good management consulting and other consulting the fair, the “Hiring tour” program in which reputation and nationwide network as Korea’s services. If SMEs hire jobseekers as regular participants visited industrial sites by bus Key Figures of 2011 “KB Good Job” leading financial group, thus contributing employees, we provide each firm KRW500,000 received an enthusiastic response. Also in to resolving the unemployment issue and for every employee hired. We also provide December 2011, we held “2011 KB Good assisting capable SMEs with further growth. mock interviews, aptitude test and mind-setting Job Live Interview,” the first such fair in the banking industry conducting video interviews at branches. The fair, held at the RockStar Hongik University Wow Zone, was attended by “KB Hidden Star 500” companies and drew much attention from visitors. Setting the Stage for More Hiring of Specialized High School Graduates by the Financial Sector In line with the government policy announced in 2011 to support specialized high schools, KB Financial Group signed an MOU with the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology and KB Kookmin Bank hired eight graduates from specialized high schools in March 2011. Specialized High school graduates hired through 2012 “KB Good Job” Fair “KB Good Job” 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Together for a Hopeful Tomorrow 5HJLRQ KB Financial Group carries out social contribution work with a focus on three small libraries have been built for local Carbon Neutral Forest We are engaging Social Contribution Amount (Unit: KRW mil.) “youth”, “global”, “the environment” and “wellbeing of the aged”. 25,000 youngsters. in the construction of the third “Carbon VSHFLILF6RFLDO employees of KB Financial Group voluntarily provide “one volunteer Neutral Forest,” one of the Group’s key KB Rainbow Class KB Investment & programs for preserving the environment &RQWULEXWLRQ service per person” for 10 hours a year. Securities is renovating unused classrooms by planting trees to reduce greenhouse and conver ting them into libraries for gas emissions. The program is gaining teenagers attending branch schools in importance in the world’s effort to cope with the mountains or agricultural areas, hence global climate change. In April 2011, 160 KB fewer educational and cultural benefits. employees and citizens in Ansan planted Employees of KB Investment & Securities are about 13,000 trees on 1.3ha of land around participating in this program, painting murals, Nojeokbong Park. compiling books in libraries and providing economic education for children, as well Eco Tree Campaign, a Pan-national as donating books and portable netbooks. Environment Campaign At the end Going forward, the company plans to carry of March every year since 2009, we have out the program twice a year at least. i m p l e m e n t e d E c o Tre e C a m p a i g n i n conjunction with the private sector, the Environmental Protection government and the army at army shooting ranges. This environment campaign is part of KB Financial Group takes the lead in the Green Start movement actively pursued 60 preserving the environment to make a by the government and is intended to raise 61 healthier world where people can enjoy clean awareness of the severity of global warming air and blue skies. and emphasize the importance of practicing green life. ŖMajor Social Contribution Activities Social Contribution Strategy social contribution theme of ours and 2011 Centered on Four Core Themes we carry out a number of tasks aimed at Group-wide KB Kookmin Bank KB Kookmin Card Other Subsidiaries providing our future generations with equal We endeavor to build a best practice opportunities to learn and to gain exposure Small Library Rainbow Class Happy Meal social contribution model under the to cultural experiences. Make Dream Village with Children (KB Investment & Securities) Hopeful Study Room Youth Support the creation of children’s Economic and financial education Rainbow Day three underlying goals of maximizing the Museum Stroll rehab centers (KB Investment & Securities) English Camp effectiveness of social contribution activities KB Kookmin Bank Small Library KB Invitation of children to Seoul Economic/Financial Education through extensive support for our key Kookmin Bank has sponsored the creation of social contribution projects, contributing “Small Libraries” since 2007 in coordination Overseas volunteer group of college substantively to local communities through with the Ministry of Culture, Sports & Tourism Relief aid for victims of the students Festival for multicultural families Cap-knitting campaign (KB Global earthquake in Japan Korean language learning Multicultural family member orchestra Data Systems) well-intended services, and making social and MBC to provide information/cultural Sharing love for Korean language contribution an integral part of the Group’s space to teenagers. As of the end of 2011, corporate culture. These tasks are related to 29 small libraries were built nationwide. The KB Carbon Neutral Forest Eco Tree campaign Volunteering at the Seoul Forest The environment KB Forest for Finance Hopefuls Protection of forest paths nationwide our four core themes: “youth”, “global”, “the Small Library program is designed to help Cultural Asset Protector Park environment” and “wellbeing of the aged”. reduce information gap for the youths living in less favored areas. The Bank plans to build Donation of winter goods to the Volunteer services at senior welfare Connect love for the elderly living alone Wellbeing of the elderly living alone centers (home visits, keeping them company, Meal-serving Youth Sponsorship five additional libraries until the end of 2012. aged Photo service wishing longevity Meal serving, cleaning, keeping the etc.) Photo service wishing longevity The Bank extends its Small Library project Meal-serving service elderly company Photo service wishing longevity Youth sponsorship is the most important beyond Korea. In Vietnam and Cambodia, 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Together for a Hopeful Tomorrow Global Social Contribution a variety of programs including traditional the elderly living alone in Yeongdeungposhow our appreciation to citizens as well as dances of each country, a flower-decorated gu district. Every other month, the Company fulfill our obligation as a corporate citizen, we KB Financial Group is conducting relief aid parade and a flea market that directly delivers rice, kimchi and other daily will make the best use of our capabilities and and Korean language education programs engaged the immigrants in planning to necessities to the elderly under poor living our strengths. mostly in Asian countries. preparation stages. KB Kookmin Card conditions, and went on a one-day trip with also set up a section at the festival site for them to Ganghwado last July. “RaonAtti”, KB’s Overseas Volunteer children of multicultural families and migrant Group of College Students “RaonAtti”, workers to enjoy balloon arts, face painting Charitable Donations KB Financial KB Kookmin Bank’s overseas volunteer group and photo-taking as well as share information Group is also actively engaging in the effort of college students, is undertaking voluntary among themselves. to return a portion of its profit back to society. works to help people in underdeveloped Last August, we donated KRW1 billion for Asian countries suffering from poverty, Welfare for Elderly Citizens the construction of the “Purumae Center hunger and natural disasters. In 2011, 60 in Sejong Town” and donated 51 vehicles RaonAtti members were sent to six Asian Each subsidiary of KB Financial Group has including the ones equipped with a lift for the countries – Malaysia, Vietnam, Sri Lanka, in place programs such as free meal service, disabled to welfare centers across country to Cambodia, Thailand and the Philippines – to photo service wishing longevity and the help increase mobility service of the centers. provide voluntary services such as helping provision of household goods to promote the Believing that playing an active role in the children with disabilities, teaching language welfare of the aged. development of local communities is a way to KB global volunteer group to children from poor families and serving meals to poorly-fed children. KB Financial Photo Service Wishing Longevity All 62 Group will continue to engage in global senior executives and 100 employees from 63 volunteer work and disseminate a culture of KB subsidiaries visited the Seoul Senior BUSINESS CASE sharing to other parts of the world. Welfare Center for meal-serving and photo service wishing the elderly longevity. Multicultural Festival Sponsorship ³.%6WDU'UHDP9ROXQWHHU*URXS´/DXQFKHG KB Kookmin Card sponsored “Filipino Day” Happy Food KB Investment & Securities and “Thailand Day” at a multicultural festival has been engaging in “Happy Food” Under the slogan “we put people before held in May 2011. The event consisted of volunteer service since last February for anything else,” KB Financial Group launched “KB Star Dream Volunteer Group” program in 2011 to deliver hopes and dreams for underprivileged neighbors. Newly established under the program are “Speed Dream Volunteer Group” for prompt disaster relief in Korea and “Talent Dream Volunteer Group,” comprising 500 incumbent and retired employees who donate their talent in economic and financial education, lectures, culture and arts. All of our 1,200 branches are engaging in region-specific volunteer works centered on four key themes: “youth”, ”global”, “the environment” and “wellbeing of the aged”. We engage all of our 25,000 employees to provide at least 250,000 hours of community service under the spirit of “one volunteer service per person”. KB’s global volunteer group RaonAtti APPENDIX Group at a Glance GRI Table GRI Statement Independent Assurance Statement Glossary 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report *URXSDWD*ODQFH Major Awards (Jan. 2011-Dec. 2011) Month Subsidiary Award Details Given by CEO Magazine & Korea Sustainability KB Kookmin Bank 2011 best contributor to stabilizing the life of the people in the commercial banking industry Management Evaluation Significant Changes during the Reporting Period Jan. KB Kookmin Card Grand prize, 2011 Customer Satisfaction Management Award for four consecutive years Korea Daily Economy KB Investment & Best Compliance Member 2010 Korea Exchange Securities On March 14, 2011, KB Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. merged with KB Futures Co., Ltd. with the former succeeding to all rights and obligations of Feb. KB Kookmin Bank The most favored brand for six consecutive years in the banking industry chosen by CEOs of the top 500 companies The New Management Magazine the latter. As a result, KB Futures no longer exists as a separate entity. Socially responsible corporation for mutual prosperity 2011 Chosun News Press KB Financial Group Grand prize in the innovative management category, the 3rd Korea’s Best Innovative Management Awards 2011 Korea Joongang Daily Number of Shares and Ownership before the Merger Number of Shares and Ownership after the Merger Mar. Ranked 1st in the banking industry in the 2011 Korea Brand Power Index for 13 consecutive years Korea Management Association Consulting Shareholder Name KB Kookmin Bank Common Stock Ownership Common Stock Ownership Korea’s Brand Star 2011, ranked 1st in the banking industry for five consecutive years Brand Stock KB Life Insurance First prize, the Bell Risk Manager Awards, “Life Insurance Infrastructure Establishment and Internal Controls” The Bell KB Financial Group 15,600,000 100% 21,450,439 100% KB Kookmin Bank Forbes CEO Award 2011 in the sustainability category Korea Joongang Daily Forbes Apr. * KB Investment & Securities, the surviving company, issued 5,850,439 shares of common stock and allotted 1.4626098 shares for one share of the common stock of KB Futures to the KB Life Insurance Named the best call center for five consecutive years in the Korea Service Quality Index (KSQI) Korea Management Association Consulting shareholder (KB Financial Group, the holding company) of KB Futures. May. KB Financial Group Grand prize, Transparent Management Awards 2011 (KB Financial Group) Korea Accounting Association Outstanding Corporation in Governance 2011 Korea Corporate Governance Service KB Life Insurance Grand prize, Korea’s Most Beloved Brands 2011 Chosun Biz 2011 Best Corporation in Voice of Customer for two consecutive years Korea Management Association Consulting Jun. Named the best call center for three consecutive years in the Korea Service Quality Index (KSQI) Korea Management Association Consulting Ownership Structure KB Kookmin Bank Premium Brands Awards 2011 in the banking industry Korea Herald Grand prize, Korea’s Most Beloved Brands 2011 Chosun Economy KB Financial Group First prize, Korea’s Most Ethical Corporations 2011 Fortune Korea Grand prize, 2011 National Competitiveness Seoul Economic Daily Jul. KB Kookmin Bank Ranked 13th among the top 100 Brands in Korea for the 2nd quarter of 2011 Brand Stock Ranked 1st in the customer access point category for two consecutive years in the Korea Service Quality Index (KSQI) Korea Management Association Consulting 66 Aug. KB Kookmin Bank Ranked 1st in the banking service category for eight consecutive years in the National Brand Competitiveness Index (NBCI) Korea Productivity Center 67 The Most Trusted Representative Brands among Consumers 2011 in the banking industry in Korea Korea Brand Management Association KB Kookmin Bank Sep Ranked 1st in the banking industry for five consecutive years in the Korea Customer Satisfaction Index (KCSI) Korea Management Association Consulting KB Kookmin Card Ranked 1st in the check card category in the Korea Customer Satisfaction Index (KCSI) Korea Management Association Consulting Included in the Down Jones Sustainability Asia Pacific Index for three consecutive years Korea Productivity Center KB Financial Group Forbes Korea & Korea Chamber of Named Best Social Contributor in the youth welfare category by Forbes Commerce and Industry Oct. Named Best Corporation by the Asian Chief Audit Executives Leadership Forum Brand Stock KB Kookmin Bank Grand prize, the 5th Korea Consumer Awards 2011 Korean Society of Consumer Studies KB Kookmin Card Brand of the Year 2011 Korea Advertising Society GOLD&WISE named the best company in the electronic company newsletter category, Korea Communication Awards Korea Sabo Association Best Asian Bank for Cross-Border Custody, Service Provider Awards 2011 Asian Investor Magazine Grand prize, the 16th Korea Ethical Management Awards Korean Academy of Business Ethics KB Kookmin Bank Korea Civil Movement Association for Nov. Korea’s Most Trustworthy Enterprise chosen by Consumers Consumer’s Right & Korea Finance Consumer Federation Korea’s Highest Brand Brand Stock KB Kookmin Card Grand prize, Loving People, Touching Customers Brands THE DONG-A ILBO Ranked 1st in KS-SQI Korea Standards Association SBS Sharing Hopeful Tomorrow Awards SBS KB Financial Group 2011 Hot Brands chosen by 1,000 college students nationwide Hankyung Campus Job & Joy Financial Services Commission, Korea Presidential citation in anti-money laundering on anti-money laundering day and the 10th anniversary of KoFIU Financial Intelligence Unit World’s Best Trade Bank 2012 in Korea Global Finance Ranked 1st in the banking industry for six consecutive years in the National Competitiveness Satisfaction Index (NCSI) Korea Productivity Center KB Kookmin Bank Dec. Ranked 1st in banking services for five consecutive years in the Korean Net Promoter Score (KNPS) Korea Management Association Consulting Grand prize in the financial services category, Smart App Awards 2011 Korea Internet Professional Association Ranked 10th among Korea’s Top 100 Brands in 2011 Brand Stock KOREA LIFEstyle Awards – infant care support and promotion Munhwa Ilbo KB Kookmin Card Consumer’s Right Promotion Awards 2011 – Corporate Social Responsibility Korea Joongang Daily KB Investment & CEO of KB Investment & Securities Chi-Young Roh named the Best CEO in Communication Management, Korea CEO Korea Joongang Daily Securities Leadership Awards 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report *5,7DEOH ●:Full Reporting ◐:Partial Reporting ○:Not Reported GRI Index Page Reporting Level Remark ●:Full Reporting ◐:Partial Reporting ○:Not Reported Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and / or national / international 4.13 ○ advocacy organizations GRI Index Page Reporting Level Remark 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 12 ● 1. Strategy and Analysis 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 12 ● 1.1 CEO Message 2 ● 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 12 ● 1.2 Risks and opportunities 10, 11 ● Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how 1TICPK\CVKQPCN2TQſNG 4.17 13 ● the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns 2.1 Name of the organization ● KB Financial Group Economic Performance Indexes 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 4, 5 ● ● EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR 40 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 4, 5 ● Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 4, 5 ● EC2 38 ● due to climate change 2.5 Names of countries with major operations 4, 5 ● ● EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 50 A corporation under the commercial law. See 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 66 ● EC4 Significant financial assistance received from Government ○ page 66 for ownership structure Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant 2.7 Markets served 4, 5 ● EC5 ○ locations of operation 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 4, 5 ● Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers at significant locations 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership 4, 5, 66 ● EC6 49 ● of operation 2.10 Awards received 67 ● Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local EC7 49 ● 3. Report Parameters community at significant locations of operation 3.1 Reporting period Title page ● Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Title page ● EC8 60 ● public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement 3.3 Reporting cycle Title page ● Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of ● EC9 ○ 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Title page impacts 3.5 Process for defining report content 13 ● Environmental Performance Indicators 3.6 Boundary of the report Title page ● ● 68 69 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 40 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Title page ● EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 40 ◐ Basis for reporting that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 41 ● 3.8 Title page ● between organizations EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 41 ● 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations Title page ● EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 38 ● 3.10 Re-statements of information provided in earlier reports Title page ● Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and services, and Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or EN6 ○ 3.11 Title page ● reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives measurement methods applied in the report EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 40 ● 3.12 GRI Content Index 68-71 ● EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 41 ● 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report Title page ● Only waterworks supply is used. No water 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water ● sources with significant impact 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 9 ● EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused ● We do not use recycled water 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 8 ● Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and All major operations are located in urban areas EN11 ● 4.3 Board composition 9 ● areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas with no direct impact on biodiversity Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to We do not have any operation site that 4.4 8 ● the highest governance body Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in significantly affects biodiversity, and we do EN12 ● Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas not provide products or financings that have a 4.5 8 ● managers, and executives possibility to destroy the ecosystem Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are Insignificant issue – There is low risk of 4.6 8 ● EN13 Habitats protected or restored ○ avoided destroying habitats due to current operations Process for determining the qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest Insignificant issue – There is low risk of 4.7 8 ● EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity ○ governance body in the economic, environmental and social fields destroying biodiversity due to current operations 4.8 Statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles 11 ● http://kbfng.com/Eng/Social/Ethics1/charter.jsp Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas EN15 ● No endangered species within enterprise zones Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification affected by operations, by level of extinction risk 4.9 13 ● and management of economic, environmental, and social performance EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 41 ● Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly 4.10 8 ● Currently, we do not calculate Scope 3 emissions, with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ○ which is our longer-term consideration Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by 4.11 ● Not applicable the organization EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 38, 39 ● Externally developed principles or other initiatives to which the organization Insignificant issue – There are no significant 4.12 ● UNGC, UNEP/FI EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight ○ subscribes or endorses emissions of ozone-depleting substances 6JGſIWTGUTGHGTVQRCIGPWODGTUCPF#4TGHGTUVQ#PPWCN4GRQTV 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report ●:Full Reporting ◐:Partial Reporting ○:Not Reported ●:Full Reporting ◐:Partial Reporting ○:Not Reported GRI Index Page Reporting Level Remark GRI Index Page Reporting Level Remark Insignificant issue – There are no significant We do not have operations or suppliers as EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight ○ emissions of air-polluting substances HR7 Elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor ● having significant risk for incidents of forced or Insignificant issue – We only use waterworks and compulsory labor EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination ○ discharged water is treated by urban sewage Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures purification systems HR8 ○ concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 41 ◐ No incident of dispute due to violations involving HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken ● EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills ● No significant spills of harmful substances rights of indigenous people Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews No discharge of regulated waste materials and HR10 ○ EN24 terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste ● and/or impact assessments no history of international shipment shipped internationally Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal Cannot be disclosed due to internal policies and HR11 ○ Discharged water is treated by urban sewage grievance mechanisms regulations Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats EN25 ● purification systems, and there are no significant significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff discharges of waste water Society Performance Indicators Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the EN26 42 ● SO1 60-63 ● mitigation impacts of operations on communities Not applicable – We do not use packaging SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption ● 100% EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category ○ materials SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anticorruption policies and procedures 43 ● Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Cannot be disclosed due to internal policies and SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption ● No incident of significant corruption found EN28 ○ noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations regulations Participation in politics is prohibited at the Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials EN29 42 ◐ SO5 PPublic policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying ● company level (http://kbfng.com/ used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Kor/Morals/ethics2/ethics2.jsp) EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type ○ Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators SO6 ○ institutions by country LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 49 ● Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover 50 ● SO7 ○ 70 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 51 ● and their outcomes 71 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Cannot be disclosed due to internal policies and LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 51 ● SO8 ○ noncompliance with laws and regulations regulations LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes 50 ● We have no operations found with significant Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and LA6 ● 100% SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities ● potential or actual negative impacts on local safety committees communities Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of workLA7 ○ We have no operations found with significant related fatalities Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or SO10 ● potential or actual negative impacts on local Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist actual negative impacts on local communities LA8 50 ◐ communities workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 50 ● Product Responsibility Performance Indicators LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 53 ◐ Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for Products and services offered by KB Financial PR1 improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such ○ Group have low risk of significantly impacting Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability LA11 ○ procedures the safety of customers of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews ● 100% Products and services offered by KB Financial Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR2 ○ Group have low risk of significantly impacting Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle LA13 9 ● the safety of customers gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category ● No discrimination by gender Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant PR3 22 ● LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender ● 100% products and services subject to such information requirements Human Rights Performance Indicators PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning ○ Cannot be disclosed due to internal policies and product and service information and labeling, by result type regulations Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include We do not have a human rights screening HR1 ○ clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening process. It is our longer-term consideration. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer PR5 19 ● satisfaction Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone human rights HR2 43 ● screening Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing PR6 22 ● HR3 Employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights ○ communications HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken ● No incident Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR7 22 ● Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship We do not have operations or suppliers that are HR5 association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken ● Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses No incident of dispute due to breaches of at such risk PR8 20 ● to support these rights of customer data customer privacy We do not have operations or suppliers as Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the Cannot be disclosed due to internal policies and HR6 Abolition of child labor ● PR9 ○ having significant risk for incidents of child labor provision and use of products and services regulations 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report ●:Full Reporting ◐:Partial Reporting ○:Not Reported *5,6WDWHPHQW GRI Index Page Reporting Level Remark Financial Services Sector Supplement FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines 28,30 ● FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines 32 ● Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with environmental FS3 32 ● and social requirements included in agreements or transactions Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social policies FS4 ○ Not applicable and procedures as applied to business lines Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and social FS5 30 ◐ risks and opportunities FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size and by sector AP 2-3 ◐ FS7 Total monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit 31 ● Total monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental FS8 29 ● benefit Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social FS9 33 ◐ issues and policies Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the FS10 33 ◐ reporting organization has interacted on environmental or social issues FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening 32 ◐ Voting policies applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the FS12 ○ Not applicable reporting organization holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type 30 ● FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people 30 ● 72 FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services 22 ● 73 FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary 56 ● 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report ,QGHSHQGHQW$VVXUDQFH6WDWHPHQW This assurance result is based on the three principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness, and our opinion on the Report is as follows: The Report, issued by consolidating sustainability activities of each subsidiary, enabled us to confirm that KB Financial Group is evolving into having an integrated structure for developing, executing, monitoring and improving sustainability strategies at the group level, not at each subsidiary level. These efforts of KB Financial Group are significant in the sense that they provide a more advanced and sophisticated Dear Stakeholders of “KB Financial Group’s 2011 Sustainability Report” approach to sustainability management to other companies at home and abroad. Independent Assurance Statement for KB Financial Group’s Sustainability Report Inclusivity is a principle that assures the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable BSI Group Korea Limited (hereinafter “BSI”) has been engaged by KB Financial Group to perform an independent assurance with regard to the and strategic response to sustainability. 2011 Sustainability Report of KB Financial Group (hereinafter the “Report”). The Report is the first Sustainability Report issued at the group level We confirmed that KB Financial Group has in place a process of engaging stakeholders and makes efforts to collect opinions from various since the first issuance of the Sustainability Report of KB Kookmin Bank in 2009. The Report describes performance for a period between January 1, stakeholders and reflect them in its sustainability policy. The Group has official channels for communicating with each stakeholder group, and its 2011 and December 31, 2011, and in regard to some material issues, includes information collected up to April 2012. prioritization of reporting issues with regard to stakeholder surveys and feedbacks was helpful in determining contents covered in the Report. Scope of Assurance Each subsidiary within KB Financial Group owns stakeholders according to its business characteristics. From our observations of this Report, The Report contains sustainability activities and performance of the ten subsidiaries of KB Financial Group, namely KB Kookmin Bank, KB it may be difficult to figure out various issues at each subsidiary level as the Report copes with major issues identified through stakeholder Kookmin Card, KB Investment & Securities, KB Life Insurance, KB Asset Management, KB Real Estate Trust, KB Investment, KB Credit engagement conducted at the group level. We recommend that KB Financial Group should also conduct materiality assessment on the Information, KB Data Systems and KB Savings Bank, as well as sustainability-related information of the Group’s overseas operations, but the sustainability issues identified by individual subsidiaries and include them in the next report. assurance was carried out only for domestic operations. The following aspects of information were outside the scope of this assurance. Materiality concerns determining issues which are necessary in order for stakeholders to make judgments based on Financial information information regarding KB Financial Group and its impacts. With regard to environmental data, the reporting scope was restricted to the real estate properties directly owned by KB Financial Group. We confirmed that the sustainability issues identified from stakeholders through the materiality assessment and the key issue selection Information provided on the KB Financial Group’s website process had been incorporated into sustainability strategies. KB Financial Group used its VOC system to understand the organization’s sustainability issues and collected material issues of internal and external stakeholders through communication with stakeholders, surveys Responsibility and Independence and other channels. The Group identified 10 key issues and major issues through the materiality assessment conducted in accordance with KB Financial Group has full responsibility for the preparation of the Report. In performing our assurance work, our responsibility is to the AA1000SES guidance and included them in the Report. provide an independent assurance statement containing our professional opinion within the stated scope of the report through applying 74 methodology described and to provide the information to all stakeholders of KB Financial Group. 75 To develop the key sustainability issues identified from stakeholders into more solid sustainability strategies, we recommend that KB Our assurance team has no financial interest in KB Financial Group and did not engage in the preparation of the Report other than presenting Financial Group should set up a body at the highest level of the organization such as a Sustainability Committee under the Board of its assurance opinion on the Report. The assurance was carried out by BSI assurors with a broad range of skills and depth of experience in Directors. This way, the strategies and activities KB Financial Group has developed in relation to its sustainability management can be respective fields in order to provide a high level of competency for assurance engagement in line with the BSI Fair Trading Code of Practice. aligned to issues of stakeholders more clearly and stakeholders in turn will be able to understand the Group’s commitment to sustainability, thereby enabling the Group to win more respect and trust of the general public. Assurance Standards The assurance was performed in accordance with the following standards: AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) Responsiveness concerns the extent to which an organization responds to stakeholder issues. GRI G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and the Financial Services Sector Supplement (FSSS) From our observations, we confirmed that the Report describes the issues, and KB Financial Group’s responses thereto, identified We confirmed adherence to the three principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness by applying Type 1 moderate level of the from communication with stakeholders and KB Financial Group has responded to such issues in an appropriate manner via diverse AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008). The reliability evaluation of sustainability performance information was not covered in this assurance. communication channels. It is also confirmed that KB Financial Group has properly responded to the major issues through various The GRI Guidelines was applied at the level of A communication channels. We believe that such enhanced inclusivity and responsiveness will become an important driver of reinforcing the Group’s core competencies in sustainability management. However, we recommend that KB Financial Group should include in the Report Methodology not only information on historical performance but also target numbers so that near-term performance and policy direction of KB Financial We adhere to the assurance standards and used a methodology that had been developed to gather relevant evidence that helps reduce Group with regard to sustainability issues can be forecast at the individual or category level. errors in the content reported. We undertook the following activities: Review and confirmation of the adequacy of KB Financial Group’s process in order to determine assurance priorities The Report fairly covers the positive aspects KB Financial Group has achieved concerning sustainability issues in each area of business. To Review of the process for implementing sustainability strategies and systems for the their implementation maintain a balanced reporting, however, we recommend that KB Financial Group should identify issues that have not been sufficiently dealt Interviews with senior managers and employees responsible for the management of sustainability issues, selection of bases for the issues with and seek to include efforts to improve on such issues in the report. discussed, and review of their adequacy Review of the process for creating, gathering and reporting data in each area of performance Performance Information Independent assessment of KB Financial Group’s reporting in preparation for the application level of the GRI Guidelines Finally, we recommend that KB Financial Group put in place a system for collecting performance data from each field of the economy, society and the environment and managing results against targets on a regular basis and incorporate the system in the Group’s internal Assurance Opinion audit process so as to maintain data reliability. We reviewed the draft of the Report and provided our opinion, and where necessary, corrections were made to the Report accordingly. Based on the results of the assurance work performed, we concluded that KB Financial Group complied with the reporting principles and provided a fair description of its sustainability performance. June 1, 2012 Jung-Kee Cheon We confirmed that the GRI indicators referenced in the GRI Index pages were reported fully or partially as the result of the materiality Managing Director of BSI Group Korea assessment process. We also concluded that the Report met GRI’s G3.1 application level A+. 2011 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report *ORVVDU\ The difference between the interest a bank charges on loans and the interest it pays on deposits. Strictly speaking, it is net interest (interest received – interest paid) less labor and material costs arising from the Interest Rate Spread handling of credit-granting and deposit-taking operations, loss on loan principal (credit cost) due to the deterioration of credit assets, contributions Credit Guarantee Fund, insurance premiums for deposits, education tax and other quasi-tax expenses Sales of a financial product without a reasonable amount of explanation to the customer about the Miss-selling product and investment risks involved AVL(Approved Vendor List) Assessment table for registering Business partners A methodology to maintain business continuity in the event of a disaster. BCP has emerged as a key concept since the 9/11 terrorist attack in the U.S. It is intended to maximize corporate value by ensuring BCP (Business Continuity Plan) continuity in customer services and key business operations in addition to simply restoring destructed data through backup and other methods to support normal operations CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) A global project related to the disclosure of greenhouse gas emissions A management technique with which to operate a marketing program based on information regarding CRM (Customer Relationship customers or potential customers, arranged and analyzed in a database, and indexed for sales activities 76 Management) of products and services A global benchmark for corporate sustainability. The index is composed of companies with excellent DJSI sustainable practices selected not just based on financial information but also on governance, social (Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes) contribution and other criteria. An ESCO is a business or industry that makes investments in energy-saving facilities on behalf of energy ESCO (Energy Service Company) users and recoups their investments from energy savings achieved. Through ESCOs, energy users can gain energy efficiency without financial or technological burden. A non-profit, independent organization that developed international standards on sustainability reporting. It GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) produces standard reporting indicators for sustainability reports. G 3.1 is the latest version. ISO/IEC20000 represents the international standard for objectively assessing IT service quality. The ISO/IEC20000 standard is published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and managed by the IT Service Management Forum (itSMF). Reporting made by a financial institution to the Korea Financial Intelligence Unit (KoFIU) for suspicious transactions. The decision to file a SAR is an inherently subjective judgment. A suspicious transaction A PDF version of this report is available on KB Financial Group’s STR (Suspicious Transaction Report) website at http://www.kbfng.com. here is a financial transaction over KRW20 million or over US$10,000 suspected of constituting an illegal fund or money laundering. If you have inquiries or opinions on KB Financial Group’s Sustainability Report, use the contact information below. UNEP FI Korea Group A global public-private partnership between the United Nations Environment Programme and the 9-1, 2-ga, Namdaemun-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea (United Nations Environment financial sector. About 200 representative financial institutions such as banks, asset managers and 150-868 Programme Finance Initiative) insurers around the world are the members of this partnership. o Tel: 82-2-2073-7845 o Fax: 82-2-2073-0639 A strategic policy initiative for businesses whose ten principles address human rights, labor, environment UNGC (UN Global Compact) and anti-corruption. More than 650 companies throughout the world participate in the initiative. This report is printed with soy-based ink on environment-friendly paper.
