Messaeh M essaeh zefaerfaerf zefaerfaerf Sustainable development is a key priority for our Group, as shown by the launch of our PLANET 21 program in 2012. As the world's leading hotel operator, we must lead the way in reconciling growth and respect for local communities. Every year, the 160,000 employees* working in Accor-brand establishments welcome millions of customers in 3,500 hotels across the globe. With customers claiming to be increasingly concerned about sustainable development challenges, PLANET 21 is mapping out a new path for our Group, our employees and our partners, a path that will let us make sustainable hospitality a reality – a unique way of conducting our business. Our engagement is not something new: it took shape almost 20 years ago when we created an Environment department back in 1994, followed by an environmental charter for hoteliers in 1998. Since then, Accor has continued to innovate in terms of its practices and models with the aim of creating sustainable value. With PLANET 21, our approach is organized around 21 concrete measures matched with ambitious, quantified targets that the hotels must achieve by 2015, in such areas as healthy eating, lower water and energy consumption and prevention of diseases. Accor has also set up an innovative system for tracking and managing sustainable development performance in its hotels, to guide its hoteliers and encourage them to roll out responsible actions. Indeed, sustainable development is a integral part of our operational excellence. We would not be able to achieve these goals without coordinated action with our guests and our partners. This is why PLANET 21 is presented to our guests in a highly transparent manner through a program of information inviting them to adopt simple practices as a way of participating actively in the responsible actions rolled out in our hotels. I strongly believe that sustainable development is crucial for a new business model more respectful of natural resources and human beings. Over and above the ethical aspect, PLANET 21 is a fantastic driver of competitiveness for our brands and of attractiveness and loyalty for our partners, employees and guests, who are keen to join forces with us to promote sustainable growth. This is why the Accor Group signed up to the United Nations Global Compact in 2003 and is renewing its commitment to the program's 10 universally accepted principles. By taking part in this international corporate-citizen initiative, with the PLANET 21 program Accor reaffirms its commitment to reasoned, sustainable and responsible commercial practices. In this way, the Group contributes to the emergence of global market that is more stable, more equitable and more open. Yann Caillère CEO of the Accor Group *including 145,000 in owned and managed hotels Sustainable development department Accor – planet21@accor.com 2 Corporate Responsibility 2.1. OUR COMMITMENTS 26 2.2. HUMAN RESOURCES REPORT 31 2.2.1. Key figures 31 2.2.2. Human resources policies 34 2.2.3. Our commitments to employees 38 2.3. ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 47 2.3.1. Environmental policy 47 2.3.2. Prevention and remedies 50 2.3.3. Training and information initiatives 51 2.3.4. Water 52 2.3.5. Energy 54 2.3.6. Emissions into the natural environment and measures to prevent and reduce them 57 2.3.7. Local environmental impacts of the business 60 2.3.8. Waste 61 2.3.9. Eco-design and innovation processes 64 2.4. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 65 2.4.1. Social responsibility policy 65 2.4.2. Protecting children from abuse 65 2.4.3. Local development 66 2.4.4. Guest health and safety 67 2.4.5. Sustainable procurement 68 2.5. THE ACCOR FOUNDATION 72 2.5.1. Organization and operation 72 2.5.2. Foundation initiatives 72 2.5.3. A positive track record 73 2.6. ATTESTATION OF PRESENTATION AND INDEPENDENT VERIFIER’S ASSURANCE REPORT 75 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 25 2 Corporate Responsibility OUR COMMITMENTS 2.1. OUR COMMITMENTS Accor’s stated ambition is to establish itself as the hospitality employees, who are the primary drivers of our success. The industry’s uncontested global benchmark. Progress towards PLANET 21 sustainable development strategy, which focuses that objective is underpinned by our unwavering corporate on environmental and social responsability issues, has commitment, as reflected in our core values of innovation, reaffirmed the need for responsible growth that creates value spirit of conquest, performance, respect and trust. Our human for everyone. Lastly, the Accor Foundation is helping to expand resources policies are designed to attract talented individuals our employee-led community outreach initiatives around the and to continuously develop the skills and capabilities of our world. CHALLENGES Accor’s responsibility to employees means ensuring that each Accor’s ethical and integrity policies were formalized in 2009 with one enjoys a healthy working environment and a fulfilling quality the publication of the Accor Management Ethics Guide, which of worklife, in compliance with local legislation, human rights consolidates all of the major principles that every employee is principles and the freedom of association. expected to respect. As such, it serves as a common foundation for all of our employees in every host country, who receive a This commitment is embodied in our day-to-day operations personal copy. by our managers with the support of the Human Resources Departments, which keep them constantly aware of best In accordance with the principles of the United Nations Global practices. Application of these principles in employee relations Compact, which Accor has pledged to support, the Guide is built is regularly tracked via opinion surveys, annual performance around three closely related points: reviews and other tools. Lastly, our investor, hotel owner and franchisee partners are also actively encouraged to practice a management principles; socially responsible management, for the greater benefit of a the commitment to integrity and compliance with legislation; everyone working under an Accor banner. a environmental and social responsibility. Distribution of the Group’s core corporate social responsibility In general, it describes our corporate commitment to complying documents, such as the Accor Management Ethics Guide and with or exceeding prevailing legislation and standards in each the Management Values is helping to instill these practices country, and to integrating this compliance into a comprehensive across the Accor brand base. ethics process. It encourages employees to maintain awareness The hospitality industry faces the constant challenge of of the legal environment, request information from legal experts attracting and retaining talented people. This is an area where and never leave any compliance issues unresolved. the quality of hotel management practices plays a critical role, It also emphasizes the necessity of getting employees to share by demonstrating Accor’s employer promise on the job every the Accor vision and fostering close ties between everyone day. While extremely diverse, our employees are all united by in the corporate community. This process is primarily based a set of shared management principles: on fighting discrimination, embracing employee diversity, a innovation, which takes us off the beaten path – the only recognizing talent, nurturing trust and dialogue, and driving a way for us to maintain our market leadership; dynamic sense of co-destiny. a a spirit of conquest, because growth is impossible without The Guide is also intended to promote integrity, and in particular boldness and a willingness to take risks; to prevent bribery. In this way, it provides clear definitions of bribery of public officials and the active or passive bribery of a performance, or the ability to meet, as effectively as private individuals, with real-world examples of situations in possible, our self-assigned objectives, both individually and which employees could find themselves and how they should as a company; respond. Accor pledges that no commission will be paid directly a respect, which stems from our belief that it is the very or indirectly to any elected or appointed public official or elected diversity of our employees, customers and partners around representative with regard to the Company’s contracts or its the world that stimulates us and keeps us moving forward; relations with French and foreign government agencies. It further pledges to take all reasonable measures to avoid the a trust, without which initiative would not be possible. use of bribes with regard to both its purchasing and sales procedures. Given the large number of countries in which it 26 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Corporate Responsibility OUR COMMITMENTS 2 operates, Accor pays constant attention to the risk of bribery, In 2011, the first survey, conducted by French polling institute which has been included in the risk map prepared by the Risk IFOP and involving 7,000 guests in six countries, helped to Management Department (see Chapter 3.4 – Risk Management) improve understanding of international hotel guest expectations and is carefully tracked. regarding sustainable development. In addition to bribery, the Guide also discusses money laundering, The second, dealing with Accor’s environmental footprint, anti-competitive practices and the safety of employees and was carried out in partnership with PwC using the life-cycle guests. analysis method. It provided a holistic view of the environmental impact of all of our hotels, specifying or identifying the primary Lastly, it sets out important guidelines to enable employees impacts, areas for improvement and new priorities, such as to act responsibly in safeguarding the environment. These the impact of food services or construction site waste. Eleven guidelines promote local development, encourage management core hospitality industry processes were reviewed to determine to set specific objectives and help employees to respond to their environmental impact in five areas: energy use, water use, everyday events and build guest awareness of environmental waste production, carbon emissions and water pollution. stewardship. As the Guide states, “protecting the environment means integrating environmental issues into our decisions and Lastly, our community outreach expertise, acquired thanks to actions, beginning in the design phase for new hotels, products our longstanding involvement, enabled us to identify major social and services.” issues for the hospitality industry, including local development, healthy eating, disease prevention and the protection of children To craft a environmental and social responsibility strategy that is from abuse. both innovative and aligned with the challenges of its business, in 2010 Accor undertook an extensive assessment program to As one of the world’s leading hospitality groups, Accor has a order to collect comprehensive, reliable data. In a commitment responsibility to its guests, its employees, its shareholders and to helping to drive progress across the industry, we also created its local host communities. It is actively committed to nurturing PLANET 21 Research, a platform for sharing knowledge on constructive dialogue and open communication with all of its sustainable development in the hospitality industry where all stakeholders, both within the Company and in the community. of our publications are available for viewing and download. Accor stakeholders Employee and business stakeholders Public stakeholders Financial stakeholders Trade stakeholders Internal Employees Employee shareholders Employee representatives External Franchisees Public authorities Shareholders Trade organizations Owners and investors (governments, European Financial community Competitors Union, etc.) Investors Guests Associations, NGOs, etc. SRI rating agencies Partners Local communities Suppliers Media and service providers Distributors ENGAGEMENT AND RECOGNITION Accor has a responsibility to its employees, the environment a On January 31, 1999, at the World Economic Forum in Davos, and its local host communities. To fulfill it, we have pledged to Switzerland, UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan challenged respect human rights and the freedom of association and to world business leaders to embrace, support and enact the fight against corruption. We have also been widely recognized Global Compact, both individually through their firms and for our efforts to combat the commercial sexual exploitation by supporting appropriate public policies. In 2003, Accor of children and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This pledged to support the Global Compact and respect its ten engagement is demonstrated every day by our employees, who principles, which cover issues dealing with human rights, play an essential role in implementing our policies, which are labor standards, the fight against corruption and the shaped by our business and aligned with local conditions and environment. The Group is committed to reaching the GC practices. Advanced level by 2015. Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 27 2 Corporate Responsibility OUR COMMITMENTS In 1995, a worldwide agreement was signed with the appointed to the Executive Committee of the Child Protection International Union of Food Workers (IUF) concerning application Code of Conduct, which was developed by EPCAT and the of International Labour Organization conventions 87, 98 and 135 World Tourism Organization. As of year-end 2012, the Code on employees’ freedom of association and right to unionize. had been signed by 36 of our country organizations. The agreement ensures the effective application of these conventions in all of our establishments. a Lastly, since 2006, Accor has participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project, a major survey conducted on behalf of Accor is a member of the ILO Global Business and Disability 475 institutional investors managing more than €55 trillion Network following the official signing of the membership in assets. This international organization asks leading agreement on June 11, 2012 at the United Nations Office in corporations to report on their climate change strategies, Geneva. The initiative is a response to the needs expressed their approach to carbon cost imposition and their greenhouse by multinational corporations and employer organizations. gas emissions performance. Accor’s scores have steadily Participating in the Network gives us the possibility of organizing improved since 2010, both in the Carbon Leadership a certain number of events around the world and to embrace the Disclosure Index and in the Carbon Performance Leadership best practices of the initiative’s partner companies. Index, with a final overall score of 81B in 2012. a Since 2001, Accor has fought against the commercial sexual a In recognition of its corporate social responsibility commitment exploitation of children with ECPAT International, an NGO and performance, Accor has been included since 2004 in the comprising 77 organizations in more than 70 countries, whose four leading international socially responsible investment mission is to end child prostitution, child pornography and indexes: the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, FTSE4Good, trafficking of children for sexual purposes. In 2008, Accor was ASPI Eurozone and the Ethibel Sustainability Indexes. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH STRATEGY At a time when Accor is beginning a phase of sustained Structured around 21 commitments backed by measurable expansion, the PLANET 21 program is accelerating and objectives that all hotels are expected to meet by 2015, intensifying its sustainable development commitment, PLANET 21 has embedded sustainable hospitality deep in our transforming it into a decisive competitive advantage for the strategic vision, as well as in our development and innovation Group, its brands and its partners. processes. PLANET 21: 7 pillars, 21 commitments and measurable objectives for 2015 Additional Indicators – 2012 Results Pillars Commitments 2015 Objectives 2012 Results (without objectives) 1. Ensure healthy 85% of hotels use 89% 88% of hotels use eco-labeled cleaning interiors eco-labeled products products 11% of hotels use eco-labeled wall paint 9% of hotels use eco-labeled floor coverings 2. Promote 80% of hotels promote 87% Number of hotels offering vegetarian dishes responsible balanced dishes (indicator under construction) eating 3. Prevent diseases 95% of hotels organize 40% 934 hotels are equipped with condom vending disease prevention machines training for employees 14,637 employees have been trained in HIV/AIDS prevention 8,940 ergonomic beds installed in France by year-end 2012 28 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Corporate Responsibility OUR COMMITMENTS 2 Additional Indicators – 2012 Results Pillars Commitments 2015 Objectives 2012 Results (without objectives) 4. Reduce 15% reduction in water 5% reduction 95% of hotels monitor and analyze water use our water use use between 2011 and in 2012 monthly 2015 (owned, leased 93% of hotels have installed flow regulators and managed hotels)* on showers and faucets 189 hotels are equipped with rainwater recovery installations 5. Expand waste 85% of hotels recycle 79% 91% of hotels sort and recycle batteries recycling their waste 90% of hotels sort and process compact fluorescent tubes and light bulbs 86% of hotels sort and recycle paper and cardboard 6. Protect 60% of hotels 39% 87% of hotels use locally adapted plants biodiversity participate in the 71% use eco-friendly gardening products Plant for the Planet reforestation project 82% of hotels use certified paper for printing 7. Reduce our 10% reduction in 3% increase 93% of hotels monitor and analyze energy use energy use energy use between in 2012 monthly 2011 and 2015 (owned, 94% hotels use low-consumption lamps leased and managed for 24/7 lighting hotels)* 92% of hotels monitor the optimum settings of energy installations 8. Reduce our CO2 10% reduction in CO2 10% increase 76% of hotels check that equipment containing emissions emissions between in 2012 HCFCs and HFCs is leak-proof 2011 and 2015 (owned, 68% of hotels use energy-efficient boilers leased and managed hotels)* 65% of hotels use energy-efficient air conditioning and cooling equipment 9. Increase the use 10% of hotels use 6% 183 hotels use renewable energies of renewable renewable energies 145 hotels are equipped with solar panels energies for domestic hot water 10. Encourage 40% of hotels 23% 57% of hotels use dispensers or eco-design have at least three eco-responsible packaging for bathroom eco-designed room products components 20% of hotels have eco-labeled bathroom products 10% of hotels use responsible bedding components 11. Promote 21 new or renovated 2 hotels 28% of hotels use building management sustainable hotels are certified as software to manage their energy use building sustainable buildings 68% of hotels use energy-efficient bulbs for frontage lighting 31% of hotels recover energy from the ventilation system 12. Introduce 20% of owned and Scheduled for LED-based lighting solutions being tested responsible leased hotels offer launch in 2013 hotel offers green meeting Filtered instead of bottled water for meetings and technologies solutions being tested Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 29 2 Corporate Responsibility OUR COMMITMENTS Additional Indicators – 2012 Results Pillars Commitments 2015 Objectives 2012 Results (without objectives) 13. Protect children 70% of hotels have 38% 36 country organizations have signed the Code from abuse pledged to protect of Conduct for the Protection of Children children More than 30,000 employees have been trained in preventing child sex tourism 111 hotels are involved in programs to help marginalized minors reintegrate into society 14. Support 70% of hotels purchase 68% 56% of hotels serve fair trade products responsible and promote locally (with the Fairtrade/Max Havelaar label) purchasing sourced products 15% of hotels serve sustainable products practices (with the Rainforest Alliance or other recognized label) Around 526 tonnes of fair-trade-sourced hot beverages served in our hotels in 2012 15. Protect 100% of hotels ban 83% 87% of hotels ensure proper sanitation ecosystems endangered seafood of wastewater from restaurant menus 97% of hotels train staff in good environmental practices 16. Support 75% of hotel managers 80% Number of employees attending a training employee are promoted from course leading to certification (indicator under growth within (owned, leased construction) and skills and managed hotels) 321 hotels offer employees classes in the host country language 17. Make diversity Women account for 27% 0.8% of employees have disabilities (owned, an asset 35% of hotel managers leased and managed hotels, outside the United (owned, leased and States) managed hotels) 18. Improve quality 100% of country 71 countries 369 hotels organize training to prevent of worklife organizations conduct psychosocial risks an employee opinion survey every two years 19. Conduct our Accor is included 4 indices Meetings were held with 523 investors during business in 6 internationallythe year to present our management practices openly and recognized socially transparently responsible investment indices or standards 20. Engage our 40% of all non-budget 31% 55% of franchised hotels comply with the franchised hotels, across all “standard level” defined in the Charter 21** and managed operating structures, hotels are ISO 14001-certified 21. Share 100% of purchasing 60% 204 suppliers have been audited our approach contracts are by an independent organization over the past with suppliers in compliance with our two years Procurement Charter 21 90% of European contracts include REACH compliance for chemicals * In 2012, managed hotels were added to the PLANET 21 targets concerning water, energy and CO2. ** The standard level is reached when ten of the Charter 21 key action points have been completed. Unless otherwise noted, the PLANET 21 Commitments concern all Accor Group hotels, whether owned, leased, managed or franchised. 30 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Corporate Responsibility HUMAN RESOURCES REPORT 2 2.2. HUMAN RESOURCES REPORT Human resources policies, which are intrinsically linked to our a Recognition, which enhances motivation and the sense strategic vision and growth challenges, are guided by the key of belonging to the corporate community, is based on concepts of professionalism and mobility. such fundamentals as compensation, empowerment, attentiveness and engaged, hands-on management. a Professionalism is crucial for our hospitality and service jobs in an increasingly competitive marketplace, where a A commitment to diversity in our human resources is a demanding customers require a constant focus on adapting major strength in fostering team alignment, attracting and to their needs. This is why our employees are regularly retaining talent and nurturing the ability to innovate and to trained, effectively motivated and offered opportunities for embrace change. professional growth. a Dialogue is the cornerstone of a working environment that a Mobility, both geographic and occupational, is an important nurtures employee job fulfillment and performance. Managers process at Accor, because it supports skills enrichment and are supported in this process by open, frank discussions with opens up more diverse career opportunities. stakeholders and tools such as employee surveys, which help to maintain a high-quality working environment. Our responsibility to employees is expressed in recognition, a commitment to diversity and dialogue. 2.2.1. KEY FIGURES Employee and diversity data are reported and the related Unless otherwise noted, all of the indicators disclosed in the indicators managed via the HR DATA application that was social responsibility report are based on the reported employee revamped in 2009 and redeployed in 2010. The application has and diversity data. The scope of this reporting is described been steadily upgraded with new features to enhance userbelow. friendliness, but more importantly to improve the reliability of Employee data are reported for: the reported data. In addition to collecting and consolidating employee and diversity indicators, the application allows users a people who work in head offices, owned hotels and leased to export employee relations scorecards. They can also easily hotels, who are direct employees of the Accor Group; display data trends from one period to another for a given issue or to compare two issues. Wider use of these scorecards will a people who work in the managed hotels, who are managed by Accor but are not direct employees of the Accor Group. be encouraged by a series of training sessions to be organized in 2013. Employee data do not include: The corporate reporting process is defined in the human a employees of owned, leased and managed hotels closed as resources reporting protocol and the diversity reporting of December 31, 2012; protocol, which apply to everyone involved in the reporting chain, from the Accor head office to hotels. They provide a a contingent workers, interns and temporary workers; detailed, comprehensive description of Group procedures and a employees of franchised hotels or units in which Accor owns definitions, the methods used to measure data and indicators, an equity interest but does not exercise any management and the areas at risk that require particular attention. They also responsibility (commission-based management contracts and mention any country-specific features, which are frequently Adagio Aparthotels). updated. Workforce indicators are measured and disclosed on the basis Versions of the protocols in French and English have been of the monthly average number of employees. distributed to everyone responsible for the reporting process. As of December 31, 2012, Accor employed 133,886 people in They are also available on request from the corporate Human owned, leased and managed hotels, compared with 144,893 Resources Department, together with all of the training support a year earlier. documents that make up Accor’s reporting standards. Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 31 2 Corporate Responsibility HUMAN RESOURCES REPORT Workforce by business and region at December 31, 2012 Europe Latin (excl. America & Other France France) Asia-Pacific Caribbean countries Total 2012 Total 2011 Owned and leased hotels – payroll employees 15,264 21,242 4,665 4,768 2,958 48,897 67,090 Upscale and Midscale Hotels 9,672 15,562 3,019 2,536 2,319 33,108 36,882 Economy Hotels 5,592 5,680 1,646 2,232 639 15,789 15,913 Economy Hotels in the United States 14,296 Managed hotels – non-payroll employees 1,325 5,207 55,635 5,943 15,794 83,905 76,650 Upscale and Midscale Hotels 1,279 4,232 51,654 4,873 14,184 76,222 69,289 Economy Hotels 46 975 3,981 1,070 1,610 7,683 7,361 Holding company – payroll employees 1,084 1,084 1,153 (1) TOTAL 17,673 26,449 60,301 10,711 18,752 133,886 144,893 (1) Except for six managed hotels in Germany and 20 managed hotels in France. “Other countries” includes the Africa-Middle East and North The number of total employees in North America declined America regions. As of end-2012, Accor had 15,943 employees following disposal of the Motel 6 and Studio 6 brands in the in Africa-Middle East, of whom 2,720 were payroll employees, economy segment. In France, the number of payroll employees and 2,809 employees in North America, of whom 238 were is trending downwards in conjunction with the asset-light payroll employees. strategy. In addition to employees working in head offices and in owned, A total of 60,024 people working under permanent and fixed-term leased and managed hotels, Accor estimates that another contracts left the Group in 2012, of which 35,918 resignations, 30,000 people are employed in the franchised hotels. 7,407 involuntary separations (dismissals, contractual termination by mutual agreement, unsuccessful trial periods, Lastly, by the nature of its business and in its relationships etc.), and 665 voluntary separations under redundancy plans. with partners, Accor is a major source of indirect jobs. The outside workforce includes temporary and contingent workers who support in-house teams during peak periods, as well as Changes in operating structure sub-contractor employees in such areas as laundry services, housekeeping, landscaping and call centers. Although Accor takes into account the jobs impact of its assetlight strategy, when a hotel is sold under a management-back or franchise-back agreement, the employment contracts of its staff are automatically transferred to the buyers. Employee movements When a hotel changes operating structure, human resources Accor hired 72,463 people in 2012, primarily in response to its teams around the world help to support employees through strong organic growth and the competition it is facing as an the transition. In France, for example, an agreement on the employer in regions where the services industry is experiencing principles and procedures for managing and supporting the fast growth, such Asia-Pacific and Latin America. In addition, transfer of employees during hotel divestments was signed the total workforce was increased by the acquisition of Mirvac in 2009 and amended in December 2010. The impact of the in Asia-Pacific. asset-light objectives for 2016 will be presented to employee representatives in 2013. As part of this process, new negotiations on employee support measures will be opened. 32 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Corporate Responsibility HUMAN RESOURCES REPORT 2 Human resources data at December 31, 2012 Europe Latin (excl. America & Other France France) Asia-Pacific Caribbean countries Total 2012 Total 2011 Number of payroll and non-payroll employees 17,673 26,449 60,301 10,711 18,753 133,886 144,893 % women 57% 56% 44% 53% 27% 47% 50% % men 43% 44% 56% 47% 73% 53% 50% % under permanent contracts 86% 82% 62% 95% 72% 73% 77% % women 56% 55% 44% 53% 31% 47% 51% % men 44% 45% 56% 47% 69% 53% 49% By age Under 25 15% 20% 24% 20% 11% 20% 20% 25 to 34 32% 36% 41% 42% 39% 39% 37% 35 to 44 26% 22% 22% 25% 27% 23% 24% 45 to 54 19% 15% 10% 10% 17% 13% 14% Over 55 8% 7% 3% 3% 6% 5% 5% By seniority Less than six months 10% 9% 19% 17% 11% 15% 17% Six months to two years 18% 26% 38% 35% 27% 31% 28% Two to five years 19% 24% 22% 25% 22% 22% 24% Five to ten years 23% 19% 12% 16% 18% 16% 14% More than ten years 30% 22% 9% 7% 22% 16% 17% Management % of total workforce (1) 26% 17% 27% 12% 12% 22% 19% % women 48% 48% 39% 46% 26% 41% 43% % men 52% 52% 61% 54% 74% 59% 57% By age Under 25 2% 2% 7% 2% 3% 5% 5% 25 to 34 32% 34% 47% 48% 27% 41% 39% 35 to 44 34% 36% 31% 31% 35% 33% 33% 45 to 54 24% 20% 12% 15% 26% 16% 18% Over 55 8% 8% 3% 4% 9% 5% 5% Working hours % full-time employees 77% 79% 89% 99% 99% 88% 89% % part-time employees (2) 23% 21% 11% 1% 1% 12% 11% Average number of days absent per employee over the year for illness, occupational disease and workplace accidents (3) 16.7 10.0 2.3 12.3 4.4 6.9 6.2 Average number of days absent per employee over the year for other reasons (4) 7.7 2.2 0.7 2.6 2.0 2.3 1.8 Training Average number of days of training per employee (5) 1.5 1.7 4.1 4.7 4.7 3.4 3.0 Average number of days of training for managers 2.6 2.8 4.5 5.1 9.4 4.3 4.4 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 33 2 Corporate Responsibility HUMAN RESOURCES REPORT Europe Latin (excl. America & Other France France) Asia-Pacific Caribbean countries Total 2012 Total 2011 Average number of days of training for non-managers 1.1 1.4 4.0 4.6 4.1 3.2 2.7 Number of employees having attended at least one training course 8,685 22,151 85,222 11,111 16,835 144,004 143,937 Of whom managers 3,059 4,238 22,051 1,225 2,691 33,264 31,566 Of whom non-managers 5,626 17,913 63,171 9,886 14,144 110,740 112,371 TOTAL NUMBER OF DAYS OF TRAINING 26,005 43,818 248,174 49,938 88,831 456,766 435,092 (1) A manager is defined as an employee who manages a team and/or has a high level of expertise. (2) A part-time employee is one who works fewer than a country’s legal working hours, without including any overtime. (3) Total number of days absent, divided by total number of employees. Does not include maternity and paternity leave. (4) Total days of authorized and un-authorized unpaid leave, divided by total number of employees. Does not include maternity and paternity leave. (5) Total number of days of training over the year divided by total number of employees. Methodology a Number of days of training: training in a country’s hotels and head offices is reported in number of days rather than a Training: the number of reported training days includes hours. When courses, such as e-learning modules, last only courses conducted by the Académie Accor and contract a few hours, they are converted into days on the basis of service providers for hotels and head offices, as well as the eight hours per day. brand program training led by managers for their teams. Accor considers that these data reflect the majority of the a Absenteeism “for other reasons”: these absences do training offered to employees. However, part of the training not give rise to any direct costs for the Group because they conducted in the hotels may not be reported to Group level. include authorized and unauthorized unpaid leave (other than Examples include induction courses for new hires or nonfor family events), depending on local labor laws. brand program courses led by managers with the help of specialized materials provided by the Académie Accor. 2.2.2. HUMAN RESOURCES POLICIES Accor’s human resources strategy is designed to support In emerging markets, we need to find the qualified employees the development of the brands and to continuously enhance required to support our expansion. In certain fast-growing employee capabilities in the diverse, ever-changing array regions, it is difficult to hire enough qualified hotel managers and of hospitality skill-sets. To meet our core challenges of employees to deliver the superior guest experience customers professionalism and mobility, therefore, we continuously strive deserve and to transfer their expertise to locally hired teams. to develop employee expertise and recognize and reward this expertise with career opportunities. Tools and resources deployed in the Group Accor offers franchise partners and the owners of managed hotels all the benefits of a world-renowned organization and its Attracting new talent brands, while helping them to enhance their image as a good Hiring and retaining the right people is an ongoing objective of place to work with international resources adapted to every our human resources strategy, with policies aligned with local job market. conditions in every host country. A global employer brand is displayed on all forms of corporate In mature markets, Accor is enhancing its appeal as an media for employee and public use, including advertising, online employer by using a wide variety of innovative recruitment media and below-the-line advertising (booths, posters, job-fair methods and offering motivating career opportunities to attract folders, etc.). It visually recalls the advantages of a career with and retain the best talent. Accor, such as training and skills development, promotion from within and recognition systems. 34 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Corporate Responsibility HUMAN RESOURCES REPORT 2 On the accor.com website, the “Recruitment & Careers” Enhancing employee capabilities section is designed to present the wide variety of career opportunities available in our corporate community. Applicants Training and skills development for all of our teams in every can also take a quiz to discover which jobs are right for them aspect of the business is a core component of Accor’s human or browse a comprehensive guide that presents our many jobs resources policies. The emphasis on promoting from within in detail. means that employees enjoy exciting career development opportunities. As part of this commitment, adult training Available in 12 languages, the AccorJobs job vacancies site programs have been especially introduced to enable employees posted nearly 20,000 offers for jobs or internships in 2012, to move into management positions. generating more than 500,000 applications. Applicants can also search the offers from their smart phone, thanks to a new mobile-friendly website. Partnering with educational systems An online HR strategy, extensively developed in 2012, is A dedicated outreach strategy for recent graduates is in place extending these existing resources to such new media as to attract, onboard and develop talent from universities and Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, YouTube and other social networks. professional schools. Its scope of application covers: In early 2013, Potentialpark ranked Accor best in France in online human resources communication and fourth in Europe, a work-study programs, to offer a consistent framework in recognition for the actions undertaken in 2012. and support the strategy with apprenticeship contracts, internships or gap years with the Group; a onboarding programs, to give new hires an overall vision Apprenticeship programs of the Group through the “Keys to Success” seminar and a In France, Accor has signed the Charter initiated by the French systematic training period of at least one week in a front-line Apprenticeships and Vocational Training Ministry to promote position for headquarters staff; access to work/study contracts for young people supported by a compensation policies, to define common reference points local young-adult employment agencies. The Charter helps to for starting salaries, wage scales and raises, all in line with improve the information young people receive regarding local market practices; work/study programs, orient them to the right one and prevent dropout by fostering dialogue between the student, their local Close relationships and partnerships with local educational employment advisor and their company mentor. In 2012, systems are being nurtured and expanded in our host countries, 650 people were involved in work/study programs in France, of involving a large number of business schools, hotel management which two-thirds under apprenticeship contracts. schools and universities. In 2012, the school partnership teams met with 3,800 bachelor’s and master’s level students during Also in France, M’App, a special apprenticeship label, is international conferences and trade fairs, with the goal of awarded to Mercure hotels that make a commitment to enabling several hundred of them to participate in internships provide quality training and support to young people in work/ and find jobs in Accor hotels and support functions. study programs. The hotel team, the apprentice and his or her mentor all sign a “contract of trust” describing the rights and As part of the partnership with the Lausanne Hotel School responsibilities of each party in ensuring the program’s success. (EHL), an Accor back-to-school event was organized on The label system enables work/study participants to receive September 18, 2012, during which Group senior executives, the personalized training and support, while helping the hotels co-Founding Chairmen and the Chairman and Chief Executive to attract, train and retain young employees. Through this Officer met with incoming EHL students to share their passion system, the Mercure brand has created a reservoir of potential for the Hospitality business. employees, with 500 people participating in the program since In France, a vocational and adult training agreement signed in its launch, including more than 230 who have stayed on as 1999 with the National Education Ministry is helping to deepen Group employees. Accor also recognizes the important role cooperation with higher education institutions through hands-on played by Mercure mentors with a specific training module at initiatives, provide young graduates with more information to the Académie Accor that has been taken by more than 280 guide their career choices, and inform high school and middle participants since 2008. school teachers about jobs in the hospitality and foodservices industry. In recent years, Accor has been deploying an assertive job tracks strategy to improve hotel performance by creating talent pools in jobs that will play key roles in tomorrow’s hospitality industry. Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 35 2 Corporate Responsibility HUMAN RESOURCES REPORT For employees, this offers an opportunity to acquire new skills track to management positions. In addition, employees who or to sharpen their expertise at a time when the profession is do not have a higher-education degree can also participate in changing very quickly. In particular, this is the case for: the program, once they have completed an Accor-sponsored certification course for adult learners. a sales, where the Sales & Distribution Pass training module was offered to 200 sales experts in 2012. It allows sales Since 1997, our International Hospitality Management managers to take their capabilities to the next level and Program (IHMP) has been helping to create a pool of measure themselves against the basic, fundamental principles international managers ready to take on new operating of hospitality sales. These courses are included in an ambitious responsibilities in both the short and medium term. IHMP program to improve the professionalism of our sales teams, is the result of a collaborative venture between the ESSEC from hiring to career development; business school’s MBA in Hospitality Management program (IMHI), the Accor Operations Human Resources Department a revenue management. A dedicated revenue manager job and the Académie Accor. The classes are given in English, with track has been in place since 2007, supported by the RM Pass a curriculum built around six main subjects: Business Strategy series of specialized training courses offered in association and Value Creation; Human Resources Management; Finance; with the Académie Accor. They are designed to enhance the Revenue Management; Marketing, Sales and Distribution; and capabilities of revenue managers and other employees who Communication. IHMP certification gives participants 20% of the help to optimize hotel revenue. In addition, partnerships are credits required for the ESSEC MBA in Hospitality Management. regularly formed with schools to train and pre-hire talented The class of 2012 comprised 27 employees, aged 26 to 48 and young people who will fill tomorrow’s strategic positions. representing 17 different nationalities, seven brands and nine Certain schools, for example, offer our RM Partner School job tracks. One third were women. program, which is helping to enhance revenue management education. Since late 2011, we have also partnered the A partnership with the Glion Institute of Higher Education Revenue Management Masters degree offered by Institut enables any Accor hotel manager without a college degree to Paul Bocuse and IAE Savoie Mont-Blanc in France; validate his or her years of experience in the profession with an MBA in International Hospitality and Service Industries a distribution, with the new Distribution Excellence (DEX) Management. The Institute’s core courses are given online in program primarily designed for hotel general managers and English in a virtual classroom. Earning the MBA can enable hotel revenue managers. The program is helping hotel managers department heads and General Managers to move up to higher to understand the major issues and challenges raised by positions within the organization. distribution channels and room booking methods. It also provides keys to building a strategy and developing everyday distribution tactics for their hotels. The Académie Accor Accor believes in promoting from within. Programs have been Created in 1985, the Académie Accor was the first corporate especially introduced to enable employees, either newly hired university in the services industry in Europe. For 27 years, this or with several years experience, to move into management pioneering institution has been dedicated to training all of our positions over the medium to long term. This system is being employees, while serving a forum for exchanging best practices supported by certification programs that validate skills learned and instilling the Accor corporate culture. on the job, thereby guaranteeing enhanced employability for employees both within the Group and elsewhere. The Académie Accor is supported by a network of 18 campuses around the world that offer training in every aspect of hospitalityIn New Zealand, for example, a graduate management trainee related expertise and jobs. Courses may be attended by any program has been set up in partnership with the Ministry of employee of an Accor-brand hotel, regardless of job family, Social Development. Each year, around twenty graduates from educational background, position or seniority. All of the owned, local universities and hotel management schools are selected leased, managed or franchised hotels have access to the and hired. During their first year of employment, they receive courses, which may be custom-tailored to the needs of each classroom and on-the-job training that puts them on the fast hotel’s management structure. 36 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Corporate Responsibility HUMAN RESOURCES REPORT 2 The Académie Accor’s primary mission is to train employees evolve by giving them international experience. Acquiring new so that every guest enjoys impeccable quality of service. expertise, sharing experience and comparing best practices will Its second mission is to support the Group’s expansion by enable them to move up the organization. enhancing professionalism in every job family. With the Because Accor is committed to putting down deep roots in current commitment to opening 1,000 hotels by 2015, training every host country, it is encouraging local employees to take on is playing an essential role in maintaining the pace of growth. greater responsibilities in its hotels. As of December 31, 2012, This is particularly the case in certain countries without any hotel 73% of the General Managers of owned, leased and managed schools, where the Académie serves as an effective substitute. hotels were nationals. The Académie Accor is guided by three fundamental teaching A dedicated International Mobility intranet site provides goals: employees with such useful information as travel and visa a to reflect each brand’s real promise and identity by formalities, checklists and country guides. The site reflects the designing, producing and delivering their dedicated course Group’s ever-changing needs with testimonials and news on content; business development and regions looking to recruit. In this way, it serves as an effective resource, aligned with both our a to stay attuned to the latest economic, technological and operating requirements and the mobility aspirations of our social trends, by offering innovative learning resources in employees. phase with changes in the marketplace; a to ensure that all of the programs convey Accor’s unique An internal mobility application culture, management philosophy and hotel management methods. Accor managers and executives can map out their own career opportunities using the Success international management Always an innovation-driven organization, the Académie Accor application, which offers more than 5,000 employees a view of now offers training programs increasingly based on blended all of the management vacancies across the Group. Participants learning technologies. In this way, it can train employees both can inform their direct manager of a proposed career change by on-site and online, to develop their skills where they work via posting their résumé, job aspirations and annual performance e-learning modules, virtual classrooms and other computerreviews on the site. They can also submit applications for any mediated activities. vacancies. This information may be viewed by other managers, who can use it to foresee and plan their staffing needs. Today, detecting, developing and retaining the finest talent is a critical challenge for supporting Accor’s assertive growth strategy, making training and education a core aspect of our Assessing performance and providing effective business. With more than 250 training modules offered in 20 languages and adapted to local requirements, the Académie guidance Accor is positioned as the international benchmark in hospitality Every year, it is recommended that employees have an annual skills development. review with their manager, during which they mutually discuss performance over the past year and set objectives for the next. The review also gives employees an opportunity to express International mobility their career goals so that an appropriate development plan can With operations in 92 countries, Accor offers employees a wide be proposed. range of international career opportunities. Employees who want to take postings outside their home country are supported by the International Mobility and Expatriation team, whose role is to: Supporting brand development a help managers and human resources teams in each country As part of our growth strategy, the brands are playing a greater to identify and recruit the right people for their needs and to role in our human resources strategic landscape, while instilling define the contractual terms applicable to each employee; a management culture aligned with their identity. They are enhancing their appeal with employee training programs, a support employees at every stage of their project and the thereby helping to develop the expertise and employability of mobility process, by verifying their project’s feasibility, for their teams. example, or providing cross-cultural sensitivity training; a ensure compliance with the Group’s international mobility policies covering moving costs, temporary lodging on arrival Enabling employees to move forward and other issues. In 2012, for example, Sofitel continued to deploy its To support the change in its business model, one of the Group’s “Ambassador” program, which is designed to offer eligible challenges today is to identify local talent and help them to Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 37 2 Corporate Responsibility HUMAN RESOURCES REPORT employees career development opportunities through a threea GM Pass, a 12-month program for department managers stage process: interested in moving up to a hotel General Manager position; a Be Yourself, the talent selection stage, is led by the School a Visa provides an opportunity for top performers in a of Excellence, a program for future Sofitel managers offered given job to work for a month in another country. A total in exclusive partnership with 15 hotel schools worldwide; of 121 employees have been selected for the program since 2010. a Be Ready trains participants to become Ambassadors. Flexibly organized over one to 24 months, this stage includes seven training modules and leads to accreditation as Ambassador; Keeping the brand spirit alive a Be Magnifique offers accredited Ambassadors the possibility The brands also offer their employees training programs to help of managing a team, communicating brand knowledge and them express the brand identity to customers and deliver the culture, becoming an expert in their field or becoming a excellent guest experience they expect. certified trainer at their hotel. In 2012, Mercure began to deploy the Mercure Quality Pact, Launched in 2010, Novotel’s “Move Up” global human supported by two e-learning modules developed in partnership resources policy was still being rolled out across the worldwide with the Académie Accor . Intended for non-management Novotel network in 2012. It is designed to increase Novotel’s personnel, “Discover Mercure” offers a comprehensive attractiveness and employee retention through six programs: introduction to the brand and its quality commitments, while a Welcome, a six-month onboarding program for all new the “Manage Mercure Quality Guarantee” module for managers employees that by year-end 2012 had been deployed in 253 focuses more on the quality process, with a review of its stages, hotels around the world; practices and compliance procedures. a Itineraries, a skills qualification course that employees can Following the creation of the ibis megabrand in late 2011, the complete at their own pace. By year-end 2012, it had been challenge in 2012 was to make every employee an ambassador deployed in 112 hotels, with roll-out in Europe scheduled for in demonstrating to customers the meaning of this strategic completion in 2013; change in our economy brands. By November, 97% of General Managers had participated in kick-off events organized in the a Novotel Service Attitudes, a program defining the brand’s various countries and regions. To get all of teams behind the service style and spirit that by year-end 2012 had instilled project, two training modules were developed and led by the new service skills in teams at 250 hotels around the world; General Managers: “Discover ibis family” and “Becoming a a Globe-Trotter offers participants a two-year track towards Customer Ambassador.” A full 91% of the teams attended the a position as department manager, with one year spent in courses in November 2012. another country on the same continent; 2.2.3. OUR COMMITMENTS TO EMPLOYEES Accor’s commitments to employees are also expressed in the structured around formalized undertakings for the Group and goal of promoting diversity, as well as in fair compensation, priorities set for 2015, reflects four major challenges for Accor: good working conditions and meaningful social dialogue with stakeholders. a corporate social responsibility. As a fair and sustainable employer, Accor has the duty to reflect the diversity of its host communities; a being perceived as a good place to work. A diverse A commitment to diversity company that respects its employees is well perceived by the public; Accor is deeply dedicated to recognizing the individual differences of every employee and to ensuring that human a sales and marketing. Integrating diversity helps us to resources management processes are based entirely on understand guest expectations and to devise solutions that capabilities and performance. This commitment, which is resonate with them; 38 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Corporate Responsibility HUMAN RESOURCES REPORT 2 a performance. Inclusiveness and social cohesion are important Promoting diversity and equal opportunity factors for well-being in the workplace, because a fulfilled employee is an efficient employee. The measures undertaken to promote diversity have been shaped both by the ambitious commitments demonstrated at the highest level and by locally defined action plans. The main Commitments to support diversity initiatives led in 2012 addressed the following issues. Our steady support for diversity and rejection of all forms of Populations in need discrimination have been formalized in a charter and a Groupwide agreement. Accor is committed to supporting equal opportunity in education and the hiring of people from underprivileged backgrounds. Signed by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Denis Hennequin and deployed in 15 languages in 2011, the We are a founding member of the Second Chance School in International Diversity Charter serves as the foundation of Paris, part of a network created in French cities in association our diversity policies. It expresses seven key commitments: with the European Social Fund to facilitate the workplace integration of young adults, 18 to 26, without any qualifications a give every employee the opportunity to succeed by taking or degrees and who have been out of the educational system for their capabilities into account at each stage in their careers; at least two years. Accor informs them about hospitality jobs and a fight against all forms of discrimination on the basis the vocational degrees and qualifying certifications they require of ethnic, social or cultural origin, gender, age, physical and provides support and advice in writing résumés, preparing characteristics, disabilities, religion, language, marital status, for job interviews and other critical job-seeking skills. We are union membership, sexual orientation or other characteristics; currently working with every Second Chance School in France. Furthermore, a national partnership agreement has been signed a conduct diversity surveys in every host country; with EPIDE, a Ministry of Defense-sponsored organization that a offer every manager diversity training or a sensitivity assists young people with workforce integration. course, based on the local situation and available training Created in 2006 in association with the German Agency for resources; Technical Cooperation (GTZ) and the Moroccan Ministry of a explain our policy to all of our employees and partners; Labour and Vocational Training (DFP), Accor Morocco’s apprentice training center has three objectives: to train young a act as diversity ambassadors to our customers, suppliers, dropouts, fight against the marginalization and exclusion of hotel owners, investors and other partners, with the goal of people seeking to re-enter society and defend women’s rights fostering a shared ethical commitment; in rural communities. During the 8th International Diversity a report to the Executive Committee once a year on Symposium, held in Morocco in 2012, Accor Morocco diversity programs underway across the Group, to obtain the received the Diversity Award in the “Hiring and Integrating the Committee’s guidance and recommendations for pathways Disadvantaged” category. to improvement. In Australia, Accor hotels continued their Indigenous Job Four priorities have been defined for the period to 2015: Ready Program for the fourth straight year. Since 2009, the program has offered intensive training sessions to develop a diversity of origins; basic hospitality job skills. In partnership with the Australian a gender equality in the workplace; Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations and Job Services Australia (JSA), Accor organized 16 workshops a integration of people with disabilities; across the country in 2012. 130 indigenous people attended, a age diversity. enabling 90 of them to be hired by the Group. Our support for diversity and rejection of discrimination follows Gender equality in the workplace on directly from the 2004 signature of the French government’s Diversity Charter. The 2012 diversity reporting process enabled us to determine the percentage of women in management positions at the hotel More recently, in 2012, our Polish subsidiary Orbis became one General Manager, Operations Director and country Executive of the first companies to sign the Polish Diversity Charter. Committee levels, as well as in head offices, notably among During the year, the subsidiary’s senior management focused on senior executives. At December 31, 2012, 27% of General two diversity priorities: maintaining gender equality in executive Managers of owned, leased and managed hotels were women. positions (women accounted for 40% of hotel General Managers in Poland at year-end) and raising employee awareness of age diversity in order to improve management behavior. Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 39 2 Corporate Responsibility HUMAN RESOURCES REPORT The worldwide target is for women to account for 35% of hotel for example, took on nine disabled people for a three-month General Managers by 2015, which represents a mid-point on the training program with the goal of offering them a permanent way to meeting the overall objective of 50%. employment contract upon graduation; As of year-end 2012, three of the eleven members of the a 30 employees were able to keep their jobs thanks to support Board of Directors were women, or 27%, and two of the eight from Mission Handicap, which i) helped to analyze their Executive Committee members were women. workstation ergonomics, leading to improvements in design and equipment; ii) provided financial support for the purchase At that same date, Accor had 62,363 women employees of medical equipment; or iii) conducted skills reviews; worldwide, accounting for 47% of the total workforce and 41% of managerial staff. a 30 disabled people working in sheltered workshops were employed under a Group partnership program. On December 10, 2012, Accor launched Women at Accor Generation (WAAG), an international women’s network open In November 2012, two new communication campaigns – one to both men and women employees of any Accor brand. for employees and the other for young people in hotel schools, Through its eight regional networks, WAAG is committed to apprentice training centers and special needs schools – were fighting against stereotypes and the self-censorship of women, launched to facilitate the hiring and integration of people with primarily by mentoring women employees, sharing experience, disabilities. Expressing the same strong message – “every day, conducting training and facilitating networking. we welcome very different people and we have always hired them” – both campaigns illustrated the reality of the diversity In 2011, Accor joined eight other French companies in a and disability experience at Accor with messages resonant with research study of gender stereotypes conducted by IMS the target audience. Entreprendre Pour la Cité, a French organization that promotes corporate social responsibility practices. In the case of Accor, In France, on a full-time equivalent basis, a total of 536 disabled IMS surveyed employees of our hotels and head offices persons were employed at December 31, 2012, representing in order to quantify gender stereotypes and their impact on 4.15% of the workforce for the year. discrimination against women and opportunities for women In other host countries, a variety of initiatives have been taken to serve in positions of responsibility. Published in 2012, the to support jobs for the disabled, depending on local legislation findings showed that while Accor demonstrated positive and local management priorities. stereotypes, due to its high percentage of women employees, much remained to be done to improve social cohesion and For the past year, Accor Thailand has pursued a program to attenuate feelings of gender discrimination. The study helped hire and onboard people with disabilities in all of its hotels. to raise employee awareness and led to a number of action On December 3, 2012, the International Day of People with plans, which will be implemented in the future. Disability, it received an award in Bangkok from the Ministry of Labor. So far, more than 30 disabled people have been hired by All of the teams in the head offices and the owned and leased our operations in Thailand. hotels in France are covered by a gender diversity agreement, signed in 2011 for the hotels and in 2012 for the Accor SMI In Brazil, application of our disabled diversity policy is being headquarters in Evry and the Accor SA headquarters in Paris. facilitated by local legislation encouraging the hiring of the disabled. As of December 31, 2012, the various Group brands People with disabilities employed a total of 105 people with disabilities. In France, the Integrating the Disabled Project (MIPH) is an integral part of the diversity action plan. It is governed by a Age diversity Group-wide agreement concerning the hiring and retention At Accor headquarters, jobs for people over 55 are being of disabled employees, whose renewal for a further threepromoted through a three-year action plan, signed on year period (2012-2014) was signed with all of the employee November 2, 2009 and running through December 31, 2012. It representatives in 2012. is designed to keep the percentage of these employees in the workforce steady over the period at the 5% observed at the date Under the agreement, the MIPH team carried out the following of signature by implementing measures in six areas: actions during the year: a encouraging the hiring of people over 55 by developing the a 37 people were hired in Accor France operations, mostly anonymous résumé and creating a module to train managers under permanent contracts; and HR staff in non-discriminatory hiring practices; a 92 training and awareness-building sessions were conducted in our hotels, in particular through partnerships with schools. a offering all employees over 45 a second-half career interview; These sessions are sometimes a first step to hiring, with nine a improving and guaranteeing access to training for employees participants being offered job contracts. over 45; a 57 people with a hearing or vision impairment or a a expanding information on retirement systems and introducing psychological disability were hired and trained in kitchen, part-time working solutions; dining room and housekeeping skills through customdesigned training programs. The Novotel Paris Tour Eiffel, 40 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Corporate Responsibility HUMAN RESOURCES REPORT 2 a developing mentoring programs to transfer knowledge and email address is available on the global diversity intranet site. skills; Together, these two channels enable employees to report any perceived discrimination or unfair treatment. a improving working conditions and avoiding physically and mentally strenuous situations. The anonymous résumé on the AccorJobs website In late 2009, the French Hotels business signed a three-year agreement, running from January 1, 2010 until December 31, The use of anonymous résumés was one of the measures in 2012, to promote the employment of older people, with the agreement on diversity in France signed with all of the measurable targets for retaining employees over 55 and for employee representatives in January 2007. hiring people over 50. The target for December 31, 2012 was a This solution helps to ensure equal treatment from the outset 10% increase in the number of employees over 55 compared of the hiring process, since candidates are short-listed solely on with December 31, 2010. In addition, based on feedback from the basis of their training, experience and skills so as to preclude reporting indicators, measures to retain older employees are even subconscious discrimination due to age, gender or origin being implemented in three main areas: i) offering career and to counter recruiters’ natural tendency to hire people like development opportunities; ii) improving working conditions themselves. and avoiding physically and mentally strenuous situations; and iii) enhancing skills and access to training. Diversity training While scheduled to end on December 31, 2012 in compliance with regulatory requirements, the agreements remain in effect The commitment to diversity is meaningful only if it is embraced ahead of new French legislation to be passed in 2013 offering by every employee and demonstrated in their day-to-day working payroll tax exemptions if companies simultaneously hire a practices. To eradicate stereotyping, two levers are being person under 26 and assign an employee over 57 to mentor activated: training and the sharing of the best practices already him or her. During this interim period, new negotiations will being applied in the Group. be opened. The “Managing Diversity” e-learning module, which was awarded the 2011 Grand Prix AFPA by France’s national Fighting discrimination adult vocational training association, was completed by nearly 2,000 managers in France in 2011 and 2012. Now aligned with European legislation and translated into English, it will be Locally defined discrimination alert plans deployed in Europe in 2013. Fighting discrimination is an important component of our human The primary communication medium for the commitment to resources policy. For this reason, discrimination alert plans have diversity is the diversity intranet site, which since January 2011 been deployed locally to help victims quickly identify the right has described the best practices reported from across the Group. person to contact for assistance. It also provides links to international reference documents, like In Brazil, for example, an annual employee satisfaction survey the Group’s International Diversity Charter, and to such resource provides valuable feedback on the working environment in documents as European directives on non-discrimination and general and discrimination issues in particular, notably with diversity and a recruitment guide in six languages. regard to origin, age, gender or sexual orientation. When significant variances are noted for a particular department or site, a roundtable is organized to get a better understanding of the situation and an action plan is deployed. Compensation and benefits In New Zealand, an alert procedure has been implemented in To effectively fulfill employee aspirations around the world, accordance with local legislation. Sensitivity training is offered Accor has defined a global compensation strategy tailored to and a clearly identified complaints officer has been appointed the needs of employees and consistent with local practices in in each hotel. each country. In India, all of our hotels have set up a Harassment Committee Compensation and benefits policies are guided by four principles: for employees or guests. Roundtables are also regularly organized so that employees can talk about these issues. a offer compensation that is competitive in each market and country; Since 2008, the Group’s non-discrimination and diversity policies have been led by the Diversity Department. In addition, an a ensure that employee compensation is determined fairly; Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 41 2 Corporate Responsibility HUMAN RESOURCES REPORT a encourage employee savings and stock ownership; system allows employees to make regular payments directly debited from their pay, which are also eligible for the employer’s a strengthen employee healthcare coverage and other contribution. In 2012, 2,427 people invested via this system, benefits. which is designed to help employees with little capital available Aware of the value of its employees, Accor is committed to for savings. offering attractive compensation packages, in line with the To encourage long-term employee savings, Accor negotiated principles of fairness and equal opportunity. We therefore the creation of a PERCO group retirement savings plan with carefully ensure that decisions concerning every aspect of employee representatives in 2011. The plan enables employees compensation are made without any discrimination with regard to build a nest egg that will supplement their income during to age, gender, nationality or any other personal criteria. retirement, with matching funds contributed by Accor. A total We are also committed to compensating every employee in line of 8,681 employees invested in the new plan during the year. with market practices, which are identified and tracked through All of these French employee savings plans are explained in regular surveys conducted by specialized firms. a dedicated brochure given to employees each year, with the Managers (1) receive a base salary and an incentive bonus information also posted on the French intranet site. reflecting their performance in meeting personal and team Employees in France also receive profit-shares under a corporate objectives and their contribution to the Group’s success. agreement covering 93 companies in respect to 2011. NonTo monitor implementation of this policy and its alignment discretionary profit-shares earned in 2011 and paid in 2012 with market practices, compensation studies are regularly amounted to an aggregate net €8.8 million for 22,590 employees, conducted by job track, skills-set or region. In 2012, for example, or an average net amount of €390 per person. hotel industry-specific compensation studies were conducted In compliance with the French Pension Reform Act of worldwide, with more countries and brands covered in the November 10, 2010, employees had the option of allocating all Europe, Middle East, Africa region and hospitality jobs surveys or part of these profit-shares to the PERCO retirement savings carried out in North America, Latin America and Asia-Pacific. plan or the PEEG Corporate Savings Plan, or else requesting During the year, Accor again participated in the International immediate payment. Hospitality Industry Club Survey, the global benchmark for compensation and benefits in the hospitality industry, which In 2012, an additional non-discretionary profit-share was in 2012 reviewed the regional compensation packages for negotiated with employee representatives, in compliance with internationally mobile employees of leading hotel operators in the Act of July 28, 2011 creating a mandatory “profit-sharing Brazil, China, India and the United Arab Emirates. bonus.” The related agreement, providing for a payment based solely on the period worked in 2011, was signed by all of the To strengthen our compensation and career management unions. Under its terms, €5 million (excluding the forfait social policies, management-level benchmark jobs are now being employer surtax) was allocated among employees covered by mapped worldwide, by job track. This process was completed the Group-level non-discretionary profit-sharing agreement in for the Operations track in 2011 and the Information Technology France. This represented a more than 50% increase in total and Sales-Distribution tracks in 2012, when the Marketing euros paid in non-discretionary profit shares in respect to 2011. mapping program was successfully launched. In order to better reflect each unit’s actual business performance, Payroll costs for the head offices, owned hotels and leased discretionary profit-sharing agreements based on Company hotels are presented in section 5.1.9, note 4. Operating Expense. performance and financial results are generally signed in each subsidiary or hotel. Employee savings and stock ownership In 2012, nearly €21 million in discretionary profit-shares earned in 2011 was paid to 24,092 employees, representing an average Every year since 1985, Accor employees in France have been net amount of €871 per person for the year. able to participate in a Corporate Savings Plan (PEEG), which has been regularly updated and improved over the years. It On several occasions since 1999, employees around the world allows employees to invest in various mutual funds in either of have been offered the opportunity to purchase new Accor two ways, with Accor contributing matching funds in each case. shares on preferential terms and conditions, as part of employee share issues. As of December 31, 2012, 11,514 employees Under the conventional system, employees invest whenever owned shares in their company (for more details, please refer they like and qualify for the employer’s contribution; in 2012, to page 311). 3,858 employees paid into the plan this way. The supplemental (1) For Accor, a manager is defined as an employee who manages others and/or has a high level of expertise. 42 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Corporate Responsibility HUMAN RESOURCES REPORT 2 Insurance coverage providing them with support materials and setting measureable Group-wide targets as part of the PLANET 21 sustainable In France, a new Group agreement providing blanket insurance development strategy. and supplementary health coverage was negotiated in 2012 and came into effect on January 1, 2013. Insurance and supplementary health coverage is an important benefit for Employee health and safety employees and their families. The new agreement has upgraded the cover to align guarantees with employee needs and to fulfill Accor believes that employee well-being and the quality of the commitments of responsibility and mutual support that will worklife are critical drivers of an aligned workforce in its hotels make them sustainable over time. At the same time, coverage and head offices. was improved and the cost negotiated thanks to the competitive We carefully take into consideration the employee health risks bidding process involving several market insurers. in every job family, with a special focus on housekeeping To help employees understand the details of their coverage, jobs. Preventive measures have been taken, for example in brochures describing the applicable insurance and healthcare France, where the Levly® hydraulic bed-lifting system has been benefits and explaining how they are implemented were introduced to improve the working conditions of housekeeping updated and distributed individually to each person. staff. By raising the mattress to waist level, these ergonomic beds attenuate the risk of joint injuries. Currently deployed in the In the Other countries, and particularly in Europe, Middle East, Upscale & Midscale brands, a study is underway to determine Africa, Accor pursued the comprehensive, detailed review of the feasibility of using the technology in the new ibis bedding. existing coverage and the deployment of healthcare and other Since 2007, the Integrating the Disabled Project (MIPH) has insurance, depending on local needs. To improve conditions subsidized the installation of 8,940 Levly® systems in France, for local employees and encourage employee mobility, benefits of which 311 in 2012. The initiative is also being deployed in include both insurance and healthcare coverage for routine care, other countries, such as the United Kingdom, Belgium, Bulgaria, hospitalization, maternity benefits, eye care and other expenses. Ghana, the Netherlands and Poland. For the phase-in of the new ibis bedding across the brand, a Retirement benefits new bedclothes folding technique helped to lighten the load lifted daily by housekeeping staff, thereby reducing the risk of Set up in 2007, the Group Retirement Benefits Committee muscular-skeletal disorders. continued its activities in 2012. Designed to encourage dialogue and consensual management, the Committee is comprised Occupational illnesses are not reported to Group level. In of representatives from the corporate Human Resources, France, this data is tracked via the different Health, Safety and Consolidation, Treasury and Financing, and Administrative Working Conditions Committees in each legal entity, with a Services Departments, as well as the Group’s consulting actuary. centralized reporting system scheduled for deployment in 2013. In other countries, this type of data is not yet reported to Group Issues addressed in 2012 included: level. a actuarial assumptions and the Group-level consolidation In 2012, the lost-time incident frequency rate (i.e. the number process; of lost-time incidents, as defined by local legislation, per million a tracking the financial management of outsourced pension plan hours worked) in the owned, leased and managed hotels stood assets in Brazil, the United States and the United Kingdom; at 13.5%, versus 14.5% in 2011. Note that in 2012 and 2011, the scope of reporting did not include one hotel in Turkmenistan, a analyzing employee investment strategies and percentage where reporting of this information is prohibited by law, and in take-up for the PERCO retirement savings plan in France, 2011 it did not include the Motel 6 and Studio 6 units in the described in the “Employee savings and stock ownership” United States, where this information is not defined consistently section; in the local payroll system. a the Group’s position on the taxation of France’s Article 39 In 2012, an employee in Thailand died in a commuting accident. defined benefit pension plans. There were no fatal workplace accidents during the year. In general, the lost-time incident severity rate is not yet measured by the Group. Health and working conditions Creation of Health and Safety Committees Accor ensures a safe working environment for employees in its hotels and head offices, while informing and training them In Brazil, an internal commission on preventing workplace in best health and work posture practices. This commitment is accidents has been set up in each unit with more than underpinned by collective agreements signed with employee 50 employees. Comprising both employee and employer representatives. We also encourage franchisees to lead representatives, the commission focuses on preventing prevention campaigns for their employees, in particular by accidents and occupational illnesses. Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 43 2 Corporate Responsibility HUMAN RESOURCES REPORT Health and Safety Committees in France have been continuously covering i) the prevention of these risks by offering sensitivity trained and kept in compliance with prevailing legislation, in courses open to any employee and ii) the sharing and deployment order to guarantee safe, appropriate working conditions. of a method for jointly assessing workplace distress. This assessment was carried out in 2011, with 7,321 people or In Australia, a national Health and Safety Committee has 54.74% of employees in owned and leased hotels in France been established to develop and manage different strategies responding to the survey. The findings, which were reported for preventing injuries and occupational illnesses. Specific in 2012, showed that employees had a positive perception guidelines for hotels were published in 2010, supported by an of their relationship with their manager and their colleagues. Académie Accor training program for General Managers and Needs were expressed, in particular to improve work-life department managers in owned, leased and managed hotels balance. Presentation of the findings to the Hotels Consultation in the country. Committee will lead to the development of action plans. Workplace health and safety agreements In France, the Accor SA head office signed a framework Employee training in good health and eating agreement on addressing psychosocial risks in the workplace in habits 2010. The agreement has led to the introduction of measurable Accor supports employee training and instruction in best indicators, as well as more qualitative tools like the questionnaire practices to attenuate the risk of illness and workplace accidents. administered during occupational health check-ups and the subsequent definition of preventive action plans. A steering As part of the Planet 21 program, the owned, leased, managed committee made up of managers, human resources managers, and franchised hotels are encouraged to offer employees risk management specialists, occupational physicians, members awareness-building and training sessions, with a focus on the of the Health, Safety and Working Conditions Committee and prevention of HIV/AIDS and of chronic diseases like diabetes, members of the Works Council has been created and will meet cancer and cardiovascular ailments, the importance of nutrition once or twice a year to prepare action plans to reduce stress. A and a balanced diet, the prevention of psychosocial risks, and training module for managers was also rolled out in partnership first aid. In each case, the approach is carefully aligned with the with the Académie Accor. relevant health issues specific to each country or region. The hotels report data on these sessions in OPEN, our sustainable In 2011, the French Hotels business signed a framework development management application. agreement on psychosocial risks with employee representatives, Latin Owned, Charter 21 Results Europe America Rest leased and Total 2012 excl. and of the managed Franchised scope of Health/well-being training France France Asia-Pacific Caribbean world hotels hotels reporting Hotels organizing health and well-being training 24% 44% 61% 52% 72% 47% 27% 40% HIV/AIDS To get answers to their questions about health and well-being, employees in eleven African countries can now visit the new Since 2002, Accor has deployed a wide-ranging commitment to Accor E-care website, which was launched on February 14, fighting against epidemics, particularly of HIV/AIDS and malaria, 2012. Originally focused on HIV/AIDS prevention, the site has through protection programs for employees and awareness since been expanded to other diseases prevalent in the region. campaigns for guests. Employee-focused actions are structured by ACT-HIV, our frontline HIV/AIDS awareness program introduced in Accor in 2007. Workweek organization It offers hotel General Managers a six-step action plan built on Given the nature of our business and the long opening hours of our commitment’s three core principles: confidentiality, nonhotels, employees in the Hotels business can work according discrimination and equal access to treatment. to flexible schedules, including nights, holidays and weekends. By the end of 2012, nearly 15,000 employees had attended In the French Hotels business, the workweek has been set at awareness and training sessions; 934 hotels were equipped 39 hours for non-managerial employees. However, in compliance with condom vending machines. with amendment 2 to the Hotels, Cafés and Restaurant industry 44 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Corporate Responsibility HUMAN RESOURCES REPORT 2 agreement, time worked from the 36th to the 39th hour is paid Social dialogue 10% overtime. In owned and leased hotels, overtime from the 36th to the 39th hour is paid at the normal rate, with the 10% Accor strives to maintain constructive social dialogue based on overtime taken in the form of additional time off. Most managers mutual respect with employee representatives, in a commitment are paid a fixed annual salary for 218 days worked per year. At to fostering a high-quality working environment. Accor head offices, the workweek for non-managerial staff is 35 hours, with most managers expected to work a set 218 days a year. Employee surveys Worldwide, 88% of employees in head offices and in owned, Opinion surveys are conducted every two years in the owned, leased and managed hotels work full-time and 12% work partleased and managed hotels to gauge employee satisfaction with time. Their working hours are set in compliance with local a variety of worklife issues and to explore new pathways to legislation or collective bargaining agreements. improvement. To obtain comparable data across the scope of reporting, a set Work-life balance of core questions defined at corporate level is integrated into Accor is committed to promoting local programs to enhance each local survey, which may also include questions on more work-life balance as the most effective way to meet culturallyspecific local or brand-related issues. specific expectations and needs in the different host countries. Survey findings are reported across the hotel chain of These programs cover a range of areas, with a particular focus responsibility and to the head offices, where they offer invaluable on preventing psychosocial risks. support for the teams who devise and deploy action plans to The ibis brand, for example, has deployed a hotline and support improve performance in areas of dissatisfaction. system for employees in all its French subsidiaries to prevent Consolidated survey data show that the Group’s results have workplace distress. The system is designed to detect and remained stable over the years, with employees consistently remedy abusive situations confidentially so that action is taken saying that they are highly satisfied in general and very proud quickly to limit their impact. On April 2, 2012, the system was to work at Accor. extended to all of the owned and leased hotels in France and to the Hotels business head office. In the 2010/2011, 75,699 employees of the owned, leased and managed hotels in 71 countries took part in the survey, for an 87% response rate. Positive response rates (“agree” and “fully agree”) to the Group’s primary satisfaction drivers Positive response rate Head offices and owned, leased and managed hotels Total Of which “fully agree” I am proud to work at Accor 87% 40% My work enables me to develop my skills 86% 34% My working environment is good 80% 28% In addition to these opinion polls, managers can also use the Collective agreements “Local Climate and Personal Initiative” (CLIP) survey to measure their team members’ morale and engagement in the A large number of collective agreements were signed in France area of eight main worklife issues. The findings are used to and other countries in 2012, mainly concerning diversity, human design an action plan to improve management practices and the resources planning and development and compensation. workplace environment. CLIP is available online or downloadable In France, each year all of the legal entities conduct Mandatory on paper in 11 languages from the dedicated intranet site. Annual Pay Round (NAO) with union representatives and sign entity-wide discretionary profit-sharing agreements. A Great Place to Work Following on from the 2009-2011 three-year agreement on On November 14, 2012, the Great Place to Work® Institute human resources planning and development (GPEC), a new released its list of the world’s 25 best multinational workplaces. three-year agreement covering 2012 to 2014 was signed Accor is the first French multinational to appear in the prestigious for hotels in France. It provides for such employee support selection. resources as annual performance reviews, information, training and certification programs, and defines the eligibility and transfer The global award topped Accor’s seven other national rankings conditions for internal mobility. by the Institute during the year, in Argentina, Austria, Brazil, Chile, Mexico, Peru and the United Kingdom. Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 45 2 Corporate Responsibility HUMAN RESOURCES REPORT In addition, collective agreements were also signed in a number Works Councils in France, plus a delegate from each of the of host countries during the year: representative unions. The latest agreement also stipulates that the Council can use the services of a certified accountant and a In Hungary, a new collective agreement for the Hotels that its members should receive two days of financial training business was signed with stakeholders on July 7, in each year. Chaired by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer compliance with the legal obligation to renew this type of or his representative, it meets twice a year and has access to agreement. It defines employment and working conditions all of the Group’s business data. and other supplementary benefits in addition to those prescribed by local labor law. The Social Council a A new collective agreement on working conditions in the Hotels business was also signed in the Netherlands, covering Another collective body that promotes constructive social such issues as working hours, vacations and workplace dialogue is the Social Council, which meets on a regular basis well-being. In particular, it negotiated a 1.25% increase in and provides an informal forum for on-going relations with union gross wages effective January 1, 2013. representatives. The meetings address important topics and certain strategic issues. a Lastly, in Brazil, the collective wage-setting agreement was renewed during the year, with in particular an extension of The European Works Council the bonus program to every employee. The European Works Council is co-chaired by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and a representative of the International Employee representative organizations Union of Foodworkers (IUF). It meets at least once a year to examine the Group’s organization, strategy and results, as well as cross-border issues. The full-session meetings are held at the The Group Works Council International Labour Organization’s head office in Geneva. To Created by the October 12, 1984 framework agreement, the maintain open information channels and prepare the Council’s Group Works Council supports dialogue and the sharing of annual meeting, an amendment signed on October 8, 2004 business information with employee representatives in France. set up a Council Bureau, which may be convened in special Under a new agreement signed with the representative unions meeting to exchange views and discuss any measures under on October 27, 2011, the Council now comprises 24 employee consideration. representatives chosen from among the 76 subsidiary 46 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Corporate Responsibility ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2 2.3. ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2.3.1. ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Internal organization Charter 21 Environmental policy is seamlessly aligned with PLANET 21, the Introduced in 2005, Charter 21 recommends 65 actions – such sustainable development strategy defined by the Sustainable as recycling glass, recovering rainwater and using eco-labeled Development Department, which reports to the Global Human products – that hotels can deploy to effectively reduce their Resources Officer, a member of the Executive Committee environmental footprint. Updated in 2011, the Charter now addresses social responsibility issues like the organization of The Sustainable Development Department coordinates and staff training on health and well-being or the purchase of fair supports the deployment of PLANET 21 by the brands and the trade products. corporate departments (procurement, marketing, legal affairs and technical services). PLANET 21 is implemented by the More than a reporting system, however, Charter 21 is above all country organizations and the brands by a network of around 80 a management tool. To reinforce this aspect, the actions have sustainable development coordinators based around the world. been classified for internal use into four levels – Bronze, Silver, Gold and Platinum – depending on the degree to which they have been met and the amount of personal commitment they require. This helps to guide the hotels in gradually deploying the The OPEN management and assessment actions and self-assessing their progress. application Charter 21 is structured into five sections: PLANET 21 is managed using OPEN, a sustainable development a management (12 actions); management application available on the corporate intranet a energy (18 actions); since 2005. It enables hotels to report, track and manage: a water (12 actions); a their sustainable development performance via the 65 environmental and social responsibility actions specified in a waste (13 actions); Charter 21; a products (10 actions). a their water and energy use thanks to monthly reporting and As part of a continuous improvement process, some of the tracking; actions were clarified, others removed and new ones added in 2012. New actions for which comparative data are not available a laundry use for hotels taking part in the Plant for the Planet project, which encourages guests to keep their bath towels are marked NEW in the tables below. for more than one day. Half of the resulting cost savings are To enhance the reliability of reported data, eight Charter 21 donated to reforestation projects; actions have been included in the quality audits performed by outside auditors since 2008. The ten most critical actions will a the amount of waste they produce, segmented by type of recovery or disposal (landfilled, incinerated, recycled, etc.) and be audited in 2013. Due to the audit schedule, the findings are the related waste management costs. not included in the annual consolidation but nevertheless enable internal teams to track the reliability of reported hotel data. OPEN will gradually be revamped from 2013 to make it more user-friendly and to enhance its management functions. After the annual reporting round, the data are consolidated and analyzed at Group level, with the results indicated in the following tables. Unless otherwise specified, these results concern all Accor hotels worldwide, with the exception of the Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 47 2 Corporate Responsibility ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT Adagio City Aparthotels, which do not apply Charter 21, and the Unless otherwise noted, the results cover all of the hotels that sea & spa facilities, which apply the same Charter actions as applied Charter 21 in 2012. They are broken out by the following their host hotels and whose data are therefore consolidated with geographies: France, Europe excluding France, Asia-Pacific, those of the hotel (1). The entire reporting process is defined in Latin America and the Caribbean, and the rest of the world the sustainable development reporting protocol posted on the (Africa, Middle East and North America). accor.com website. In 2012, 3,080 hotels, totaling 92% of the Accor network, Results are expressed as a percentage comparing the number reported data on their Charter 21 performance. In addition, for of hotels implementing a given action to the total number of the second straight year, all of the owned, leased and managed hotels applying the Charter 21. Some actions apply only to hotels hotels applied the Charter 21 and 81% of the franchised hotels equipped with special facilities, such as a restaurant or laundry. reported Charter 21 data. The decline in the response rate for the In this case, the percentage of hotels having implemented year was caused by the deconsolidation of Motel 6 and Studio 6 these actions is calculated based solely on the total number of brand hotels and by the growing number of franchised hotels. hotels concerned (designated “applicable hotels” in the tables). 2011 2012 Hotels applying Charter 21 Number of hotels % of hotels Number of hotels % of hotels Owned or leased 2,056 100% 1,390 100% Managed 564 100% 649 100% Franchised 1,137 82% 1,041 81% TOTAL 3,757 94% 3,080 92% Europe Latin America Charter 21 actions excluding and the Rest Change applied in 2012 France France Asia-Pacific Caribbean of the world Total 2012 2011-2012 Average number of actions deployed 35 42 42 44 42 39 +4 actions Monitoring water and energy use To improve data reliability, a procedure was introduced in 2011 whereby water and energy use data entered into OPEN Water and energy use is managed by the corporate Design & – manually, via remote metering or imported from service Technical Services Department, supported by the network of providers’ reporting systems – are validated each month by the country or regional Technical Departments. They are deploying hotel and by the regional or country manager. Only hotels whose a variety of methods and tools to track consumption more water and energy use data have been validated at regional level effectively, enhance data reliability and enable the hotels to over the 12 months are included in the consolidated scope of maintain or improve their performance. reporting. Since 2005, the hotel performance optimization process has This shared management process covers more than 90% of been driven by a dedicated, regularly upgraded module in the the owned, leased and managed hotels in our host countries. OPEN application and by the deployment of a management process specific to the Hotels business, based primarily on the In 2012, water and energy use data for 1,459 owned, leased and Accor-developed BOOST method. In 2013, the OPEN scorecard managed hotels were validated, corresponding to 79% of the will be expanded with a new “energy ratio” indicator, calculated scope of reporting. Known as the coverage rate, this percentage to take into account the impact of weather conditions and is used as an indicator to encourage each country organization occupancy rates. This will support meaningful comparisons to continuously improve its management process. and more accurately measure the efficiency of the energy management process. (1) The scope of reporting also does not include hotels sold as of December 31 in the current year or opened after September 15, nor certain exceptional cases, such as hotels impacted by natural disasters or closed for long-term renovation. 48 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Corporate Responsibility ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2 Latin Europe America and Rest Total scope Coverage by region France excl. France Asia-Pacific the Caribbean of the world of reporting and operating structure Owned Owned Owned Owned Owned & Ma& Ma& Ma& Ma& MaWater and Energy Leased naged Leased naged Leased naged Leased naged Leased naged 2012 2011 Coverage rate 85% 49% 94% 65% 89% 69% 58% 0% 69% 52% 79% 71%* * Excluding Hotel 6 and Studio 6. Unless otherwise specified, indicators for water and energy of hotels. The budget segment includes the hotelF1, Formule 1 and greenhouse gas emissions concern hotels in France, and ibis budget brands, which account for around 20% of the Europe excluding France, Asia-Pacific, Latin America and the network. Caribbean, and the rest of the world (Africa, Middle East and To deploy certification across the brand base, an Environmental North America). Management System (EMS) known as “PLANET 21 in Data may be accessed at every operational and functional level, action” is now being finalized after having been implemented enabling several kinds of comparison, such as year-on-year and in late 2012 by Académie Accor France, our first training campus between hotels, countries or brands, using relevant operating to be ISO 14001 certified. It enables a hotel to diligently manage indicators. its environmental strategy, so as to improve performance while complying with ISO 14001 standards. Franchised hotels, hotelF1, Formule1 and ibis budget hotels under commission-based management contracts in France, Deployment will also be facilitated by an e-learning module to Australia and South Africa, Mercure Apartments in Brazil be introduced in 2013 to provide step-by-step support for hotels and Adagio City Aparthotels are not included in the scope of in implementing the ISO 14001 EMS. reporting for water and energy data. Compliance with the procedures for reporting water use, energy Brand involvement use and greenhouse gas emissions and the reliability of these procedures have been reviewed by Ernst & Young since 2009. In 2004, ibis was the world’s first hotel chain to initiate an ISO 14001 environmental certification process and by December 31, 2012, 565 ibis hotels in 30 countries had been certified. Certification procedures To optimize the management of both guest satisfaction and environment performance, the ibis chain has deployed an Group policy Integrated Management System (IMS) combining ISO 9001 For several years now, Accor has been leading ISO 14001 quality standards and ISO 14001 environmental standards, so certification initiatives with the goal, as part of the PLANET 21 that environmental issues are now holistically addressed as part program, of earning certification by 2015 for 40% of the hotel of a hotel’s General Management process. base, regardless of operating structure (excluding budget In 2008, the Novotel brand began an international program to hotels). This highly demanding international certification requires earn EarthCheck environmental and social certification. As of careful diligence on the part of hotel management teams, in December 31, 2012, 220 Novotel hotels had been EarthCheck particular to maintain compliance with the latest legislation, and certified in 34 countries. continuous improvement in environmental performance. By the end of 2012, a total of 785 hotels, or 31% of the network In 2012, the brand reasserted its commitment by deciding to (excluding budget hotels), had been certified. upgrade to ISO 14001 certification, the global benchmark in environmental management. It is now actively strengthening The 40% objective does not include hotels in the budget worldwide roll-out of certification programs with the new segment, due to both financial reasons and a lack of human objective of earning ISO 14001 certification for all of the Novotel resources. Certification is a highly demanding process for all of and Suite Novotel hotels by mid-2014. the employees of a hotel, which makes it difficult to implement in lightly staffed budget hotels. Nevertheless, an ibis budget During the transition period, the brand has asked Novotel hotels hotel in New Zealand is currently working on ISO 14001 not to renew their EarthCheck certificates, with the result that certification as part of a pilot program to determine feasibility and 43 hotels lost their certification in December 2012. the adjustments required to earn certification for this category Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 49 2 Corporate Responsibility ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT Certified hotels by region Certified Novotel and ibis hotels by region, as of end-2012 Latin America Total Europe and the Rest ISO 14001 certification France excl. France Asia-Pacific Caribbean of the world 2012 2011 ibis Number of hotels certified 222 214 28 78 23 565 419 % of hotels certified 59% 64% 29% 88% 39% 59% 46% EarthCheck certification Novotel Number of hotels certified* 68 87 48 10 7 220 137 % of hotels certified 60% 66% 39% 56% 23% 57% 36% * Including the 43 Novotel hotels that did not renew their EarthCheck certification. Other hotels certified as of end-2012 Environmental expenditure ISO 14001 In addition to the expenditure committed by the hotels to improve Thalassa 10 spas in France their sustainable development performance, the Sustainable Development Department’s environmental budget, excluding Sofitel 2 Sofitel: 1 in Greece and 1 in Australia operating costs, amounted to around €227,000 in 2012. The Académie Accor 1 campus in France budget was primarily spent on managing compliance, upgrading the Plant for the Planet reforestation project and conducting studies and projects, particularly on waste. It did not include any EarthCheck costs incurred by the hotel brands or support functions, which are not consolidated, nor those incurred by such departments Mercure 4 Mercure: 3 in Egypt and 1 in Fiji as Technical Services or Sustainable Procurement. Pullman 1 Pullman in the United Arab Emirates Sofitel 4 Sofitel: 3 in Egypt and 1 in Fiji Suite Novotel 2 Suite Novotel in France 2.3.2. PREVENTION AND REMEDIES Compliance the Middle East and in ibis hotels in Germany. It is now being rolled out in Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom. In 2009, Accor developed the proprietary Safety and Environment Tool (SET), a compliance management application covering safety, environmental and technical issues. It identifies regulations applicable to hotels organized by topics that are Organization created to respond easily recognizable by hotel managers and technical teams. to accidental pollution SET enables managers to: The risk of accidental pollution whose consequences extend a stay informed of the latest regulations; beyond the hotels is very low in light of their operations, which involve very few toxic or hazardous products. In seawater spas, a identify compliance shortfalls; however, procedures have been introduced to alert public a manage action plans to remedy non-compliance. authorities in the event of non-compliant wastewater analyses. SET is currently deployed in France (excluding ibis budget and hotelF1 units), Morocco, Portugal, Belgium, Luxembourg, Egypt, 50 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Corporate Responsibility ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2 Environmental provisions and guarantees Penalties paid following a court ruling The risk mapping exercise conducted by the Risk Management on environmental claims Department, which covered all of the Group’s operations, did Accor has not been the subject of a court ruling in connection not report any major information concerning the environment. with any environmental claims. As a result, no material provisions have been set aside for environmental risks. 2.3.3. TRAINING AND INFORMATION INITIATIVES Raising employee awareness head station waiters, cooks, housekeeping floor supervisors and Sales Directors. Adaptable to each hotel’s local situation a A vast sustainable development employee training program and priorities, they offer assistance and practical advice in is now underway, based on a dedicated e-learning module deploying effective sustainable development procedures. created specifically for the Hotels business with the Académie Accor in France. a On April 21, 2012, 71 country organizations participated in the first PLANET 21 Day to demonstrate their commitment The module is enabling participants to embrace sustainable to sustainable development. Formerly known as Earth Guest development issues and the PLANET 21 program’s Day, the event is designed to build awareness of sustainable ambitious objectives, while raising their awareness of the development issues among Accor employees. daily, environmentally-friendly actions that can be applied in The Day is organized in the hotels, in collaboration with different parts of the hotel, including guest rooms, restaurants nearby Accor hotels, guests, local communities and employee and kitchens. families. Already available in eight languages, the unique module will A very large number of employees got involved, leading be deployed more extensively in 2013. actions to support the 21 commitments of PLANET 21, such a In addition, “Sustainable Development in my Job” fact sheets as planting trees and cleaning up beaches, lakes and public have been prepared for all of a hotel’s job families, including parks. April 21, 2012 also kicked off the PLANET 21 program, with head offices and hotels unveiling the PLANET 21 strategy and its challenges using widely distributed presentation materials. Charter 21 Results Latin Total scope % change at America Rest of reporting comparable Raising employee Europe and the of the scope of awareness France excl. France Asia-Pacific Caribbean world 2012 2011 reporting* Number of applicable hotels 1,285 927 503 203 162 3,080 3,757 / Train employees in environmentally-friendly practices 97% 97% 94% 96% 91% 97% 95% +3% Have a designated sustainability manager 56% 79% 66% 80% 73% 67% 42% +18% * Hotels reporting data in both years. Raising guest awareness Plant for the Planet is a unique project that invites guests to reuse their bath towels and hoteliers to donate half of the The new PLANET 21 sustainable development strategy also laundry savings to one of the reforestation projects Accor is comprises an innovative program to raise guest awareness supporting around the world. As of year-end 2012, 1,290 hotels, of these issues and encourage them to participate in hotel or 39% of the total network, were participating in the project. initiatives. At every step in the guest experience – during The Group is committed to increasing this percentage to 60% booking, for example, or in the room and the restaurant – by 2015. informative signs demonstrate the simple things people can do to make a difference. Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 51 2 Corporate Responsibility ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT Latin Total scope % change at Charter 21 Results America Rest of reporting comparable Europe and the of the scope of Raising guest awareness France excl. France Asia-Pacific Caribbean world 2012 2011 reporting* Number of applicable hotels 1,285 927 503 203 162 3,080 3,757 / Raise guest awareness of sustainable development issues 92% 95% 83% 97% 87% 91% 90% +2% * Hotels reporting data in both years. 2.3.4. WATER Water use The table below shows the total amount of water used worldwide and by region. Validated data were available for 79% So as to track the hotels’ intrinsic performance, the water use of the hotels in the reporting scope. indicator is liters used per guest, i.e. per room night. Latin America Europe and the Rest Total scope France excl. France Asia-Pacific Caribbean of the world of reporting Water data reported Owned Owned Owned Owned Owned & Ma& Ma& Ma& Ma& MaWater use Leased naged Leased naged Leased naged Leased naged Leased naged 2012 2011 Number of validated hotels 373 17 614 51 79 199 46 22 58 1,459 1,336* Water use (thousands of cu.m) 3,042 277 5,332 702 1,114 11,936 817 / 822 1,698 25,740 24,786 * In 2011, the scope of reporting included 1,913 Motel 6 and Studio 6 hotels, which used a total of 33,293 cu.m of water. Reducing water use An environmental footprint study performed in 2011 showed that direct water use by the hotels (for showers, cooking, Under the PLANET 21 program, Accor is committed to reducing laundry, swimming pools, etc.) amounted to around 60 million water use per guest in the owned and leased hotels by 15% cubic meters a year, or 11% of the environmental footprint. over the 2011-2015 period. In 2012, this indicator declined by When all of a hotel’s direct and indirect activities are taken into 5% year-on-year in the owned, leased and managed hotels, account, water use rises to 554 million cubic meters a year, of corresponding to an average reduction of 15 liters per room which farming accounts for nearly 86% (1). night (i.e. to 298 liters from 313 liters in 2011). This significant reduction confirms the effectiveness of the action plans and solutions undertaken across the Group. (1) Source: “The Accor Group’s Environmental Footprint” PLANET 21 Research – December 2011 – available on accor.com 52 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Corporate Responsibility ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2 Contribution to water use by Hotels business operation Progress on the programs or technological solutions implemented in the hotels is accurately tracked through a 86% variety of water use indicators in place since 2006. All of these indicators showed an improvement in 2012, demonstrating the performance gains made by the hotels in managing water resources and reducing water use. 11% 2% 1% Food & beverage On-site water use On-site energy use Other Source: “The Accor Group’s Environmental Footprint”. Latin Total scope % change at Charter 21 Results Europe America Rest of reporting comparable excl. Asiaand the of the scope of Reducing water use France France Pacific Caribbean world 2012 2011 reporting* Number of applicable hotels 1,285 927 503 203 162 3,080 3,757 / Monitor and analyze use monthly 94% 98% 93% 98% 96% 93% 93% +3% Use flow regulators on faucets/ showerheads 94% 95% 88% 90% 91% 93% 88% +6% Ensure optimal settings on equipment 90% 96% 84% 94% 96% 91% 90% +2% Use sub-meters to improve monitoring 21% 27% 54% 20% 56% 30% 18% +8% Prohibit the use of cooling towers without water recovery systems 67% 76% 55% 70% 66% 68% 46% +11% Use motion sensors for bathroom faucets 19% 30% 32% 34% 27% 26% 17% +5% Use dual flush toilets 45% 61% 69% 41% 60% 54% 36% +8% Use a water-efficient laundry service 34% 63% 52% 63% 55% 49% 34% +13% Recover rainwater for gardens and toilets 2% 5% 19% 6% 2% 6% 4% +1% Number of applicable hotels 874 499 348 158 129 2,008 2,668 / Use selective grounds watering methods 78% 75% 74% 85% 78% 77% 75% +6% * Hotels reporting data in both years. Actions involving grounds upkeep concerned 65% of reporting hotels. Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 53 2 Corporate Responsibility ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT Water supply from local sources a 38 hotels with rainwater cisterns. Comparing the MACH and OPEN data will help to make the data With a view to holistically managing all of the hotels’ water use inputted into OPEN more reliable. and limiting the impact on local resources, Accor is seeking to identify all of the water withdrawals connected with its As part of the water use reduction programs, Accor intends to operations. pursue this commitment to managing water use, in particular in regions suffering from water stress, i.e. where there is not To date, the proprietary MACH Asset Management application, enough water to meet the needs of the population and the currently being deployed, has identified: environment, or where resources are being depleted. a 22 hotels using desalination facilities; Several actions have already been initiated in line with Charter 21, a 76 hotels using wells in addition to the public water system; and 189 hotels are equipped with rainwater recovery systems, 28 more than in 2011. a 66 hotels equipped with a water treatment plant; 2.3.5. ENERGY Tracking energy use The table’s consolidated data represent actual use, as measured by the readings reported monthly by all of the hotels in the So as to track the hotels’ intrinsic performance, the indicator scope of reporting. used is kWh per available room. The table below shows the total amount of energy used worldwide and by region for 79% of the owned, leased and managed hotels. Latin America Europe excl. and the Rest Total scope France France Asia-Pacific Caribbean of the world of reporting Energy data reported Owned Owned Owned Owned Owned & Ma& Ma& & Ma& Energy use Leased naged Leased naged Leased Managed Leased naged Leased Managed 2012 2011 Number of validated hotels 373 17 614 51 79 199 46 22 58 1459 1,336* Energy use in MWh 455,584 46,588 919,345 130,854 117,932 1,171,580 63,682 88,645 246,601 3,240,807 2,896,146 * In 2011, the scope of reporting included 1,940 Motel 6 and Studio 6 hotels, which used a total of 3,421,916 MWh. Energy used by type 33% 57% 10% Electricity Fuel District heating systems Source: Water and energy data reported in OPEN. 54 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Corporate Responsibility ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2 Energy efficiency Among other things, earning certification helps to improve a building’s energy efficiency, while encouraging the development The strategy in place to optimize energy efficiency is built of innovative energy conservation technologies and ensuring around: that the buildings are integrated into their natural environment. Buildings designed for sustainability that earn certification a increasingly reliable operational management of in-hotel provide a laboratory for studying the feasibility of innovative energy use; technologies and their business models ahead of wider a a benchmarking and performance analysis process by country deployment. and by brand; a tools and methods aligned with each set of geographic, technical and organizational parameters, in particular by Managing energy use deploying a reporting system to enhance energy use management and by integrating exogenous factors, such as Under the PLANET 21 program, Accor is committed to weather conditions and occupancy rates, for more effective reducing energy use per available room in the owned, leased analysis. and managed hotels by 10% over the 2011-2015 period, while Lastly, in addition to management practices and outcome integrating weather and occupancy rate parameters. analyses, the corporate Technical Department is helping to In 2012, before integrating these parameters, this indicator rose define and implement targeted, high value-added technical by 3% year-on-year in the owned, leased and managed hotels, solutions. A method to optimize energy use vs. comfort corresponding to an average increase of 1 kWh per available tradeoffs has been developed and deployed in a number of room (i.e. to 38.5 kWh from 37.5 kWh in 2011). countries, primarily in Africa, Europe and Asia. The increase primarily reflected the greater use of heating (up Increasing the percentage of buildings certified as sustainable 8% (1)) and air conditioning (up 2%) due to the harsher winter is one of the sustainable development strategy’s objectives and hotter summer in 2012. for 2015. By that time, Accor is committed to earning LEED, BREEAM, HQE ® or other benchmark certification for 21 A large number of Charter 21 actions are designed to manage buildings, with two already certified by year-end 2012: and reduce energy use. a the ibis Styles in Troyes was built to HQE® standards and has In general, the number of hotels leading these actions increased been certified as an energy-efficient building; in 2012, notably for the use of energy-efficient bulbs for outdoor signage following the new technical standards applied during a the Suite Novotel in IssylesMoulineaux has earned HQE® the rebranding process. certification. (1) Increase calculated using worldwide weather data published by Météo France. Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 55 2 Corporate Responsibility ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT Latin Total scope % change at Charter 21 Results Europe America Rest of reporting comparable excl. Asiaand the of the scope of Managing energy use France France Pacific Caribbean world 2012 2011 reporting* Number of applicable hotels 1,285 927 503 203 162 3,080 3,757 / Monitor and analyze use monthly 88% 98% 95% 97% 94% 93% 94% Use energy-efficient bulbs for 24/7 lighting 92% 96% 95% 99% 91% 94% 90% +6% Use energy-efficient bulbs in guest rooms 87% 88% 87% 95% 84% 88% 87% +4% Use energy-efficient bulbs for outdoor signage 64% 65% 75% 71% 77% 67% 56% +22% Use energy-efficient bulbs for frontage lighting 61% 70% 71% 87% 72% 68% 65% +9% Insulate pipes carrying hot/cold fluids 89% 97% 88% 96% 88% 91% 90% +2% Ensure optimal settings on equipment 91% 97% 85% 97% 96% 92% 92% +1% Use a timer for frontage lighting 92% 93% 86% 78% 94% 91% 70% +9% Use speed controllers for pumps and fans 12% 37% 51% 44% 41% 30% 19% +5% Recover energy from the ventilation system 22% 48% 26% 16% 34% 31% 25% Use energy-efficient boilers 64% 76% 59% 84% 67% 68% 62% +5% Have a central light switch in guest rooms 46% 42% 69% 62% 69% 51% 36% +8% Use a building management system to manage energy use 15% 40% 37% 30% 36% 28% 18% +5% Number of applicable hotels 325 364 354 167 103 1313 1202 / Use energy-saving minibars 78% 74% 69% 80% 79% 75% 75% +1% * Hotels reporting data in both years. Actions involving minibars concerned 43% of reporting hotels. Renewable energies In France, solar heating systems are being developed in partnership with the French Agency for Environment and Energy Increasing the use of renewable energy is one of the 21 Management (ADEME) following a framework agreement commitments of the PLANET 21 sustainable development signed in 2007. France alone accounts for almost 40% of solar strategy, with the goal of having 10% of the hotel base equipped energy installations, with 55 units producing 1.7 GWh of energy with renewable energy facilities by 2015. in 2012. As of year-end 2012, solar power panels had been installed in Hotels equipped with solar panels rarely report precise power 145 hotels, representing a total surface area of 14,576 square generation data, which is hard to measure. For the majority of meters and annual output of 7.5 GWh. these hotels, output has therefore been estimated based on the reported panel surface area. 56 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Corporate Responsibility ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2 The steady increase since 2007 in the amount of solar power A recent review of all the renewable energies used by the generated to heat domestic hot water demonstrates Accor’s hotels showed that in 2012, 183 hotels, representing 6% of commitment to deploying alternative energies in its hotels. the network, were using these sources, of which: a 145 hotels equipped with solar panels to heat domestic hot Solar power used to produce domestic water (in MWh) water; a 24 hotels equipped with solar panels to generate electricity; a 13 hotels equipped with geothermal collectors; a 11 hotels equipped with biogas units; a 8 hotels using other renewable energy technologies, such 7,512 as water power. 6,797 5,552 3,669 2,375 1,796 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2.3.6. EMISSIONS INTO THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT AND MEASURES TO PREVENT AND REDUCE THEM Atmospheric emissions Greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated from previously a indirect emissions corresponding to the electricity used by reported energy use data, with: the hotels, as well as the heat and air conditioning supplied by urban heating and cooling networks. a direct emissions corresponding to gas and fuel oil burned in hotel boilers; and Latin Europe America and Rest Total scope Energy data France excl. France Asia-Pacific the Caribbean of the world of reporting reported Owned Owned Owned Owned Owned Greenhouse gas & Ma& Ma& Ma& Ma& Maemissions Leased naged Leased naged Leased naged Leased naged Leased naged 2012 2011 Number of validated hotels 373 17 614 51 79 199 46 22 58 1,459 1,336* Direct emissions (tonnes of CO2 equivalent) 22,843 1,246 65,436 11,425 7,682 86,017 3,941 / 6,330 16,797 221,716 186,455 Indirect emissions (tonnes of CO2 equivalent) 28,415 3,339 287,663 28,722 65,451 524,596 4,614 / 25,279 102,463 1,070,541 892,678 Total emissions (tonnes of CO2 equivalent) 51,258 4,584 353,098 40,147 73,133 610,613 8,556 / 31,609 119,260 1,292,256 1,079,134 * In 2011, the scope of reporting included 1,940 Motel 6 and Studio 6 hotels, which used a total of 1,285,520 teq CO2. Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 57 2 Corporate Responsibility ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT Greenhouse gas emissions for both power generation and fuel Contribution to the carbon footprint by Hotels business use are calculated on the basis of Greenhouse Gas Protocol operation initiative coefficients (www.ghgprotocol.org). Energy use has a direct impact on our carbon footprint, in particular through hotel boilers, electric appliances and employee 14% travel. The environmental footprint study determined that the Group as a whole emits close to 3.7 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent per year, nearly two-thirds of which come from hotel 66% energy use (mainly electricity). 12% It also revealed that upstream farming operations account for nearly 15% of our greenhouse gas emissions. Meat and dairy products alone are responsible for nearly half of the greenhouse 8% gas emissions associated with food services (27% and 20% respectively), even though they account for less than 15% of On-site energy use sourced food volumes. Business travel accounts for 8% of our Food & beverage Other greenhouse gas emissions, with employees flying an estimated Employee travel total of 120 million kilometers a year. The carbon footprint does not include guest travel to and from hotels because the wide Source: “The Accor Group’s Environmental Footprint”. variety of situations precludes the reporting of any reliable data. Carbon is therefore one of the seven pillars of the PLANET 21 strategy, with a commitment to reducing CO2 emissions from Ozone-depleting cooling fluids owned and leased hotels by 10% by 2015. Cooling liquids in hotel air conditioning and cooling systems may leak and release gases with a particularly high global warming Based on reported energy data, greenhouse gas emissions rose potential (GWP). Moreover, there may be a risk of coolant by 10% in 2012, due to i) the 3% increase in energy use (see evaporation during maintenance operations or as a result of an part 2.3.5 Energy) and ii) the increase in the scope of reporting, accident. The environmental footprint study showed that such mainly in Asia and particularly in countries where the energy mix leaks and evaporation account for a minor 2% of our carbon is especially unfavorable. footprint. To limit this risk, however, installations are diligently monitored, with detailed instructions and procedures to ensure that cooling systems are checked regularly to prevent leaks. Latin Total scope % change at Charter 21 Results Europe America of reporting comparable excl. Asiaand the Rest of scope of Cooling systems France France Pacific Caribbean the world 2012 2011 reporting* Number of applicable hotels 1285 927 503 203 162 3,080 3,757 / Use CFC and PCB-free equipment 54% 71% 59% 63% 75% 61% 42% +11% Verify that equipment containing HCFCs and HFCs is leak-proof 65% 90% 72% 85% 74% 76% 76% +3% Number of applicable hotels 903 724 490 198 158 2,473 2,948 / Use energy-efficient air conditioning units 60% 67% 65% 73% 73% 65% 50% +7% Equipped with a timer for common area air conditioning 20% 56% 58% 24% 47% 40% 27% +7% * Hotels reporting data in both years. Actions involving air conditioning systems concerned 80% of reporting hotels. 58 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Corporate Responsibility ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2 Assessing the impact of climate change hotel development and new businesses and services. The study has confirmed the need to strengthen the sustainable To assess the impact of climate change, in 2008 the Sustainable development initiatives already underway in the organization. Development Department set up an internal working group with the support of France’s Institut du Développement Durable et Lastly, the operational risk mapping exercise conducted by des Relations Internationales (IDDRI) to study the “Challenges the Risk Management Department did not report any major and Impacts of Climate Change for the Accor Group.” information concerning climate change. The study’s objectives are to: a identify and specify the challenges of climate change for the Accor Group in terms of direct impacts (effect on guest Water pollution numbers, deterioration of infrastructure, restrictions on The environmental footprint study looked at the impact that development, etc.) and indirect impacts (effect on employee Accor hotels may have on groundwater eutrophication (the and guest health, etc.); deterioration of an aquatic system due to over-enrichment by a prepare an initial inventory of i) the direct and indirect impacts nutrients like phosphorous or nitrogen). The two main sources on our business or infrastructure and ii) the initiatives already of this type of impact are runoff from the fertilizers and crop undertaken in response; protection products used by the farmers who grow Accor foodstuffs, and the organic, chemical and other matter released a prepare an action plan comprising priority measures to in hotel wastewater. address the increase in certain climate change related risks and to take advantage of possible opportunities. Accor-generated eutrophication is estimated at around 3,180 tonnes of phosphates per year, 94% of which comes This process has been applied to five main issues: hotel from farm runoff. construction and renovation, travel, employee and guest health, Latin Total scope % change at Charter 21 Results Europe America of reporting comparable excl. Asiaand the Rest of scope of Water pollution France France Pacific Caribbean the world 2012 2011 reporting* Number of applicable hotels 524 562 458 182 153 1,879 1,747 / Collect and treat cooking oil 97% 96% 84% 92% 75% 91% 91% +1% Collect and treat fats 97% 91% 70% 84% 63% 85% 85% +1% Number of applicable hotels 1,285 927 503 203 162 3,080 3,757 / Ensure proper treatment of wastewater 89% 92% 77% 92% 73% 87% 82% +7% Recycle gray water 2% 4% 21% 14% 7% 6% 6% (1)% * Hotels reporting data in both years. Actions involving a hotel restaurant concerned 61% of reporting hotels. Soil contamination The environmental footprint study conducted with PwC confirmed that the hotel operations generate a negligible amount of soil contamination. Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 59 2 Corporate Responsibility ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2.3.7. LOCAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF THE BUSINESS Land use with the promise that half of the savings on laundry bills will be invested in reforestation projects in seven regions around The vast majority of Accor hotels are located in downtown and the world. By 2012, it had already financed the planting of suburban areas, where their environmental impact is reduced nearly three million trees. because of local treatment services, especially for water and To encourage greater guest participation in this commitment, waste. For building and renovation projects in environmentally Plant for the Planet was taken to a new level in 2012. With our sensitive areas, detailed environmental studies are conducted new partner Pur Projet, reforestation projects are now being to anticipate and minimize any adverse impact on their carried out as close as possible to the hotels, with the goal surroundings. of financing 21 projects worldwide by the end of 2013. In this Introduced across the Group in 2008, sustainable construction way, at least one reforestation project will be underway in the guidelines cover in particular a hotel’s integration into the natural majority of host countries by 2015. The hotels will gradually environment, which requires a siting and pollution study by a finance projects in their regions, in association with small qualified engineering firm prior to construction. farmers who want to get involved in agro-forestry. a Lastly, Accor is extending its biodiversity commitment by promoting responsible eating in its restaurants, in particular Preserving biodiversity through the goal of having all of the hotels ban endangered seafood species from their restaurant menus by 2015. a Accor became involved in protecting biodiversity in 2008 a Among the Charter 21 indicators, two actions concern more with the publication of the Biodiversity: My Hotel in Action environmentally friendly grounds management. This reflects handbook in association with the International Union for the fact that 65% of our hotels have parks and gardens, Conservation of Nature (IUCN), the leading organization in which represent a fairly significant challenge in protecting the field of biodiversity preservation. and promoting biodiversity. a Launched in 2009, “Plant for the Planet” is one of our flagship a In addition, the number of biodiversity preservation initiatives programs to preserve biodiversity, in particular through a is on the rise, particularly in the area of seafood, where we are variety of reforestation projects. In partnership with the UN committed to having all of the hotels ban endangered seafood Environmental Program’s One Billion Trees campaign, this species from their restaurant menus. innovative initiative invites hotel guests to reuse their towels, Latin Total scope % change at Charter 21 Results Europe America of reporting comparable excl. Asiaand the Rest of scope of Biodiversity France France Pacific Caribbean the world 2012 2011 reporting* Number of applicable hotels 524 562 458 182 153 1,879 1,747 / Ban endangered seafood species from restaurant menus 82% 86% 84% 85% 70% 83% 68% +10% Number of applicable hotels 874 499 348 158 129 2,008 2,668 / Use locally adapted plants 82% 88% 91% 98% 95% 87% 82% +6% Use environmentally-friendly gardening products 60% 85% 72% 84% 72% 71% 53% +2% * Hotels reporting data in both years. Actions involving a hotel restaurant concerned 61% of reporting hotels and those involving a park or garden concerned 65%. 60 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Corporate Responsibility ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2 Noise Pollution, Visual Pollution and Odors In addition, the environmental management system applied by hotels engaged in the ISO 14001 certification process includes The sustainable construction guidelines recommend that a dedicated procedure encouraging hoteliers to identify and Accor hotels be designed to limit disamenities for surrounding reduce air quality and noise disamenities. properties, in particular thanks to studies of i) the impact construction would have on neighboring buildings and ii) how utility room and inlet grille design could minimize disamenities. 2.3.8. WASTE Waste management Hotels are first requested to create a profile with information on the types of waste produced, the service providers and the The environmental impact study showed that Accor produces treatment processes, so that amounts and costs can then be around 2.3 million tonnes of waste per year. Although it accounts tracked on a monthly or annual basis. for a smaller percentage of the total, operational waste must In 2012, teams worked hard throughout the year to deploy the also be carefully tracked, both for reasons of cost and for its new module, with the result that by year-end the number of environmental impact, since some of it – such as remote control hotels using it had doubled to 660. Most of these were ibis and magnetic card reader batteries, compact fluorescent tubes hotels, reflecting their commitment to earning ISO 14001 or electrical and electronic waste – is potentially environmentally certification. The module has been enhanced by the reporting hazardous. of data by waste treatment service providers, notably in the In 2011, a waste management module was added to the OPEN United Kingdom, Australia, Switzerland, New Zealand and Spain sustainable development management application. It tracks the for the ibis, Novotel and Mercure chains. amounts produced and the related collection and recycling costs, Data from service providers in these countries were deemed thereby supporting management at the hotel, regional, brand to be more reliable and were therefore preferably used in the and Group levels. consolidation process. Amount of waste Number Coverage Amount of waste per available room Supplier reported data of hotels rate (in tonnes) (in kg) ibis 53 6% 3,051 1.2 Novotel 41 6% 4,753 1.7 Mercure 38 10% 1,950 1.3 Categories of waste a liquid waste, such as cooking oils and fats, which requires special treatment processes. A hotel’s daily waste may be divided into three distinct Data reported by service providers have made it possible to categories: identify the main types of waste produced by the hotels in a unsorted, nonhazardous waste, which is not recycled, but the above-mentioned brands and countries, as shown in the rather landfilled or burned; following chart a sorted, separately collected waste. This most often includes hazardous waste, like batteries and toner cartridges, and waste with mature recovery channels, like paper, cardboard and glass; Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 61 2 Corporate Responsibility ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT Waste produced by main category 16% 9% 58% 9% 8% Unsorted, nonhazardous waste Food waste Paper & cardboard Glass Plastic Analysis of the data showed that nearly 60% of hotel waste Resource recovery and reuse was unsorted and nonhazardous, while sorted waste primarily concerned food waste, paper, cardboard, glass and plastic. Service provider data reported in the above-mentioned countries show that nearly 35% of the 9,700 tonnes of waste produced The environmental footprint study analyzed the source and by the hotels is recycled. The most frequently recycled waste impact of this waste. It showed that while waste is produced materials are paper, cardboard, glass and plastic. everywhere in a hotel – including meeting rooms, the bar, offices, the reception desk and the car park – guest rooms and By 2015, Accor is committed to having 85% of the hotels food services account for 70% of the total. Indeed, by itself a recovering at least paper, cardboard, toner cartridges, batteries restaurant can generate up to 60% of a hotel’s waste. and compact fluorescent light bulbs and tubes for recycling or processing. In 2012, 79% of hotels had such waste recovery However, the study also revealed the impact of waste that is programs in place. not directly related to hotel operations, since nearly 70% of total waste comes from construction and renovation work. 62 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Corporate Responsibility ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2 Latin Total scope % change at Charter 21 Results Europe America of reporting comparable excl. Asiaand the Rest of scope of Waste treatment France France Pacific Caribbean the world 2012 2011 reporting* Number of applicable hotels 1,285 927 503 203 162 3,080 3,757 / Sort and recycle paper/cardboard 77% 97% 87% 95% 78% 86% 73% +6% Sort and recycle glass bottles and packaging 82% 96% 82% 93% 71% 86% 73% +3% Recycle plastic packaging 57% 85% 74% 94% 70% 71% 64% Recycle metal packaging 42% 72% 71% 93% 57% 60% 55% +1% Offer guests waste sorting opportunities 11% 27% 37% 63% 23% 24% 22% (2)% Sort and dispose of hotel batteries safely** 99% 99% 63% 94% 71% 91% 91% +1% Sort and dispose of compact fluorescent tubes and light bulbs safely** 97% 98% 70% 93% 46% 90% 91% Recycle electrical and electronic equipment** 86% 93% 61% 80% 41% 81% 64% +5% Sort and recycle toner cartridges** 99% 99% 92% 91% 81% 96% 92% +5% Number of applicable hotels 524 562 458 182 153 1,879 1,747 / Sort and recycle organic waste from restaurants 26% 66% 52% 37% 27% 45% 44% +1% Number of applicable hotels 874 499 348 158 129 2,008 2,668 / Sort and recycle green waste from lawns and gardens 59% 70% 63% 42% 47% 61% 42% +7% * Hotels reporting data in both years. ** Hazardous waste. Actions involving a hotel restaurant concerned 61% of reporting Nevertheless, Accor remains dependent on host country hotels and those involving a park or garden concerned 65%. infrastructure and legislation, so that the possibilities of action vary from one region to another. This means that solutions are A variety of pathways are being explored to reduce waste being designed for local markets and that best practices are production at source, for example by reducing the amount of being shared across the network. packaging used in shipments or for toiletry items, cleaning products or food. Downstream, Accor is also helping to develop local recycling channels and carefully selects the most efficient service providers. Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 63 2 Corporate Responsibility ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2.3.9. ECO-DESIGN AND INNOVATION PROCESSES Innovation is one of the PLANET 21 strategy’s seven pillars. pledged that 40% of the hotels will have at least three ecoWorking in liaison with the brands and the Purchasing designed room components by 2015. Department (see the section on Sustainable Procurement in The Mercure, Novotel, ibis and ibis Styles brands offer the social responsibility report, part 2.4) has made it possible to complimentary items certified with the EU Ecolabel, Ecocert deploy more environmentally friendly products and materials, or Nordic Ecolabel. such as recycled materials and eco-labeled products. Accor has Latin Total scope % change at Europe America of reporting comparable excl. Asiaand the Rest of scope of Charter 21 Results France France Pacific Caribbean the world 2012 2011 reporting* Number of applicable hotels 1,285 927 503 203 162 3,080 3,757 / Use dispensers or eco-designed packaging for bathroom products 50% 67% 58% 60% 48% 57% 39% +10% Use eco-designed materials in guest rooms 18% 25% 46% 43% 36% 27% 33% +9% Flooring 5% 6% 20% 10% 20% 9% 10% +9% Wall paint 5% 9% 25% 9% 22% 11% 23% +2% Bedding 6% 9% 17% 13% 18% 10% 6% +3% Bed linens 8% 11% 18% 17% 20% 12% 7% +3% Wood furniture 7% 8% 22% 22% 23% 12% 7% +4% Paper 10% 14% 28% 30% 25% 16% 10% +3% Soap and shower gels 15% 17% 35% 26% 27% 20% 10% +6% Bathroom linen 8% 10% 17% 19% 20% 11% 6% +8% Other 2% 6% 10% 9% 7% 5% 3% +4% * Hotels reporting data in both years. The environmental footprint analysis revealed a number of In 2012, the reBorn project was launched to reduce the amount lessons concerning the waste produced by the Group every of furniture scrapped during renovations and to recover it for year. In particular, it found that more than two thirds of this resale. Pilots conducted at five hotels during the year put nearly waste was concrete, wood, furniture, non-hazardous waste and 3,000 of furniture on sale in a dedicated online store, with nearly other scrap from hotel construction and renovation projects. 1,500 finding buyers by year-end. New solutions will be tested in 2013 to give used hotel furniture a new lease on life, including auctions and partnerships with consignment websites. 64 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Corporate Responsibility SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2 2.4. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2.4.1. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY Internal organization The OPEN management and assessment Social responsibility policy is seamlessly aligned with application PLANET 21, the sustainable development strategy defined by PLANET 21 is managed using OPEN, a sustainable development the Sustainable Development Department, which reports to the management application created in 2005. Global Human Resources Officer, a member of the Executive Committee. Since 2011, Charter 21 has addressed social responsibility issues like the purchase of fair trade products or the organization of employee health and well-being training. Today, six of its 65 sustainable development action points concern social responsibility. The detailed results presented below are primarily collected via OPEN using the same reporting and consolidation processes as for the environmental report. 2.4.2. PROTECTING CHILDREN FROM ABUSE Since 2001, Accor has been engaged in the fight against child 2013 in new test regions after being adapted to local conditions. sex exploitation in partnership with ECPAT International, an NGO It will then be gradually made available to other hotel groups, whose mission is to end child prostitution, child pornography and notably those present in regions particularly affected by this trafficking of children for sexual purposes. This commitment is problem, such as Southeast Asia, Latin America and the structured by the Code of Conduct for the Protection of Children Caribbean, West Africa, East Africa and North Africa. developed by ECPAT and the World Tourism Organization, which Accor is extending its commitment to fighting child sexual Accor has signed in 36 countries (including two – the Netherlands exploitation by participating in a project that is part of a publicand Poland – in 2012). The main initiatives undertaken by the private partnership with the Code of Conduct for the Protection hotels concern employee training, raising awareness among of Children organization and other private partners. The project customers and suppliers, developing relations with public is financed by Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale authorities, and helping marginalized minors re-enter society. Zusammenarbeit (GIZ), a leading provider of international In 2012, more than 30,000 employees worldwide received cooperation services for sustainable development that works training on how to detect and respond to these risks. closely with the German government. In 2012, a letter of agreement was signed with GIZ defining the terms of our In June 2012, ECPAT France, Accor and two French police participation in the project, which will develop an e-learning organizations, the International Cooperation Directorate and tracking application for use by Code of Conduct signatories. (DCI) and the Central Office for the Repression of Violence Against Individuals (OCRVP) signed an agreement to introduce In addition, we wanted to broaden our commitment to the procedures in Accor hotels to report suspected cases of sexual protection of children from abuse in general, notably by relaying exploitation of children involving French or foreign nationals. national missing children alerts in countries where such systems ECPAT France, Accor, DCI, OCRVP have prepared a manual exist and facilitating the reintegration of marginalized minors. describing reporting procedures for the hospitality industry, In 2012, 38% of hotels had made a commitment to protecting which will help hotel staff to identify suspected cases of child children from abuse (including preventing sexual tourism, setting sexual tourism and to understand the procedures to implement, up reintegration programs or relaying national missing children while ensuring more effective collaboration among the various alerts). The sharp decline in this percentage from 2011 reflects stakeholders involved in protecting children. the disposal of Motel 6 and Studio 6 (around 950 hotels), which Finalized in 2012 after an initial pilot program in Thailand, the were especially active in relaying missing children alerts. Dominican Republic and Ghana, the manual will be distributed in Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 65 2 Corporate Responsibility SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Latin Total scope % change at Charter 21 Results Europe America of reporting comparable excl. Asiaand Rest of scope of Protecting children France France Pacific Caribbean the world 2012 2011 reporting* Number of applicable hotels 1,285 927 503 203 162 3,080 3,757 / Involved in protecting children from abuse 20% 44% 45% 92% 59% 38% NEW N/A Prevent sexual tourism involving children 4% 27% 25% 71% 46% 21% 25% +19% Number of employees trained 566 5,809 13,971 5,943 3,765 30,054 23,459 / Display customer awareness campaigns 15% 25% 16% 68% 26% 17% 12% +8% Involved in programs to help marginalized minors re-enter society 2% 2% 8% 7% 8% 4% NEW N/A Relay national missing children alerts 4% 4% 8% 5% 7% 9% NEW N/A Lastly, Accor is also strongly committed to combating child labor a comply strictly with the minimum legal working age in each and any type of forced labor, as clearly stipulated in the Accor of its host countries and never employ a child under the age Management Ethics Guide: of 14 in any country; “Accor pledges to: a be extremely vigilant when choosing suppliers or service providers; a exercise extreme caution with regard to suppliers and service providers that might require people to work against their will a refuse to work or immediately stop working with any supplier or under threat of penalty. If such were the case, Accor would or service provider that violates child labor laws.” immediately cut off all relations with the supplier or service provider in question; 2.4.3. LOCAL DEVELOPMENT Promoting local food products In 2012, 68% of hotels had a policy of purchasing and promoting local food products. This sharp improvement from 2011 has Accor supports responsible procurement practices, in particular brought us within reach of the goal of having 70% of hotels by preferring local food products, which are defined as products purchasing locally by 2015. grown or produced within 200 kilometers of the hotel. Latin Total scope % change at Charter 21 Results Europe America of reporting comparable excl. Asiaand Rest of scope of Local products France France Pacific Caribbean the world 2012 2011 reporting* Number of applicable hotels 524 562 458 182 153 1,879 1,747 / Purchase and promote local food products 60% 63% 80% 66% 78% 68% 51% +10% Actions involving a hotel restaurant concerned 61% of reporting hotels. Promoting fair trade and sustainable products carrying the Fairtrade/Max Havelaar label, mainly hot beverages like tea, coffee and chocolate. agriculture Since these products are not available in every host country, Accor has been a pioneer in supporting fair trade, with initiatives Accor also supports sustainable agriculture, notably by in place since 2003. In 2012, 56% of the hotels served fair trade purchasing products with the Rainforest Alliance label. 66 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Corporate Responsibility SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2 In 2012, 15% of hotels offered products from farms certified as sustainable. Latin Total scope % change at Charter 21 Results Europe America of reporting comparable excl. Asiaand Rest of scope of Fair trade and sustainable agriculture France France Pacific Caribbean the world 2012 2011 reporting* Number of applicable hotels 524 562 458 182 153 1,879 1,747 / Serve fair trade products* 89% 23% 0% N/A 7% 56% 34% +8% Serve products from sustainable farms 3% 29% 19% 14% 20% 15% 9% +13% * Among the countries with a national Fairtrade labeling organization. Actions involving a hotel restaurant concerned 61% of reporting hotels. In 2012, around 526 tonnes of fair trade products or products from sustainable farms were purchased by Accor hotels worldwide. 2.4.4. GUEST HEALTH AND SAFETY Responsible eating a recommended and discouraged ingredients; To enable guests to maintain a healthy diet, restaurants in Accor a appropriate preparation methods (cooking methods, seasonings, etc.); hotels offer nutritionally balanced dishes and meals. In 2012, balanced diet recommendations were developed to enable hotel a recommended proportions of each food group. managers to create nutritionally balanced dishes and make them In 2012, 87% of the hotels with a restaurant had at least one easier to identify on the menu. balanced dish on their menu, compared with the 2015 target These recommendations include: of 80%. This sharp improvement was driven by the distribution of balanced diet recommendations across the entire network. a the major principles of a balanced diet (types of ingredients, The challenge in the years ahead will be to maintain this result practical advice, etc.); and to deploy signage enabling guests to identify these dishes. Latin Total scope % change at Charter 21 Results Europe America of reporting comparable excl. Asiaand Rest of scope of Nutritional balance France France Pacific Caribbean the world 2012 2011 reporting* Number of applicable hotels 524 562 458 182 153 1,879 1,747 / Offer balanced dishes in the restaurant 86% 90% 88% 85% 76% 87% 62% +15% Product selection As part of the PLANET 21 strategy, we are committed to having 85% of the hotels using eco-labeled products by 2015. As part of its sustainable procurement and eco-design During the 2012 Charter 21 exercise, 89% of the hotels reported process, Accor is certifying the use of products that are more using at least one eco-designed product for flooring, painting environmentally friendly and healthier for guests and employees. or cleaning. Certified for use in every Accor hotel, a full range of cleaning products carrying the EU Flower, Green Seal or Nordic ecolabels are helping to reduce the environmental and health impact of room cleaning. Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 67 2 Corporate Responsibility SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Latin Total scope % change at Charter 21 Results Europe America of reporting comparable excl. Asiaand Rest of scope of Eco-designed products France France Pacific Caribbean the world 2012 2011 reporting* Number of applicable hotels 1,285 927 503 203 162 3,080 3,757 / Use eco-friendly cleaning products 83% 92% 91% 92% 94% 88% 51% +29% Use certified paper for printing 83% 86% 78% 79% 70% 82% 77% +11% Preventing health risks Protecting personal data Preventing health risks is a core concern at Accor. Accor is committed to protecting each guest’s personal information, with a Global Hotel Guest Privacy Policy clearly A maintenance and inspection program has been deployed to describing how this information is used. prevent the development and spread of legionella bacteria, with samples taken annually from hotel installations and analyzed The following seven Privacy Principles are applied by Accor SA by outside laboratories. In addition, hotels track the risk of and its subsidiaries around the world: Legionnaire’s disease in the SET application (see page 50). a transparency; Moreover, kitchen health inspections are performed using the Hazard Analysis & Critical Control Points (HACCP) system a legitimacy; and applying the same process as the one used for legionella a relevance and accuracy; bacteria inspections. a storage; a access, rectification and objection; a confidentiality and security; a sharing and international transfer. The Policy is applicable to any data processed by the owned, leased and managed hotels and to any Accor SA booking websites, notably www.accorhotels.com and the brand websites. 2.4.5. SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT The Accor procurement process Purchasing categories 12% Accor purchases products in around one hundred different 6% categories from the owned and leased hotels. The Procurement Department also sources products for the managed and 17% franchised hotels. The procurement organization comprises 19 Purchasing 26% Departments around the world and 200 employees who devise a wide array of product-supplier solutions, whose products and negotiated prices must meet the needs and expectations of both hoteliers and corporate marketing, technical and other teams. 19% The solutions must also comply with legal, safety, reliability, sustainable development, ethical and marketing standards. 20% The different purchasing families have been structured into six Operating purshases (e.g.: linen & laundry, housekeeping, categories, as shown in the following chart (in percent of total cleaning products, complimentary products, uniforms, etc.) consolidated purchases): Intellectual services (IT, Marketing, consultants) Equipment, furniture, renovation Foodstuffs Energy Technology 68 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Corporate Responsibility SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2 Sustainable procurement strategy and plan The sustainable procurement strategy is structured according to a plan comprising three main areas of action: Sustainable development principles have been integrated into the Group’s purchasing policies since 2003, when the Accor a externally with suppliers; Sustainable Procurement Charter was introduced to extend our a internally with operations; corporate social responsibility commitments to suppliers. a horizontally across the sourcing process. To implement a more organized, global and ambitious process, a dedicated sustainable procurement unit was set up in 2009. It works closely with Group buyers, country buyers, the Sustainable Development and other corporate departments, suppliers and other outside stakeholders (associations, trade federations, etc.). Objectives Tools Sharing sustainable development Procurement Charter 21 Contractual clause commitments with suppliers Sustainable procurement Actions with suppliers Risk analysis by category Improving supplier sustainable Supplier assessments and audits development performance Action plans Actions Driving progress in country Action plans with operations priorities Complying with environmental Compliance watch standards (REACH, RoHS, WEEE) Horizontal actions Integrating eco-design in the Sustainable development sourcing strategy specifications in RFQs Actions with suppliers a authorize Accor and/or representatives selected by Accor to conduct a sustainable development audit and agree to To help improve the performance of sourced products and implement the necessary action plans. services, the Corporate Procurement Department is moving in several directions: As part of the sustainable procurement reporting process, all of the country organizations report the percentage of new Sharing commitments with suppliers contracts that include Procurement Charter 21 clauses. Through the Procurement Charter 21 (the new name since 2012, In 2012, Procurement Charter 21 clauses were included in in line with the PLANET 21 sustainable development program), nearly 2,000 supplier contracts, or more than 60% of all Accor is actively sharing its corporate social responsibility approved contracts. commitments with suppliers. First published in 2003, then updated and enhanced in 2010, the Charter is integrated into Measuring supplier performance national and international contracts to encourage suppliers to: To determine which suppliers to audit first, the sustainable a comply with the Procurement Charter 21; development risks inherent in each of the 98 purchasing categories were analyzed in 2010, based on the Group’s a ensure that their own suppliers and subcontractors meet the exposure (customer exposure, purchasing spend and type of same criteria; supplier market). This exercise helped to identify 23 high-priority a participate in Accor’s assessment procedure; categories, served by 1,061 suppliers, who were therefore audited before the others. Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 69 2 Corporate Responsibility SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Supplier performance may be measured in three ways: 10. outside cleaning and security contractors, who account for most of the Group’s outsourcing. a assessing overall performance; a assessing the performance of a specific product; Outsourcing In 2003, Accor France management met with union a commissioning on-site audits performed by an independent representatives to define the process of outsourcing room third-party. cleaning in owned and leased hotels. The resulting protocol In 2012, more than 60 audits were conducted with EcoVadis agreement on guidelines and conditions for using subcontractors or other organizations. Over the past two years, audits have requires strict compliance with labor laws and regulations and assessed 204 or 14% of the targeted suppliers, who have defines such aspects as working hours, the calculation of implemented around 40 remedial action plans. paid hours, and training. Compliance is regularly tracked with employee representatives. Actions with operations In 2010, a self-assessment questionnaire concerning In liaison with the Sustainable Development Department, the employee-relations practices was prepared and submitted to Corporate Procurement Department has identified ten product/ subcontractors in France, Germany, Australia, Spain and Italy. service priorities where buyers can make a difference by In late 2011, our corporate social responsibility audit firm, Ernst sourcing the best solutions for the Group, which can then be & Young, was commissioned to conduct a social audit of all of deployed operationally via the hotel brands. our cleaning services contractors in France. In 2012, the findings Every year, each country organization chooses three of the were used to prepare and deploy contractor-validated action priorities to address, depending on local issues. To measure plans and to share identified best practices across the contractor improvement, key international performance indicators are then base. Also during the year, Ernst & Young audited all of the fire defined for each one. protection and security service providers in France, according to the same process. The ten priorities are: 1. local sourcing – regional suppliers or multinationals whose Horizontal actions local subsidiary employs nationals; Integrating sustainable development into the 7-step 2. ethical hot beverages –fair trade products (with the Fairtrade/ sourcing process Max Havelaar label) or products from farms certified as sustainable (with the Rainforest label); Sustainable development should be integrated right from the first step in sourcing, so that responsible solutions can 3. well-being – healthy products, such as organic or balanced be offered to our internal customers. Before even initiating nutrition products, products low in additives, palm oil and a sourcing process, an in-depth analysis of the sustainable GMOs, products complying with international labels; development challenges inherent in the purchasing category 4. eco-labeled cleaning products; concerned may be performed and shared with the buyers so that they can include the appropriate clauses in RFQ specifications. 5. eco-labeled cosmetics – complying with international certifications (EU Flower, NF ENV or equivalent); One of the objectives is to integrate eco-designed products and, more generally, sustainable development criteria into RFQ 6. wood – certified as coming from sustainably managed specifications. To date, they have been integrated in around 40 forests (Forest Stewardship Council – FSC, Programme for of the 98 categories, including complimentary products, cleaning the Endorsement of Forest Certification – PEFC, etc.); products, wood paneling, paper and carpeting. 7. waste – less packaging and detailed supplier reporting; As part of its eco-design commitment, Accor may also request 8. linen and laundry – EU Ecolabeled bath linens; that partners share their product life cycle assessment (LCA) data or to perform LCAs with the support of independent outside 9. fish – sustainable fishing firms, in order to determine the best environmental solution. Accor uses the expertise of an environmental NGO. In 2012, we distributed an international best practices handbook describing sustainability specifications for sustainable fishing and containing a questionnaire with supplier indicators and an aquaculture best practices guide. 70 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Corporate Responsibility SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Elaborate Generate Prepare Negotiate Integrate Profile Define Sourcing supplier & Manage & Select Sourcing Category Specifications Strategy Portfolio RFP Solutions Decisions Define & Supplier evaluation: Supplier Evaluation: Analysis of Define Accor, 3rd party Accor, 3rd party sustainable include Action plan & sustainable Supplier Audit: Procurement Supplier Audit: development sustainable clauses development Accor, 3rd party Charter 21 Accor, 3rd party risk by priority development in contract criteria category specifications Specific: Specific: questionnaire questionnaire Compliance To reduce the environmental footprint of products in design, In the case of REACH, suppliers subject to the Regulation during use and at end-of-life, a growing amount of legislation is are asked to sign a Declaration of Compliance, which by the being introduced, such as the European Union’s Registration, end of 2012 had been included in nearly 1,200 contracts, Evaluation, Authorisation and restriction of Chemicals (REACH) covering some 90% of the suppliers concerned. Directive, Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive, In the case of WEEE, information and awareness building Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive and meetings are regularly held with the buyers concerned and their the Classification, Labelling and Packaging (CLP) Regulation. suppliers to ensure that waste is recovered, sorted and recycled The provisions of this legislation are constantly changing, and in compliance with the Directive. to maintain supplier compliance, Accor has introduced a control and tracking process with the support of outside consultants. Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 71 2 Corporate Responsibility THE ACCOR FOUNDATION 2.5. THE ACCOR FOUNDATION 2.5.1. ORGANIZATION AND OPERATION The Accor Foundation is committed to forging ties between To successfully manage these initiatives, the Foundation is cultures by supporting the development of individuals and their organized as follows: integration into the community. a the Board of Directors, which meets two or three times a Led by the Foundation since 2008, Accor’s community outreach year, defines the Foundation’s strategic vision, votes on and corporate philanthropy initiatives are driven by employees, projects budgeted at €20,000 or more, and oversees their who play a central role at every stage, from initial planning to implementation. Chaired by Denis Hennequin, the Board final assessment. This distinctive feature offers employees an comprises six representatives of the founding companies opportunity to add social and human breadth and depth to their and their employees and four qualified persons from outside work. the Group; The Accor Foundation provides employees with technical and a the Board is supported by a standing team dedicated entirely financial assistance in carrying out their projects. It accepts to assisting employees in their community outreach projects. requests for advice and financial support from employees It works with a network of Regional Experts made up of Accor who are involved in or wish to become involved in an outreach employees who come from the region concerned or have initiative in our host communities around the world. worked there for several years. For five years, the Foundation’s multi-year action program amounts to €5 million. The budget for 2012 was K€1,100. 2.5.2. FOUNDATION INITIATIVES To fulfill its mission, the Accor Foundation provides technical Real-world examples of the skills that have helped to make and financial assistance to outreach initiatives undertaken by Foundation-supported projects a success include: employees in our host countries in one of its three focus areas: a knowledge of construction techniques: employees helped a local know-how: supporting socio-economic to build a school cafeteria in Cameroon, as part of the SOS initiatives that promote traditional industries and Villages d’Enfants project supported in 2008 for €22,000; techniques; a marketing skills: employees are training Indian women in a training and insertion: facilitating the integration of marketing to help them design products for sale in local disadvantaged young people aged 15-30; marketplaces, as part of the Nireekshana project in India, supported in 2009, 2011 and 2012 for €54,200; a humanitarian and emergency aid: helping populations in great difficulty and responding to a human resources skills: employees are coaching humanitarian disasters. disadvantaged young people in Brazil on how to write a résumé and respond effectively in a job interview, as part In all three areas, the objective is to empower the people of the Unibes project supported in 2009, 2011 and 2012 for supported by the Foundation by deploying project models that €99,000. are economically viable and self-sustaining over the medium term. The values of hospitality, caring and generosity that our Accor employees also add real value to the “training and hotel employees embody every day in their jobs flow naturally insertion” programs supported by the Accor Foundation. They through to community outreach initiatives. The diversity of regularly participate in training programs to present the different hotel industry jobs means that everyone’s skills can be used in hospitality industry jobs and share their professional skills with developing a project. trainees. These programs can include on-site hotel tours, conferences on hospitality industry jobs, presentations of the Accor Group and internships at Accor hotels. 72 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Corporate Responsibility THE ACCOR FOUNDATION 2 2.5.3. A POSITIVE TRACK RECORD Projects supported in 2012 A total of 41 projects received support in 2012, covering all of the Foundation’s three focus areas. Focus Area Europe Asia Americas Oceania Africa Total Training and insertion 23 4 5 0 1 33 Local know-how 1 1 1 0 1 4 Humanitarian and emergency aid 2 1 0 1 0 4 TOTAL 26 6 6 1 2 41 Projects supported by the Accor Foundation in 2012, by focus Results area An initial consolidated review of the Foundation’s activities after more than four years in operation showed the following results: 10% 10% a as of end-2012, the Foundation had provided support for a large number of people: more than 70,000 individuals directly, including disadvantaged young people, marginalized single mothers, struggling craftsmen and people living with little or no income, more than 90,000 individuals indirectly, including family members and communities; a more than 50% of participants in “Local know-how” and “Training and insertion” projects are now employed; 80% a supported projects and individuals have gradually Local know-how become self-sustaining: Self-sustainability, one of the Foundation’s major objectives, Humanitarian and emergency aid has already been observed for projects in China, Poland, India and the Dominican Republic; a a number of projects have won awards: Foundation-supported initiatives that have received international awards include Fondation Parada, which won the Social Initiative Prize from the French Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Romania in 2011 for mentoring vulnerable street children, and the Chi Heng Foundation, which earned the Certificate of Excellence in the Corporate Social Responsibility Campaign category at the 2011 Asia Pacific PR Awards for its eco-friendly bags campaign. Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 73 2 Corporate Responsibility THE ACCOR FOUNDATION Projects supported since the Accor Foundation’s creation, by focus area Since 2008, the Accor Foundation has supported 147 projects in 35 countries. 2008/2009 Focus Area projects 2010 projects 2011 projects 2012 projects Total Training and insertion 17 20 24 33 94 Local know-how 6 4 6 4 20 Humanitarian and emergency aid 5 8 4 4 21 Culture and heritage* 5 4 3 0 12 TOTAL 33 36 37 41 147 * Culture and heritage has no longer been a focus for the Foundation since June 2011. The Accor Foundation would like to involve more stakeholders 33 in its community outreach projects. A proposal is currently being considered to create an endowment fund that could accept donations from hotels, guests, Accor brands, suppliers and 24 employees. 20 17 8 6 6 5 5 4 4 4 4 4 3 0 Projects in Projects in Projects in Projects in 2008/2009 2010 2011 2012 Training and insertion Local know-how Humanitarian and emergency aid Culture and heritage 74 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Corporate Responsibility ATTESTATION OF PRESENTATION AND INDEPENDENT VERIFIER’S ASSURANCE REPORT 2 2.6. ATTESTATION OF PRESENTATION AND INDEPENDENT VERIFIER’S ASSURANCE REPORT Year ended December 31, 2012 ATTESTATION OF PRESENTATION AND INDEPENDENT VERIFIER’S ASSURANCE REPORT ON SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION To Chief Executive Officer, Pursuant to your request and in our capacity as independent verifier of Accor, we hereby report to you on the consolidated social, environmental and societal information presented in the management report issued for the year ended December 31, 2012 in accordance with the requirements of Article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY The Executive Board is responsible for the preparation of the management report including the consolidated social, environmental and societal information (the “Information”) in accordance with the requirements of Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), presented as required by the entity’s internal reporting standards (the “Guidelines”) and available upon request to the entity’s headquarter. OUR INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL Our independence is defined by regulatory requirements, the Code of Ethics of our profession (Code de déontologie) and Article L. 822-11 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). In addition, we maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures to ensure compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. INDEPENDENT VERIFIER’S RESPONSIBILITY It is our role, on the basis of our work: a to attest whether the required Information is presented in the management report or, if not presented, whether an appropriate explanation is given in accordance with the third paragraph of Article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) and Decree no. 2012-557 dated April 24, 2012 (Attestation of presentation); a to provide limited assurance on whether the other Information is fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the Guidelines (limited assurance report). Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 75 2 Corporate Responsibility ATTESTATION OF PRESENTATION AND INDEPENDENT VERIFIER’S ASSURANCE REPORT 1. Attestation of presentation Our engagement was performed in accordance with professional standards applicable in France: a we compared the Information presented in the management report with the list as provided in Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce); a we verified that the Information covers the consolidated perimeter, namely the entity and its subsidiaries within the meaning of Article L. 233-1 and the controlled entities within the meaning of Article L. 233-3 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). In the event of the omission of certain consolidated Information, we verified that an appropriate explanation was given in accordance with Decree no. 2012-557 dated April 24, 2012. On the basis of our work, we attest that the required Information is presented in the management report. 2. Limited assurance report Nature and scope of the work We conducted our engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 (International Standard on Assurance Engagements) and French professional guidance. We performed the following procedures to obtain a limited assurance that nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the other Information presented is not fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the Guidelines. A higher level of assurance (reasonable) would have required more extensive review. Our work consisted in the following: a we assessed the appropriateness of the Guidelines as regards their relevance, completeness, neutrality, clarity and reliability, taking into consideration, where applicable, the good practices in the sector; a we verified that the Group had set up a process for the collection, compilation, processing and control of the Information to ensure its completeness and consistency. We examined the internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation of the Information. We conducted interviews with those responsible for social and environmental reporting; a we selected the consolidated Information to be tested (1) and determined the nature and scope of the tests, taking into consideration their importance with respect to the social and environmental consequences related to the Group’s business and characteristics, as well as its societal commitments. Concerning the quantitative consolidated information that we deemed to be the most important: a at the level of the consolidating entity and the controlled entities, we implemented analytical procedures and, based on sampling, verified the calculations and the consolidation of this information; a at the level of the countries that we selected (2) based on their business, their contribution to the consolidated indicators and a risk analysis: we conducted interviews to verify that the procedures were correctly applied, we performed tests of detail based on sampling, consisting in verifying the calculations made and reconciling the data with the supporting documents. (1) Social: total headcount with breakdown by gender, by age and by geographical area; Recruitments and dismissals; work time organization; absenteeism; occupational accidents including their frequency rate and severity rate as well as occupational diseases; training policies; total number of training hours; implemented policies and measures taken to promote equality between women and men; implemented policies and measures to fight against discrimination. Environment: environmental assessment approaches or certifications; measures to prevent, recycle and eliminate waste; water consumptions and water supply according to local constraints; consumption of raw materials and measures taken to improve the efficiency of their use; energy consumptions; measures taken to improve energy efficiency; greenhouse gases emissions. Societal: territorial, economic and social impact of the company in terms of employment and on local population; consideration of social and environmental issues in the procurement policy of the company and importance of subcontracting and addressing the social and environmental responsibility of suppliers; measures taken for consumers’ health and safety. (2) Social: Poland, Belgium, Luxembourg, Morocco, United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Jordan, Qatar, Kuwait, Oman, Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay, Chile, Colombia, Guatemala, Peru. Environment: for water and energy consumptions: United Kingdom, China, Brazil, Poland, Italy; for the other environmental indicators: Brazil, Poland, Italy. Societal: for sustainable procurement: France, Brazil, United Kingdom. 76 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Corporate Responsibility ATTESTATION OF PRESENTATION AND INDEPENDENT VERIFIER’S ASSURANCE REPORT 2 The sample thus selected represents on average 15% of the workforce for the social indicators; 37% of water consumption; 33% of energy consumption; 11% of hotels for the other environmental indicators; 41% of hotels for sustainable procurement. Concerning the qualitative consolidated information that we deemed to be the most important, we conducted interviews and reviewed the related documentary sources in order to corroborate this information and assess its fairness. As regards the other consolidated information published, we assessed its fairness and consistency in relation to our knowledge of the Company and, where applicable, through interviews or the consultation of documentary sources. Finally, we assessed the relevance of the explanations given in the event of the absence of any information. Comments on the Guidelines and the Information We would like to draw attention to the following points: a the consolidated perimeter for the reported Information covers all the subsidiaries and managed hotels. For some indicators, it can go beyond, covering some franchised hotels, as mentioned in the management report; a with the exception of the indicators for water and energy consumptions, internal controls carried out at country and area levels show themselves to be heterogeneous and in some cases limited. This statement applies in particular for the indicators related to the Charter 21 actions, for which the supporting evidence is difficult to collect and analyze; a some indicators were recently developed and are still evolving, in particular the ones related to waste. In those cases, methodological limitations were mentioned in the relevant chapters; a for the « percentage of employees trained », the disparity of monitoring tools across countries could lead to an overestimation risk; a in order to improve the consistency of results regarding sustainable procurement, its importance as well as the definitions of indicators and some actions of the Charter 21 should be clarified. Conclusion We express a qualified conclusion on the following point: a the indicators « average number of days of absence per employee for illness, occupational disease and work-related accident» and « for other reasons » are under estimated outside Europe due to national regulations causing heterogeneous interpretations of the Guidelines in the different countries. In our opinion, except for the effects of the matter described above, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Information is not fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the Guidelines. Paris La Défense, March 4, 2013 The Independent Verifier Ernst & Young et Associés Sustainable Development Department Éric Duvaud Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 77 2 Corporate Responsibility ATTESTATION OF PRESENTATION AND INDEPENDENT VERIFIER’S ASSURANCE REPORT 78 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 7 Other information CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSABILITY 7.7. CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSABILITY GRI * UN Global CSR Indicators Page The Grenelle II Act numbers Indicator Scope Compact OUR COMMITMENTS Promotion and respect for the clauses of ILO Management F conventions approach Commitment Challenges 26-27 Actions implemented to prevent any kind 4, 5 & 10 SO2 à SO4 P of corruption Accor stakeholders 27 Stakeholder relationship 4.14 à 4.17 P / Promotion and respect for the clauses of ILO conventions from the Respect for the right Commitment Engagement and recognition 27-28 to organise and collective bargaining to the 4.11 à 4.13 F 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, Abolition of discrimination in employment 8&9 and occupation Management Responsible growth strategy 28-30 / F / approach HUMAN RESOURCES Key figures Number of employees 31 LA 1 F Number of employees by gender 33 Employment: total workforce Number of employees by age 33 / / Number of employees by region 32-33 LA 1 F Average number of days of training per 33-34 employee Total number of training hours LA 10 F Total number of days of training 34 % full-time employees and % part-time 33 Organization of work time / / employees Average number of days absent per / 33 Absenteeism LA 7 F employee over the year Estimate of the indirect regional Regional, economic and social impact economic and social impact regarding 32 created by the activity of the company / / employment regarding employment Number of hires 32 Employment: hires and redundancies / / Number of departures from the Group 32 / LA 2 P Including involuntary separations 32 / / dismissals Employment: hires and redundancies Including separations under redundancy 32 / / plans Human Ressources policies Commitment Enhancing employee capabilities 35-38 Implemented training policies LA 11 F 1 330 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Other information CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSABILITY 7 GRI * UN Global CSR Indicators Page The Grenelle II Act numbers Indicator Scope Compact Our Commitments to employees A commitment to diversity Promotion and respect for the clauses of ILO conventions from the Respect for the right Promoting diversity and equal 38-39 to organise and collective bargaining to the / / opportunity Abolition of discrimination in employment and occupation Gender equality in the workplace 39-40 Percentage of women in management positions at the hotel General Manager, Commitment Operations Director and country Measures promoting gender equality LA 13 P 1, 2 & 6 40 Executive Committee levels, as well as in head offices, notably among senior executives. Measures promoting the employment and People with disabilities 40 / / integration of people with disabilities Locally defined discrimination alert plans 41 Policy against discrimination / / Diversity training 41 Compensation and benefits Compensation and benefits policies 41-42 Employment: compensation Employee savings and stock ownership 42 Insurance coverage 43 Health and safety conditions at work / / / Directors' fees, executive compensation Employment: compensation and evolution of 199 and workforce compensation Health and working conditions Employee health and safety 43 Employee training in good health and Health and safety conditions at work LA 8 F 44 eating habits Health and Safety Committees 43-44 Outcome of the collective agreements / / Workplace health and safety signed with trade unions regarding 44 occupational health and safety LA 9 F agreements Commitment Lost-time incident frequency rate 43 Frequency and seriousness of incident 1&3 LA 7 P Fatal workplace accidents 43 Frequency and seriousness of incident Indicator under construction: N/A Occupational diseases occupational illnesses Impact of the Group activity regarding / / work time organization and collective 44-45 Organization of work time agreements Social dialogue Employee surveys 45 / Organization of social dialogue Employee representative organizations 46 / / Commitment Collective agreements 45-46 Outcome of the collective agreements 3 ENVIRONMENT Environmental Policy Organization of the company to take Management Internal organization 47 F into account environmental concerns. If approach Management application 47-49 applicable Environmental evaluation and 3.1 à 3.11 F Commitment Certification procedures 49-50 verification approachs / 7, 8 & 9 Budget dedicated to environmental Environmental expenditure 50 EN30 F protection and environmental risk mitigation. Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 331 7 Other information CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSABILITY GRI * UN Global CSR Indicators Page The Grenelle II Act numbers Indicator Scope Compact Prevention and Remedies Compliance 50 PR6 Budget dedicated to environmental Organization created to respond to protection and environmental risk mitigation. 50 EN23 F accidental pollution Commitment Environmental provisions and 7, 8 & 9 51 guarantees Financial provisions for environmental risks EN28 & EC2 F Penalties paid 51 Training and information initiatives Training and information towards employees Raising employee awareness 51 / / Commitment on environmental protection 7, 8 & 9 Raising guest awareness 51 / / / Water Water use 52 Water consumption EN8 & EN9 Commitment Reducing water use 52-53 / P & EN10 7, 8 & 9 Water supply from local sources 54 Water supply considering local resources Energy Tracking energy use 54 Energy consumption EN3 & EN4 P Energy efficiency 55 EN5 & EN6 Commitment Measures to improve energy efficiency and 7, 8 & 9 Managing energy use 55-56 & EN7 F better use renewable energies Renewable energies 56-57 & EN18 Emissions into the natural environment and measures to prevent and reduce them EN16 Greenhouse gaz emissions F Greenhouse gas emissions and & EN17 57-58 ozone-depleting cooling fluids EN18 / P Commitment & EN19 7, 8 & 9 Assessing the impact of climate change 59 Measures to adapt to climate change EC2 & EN18 P Water pollution 59 Prevention, reduction and fixing of air/water/ EN21 P Soil contamination 59 soil emissions / / Local environmental impacts of the business Land use 60 Land use EN12 P Measures taken to save and develop EN12 Preserving biodiversity 60 P Commitment biodiversity & EN14 7, 8 & 9 Noise pollution, visual pollution 61 Noise pollution and others types of pollution / / and odors Waste Waste management 61 EN22 Commitment Categories of waste 61-62 Prevention, recycling and cuting waste P & EN27 7, 8 & 9 Resource recovery and reuse 62-63 Eco-Design and Innovation Processes Consumption of raw materials and Measures EN26 Commitment Eco-Design and Innovation 63-64 taken to improve the efficiency of raw P & EN27 7, 8 & 9 materials use SOCIAL RESPONSABILITY Social Responsibility Policy Management Internal organization 65 / F approach / Management application 65 / 3.1 à 3.11 F Protecting children from abuse Fight against child sex exploitation, HR6 & HR7 P relaying national missing children alerts, Impact on local and neighbouring 65-66 / faciliting the integration of marginalized communities SO1 F minors 332 Registration Document 2012 ACCOR Other information CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSABILITY 7 GRI * UN Global CSR Indicators Page The Grenelle II Act numbers Indicator Scope Compact Local Development Regional, economic and social impact Promoting local food products 66 created by the activity of the company regarding local development / / / Promoting fair trade and sustainable Integration of the social and environmental 66-67 agriculture issues within the sourcing policy Guest Health and Safety Responsible eating 67 / / / EN26 Product selection 67-68 Measures implemented to promote & EN27 F / consumer health and safety & PR1 Preventing health risks 68 / / / Protecting personal data 68 / / / Sustainable Procurement Integration of the social and environmental The Accor procurement process 68 issues within the sourcing policy EC6, HR2, Commitment Importance of subcontracting and integration P Sustainable procurement strategy PR1 1&2 69-71 of CSR in the relationships with suppliers and plan and subcontractors FOUNDATION Impact on local and neighbouring communities Regional, economic and social impact Foundation initiatives 72-74 created by the activity of the company / / / regarding local development Philanthropic actions and community involvement Attestation of presentation and independent verifier's assurance report Attestation of presentation and 75-77 Verification by a third-party body 3.13 F / independent verifier's limited assurance * Accor is committed by 2015 to generate corporate social responsability information in line with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Progress in a logical table above shows all the indicators CSR Steering Group in 2012 and their equivalents in the GRI standard. In a logic of progress, the board above present all the steering CSR indicators of the Group in 2012 and their equivalents in the GRI reference table : “F”: Fully reported “P”: Partially reported Registration Document 2012 ACCOR 333
