January 30, 2013 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, It is with great honor that Sauer Energy is a part of the United Nations Global Compact and in complete compliance with the 10 principles of the Global Compact regarding human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. We continue to implement and practice each principle in every applicable facet of our company as well as continuously strive to find new ways to incorporate these principles within our organizational strategy. This is a time of growth at Sauer Energy and we look forward to impacting the world with both our products and our corporate culture. We are ramping up manufacturing capabilities and plan to launch of our WindCharger™ brand vertical axis wind turbine in the near future. We are very passionate about wind energy and the rippling effects it will have on the environment and further, the changes in lifestyle that bringing electricity can make in places where there is none now. In September of 2012, Sauer Energy moved into a large industrial facility and combined all operations in Camarillo, California. Shortly thereafter, we installed our turbines on the building. This new headquarters will house production and distribution of our turbines, which will supply the domestic market first and the international market later. We purchased the assets of Helix Wind Corporation in May of 2012, which included an array of patented and patent pending intellectual property. The Helix vertical axis wind turbines were installed in 17 countries at that time. We are now ramping up our capabilities to manufacture these turbines at the new facility. Furthermore, we plan to engage in collaborative projects this year in particular which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, predominantly the Millennium Development Goals. Sauer Energy seeks to advocate openly and actively regarding responsible business practices to all we come in contact with. We can positively impact the world with our global endeavor. With respect to environmental responsibility, we will be able to make great strides to further global awareness of the critical need to follow these principles. Sauer Energy strives to positively impact the global environment by becoming an example of the principles which we already embraced even before joining the United Nations Global Compact as any responsible corporate citizen should. This annual Communication on Progress (COP) describes our implementation of the ten principles. As a publicly traded company, we support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress according to the Global Compact COP policy. Respectfully submitted, Dieter Sauer CEO and President 4670 Calle Carga Unit A  Camarillo, CA 93012-8536 +1 888.829.8748  info@SauerEnergy.com  www.SauerEnergy.com Human Rights Principle 1 Support of Human Rights At Sauer Energy we deeply respect the human rights of ourselves and others. All new employees receive a Code of Conduct and a Code of Ethics to be read, acknowledged and signed by each new employee. We work together as a team, with regard for each other, so that we can achieve the maximum level of excellence. There is no limit to what can be accomplished when everyone feels respected and appreciated. Principle 2 Human Rights Abuses Sauer Energy has a zero tolerance for any abuses, both domestically and worldwide. We choose not to deal with anyone who we know, or become aware of, that engages in these types of abuses. We also refuse to become complicit in any way to advancing this practice, either by action or omission of action. Sauer Energy promotes a safe workplace with a positive corporate culture where respect levels are of the utmost. Labour Principle 3 Freedom of Association and Right to Collective Bargaining Employees and employers are allowed to freely associate themselves with organizations of their own choice. Each has the right to do so without interference from the other at Sauer Energy. Collective bargaining enables employees and workers to negotiate their needs to the employers for a benefit to both parties. Our good faith ensures that we enter into constructive negotiations for the strengthening of mutual relations. As Sauer Energy grows, this may become an issue but does not present a problem. We plan to stay in alignment with each other. Principle 4 No Forced or Compulsory Labour Sauer Energy does not, nor will we ever, condone or benefit from compulsory and forced labor, neither domestically or internationally. There is no profit in this practice, as humanity loses when this is the case. Each employee is treated as the unique individual they are and has the right to exercise their rights as an employee. Principle 5 No Child Labour Sauer Energy will, in no case, ever exploit child labour. We expect the opportunity will arise to distribute our wind turbines globally. Our employees will be of proper working age as applicable by law, and will continue to be compliant with the rules and regulations of domestic and international labour standards. Further, if there arises the possibility to the contrary and it is not against laws and/or standards, we will stay true to our principles and not engage in such practices. Principle 6 No Discrimination Sauer Energy has zero tolerance for any type of discrimination. We have created a working environment free of bias, harassment and, including but not limited to, discrimination. Our team is comprised of members working toward a common goal. We look at diversity as a blend to promote unity, as each individual brings unique talents and aptitudes to the Sauer Energy team. Environment Principle 7 Support Precautionary Approach to Environmental Challenges Sauer Energy is completely on board with this principle as it is the core concept of our business. We saw the level of risk and created a solution that empowers individuals to diminish the adverse environmental effects on our planet. In this process, we have diminished our own carbon footprint and our product continues to help the masses to mitigate its effects on our planet. We feel that the more people use renewable energy and reduce their carbon footprint, the greater the impact will be on slowing the adverse effects of climate change for future generations. Principle 8 Initiatives to Promote Greater Environmental Responsibility Sauer Energy is proud to declare that the work we undertake so vividly aligns with this principle. We feel that the individual will greatly affect the environment. Sauer Energy promotes environmental responsibility through educating our customers, employees, stakeholders and the general public on ways to reduce their own environmental footprint and the personal and global benefits of utilizing wind energy. Principle 9 Development and Diffusion of Environmentally Friendly Technology Our innovative technology is completely based on this principle at Sauer Energy. At the very core of our business is the development of environmentally friendly technology. The materials and methods we implement are carefully chosen, paying strictest attention to the cleanest possible technology. Our turbines pose no threat to birds or wildlife. Further, we will equip the world to improve the environment. In February, 2012, Sauer Energy was awarded the most coveted and prestigious Project of the Year award from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) ), Buenaventura Section, California. This award goes to the company that has demonstrated technological achievement in engineering innovation development and promise. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 No Corruption We adhere to strict compliance against corruption in any form. Anything that is in violation of this principle or domestic or international laws and standards will be met with firm disciplinary measures. Senior management will continually be working with auditors to ensure Sauer Energy remains in full compliance. Further, Sauer Energy will educate our employees on ethical standards and how we are committed to sustaining the highest level in all business related dealings. Goals All management, employees and directors of Sauer Energy have specific rules and regulations to be observed. The Corporate Board strives to anchor on awareness for ethical and lawful conduct throughout the company, including outside business partners. We intend to be among the top suppliers of products to create a solution by harnessing wind energy, along with future development into technology for additional usages. Sauer Energy wind turbines serve the goal of assuring environmentally compatible design systems. All Sauer Energy products will be safe to the environment and compatible as a fundamental prerequisite for future sustainability. Sauer Energy’s goals stipulate that we assure the environmentally friendly compatible design of our turbine will provide a solution for individuals to reduce emissions on a global scale. Furthermore, participation in humanitarian efforts is very much a future goal at Sauer Energy. UNGC Millenium Development Goals 1. Eradicating extreme poverty and hunger, 2. Achieving universal primary education, 3. Promoting gender equality and empowering women, 4. Reducing child mortality rates, 5. Improving maternal health, 6. Combating HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other diseases, 7. Ensuring environmental sustainability, and 8. Developing a global partnership for development.[1] Education One of the areas that Sauer Energy is devoted to is educating the public about wind energy and how they can, as individuals and groups, become an integral part of improving the global environment for generations to come. We believe that once people can realize that renewable energy opportunities are within reach for them, they will learn that their decisions can count for them as well as for the global community. This small revelation will spur them on to do more for helping the environment. We are at a pivotal place in history where it would take little effort to get individuals to understand how important they are and that through their action exists an opportunity to act responsibly and create an impact on generations to come. From there, they shift from merely being a part of the problem to becoming a part of the solution for the greater good. This type of unification is a powerful weapon in the environmental battle. We feel this to be one of our greatest contributions to humanity, and we take this responsibility to heart. We strive for people to spread the word and to educate others on how they can do their part in making our earth more “green”. Our Environment We all use electricity, and this basic need has no boundaries or limits. As elementary as this concept is, it is the cornerstone of our business. The technological advancements during the last 50 years alone have completely changed the way we communicate, learn, travel, eat and most things we do. The products we use every day, like refrigerators, computers and hairdryers, are likely unconsidered when we think of electricity consumption. Exactly that attitude is what we feel got us in the present global environmental situation in the first place. Sauer Energy’s aim to raise awareness that action, or omission of action today, will affect future generations. The only question is what kind of impact and impression will we leave? Management, Employees, Partners, Vendors and Stakeholders At Sauer Energy, management bears the ultimate responsibility for setting the pace of our day-to-day operations. We are acutely aware that we must exhibit integrity in all things. If we lead by example, our staff can trust and follow us. These are the people who help us achieve the highest level of excellence. If our relationship with each other is positive, courteous and contributory, it will trickle our treatment of our stakeholders, customers, partners and vendors. We are ever vigilant that our goals are able to be planted in the fertile soil of contribution, patience, understanding and tolerance. The fruits we bear in this manner are the most valuable for long lasting relationships anyone can hope to obtain and keep. Conclusion In the grand scheme of things, we are all on the same Earth at the same time and it is up to each of us, as individuals and in groups, how our decisions today are going to affect the future of all. We are exceedingly cognizant of the fact that each of us matters because we are all connected. Our goal is to reignite a global consciousness to think in terms of global citizenship. We must make things happen with real actions. Sauer Energy, by becoming an example, will inspire others to change and to educate their circles of family, friends and associates on how to make changes so that we can all succeed together.
