This interactive pdf allows Welcome you to easily access the information that you want, whether printing, searching Essar Energy for a specific item or going directly to another page, section or website. Sustainability Use the document controls located at the top of each Report 2013 page to navigate through this Report. Use the contents to jump straight to the section you require. Contents Print a single page 01 Sustainability performance highlights Search the entire or whole sections 02 Message from the CEO document by keyword 04 About this Report 06 Essar Energy at a glance 08 Awards and recognition received during the reporting period 09 Significant changes during the reporting period Next page 10 Our stakeholders Return back to the Previous page 13 Risk management and materiality 16 Corporate governance contents at the beginning 18 Our people of the document 22 Health, safety and environment 32 Product responsibility 35 Community 43 Memberships 44 Performance indicators Links 53 GRI G3.1 OGSS; IPIECA/API/OGP and UNGC Content Index Throughout this Report there are links to pages, other sections and web 70 GRI Check Statement addresses for additional information. 71 Assurance Statement 73 Glossary They are recognisable by the red underline – simply click to go to the relevant page or web URL www.essarenergy.com For more information visit: www.essarenergy.com Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report April 2012 – March 2013 Building a Sustainable Energy Business Company overview Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability strategy A key element of Essar Energy’s Group strategy is a strong commitment to being a good corporate citizen. In order to build and operate oil and gas, power and exploration and production assets over their lifespans of several decades, it is critical that we take into account the needs of all stakeholders, particularly the people and communities in neighbouring areas. Within this, we have a particular focus on environment, education and entrepreneurship. We believe this is the best way for us to create value in a sustainable, long-term way. Contents 01 Sustainability performance highlights 02 Message from the CEO 04 About this Report 06 Essar Energy at a glance 08 Awards and recognition received during the reporting period 09 Significant changes during the reporting period 10 Our stakeholders 13 Risk management and materiality 16 Corporate governance 18 Our people 22 Health, safety and environment 32 Product responsibility 35 Community 43 Memberships Report application level 44 Performance indicators 53 GRI G3.1 OGSS; IPIECA/API/OGP ✔ Standard disclosures C C+ B B+ A A+ and UNGC Content Index 70 GRI Check Statement G3 Profile Disclosures Report on 1.1, 2.1–2.10, 3.1–3.8, Report on all criteria listed for Same as requirement for Level B 71 Assurance Statement 3.10–3.12, 4.1–4.4, 4.14–4.15 Level C plus: 1.2, 3.9, 3.13, 4.5–4.13, 4.16–4.17 73 Glossary Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured G3 Management Approach Not required Management Approach Management Approach Disclosures Disclosures for each Indicator Disclosures for each Indicator Category Category G3 Performance Indicators Report on a minimum of Report on a minimum of 20 Report on each core G3 & Sector Supplement 10 Performance Indicators, Performance Indicators, at least and Sector Supplement* Performance Indicators including at least one from one from each of Economic, Indicator with due regard to the each of: Economic, Social and Environmental, Human rights, Materiality Principle by either: Environmental Labour, Society, Product a) reporting on the Indicator or Responsibility b) explaining the reason for its omission. *Sector supplement in final version Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 01 Sustainability performance highlights Social ``13% increase in employee training hours achieved by the Power business group ``Increase in number of employees trained in health and safety by 124% at Vadinar refinery and 123% at CBM project, Raniganj ``45% reduction in process safety event frequency rate achieved by Vadinar refinery ``326% increase in number of contractors trained in health and safety at CBM project, Raniganj ``Zero lost time injury frequency rate achieved by power plants at Hazira and Vadinar ``184% increase in contractor toolbox talks delivered across sites by Power Business Group ``Zero occupational disease rate achieved at all sites ``Over 96,000 beneficiaries of our healthcare initiatives undertaken at various sites ``Over 89,000 beneficiaries of our community care initiatives undertaken at various sites ``Over 17,900 beneficiaries of our educational initiatives undertaken at various sites Operational and economic Environment ``Essar Energy signed up to the United Nations ``For the second successive year, Essar Oil was Global Compact principles, setting out a clear ranked the highest scorer in the energy sector by framework for all our businesses to follow the Carbon Disclosure Project, India ``Vadinar refinery optimisation completed four ``189% increase in energy saved at Vadinar months early, taking capacity to 405,000 barrels refinery per day ``Low energy intensity of 0.45 tCO2e per MWh ``Power generation capacity increased to maintained by Essar Power, Hazira 3,910 MW from 1,600 MW ``15% reduction in hazardous waste generation ``1,517 employees trained in the UK Bribery at Vadinar refinery Act, 2010 02 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Message from the CEO I am pleased to present to you Essar Energy’s second Sustainability Report, “Essar Energy will continue to contribute to a more covering FY2013. Although the challenges of operating large scale oil and gas and power businesses in a sustainable way in India sustainable and inclusive do not diminish, Essar Energy has made real progress on a number of fronts, economy.” which is very encouraging. Naresh Nayyar I am clear that to ensure our growing portfolio of assets is run in the manner Chief Executive Officer we aspire to, it is important to set an externally recognised framework which can act as a strong, reliable reference point for all of our employees as they go about their daily business and as they interact with others both inside and outside the Company. With that in mind, we were very pleased that Essar Energy became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) on 2 April 2013. This commits the Company to adopting an established and globally recognised policy framework for the development, implementation and disclosure of environmental, social and governance policies and practices. Going forward, we will integrate in our annual Sustainability Report a description of the ways in which the business implements the UNGC principles and supports broader development objectives such as the UN’s Millennium Development Goals. This UNGC framework will, if anything, be even more important to us as Essar Energy continues to grow. During FY2013, for example, we brought a number of new assets into operation which, when taken together, represent a step change for the business. In the Refining and Marketing India business, we completed the optimisation project at our Vadinar refinery in Gujarat four months early, in June 2012, taking capacity to 405,000 bpd, or 20 mmtpa. Vadinar is the second largest private sector refinery in India, accounting for approximately a 10th of the country’s daily refinery throughput. Meanwhile, in our Power business, we added Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 03 Top Image: Picking mangoes in the green belt area around the Vadinar refinery, Gujarat. Bottom Image: Teaching crafts is one element of helping people to develop their entrepreneurial skills. 2,310 MW of capacity during the year, believe is an important measure. taking our total to 3,910 MW. Here we Improving the overall management of began power production at Salaya I health and safety issues continued to (1,200 MW), Vadinar P2 (510 MW) and be a priority. Although our overall safety the first 600 MW unit at Mahan I. performance was good and various sites won external recognition for their safety As is well recognised, within the power efforts, there were also key learnings and coal sectors across India there are from the incidents that occurred at our ongoing delays in obtaining the necessary sites which we will use to further improve clearances and consents required from our safety processes. Unfortunately, a the Indian Government to complete road accident outside the process plant projects. This has impacted Essar Energy at the Vadinar refinery led to a contractor and other Indian power companies. fatality in June 2012. However, we have nevertheless made “We will continue to invest headway in this area. As a Company, we are committed to conserving energy to derive multiple in the socio-economic In October, we secured Stage 1 forest benefits such as lower fuel consumption, improvement of our clearance for our Mahan coal block, better profitability, environmental which is only 5km from our Mahan protection, and a lower carbon footprint. neighbourhood power plant. We are now working to Essar Oil and our power plants at communities.” complete an extensive series of Hazira continue to report their carbon undertakings and commitments, performance at Carbon Disclosure Project particularly environmental and social, (CDP) level and for the second successive direction and guidance on sustainability for the communities in the Mahan area, year, Essar Oil was ranked the highest issues and evaluate the Company’s which will allow us to secure the final scorer in the energy sector by the CDP, sustainability performance. However, Stage 2 clearance. This block will provide India. Further, in the reporting period, the individual businesses will retain secure, long-term supplies of coal for the FY2013, Essar Oil was the only energy responsibility for performance. power plant. We continue to wait for sector company to have featured in the similar Stage 1 forest clearances at our elite all India CDLI (Carbon Disclosure As a respected and responsible energy Chakla and Ashok Karkata coal blocks, Leadership Index) listing as published by company, Essar Energy will continue to which will supply our Tori power project CDP, a listing that cuts ‘across all sectors’. contribute to a more sustainable and in Jharkhand. Within our Exploration and Essar Oil achieved this status by achieving inclusive economy and I look forward to Production business, in early March 2013 identical or better scores than many demonstrating further progress in future we were pleased to receive the key industries, while being in a far higher Sustainability Reports. Phase III environmental clearance for our emission intensive business compared coal bed methane (CBM) Raniganj gas to them. field in West Bengal. This clearance Naresh Nayyar allows us to accelerate the drilling Our community engagement initiatives Chief Executive Officer programme up to 650 wells, from around in the areas of health, education and Essar Energy plc 143 at the end of March 2013. This will community care benefited over 202,000 1 July 2013 enable us to increase our production to people across all our sites. Going forward, the targeted level of around 3 mmscm we will continue to invest in the socioper day, up from around 100,000 scmd economic improvement of our currently. neighbourhood communities, which we view as very important to the successful At Essar Energy we have a number operation of our businesses. of large production assets, however, we never forget that our most valuable asset At a recently held meeting of the Health, is our people. During FY2013, there Safety and Environment Committee of was a focus on succession planning, the Essar Energy Board, it was decided employee retention and nurturing and to include sustainability as part of the growing internal talent. Overall there was Committee agenda. The Committee, a 17% increase in the number of training chaired by our Senior Independent hours carried out per employee, which I Director Philip Aiken, will provide overall 04 Essar Energy plc Annual Sustainability report Report and accounts 2013 2013 About this Report We see sustainability reporting as a key element of sustainability management “Essar Energy became a signatory to the United Nations and a driver for internal change. As an organisation we promote sustainability reporting and we were a member of the GRI G4 Application Level Group. Global Compact in April 2013” We have made progress in our reporting since our last Report, which was our first Sustainability Report. This Report, our second, adheres to the following frameworks and provides our performance during the period 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2013: 1. GRI G3.1 Guidelines 2. GRI Oil and Gas Sector Supplement 3. IPIECA/API/OGP Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting 4. AccountAbility as per AA1000APS – 2008. These principles are Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness We became a signatory to the UNGC on 2 April 2013 and this Sustainability Report is also our first ‘Communication on Progress’ on the application of the UNGC principles. The index at the end of the Report clearly shows the mapping of the GRI indicators with IPIECA/OGP/API and UNGC indicators. This Report includes information on our four principal businesses, namely Refining and Marketing, India; Refining and Marketing, UK; Exploration and Production; and Power. The assets owned by the Company and those that are directly under its operational and management control are included within the Report. Three power plants, Vadinar P1, Vadinar P2, and Salaya I, which were all commissioned relatively recently, have been included in the Report. The compiled data includes information from all the operating sites. The Report excludes information on: `` Fuel retail outlets in India, as we run a franchise model and therefore do not own the outlets. `` Algoma power plant, as the plant is under the operational control of our sister company, Essar Steel Algoma, Canada. `` Mahan I power project, as unit 1 was only commissioned towards the end of the reporting period. Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 05 How we approached the reporting principles Materiality and sustainability context The material issues by business were identified and reported on in our first Sustainability Report. The material issue identification exercise was repeated for FY2013 and there has been a change in the material issues. This year our materiality matrix is aligned with our business and operational risks. Whilst the Annual Report FY2013 provides detailed information on financial risks, this Report details our non-financial risks and issues and the issues which are mainly material to the Company and of concern to the stakeholders have been reported herein. Please see the ‘Risk management and materiality’ section for detailed information. Stakeholder inclusiveness Our stakeholder engagement strategy is to collaborate with our stakeholders at various levels to achieve a positive outcome for all. Please see the section ‘Our stakeholders’ for detailed information. Completeness The information in this Report covers 98% of the business by revenues. The Report addresses 73 core indicators of GRI G3.1 OGSS Guidelines of which 64 have been fully reported and 7 partially reported. The Report also addresses 23 additional Indicators. A reasonable explanation has been provided against all those indicators which have not been reported or have only been partially reported in the GRI G3.1 content index appended to this Report. Application of the reporting principles for defining quality The following section sets out an explanation of the application of the GRI reporting principles for defining quality Balance Comparability The Report includes both favourable and unfavourable results Wherever available, three year data has been included for the in economic, social and environmental aspects. purpose of comparability to enable our stakeholders to analyse performance over time. Accuracy Timeliness On the basis that this Report is an update on our first Report, Our first Report was released in July 2012 and our target was qualitative information excludes policy statements and to release the second Report within four to five months of the briefings about the internal processes in place, unless there completion of the fiscal year ending 31 March 2013. Going has been a change in the reporting period. This information forward, we aim to continue to publish the Report within a was part of our first Report, which may be accessed at similar time frame at the end of each fiscal year. www.essarenergy.com. Qualitative information in this Report includes case studies and new initiatives taken during the reporting period. Wherever applicable, quantitative data is included to substantiate the information. Standard data measurement techniques are used for data collection, collation and analysis. References to standard protocols are included in the relevant sections. As necessary, mention of any assumptions has been made where the data has been estimated. Clarity Reliability We have sought to present the information in a way that is As an organisation we continue to believe that assurance brings understandable and usable by our readers and stakeholders. credibility to the Report. It helps to enhance the quality and Graphs and charts have been used wherever possible. Cross reliability of information provided therein and gives us feedback references to the Annual Report and links to our website have from a different perspective, which is vital in our quest for also been provided to enable the stakeholders to obtain improvement. We engaged Ernst & Young, India, to provide further detailed information, if required. independent assurance on this Report in line with the requirements of ISAE 3000 and AA1000AS Type 2 Moderate Assurance. The details of the scope and extent are described in the assurance statement provided by Ernst & Young. We have tried to include information in this Report that we believe our stakeholders would like to see or know and we encourage any feedback which would help to improve our subsequent reports. Please send your feedback or suggestions to the following: Sonal Kohli, Head of Sustainability, Essar Energy plc, sonal.kohli@essar.com or Mark Lidiard, Director of Investor Relations and Communications, Essar Energy plc, mark.lidiard@essar.com 06 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Essar Energy at a glance Essar Energy’s strategy is to create a world-class, low cost integrated energy company, positioned to capitalise on India’s rapidly growing energy demand. We have US$18 billion of total assets which includes operations and growth projects in the areas of petroleum refining and marketing, exploration and production and power generation and transmission. 9 3 23 24 25 22 19 7 20 21 2 15 14 1 18 16 4 11 6 13 12 5 17 10 8 India’s need for energy India’s need for energy continues to Refining and Marketing Coal Mines 1. Vadinar Refinery – 20 mmtpa 22. Mahan Coal Block – 73 mmt grow strongly from a low base, with 23. Amelia Coal Block – 50 mmt demand for power rising at around 6% Exploration and Production 24. Chakla Coal Block – 71 mmt 2. Raniganj CBM 25. Ashok Karkata Coal Block – per year and for oil products at around 3. Rajmahal CBM 100 mmt 4% to 5% per year. Per capita use of 4. Sohagpur CBM energy has great potential for growth, 5. Talchir CBM Other locations 6. IB Valley CBM – Stanlow Refinery, UK – 14 mmtpa with approximately one third of India’s 7. Mehsana Oil Block – Mombasa Refinery, Kenya – 1.2 billion population still having no 8. Ratna/R Series 2 mmtpa access to electricity and the deficit of 9. Assam Oil Blocks – Block 114, Vietnam 10. Mumbai Offshore – South East Tungal Block, generation relative to demand running Indonesia at around 9%. Therefore, Essar Energy’s Power – OPL 226 Block, Nigeria Captive/ROE projects – Madagascar Blocks strategy of investing in large-scale, 11. Hazira – 515 MW – Algoma Power Plant, Canada – low cost assets with long life spans 12. Hazira II – 270 MW 85 MW continues to be logical and sound. 13. Bhander – 500 MW – Aries Coal Block, Indonesia – 14. Vadinar – 120 MW 72 mmt 15. Vadinar PI – 380 MW – Mozambique Coal Block – 16. Vadinar PII – 510 MW 35 mmt 17. Paradip – 120 MW – Registered Office, London Imported coal project – Head Office, Mauritius 18. Salaya I – 1,200 MW – India Office, Mumbai Domestic coal projects 19. Mahan I – 1,200 MW 20. Tori I – 1,200 MW 21. Tori II – 600 MW Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 07 Asset investment programme nearing an end Focus moves to business optimisation Essar Energy is approaching the end of a major capital investment programme, with investments in our refining businesses complete and those in our power and exploration and production businesses nearing completion. As a result, construction risks are significantly reduced and our capital expenditure will fall over the next three years. Our focus is now moving to business optimisation, looking to maximise throughput, lower costs, improve margins and provide more operating and financial flexibility. Refining and Marketing – India At our flagship Vadinar refinery in Gujarat, capacity was expanded to 405,000 barrels per day through an expansion project completed in March 2012 and a further optimisation project in June 2012, totalling over US$2 billion of investment. Vadinar can now process a greater percentage of lower cost heavy and ultra-heavy crudes, while also producing a high proportion of high value middle distillate fuels, such as diesel and jet fuel. Refining and Marketing – UK The Stanlow refinery, on the Mersey estuary near Liverpool, was acquired by Essar Energy in July 2011, and has a nameplate capacity of 296,000 barrels per day and complexity of 8.2. We are implementing an extensive series of projects designed to increase gross refinery margins. These include the introduction of more than 15 lower cost additional crudes for processing and the installation of more environmentally clean natural gas to fuel the boilers, replacing fuel oil. Exploration and Production Essar Energy has 15 oil and gas blocks in India and internationally. The focus is on developing its unconventional gas resources in India, where it has five CBM blocks totalling 10 trillion cubic feet of reserves and prospective resources, making it the largest coal bed methane player in the country. At Raniganj, our first CBM block under development, 143 wells had been drilled as at the end of March 2013 with approvals received to drill up to 650 over the life of the field. Currently we are producing 100,000 scmd of gas, up from 25,000 scmd last year. Power During FY2013 Essar Energy more than doubled its generation capacity by completing 2,310 MW of new coal-fired power generation in India, taking its total generation capacity to 3,910 MW, up from 1,600 MW at the start of the financial year. Of the eight operational plants, six are captive to specific customers, delivering secure revenues and operational EBITDA. Further projects are under construction. 08 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Awards and recognition received during the reporting period Company Department Award category Award instituted by Essar Oil Limited HSE 5S Gold Category Quality Forum Circle of India – Gujarat State Essar Oil Limited HSE National Safety Award in the Coke and Refined Petroleum Ministry of Labour Products Manufacturer category and Environment, Category 1 – Lowest Average Frequency Rate over a period DGFASLI, of three consecutive years ending 2010, and Runner-up in Government Category 2 – Accident Free Year based on man hours worked of India during 2010 Essar Oil Limited HSE National Oil Industry Safety Award – Third OISD, Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas Essar Oil Limited Operational PetroFed Refinery of the year award Petroleum efficiency Federation of India Bhander Operational Energy Efficient Unit Confederation of Power Limited Efficiency Indian Industry Bhander HSE Gold award in gas based sector for environment management Greentech Power Limited Foundation Essar Power HSE Gold award in gas based sector for environment management Greentech Limited Foundation Bhander HSE Silver award in gas based sector for safety management Greentech Power Limited Foundation Essar Power HSE Gold award in gas based sector for safety management Greentech Limited Foundation Essar Oil Limited Carbon Top Final Disclosure Score, Indian Energy Sector – Carbon Carbon management Disclosure leadership Index, 2012 Disclosure Project Essar Power HR Gold Award for outstanding achievement in ‘Innovation in Talent Greentech Limited Retention Strategies’ Foundation Essar Oil Limited HR ‘Best HR Strategy’ in the Oil and Gas category Greentech Foundation Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 09 Significant changes during the reporting period Month Changes February 2013 Essar Oil receives Phase III environmental clearance for Raniganj coal bed methane gas field, allowing up to 650 wells to be drilled January 2013 Essar Oil announces that Q3 FY2013 CP gross refining margins at the Vadinar refinery reached US$9.75 per barrel December 2012 Essar Power synchronises and begins generating power from the 600 MW unit 1 of the Mahan I power project, taking total capacity to 3,910 MW November 2012 Essar Power commissions second unit at Vadinar P2 power plant, taking total capacity to 3,310 MW October 2012 Essar Power secures Stage 1 forest clearance for Mahan coal block October 2012 Essar Oil signs agreement for export of pet coke September 2012 Supreme Court decides on Gujarat sales tax repayment schedule and interest due July 2012 Essar Energy agrees new oil and product inventory arrangements for Stanlow refinery with Barclays Bank July 2012 Essar Energy agrees to sell 50% stake in Vietnam gas block to ENI June 2012 Essar Oil completes Vadinar refinery optimisation project four months early. Capacity increased to 20 mmtpa/405,000 barrels per day June 2012 Essar Energy synchronises Vadinar P2 unit 1 with transmission grid June 2012 Essar Energy commissions 600 MW unit 2 at Salaya I power project June 2012 Essar Energy receives final forest clearance for Aries coal block in Indonesia May 2012 Essar Energy refinances US$450 million bridge loan May 2012 Essar Energy signs long-term power purchase agreement for Tori II power project April 2012 Essar Energy commissions 600 MW unit 1 at Salaya I power project Detailed information on the above is available on our website: http://www.essarenergy.com/investors-and-media/company-news For more information visit: www.essarenergy.com 10 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Our stakeholders As an organisation, we are committed to be accountable to those who are impacted by the business of the Company or who have an impact on us. Our stakeholder engagement strategy is to collaborate with our stakeholders at various levels to achieve a positive outcome for all. The focus is on having a defined process of engagement and participation and encouraging a comprehensive and balanced involvement. This helps to continually improve our engagement and address issues which are of key concern to the stakeholders. How we engage with our stakeholders Stakeholder group Our approach For more information Investors Create long-term value for the shareholders http://www.essarenergy.com/investors-and-media Media Provide the media with up-to-date, accurate and reliable communication http://www.essarenergy.com/investors-and-media Employees Create a motivated workforce through personal growth, security and learning ‘Our people’ page 18 Community Enhance the community through social and environmental initiatives ‘Community’ page 35 Government and Engage with the Indian Government and regulatory authorities regulatory bodies to lobby for policies that affect the industry – Customers Provide customers with value added products and services; respond to feedback for continual improvement ‘Product responsibility’ page 32 Contractors Provide contractors with clear guidelines on service requirements in operations and HSE ‘Health, safety and environment’ page 22 Service providers Ensure services received are in accordance with specifications with regard to quality, cost and timeliness – Workshops were conducted with employees at the various sites in order to formulate the stakeholder influence dependency Suppliers, Investors, Employees matrix set out here. Government Customers, High and Regulatory Local Authorities Community This matrix consists of stakeholders who can have an impact on the economic, social, or environmental performance of the Competitors Service organisation or can be affected by our operations. The following Stakeholder’s Impact Providers, issues were considered while identifying these stakeholders: Medium Contractors responsibility, influence, proximity, dependency and representation. Low Low Medium High Stakeholder’s Dependence Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 11 Our engagement initiatives with each stakeholder group are detailed below: Employees ACTIVITY FREQUENCY THEMES ‘Town Hall’ meetings between employees Quarterly Opportunity to discuss operations, initiatives and management and issues Ask HR Ongoing/online An employee helpline to discuss individual performance, remuneration, career prospects and to take feedback HSE Connect Monthly Advice and support on workplace safety Open house – Sampark Quarterly Employee connection, open house Harmony – An initiative encompassing Ongoing/online Employee work life balance, strengthening employee wellness, cultural and family employee-family ties, fostering spirit of events and counselling Essar family ESAT (Employee SATisfaction) Annually Feedback from employees to management Investors ACTIVITY FREQUENCY THEMES Annual General Meeting Annually Senior Management interaction with shareholders, discussions on performance, and future plans Investor Meetings Quarterly, as and when required Review of financial performance and activities, Company strategy and future plans Company Website Online Financial highlights and updates, corporate reports and presentations Customers ACTIVITY FREQUENCY THEMES Customer feedback analysis and CSAT Quarterly Interaction on product and service (Customer SATisfaction) survey issues, opportunity to seek feedback and suggestions Customer meetings As and when required Review of operations and responding to customers’ issues Local Community ACTIVITY FREQUENCY THEMES Employee meetings with local people Ongoing Explaining company initiatives, seeking feedback, suggesting solutions if required and hearing any issues Case studies and awareness programmes As and when required Sharing information and best practices, creating awareness of social and environmental issues Community development programmes Ongoing Focus on education, professional training, health and infrastructure Public hearings As and when required Discussions involving both the Company and the community, seeking feedback on initiatives planned or under way 12 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Our stakeholders continued Service Providers ACTIVITY FREQUENCY THEMES Service meetings As required, via telephone, email, Discussing service issues, quality and conferencing or in person safety, timeliness of service and delivery Contractors ACTIVITY FREQUENCY THEMES Contractor safety meetings Monthly Review of performance, performing audits and safety checks Awareness programmes Ongoing Sharing and discussing safety guidelines and procedures Campaigns Quarterly Sharing new guidelines and best practices Competitions Ongoing Promoting teamwork, engaging contractors beyond the work space HSE timeout Monthly Sharing best practice, lessons learnt Sequor Quarterly A quarterly safety magazine for all employees and contractors OISD Training Monthly Training in safety aspects of functions Safety Audits Monthly/as required Plant and process safety compliance Government and Regulatory Authorities ACTIVITY FREQUENCY THEMES Pollution Control Visits As and when required Pollution inspections and compliance Inspections As and when required Regulatory compliances in environment, safety, labour etc. Meetings As and when announced Discussing new developments, initiatives or policies Conferences As and when announced Government industry interaction on specific issues or topics Media ACTIVITY FREQUENCY THEMES Communications team meetings with Weekly Building awareness of Company strategy journalists and activities and of wider energy industry issues Press releases As and when required Announcing achievements or milestones, initiatives or developments Management meetings with media Periodic during the year Briefings on Company strategy, financial performance and developments as well as wider industry-wide issues. Competitors ACTIVITY FREQUENCY THEMES Market surveys As and when required Information gathering Third party meetings Annual Industry interaction Technology forums Ongoing Information sharing and discussing common industrial issues Technology supplier meetings As and when required Sharing technology updates Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 13 Risk management and materiality The overall responsibility for risk management, and the future. However, we believe the Group’s risk management determination of appetite to undertake activities subject to risk process makes this less likely. The key risks set out below are and uncertainty, resides with the Board of Essar Energy. those which we believe have the greatest potential to impact our However, given the nature of each business, the Boards of our ability to achieve the Group’s strategic objectives. division and key management personnel across the Company play an important part in managing and monitoring risks. Our materiality matrix is aligned with our business and operational risks. Whilst our Annual Report focuses mainly on The Company has established formal policies to promote an economic risks and mitigation plan, the Sustainability Report environment of good governance and robust risk management. addresses mostly environmental and social risks. The Board has established a risk register that identifies strategic risks together with financial, operational and compliance risks. The register includes a description of the nature, extent and implication of the risks together with the related management controls. The risk register is formally reviewed by the Board on a High 1 2 half-yearly basis to monitor principal risks and the strategies deployed to mitigate them. Ongoing monitoring and management Stakeholders’ Concern of risks takes place on a monthly basis at business review meetings where the Chief Executive Officer of Essar Energy Medium 3 4 discusses key developments and new risks arising within the underlying business divisions. Similarly, the key developments in risks impacting the Company at a corporate level are discussed at each Board meeting. The Audit Committee is also charged Low with monitoring effective implementation of controls across the business divisions that specifically impact financial risks. Low Medium High Further details of the procedures undertaken by the Board of Current potential effect on the Company’s Essar Energy and its Committees are set out in ‘The economic, social or environmental performance Governance Framework’ section of the Annual Report 2013 on pages 56 to 64. 1. Climate change; gas pricing; biodiversity management; water use and management; oil spills As in any business, there may be unforeseen issues which could impact the Company’s ability to achieve its objectives in 2. Legal approvals; anti-corruption; fuel supplies; land acquisition 3. Community engagement 4. Employee engagement; contractor safety 14 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Risk management and materiality continued Risk 1 Compliance with regulation and obtaining licences and permits Context All of the Group’s operations are extensively regulated and the delivery of our strategy is dependent on obtaining the appropriate permits, approvals and licences to complete and operate our expansion projects. The failure to obtain or comply with the terms of such permits and approvals would prevent the Group from achieving its targets and could ultimately lead to the impairment of assets Mitigation The Group closely monitors compliance with regulatory requirements across its business, and heads of each business division and operations confirm compliance with all applicable laws and regulations on a quarterly basis. The need for permits, approvals and licences for expansion projects is assessed prior to undertaking any works or investments. The ability to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals to successfully deliver our strategic goals on time is largely out of the control of our Senior Management. However, Essar Energy continues to have a successful working relationship with national, state and local authorities and expects to obtain all necessary approvals. To further strengthen the framework for regulatory compliance, the oil and gas and power businesses have recently embarked upon the implementation of compliance systems which would enable key stakeholders to jointly review the status of key compliance requirements and clearances required for timely project execution. The critical activities and action plans including matters requiring management attention and decision making are reviewed at Project Review Meetings. Materiality Exploration and Production: Delays in securing Government approvals have slowed down the growth in production of CBM gas in India generally. However, in March 2013 our E&P business received Phase III environmental clearance for the Raniganj CBM gas field. This environmental clearance allows the full field development of the Raniganj block, excluding forest area, and will enable Essar Oil to increase production to the targeted level of around 3 mmscm/d, up from around 100,000 scm/d currently. With this clearance, the drilling programme has been accelerated. Essar Power secured Stage 1 forest clearance from the Government of India’s Ministry of Environment and Forests for its Mahan coal block. Work is now progressing towards securing the final stage 2 clearance. Once operational, the Mahan coal block will supply fuel to Essar Energy’s nearby 1,200 MW Mahan Phase I power project, the first 600 MW unit of which was synchronised with the grid and began generating power in December 2012. The coal block was allocated in 2006 to Mahan Coal Limited, a joint venture between Essar Energy and Hindalco. Risk 2 Failure to conduct business with integrity and honesty Context Some of the countries in which the Group operates have a reputation for corruption and, given that many of our contracts involve large sums of money, bribery and other unethical behaviour are risks. The first and most important way of avoiding this risk is to ensure that people, both inside and outside the Group, know that Essar Energy does not engage in, and will not tolerate, bribery, corruption or unethical behaviour. The Company has in place a strict Anti-Corruption Policy which has been rolled out across all areas of operations including the key decision-making personnel at various sites. Mitigation In addition, we carry out regular training of managers and sales people who deal in ‘at-risk’ jurisdictions and, from time to time, we conduct independent reviews of contract files. We model our compliance regime around the requirements of the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Materiality During the reporting period 1,371 employees were trained by Essar Oil with regard to the UK Bribery Act. Out of the 1,371, 37 belonged to high risk categories, 75 medium risk and 1,259 low risk. The Exploration and Production business trained 146 employees during the reporting period. Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 15 Risk 3 Commercial and reputational damage as a result of a health, safety or environmental incident or conflicts with local communities Context The Group is at risk of commercial and reputational damage as a result of a Health, Safety or Environmental incident given the nature of its operations. Further, relationships built with local communities in locations where the Company operates need to be maintained to avoid any operational disruptions. The loss of confidence that any incident might create could have an adverse effect on the overall valuation of the Group and its ability to work effectively with local and national authorities. Mitigation The Group has a formal HSE policy with related HSE management systems in place. These are communicated to the relevant businesses and employees with training provided on a regular basis. Regular reviews are carried out in compliance with the HSE policy and related HSE management systems as well as adherence to regulatory requirements. The HSE Committee reports directly to the Board, which ultimately monitors the effectiveness of various policies and systems. The results of safety and other inspections of the Company’s power plants and refineries are frequently reviewed by the Group’s Senior Management to assess the actions taken to deal with any issues. Tools are in place to monitor emissions from plants and refineries. Medical expertise and support is available at all locations. The Group works closely with local communities to maintain relationships and to ensure that concerns are heard and acted upon on a timely basis. Regular reviews are carried out in compliance with the HSE policy and related HSE management systems as well as adherence to regulatory requirements. The HSE Committee reports directly to the Board, which ultimately monitors the effectiveness of various policies and systems. Materiality Contractor safety management We have a fairly large contractor workforce deployed at our refinery in Vadinar, our CBM site at Raniganj and our power projects. Contractor safety management continues to be one of our key material issues. Process safety management Effective process safety management is crucial to refineries owing to the complex nature of operations involved, which if not managed properly, could lead to a major incident and pose a threat to people, assets and environment. Biodiversity management For our refinery in Vadinar and Power plant in Salaya, biodiversity management is a key issue due to the proximity of these plants to a marine national park. Climate change Managing climate change risks and leveraging opportunities for the business continues to be a priority area for our oil and gas and power businesses. We continue to identify energy conservation opportunities and ways in which we can lower our overall carbon footprint. Water use and management Water is slowly becoming a scarce resource and some of the operations in all our businesses require large quantities of water. Identifying opportunities for reducing freshwater consumption is high on the agenda. Accordingly, all our sites are aiming to have zero waste discharge and to recycle the effluent for operational processes. Employee engagement Employee engagement is one of the most important issues for Essar Energy. This revolves around the four pillars of succession planning, building a leadership pipeline, a learning culture and rewards and recognition for consistent performance. Land acquisition Land acquisition, rehabilitation and resettlement are generically addressed in the Environmental Management plan of the EIA and implemented as required by the rehabilitation and resettlement policy of the state Government where the project is located. Essar Energy is committed to abide by the law of the relevant jurisdiction. Community engagement There is a need to follow a strategic approach for creating sustainable livelihoods, and securing a social licence to operate. A high level of engagement with local communities is a key element of this. 16 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Corporate governance The Company complies with the UK Corporate Governance 2012 Board performance evaluation outcomes and action plan Code (the ‘Code’) published by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) in June 2010 which applies to all premium listed companies Observations Action to be taken listed on the London Stock Exchange. The Code can be found Build on and improve oversight Provision of additional materials on the FRC’s website. The Board intends to report against the of the main risks affecting the as necessary to the Board and revised Code published in September 2012 in its FY2014 Annual Group increased discussion at Board Report. meetings. Improve the meeting process, Senior Management to review Structure of the Board including the papers to the the processes in place for the Board preparation of the Board papers Essar Energy and Board agendas reviewed to Board ensure sufficient time is given for Board discussion. Improve the visibility of Increase the number of ad hoc the Board to the Group’s site visits by Board members. Nominations and Health, Safety employees Remuneration Audit Committee Governanace and Environment Committee Committee Committee Improve the longer-term target The Board to agree longer-term setting and monitoring of the financial targets. Group’s financial performance For details on the Board and the committees, please refer to the and strategy Annual Report for FY2013. Improve performance Senior Management to review measurement indicators the provision of financial and nonBoard evaluation financial performance indicators. The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance in its management of the affairs of the Company. The role of the Chairman in determining the effectiveness It is the responsibility of the Board to demonstrate leadership of the Board is vital. The Chairman continues to provide and effectiveness and be accountable to its shareholders and entrepreneurial leadership to the Board, while ensuring that other stakeholders. sound effective corporate governance practices are embedded in the organisation and its decision-making processes. He During the year the Board undertook its first external review of sets the Board’s focus and establishes an environment of its effectiveness. This highlighted areas where the Board could collaborative, but robust discussions, encouraging challenge further improve. In particular it focused on the issue of Board and contributions from all Directors. diversity, which is something the Board as a whole are conscious of and are working towards resolving. In addition the Board will be increasing focus on reviewing risk and strategy matters in greater depth. Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 17 Economic performance The direct economic activities of our operations filters deeper Overall our economic performance has been better since into the economy as employees at various sites also procure the last year due to an increase in our gross refinery margins. The products and services of the respective local economies. following tables gives a snapshot of the performance during the year. For detailed financial information please see the Annual At Stanlow, Essar acquired a stake in ENTEP Properties as a part Report FY2013. of the refinery acquisition. ENTEP Properties’ key objective is to promote small scale businesses in the local community. Essar Direct economic value generated (US$ million) 2012–13 2011–12 also runs a successful apprenticeship scheme at Stanlow that Revenues 27,482.0 21,828.6 provides valuable work experience and internships to school and Economic value distributed undergraduate college students from within the region and the wider UK. The experience that first time employees and interns Operating costs (26,559.2) (21,344.8) gain at Essar enhances their skill sets for the next stage of their Employee wages and benefits (208.5) (159.2) careers. For more details please see the ‘Community’ section, Payments to providers of capital (877.5) (843.4) page 42. Payments to Government 15.8 (38.1) We provide training to our skilled and semi-skilled (27,629.4) (22,385.5) contract workers which enables them to command a higher Economic value retained (147.4) (556.9) remuneration for their services even after they have left the organisation. At Stanlow, Essar reaches out to nationally recognised sector skills councils for obtaining frameworks and Indirect economic impact accreditations for apprenticeships and Vocational Qualifications Our financial statements provide a clear view of the economic to ensure the continued competence of the workforce. For more performance of our Company. However, our economic footprint details please see the ‘Memberships’ section of this Report. expands considerably when we consider the indirect economic impact of our activities on all our stakeholders. Many of our sites We also work closely with industry associations and are in rural India and our local hiring and procurement activities government agencies at the national and international level on in the vicinity of the sites have a significant effect on the local various issues including sector friendly policy formulation. economy. At our Stanlow refinery, we have recruited people from areas in close proximity to the refinery to fill newly created roles or vacancies arising as a result of retirements. Similarly, the infrastructure that we create to run operations at our sites impacts the local communities. Essential physical infrastructure created at our operational sites, for example guest houses and townships, all employ local people. 18 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Our people Our HR vision and values are a foundation for defining and implementing strategic plans on a year-on-year basis. “…emotionally connecting people to +vely Engage in Value Creation” Emotional HR Products Connectivity and and Bonding Services offered HR Values Commitment +vely Empathy engaged workforce Collaboration Positivity Responsiveness Value instilled in design and Output: delivery of Value Creation products and services Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 19 Our employees are our most valuable assets without whom we Essar capabilities cannot achieve our business objectives. Our priorities last year The Essar Brand ‘Positive Action’ emphasises superior included employee retention, succession planning and nurturing execution, translating positive intentions to ‘actions’, delivering and growing internal talent. Various employee engagement value to internal and external stakeholders, strong goal initiatives coupled with enhanced focus on individual training orientation, and aligning values to performance. needs in alignment with the business objectives helped us meet our objectives. At Essar Energy, we have established six key operational objectives, the ‘Essar Capabilities’, as follows: We continued to focus on effective management of people performances through linkage with business results and Entrepreneurial orientation Customer focus motivation through rewards. The Short Term Incentive Plan which was introduced in FY2011 for the middle management Operational excellence Negotiation of Essar Energy India employees was paid out at the end of Project management Nurturing FY2013 to consistent performers. The Essar Capabilities are a strategic human resources vehicle Essar Energy operates within a framework of HR policies, to create intangible value and reinforce the brand. The Essar practices and regulations appropriate to the country of operation. Capabilities are the touchstone for decisions on talent acquisition, We maintain policies relating to labour aspects which highlight our assessment, development, promotion, and succession planning. commitment to being an employee friendly organisation. There In this, and other ways, Essar Energy is leveraging organisational are HR processes in place for recruitment and selection of capability to derive sustained competitive advantage in the personnel at all levels; policies in place for induction, performance marketplace and to assist in value creation. management, learning and development, retirement, separation, business practices and exit. We are striving to be on a par with the best by building a culture of high-performance and meritocracy, creating a strong talent The Group HR Function has functional responsibility for HR pipeline, developing people into global leaders and managers, issues at Essar. Group HR provides direction in different aspects building a learning organisation and ensuring an engaged of HR and introduces innovative models and tools for continual workforce that would deliver business objectives. improvement and value creation. Talent acquisition The Group President of HR, who is also a member of the In an evolving economy where industries thrive as a result highest governing body within the organisation, has operational of the workforce within, talent acquisition becomes critical responsibility for all aspects of the workforce. He has a team of for the business to further develop and strengthen its senior professionals with separate portfolios for talent acquisition organisational capabilities. and management, learning and development and employee engagement. In the last couple of years our focus has been on Our talent acquisition strategy is based on a focused, coherent, refining our people management processes and building our and standardised approach. Sourcing methodology and talent pipeline. We undertook a number of training and selection techniques include: development initiatives to create a learning environment and 1. Consistent interview framework based on Essar developed programmes which link people across the Group to competencies. facilitate business requirements. 2. Consistency in ‘quality assurance’ of credentials of the candidates hired, whilst not compromising the selection process. 3. Increasing the ratio of interviews to hires to improve cost management and increase focus on direct channels of hiring. 20 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Our people continued Talent management Employee exit interviews at Essar Oil focus on retention At Essar Energy we are focused on managing and developing by identifying the reason the employee is leaving and also talent to achieve optimal business performance. We believe determines whether the Company’s level of performance or the that talented people drive organisations forward due to their employees’ unfulfilled expectations are an issue. We are well ability to lead, work effectively and innovate. We invest in aware that employment environments can either delight or fail. talented people who have a strong track record of performance and show potential for taking on greater responsibility. Our At Essar Oil the exit interview process is triggered within 48 hours talent processes provide these individuals with the experience, of receiving information that an employee is departing. A human relationships and development opportunities required to enable resource manager engages in discussions with the employee to them to grow into critical roles. identify reasons for the decision to exit. If appropriate, all efforts are made to retain the employee. A three member task force The talent review process is focused on identifying two talent comprising of the human resource manager, compensation and groups: benefits manager and talent acquisition manager work together on creating a retention strategy. In the event the employee 1. Those currently occupying key critical positions within Essar decides to reconsider his decision, necessary actions both Energy and the succession pipeline for these positions. financial and non-financial are taken to retain the employee. 2. High performance – high potential talent identified through the talent review process. In the event that the employee maintains his decision to exit despite efforts made, necessary actions are taken to ensure The key focus of talent management for FY2013 was to ensure a smooth exit. that a majority of critical positions have internal successors to step into these roles. For positions where internal successors Employee exit interviews provide a window to view and have not been identified, external candidates have been identified benchmark employee expectations regarding job as suitable to fill these positions. A critical talent database, responsibilities and performance, working conditions, including details of the critical positions to be filled, the individuals opportunities for skill development, career advancement, currently holding the position and potential successors, has been supervision and management, work satisfaction, compensation prepared to assist decision-makers with succession decisions. and benefits, organisational culture, organisational and work group communication. During the reporting period, Essar Oil identified internal successors for 90% of the 37 key critical positions. Employees can also provide us with market information on why they chose a new employer. The reasons could be, for The high performance – high potential talent group is identified example, better prospects, better compensation or a posting using a talent matrix. The top tier of this matrix comprises closer to home. employees who have displayed consistently high performance during the last two performance cycles and also display potential This information helps us take necessary decisions to align to take up higher roles in the next three to five years. In addition to our processes and systems with employee expectations. identifying performance and potential of employees, FY2013 also saw a focus on assessing the risk of loss and levels of In September 2012, we conducted post exit interviews with engagement of an employees at senior and middle management 20 employees in the middle and Senior Management cadre. levels. Risk of loss assessment serves as an indication of the Accordingly, information gathered during the exit interview probability of an employee leaving the organisation, for any provides valuable insights and feedback and helps us to reason relating to work, the environment, personal issues and benchmark our organisation against others. market demand. The level of engagement measures the efforts applied by an employee in going beyond to achieve team, Human rights department and business goals. Essar Energy respects the human rights of its employees. We abide by the human rights laws applicable to the countries The talent management programme therefore helps in where we operate and also address these issues in our identifying the talent to enable leadership continuity and also investments and contracts. build a succession management pool. Our code of conduct and policies address all relevant risks Another key element in helping to improve the way in which and issues relating to human rights. These policies include we manage our employees is through the conduct of exit but are not limited to sustainability policy, health, safety and interviews. For example, at Essar Oil, our personal exit environment policy, the whistle-blower policy, policy against interviews have become a great tool to understand the reasons sexual harassment, business practice policy and open for an employee leaving and this information can be used to door policy. avoid future employee losses. Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 21 The policies listed above are communicated to employees at the time of joining the Company. These policies are also available on the Essar Group intranet. The policies are reviewed periodically for their continued applicability to the businesses. The implementation of the policies at different levels of the Company is evaluated during internal audits conducted at regular intervals. Child labour Essar Energy does not engage in and opposes the use of child labour. Forced or compulsory labour Case study Essar Energy does not engage in and opposes the use of forced or compulsory labour. Essar Oil, India: The Discrimination Innovation quest Essar Energy does not engage in and opposes discrimination in hiring, remuneration, access to training, promotion, termination, With the never ending process of innovation being instilled or retirement based on race, national or social origin, caste, in the DNA of the organisation and our people being our birth, religion, gender, or any other grounds that could give rise most important asset, an organisation wide competition to discrimination. was launched to harness untapped potential. With the theme ‘One Idea can change the World and it could be Disciplinary practices yours’, innovative solutions to six key business challenges Essar Energy treats all personnel with dignity and respect, were sought. including any circumstances where disciplinary action might be required. The competition generated a lot of enthusiasm and 412 ideas were registered, of which 97 were short listed for Working hours extensive evaluation. Mentors were introduced at this stage Essar Energy complies with applicable laws and industry and provided support, created awareness and helped to standards with regard to working hours and public holidays. refine the ideas. Subsequently, 22 finalists were chosen and The normal working week, not including overtime, is defined by made presentations to a jury panel, which included LK the laws applicable in the countries where we operate. Gupta, MD of Essar Oil, who assessed the ideas for their true potential on the basis of parameters such as benefits Equal opportunities to the organisation, feasibility of implementation, ease of Essar Energy is an equal opportunities employer and believes in adoption and resources required for implementation. equal remuneration for equal work. 11 winners were chosen by the jury panel and were awarded prizes. Employment opportunities are open to applicants from diverse backgrounds and all levels of ability throughout the Company. Disabled people are encouraged to apply and will be provided with the appropriate training according to their level of aptitude and ability. In the event that an employee becomes disabled during the course of their employment, the Company seeks to redeploy or retrain the employee wherever possible. A diversity and inclusion policy is in place for Essar Oil UK employees based at the Stanlow refinery. The policy also refers to the key UK employment legislation that provides the legal framework for equal opportunities. This policy and adherence to the Equal Pay Act 1970 (as amended), ensures that employees are paid at equal levels across the different grades within the Company, irrespective of gender. 22 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Health, safety and environment At Essar Energy, health, safety and environment (HSE) continue to be among our critical sustainability priorities. HSE is an integral part of the management of business and is viewed with equal importance alongside profitability, costs, production and quality. Governance Due to decentralisation of the corporate HSE function last year, there has been a change in the HSE governance structure. The new HSE governance structure is set out below: HSE sub-committee (Board level) Chaired by Independent Non-Executive Director Case study Monthly Review Committee Learning from incident drills (Energy business level) Chaired by the Chairman of Essar Energy plc A major fire at any manufacturing site has the potential Business Executive Committees to not only affect the plant operations and nearby (Business level) communities but may also result in environmental pollution Chaired by Business CEO’s and loss of natural resources. Following a major fire in a nearby refinery in Hazira, the Essar Power teams at Hazira decided to conduct a full scale mock drill to ensure the Management Safety Committee functionality of fire fighting equipment installed at the (Site level) Chaired by Senior person naphtha tank farm. The scenario chosen for the mock fire drill not only helped in checking the integrity of the fire fighting equipment, including the foam pourer, fire hydrant Contractor Safety Committee and foam monitor but also the response time of the central (Site level) fire team. The mock drill provided reassurance to the Chaired by senior person management of the safety system installed at our site and the competence of the fire team. The HSE Committee met twice during the year, in line with the Committee’s mandate, and visited Vadinar, Salaya and Stanlow as part of their ongoing commitment to HSE issues. There was one interim HSE Committee meeting at Stanlow in March 2013 following HSE incidents which occurred there. In addition to the committees mentioned above, in terms of overall HSE management, our site at Stanlow has five additional committees that have a mandate to formally monitor and advise on occupational health and safety. Around 50 employees are involved across these five committees, which equates to nearly 5% of employees. Essar Energy HSE control framework During the last quarter of the reporting period, we launched an HSE control framework as part of global integration of best practice followed at our sites in India and at Stanlow. The control framework consists of HSE standards as detailed on the following page. We are still in the process of developing comprehensive manuals to include the requirements of the HSE standards. Business and function heads are accountable for adherence to these standards. Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 23 HSE and social performance (SP) common processes `` Ships that are owned, operated or managed by Essar Energy `` Significant HSE and SP risks associated with business comply with the International Convention for the Prevention of activities are assessed and controlled to levels as low as Pollution from Ships and are accredited under the International reasonably practicable. Safety Management Code. `` People who have responsibility for HSE and SP are competent `` Energy use and efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions are and have the resources to perform their roles. monitored and managed for continuous improvement and the `` A ‘Permit to Work’ process is used to manage the risks of global greenhouse gas emissions inventory is subject to hazardous work. independent assurance. `` Changes to facilities, processes and organisations are `` Installations are designed not to flare or vent hydrocarbons managed to maintain risk controls. continuously as a means of disposal. `` Emergency response plans, including those for medical `` SOx and NOx emissions, the discharge and disposal of emergencies and spills or releases to the environment are process effluents and produced water, and the transport and established and exercised to ensure preparedness in the event disposal of waste are managed in line with internationally of an incident. recognised standards. `` Incidents are investigated and analysed to identify `` The risks of soil and groundwater contamination are assessed improvements. and managed. `` HSE and SP data is prepared and reported in conformity `` In areas of water scarcity, facilities are designed and operated with Group and relevant regulatory requirements applicable to reduce water use to levels as low as reasonably practicable. to such data. `` Potential impacts of Essar operations on biodiversity and `` Assurance is provided to the Board of Essar Energy that ecosystems are assessed and managed. HSE and SP controls, including process safety controls, are effective. Contractor management `` Contracts for services or goods provided to Essar Energy Health which have associated HSE risks contain provision and `` Health risks are systematically identified, assessed and requirements in relation to the management of those risks. controlled at all stages of the business lifecycle. `` The ability of contractors and suppliers to manage the HSE `` Fitness to work evaluations are established and applied where risks of contracted activities is taken into account in the there are significant health or safety risks. selection process. `` Policies and programmes are established covering the use of `` Contractors and suppliers are appraised and monitored to alcohol and drugs. verify that they meet the HSE requirements of the contract. `` Employees have access to medical services that take account of the risks associated with the type and location of their work. Projects `` Human factors and engineering principles are considered and `` HSE and SP risks are assessed and managed throughout the applied during the design stage of projects. project lifecycle. `` Impact assessments based on internationally recognised Personal safety standards covering environmental, social and health aspects `` Procedures and safe working practices are established based and are performed at the inception of all major projects and for on risk assessment, for tasks with personal safety risks. any modifications to existing facilities. `` Employees are trained to understand the hazards, work procedures and safe working practices for their tasks. Transport `` Use of personal protective equipment appropriate to their tasks. Road `` Ensure that people performing tasks with safety risks are `` Controls to manage road safety are established for drivers, supervised appropriately. vehicles and journeys. `` Extra controls are established for professional drivers and in Process safety areas with high road safety risks. `` The design and construction of new assets and modifications Maritime to existing assets are in accordance with industry standards. `` Controls to manage maritime safety risks are established for `` Technical authorities are established for the interpretation of owned, operated or contracted vessels, floating assets, industry standards. berths and off take facilities. `` Each asset has a nominated asset manager with `` Vessels used for the bulk transport of oil, chemicals or gas and accountability for process safety in the operation of that asset. their derivatives are inspected in accordance with the Group `` The technical integrity of assets is maintained by systematic Ship Quality Assurance Standard before acceptance. inspection, testing, maintenance and management of change. `` Assets are operated within established operating limits. Policies Our policies supported by management systems, procedures Environment and guidelines drive our operations. Since our London Stock `` Major Installations are certified against an internationally Exchange listing in 2010, the Company’s growth has been recognised, independent environmental management system organic and dynamic. standard if they have significant environmental risks. 24 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Health, safety and environment continued We are continuously reviewing our policies at parent company All of the incidents were investigated by a team sponsored by as well as subsidiary operating entity level to ensure continued Senior Management. Investigation teams produced formal applicability to the business and also to take into account the reports, timelines and causal tree diagrams. Findings were emerging changes in the regulatory landscape. discussed at senior leadership team level at Stanlow. An action plan was implemented and wider lessons were shared with the Most of our operational sites are certified to OHSAS 18001:2007. Stanlow site in the form of incident alerts, goal zero safety The sites that were commissioned during the reporting period are standstills, and a weekly communication by the Site Manager. in the process of being certified to the system. Please see the ‘Performance indicators’ section of this Report 60.4% of our operations are certified to the OHSAS 18001:2007 for details on safety performance by business or site. by revenues in FY2013. Behaviour based safety In order to make significant improvements in the safety culture In relation to Essar Oil UK, health and safety topics are included of the organisation, a change in safety behaviour is needed. in the agreement with the trade union. Topics in this agreement Behaviour-based safety requires employee involvement and include, but are not limited to, the following: continuous improvement and a long-term commitment to `` Appointment of union appointed safety representatives sustaining safe behaviour. During the reporting period, our sites `` Attendance of union members at regulatory refresher training at Vadinar and Stanlow undertook the following activities. `` Permit to work refresher training `` Breathing apparatus, H2S and confined space training Vadinar refinery `` Fire fighting `` DuPont were engaged to undertake a safety management evaluation in order to identify areas of improvement and after Health and safety performance extensive evaluation the following recommendations were Management of health and safety of both the direct and indirect implemented: employees of Essar Energy continued to be our top priority last ——Site safety observation: the leadership team made routine year. The focus at our sites was to enhance safety culture, site visits and logged unsafe behaviour for analysis and contractor safety management, risk assessment and training. corrective action. Although our overall safety performance was good and various ——Extensive training sessions conducted for employees and sites won external recognition for their safety efforts, there were contractors and 327 people trained. key learnings from the incidents that occurred at our sites to ——Disciplinary action procedures and life saving rules further improve our safety processes. A brief summary of these introduced: best practices were adopted and enforced, incidents is as follows: whilst disciplinary actions taken were recorded on the online site safety portal. Vadinar, June 2012 A road accident outside the process plant at Vadinar Stanlow refinery, led to a contractor fatality in June 2012. Following the Essar Oil UK designed a safety observation programme recommendations of the investigating team, the entire refinery called ‘Look Out’. This large scale programme is a behavioural was inspected and areas with similar vulnerability and risk of observation, intervention and recording system for Essar Oil accidents were identified and measures established to prevent UK employees. recurrence. By the end of July 2013 this programme will be implemented Stanlow, July 2012 across the Stanlow site, covering around 1,000 staff. The There was a T4099 residue release whereby significant quantities programme is designed to help identify and overcome the of processed material was unintentionally released from a tank. common reasons for people missing the less obvious danger Key lessons were learned regarding the importance of clear signals prior to incidents occurring. communication between units, and an earlier reaction to Product stewardship weak signals. As a Company we realise the importance of communicating the potential hazards and risk management measures of our products Stanlow, August 2012 to our customers and stakeholders. The publication of a new Unintended release of less than five tonnes of crude oil into the material safety data sheet (‘MSDS’) is triggered by the creation of a Manchester Ship Canal. Key lessons learned included the new product, changes in the composition of an existing product importance of consistent processes and checks. and changes in regulations or hazard assessments. Stanlow, October 2012 Once created, the MSDS is sent to the marketing and Incident on reboiler which had minimal impact to process but international supply and trading teams who are responsible for was a potential risk for individuals. The incident highlighted key issuing the MSDS to the customer prior to the dispatch of the lessons regarding having consistent standards for process product. This is part of the new customer set-up process at isolation and ensuring consistent practices in respect of abiding Stanlow. A similar process is followed at our Vadinar refinery. by processes and rules. Updated versions are sent to existing customers. A register is kept of MSDSs which are sent to customers. Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 25 Case study Essar Oil, UK: Wellness Wednesday The focus of the occupational health department at the The nursing staff in the occupational health department set Stanlow refinery has expanded from being primarily aside time each Wednesday from 08.00 until 15.45 for anyone concerned with health issues relating to health at work and to call in for a check. Based on their results, personalised fitness for task, to that of a Wellness Centre with a wider remit health promotion advice is given to individuals, and a review providing a caring and educational health resource which staff appointment may be recommended. Some staff have had are encouraged to access freely. As part of this strategy, a weekly blood pressure checks; many have been given dietary review of the health needs of Essar Oil UK staff took place advice and also offered a three month review of their during November and December 2012. cholesterol levels. It was recognised that the introduction of various health The scheme runs across the 24 hours of each Wednesday promotion and education measures would contribute towards and is provided through the night shift by the Advanced First improved productivity and help staff to manage their own Aider team, who submit their statistics to the nurses each health as it becomes increasingly difficult to access local week. The scheme has now also been introduced into the GP services. Essar Oil UK offices in London where approximately 40 staff are based. The scheme runs there for one half day per month The first initiative addressed the risks of stroke and heart and is known as ‘Fitness Friday’. disease which had been identified as local priorities. Being aware of blood pressure and cholesterol levels can significantly Since 6 February 2013, the ‘Know Your Numbers’ offer has reduce the risk of strokes and heart disease in a workforce been taken up by 216 people at Stanlow, and has now been which is predominantly male and over the age of 40 years. extended to the contracting staff across the site. Since April, those colleagues needing a more comprehensive wellness The health promotion strategy was introduced to the site in the assessment have been able to request an hour long form of a ‘Know Your Numbers’ initiative, offering an open appointment for a more in depth review. The service will anonymous blood pressure and cholesterol assessment on continue to be monitored each month and further developed what has become known as Wellness Wednesday. as needs change. 26 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Health, safety and environment continued Systematic processes are in place to monitor, track, evaluate and Noise related illnesses are prevented through checking and manage product related incidents. Our refinery at Stanlow has a controlling of sound pressure levels at every corner of the contracted dangerous goods safety advisor (DGSA), who is refinery, personal noise levels, audiometric checks of those required by law to report any product related vehicle incidents people working in high noise areas and training and education during delivering of our product to customers by road. This is also regarding noise as well as the use of hearing protection devices. included in the DGSA’s annual report that he compiles annually A series of health tips, spot training in the field and and is required by law. questionnaires on noise issues are just a few of the innovative methods adopted each year to increase awareness. All hydrocarbon products shipped by sea are carried in bulk on ships and are vetted by Essar Oil UK Limited using the OCIMF Our ergonomic interventions include risk assessments for manual SIRE system. This ensures ships used are fit for purpose and material handling activities at warehouses and maintenance managed by reputable companies complying with MARPOL workshops, upper limb assessments for office workers and panel (marine pollution) and SOLAS (safety of life at sea) and relevant officers and focus group training not only helps in lowering the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) legislation related to the physical demands of work tasks but also lowers the incidence carriage of their cargo. Protection and indemnity insurance is and severity of the musculoskeletal injuries they can cause. taken out on each voyage charter to protect and insure Essar’s cargo interest. This covers Essar Energy for any cargo incident Other processes include indoor air quality monitoring with liability on voyage. For any shipping incident in port in Stanlow or reference to ASHRAE building energy standards and periodic Tranmere relating to oil spill we have a gold level service contract health examinations to identify conditions which may make with Adler and Allan for oil spill response. people more susceptible to the effects of hazardous agents and to detect the early signs of health impairment caused Pipeline management ensures compliance with the Pipeline by these agents. Safety Regulations 1996. We employ our own internal standards Having achieved a zero occupational disease rate since the in the form of the Stanlow Pipeline Code of Practice and have a commissioning of its first plant in 2006, the Vadinar refinery is safety case based on the bow tie methodology. committed to achieving excellence in occupational health management. Process safety and integrity All plants handling highly hazardous chemicals require process The drive to improve health, safety and environment processes hazard analysis (PHA) and hazardous operation (HAZOP) studies and management is ongoing. For example, the Vadinar refinery to be conducted as a matter of law and best practice. Essar Oil was certified to ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS India conducted HAZOP studies as part of the PHA during the 18001:2007 standards in August 2009. As part of the Essar design of its Vadinar refinery. Any modifications in the plant and Refinery Integrated Management System (ERIMS), a process were streamlined through a management of change recertification audit was carried out by international certification process and a fresh PHA study was conducted in 2012 which body, DNV, in August 2012 following which the IMS certificates covered various units, namely the naphtha hydro-treater, were re-validated until 21 September, 2015. continuous catalytic reformer, diesel hydro-de-sulphurisation unit, amine-sulphur recovery units, sour water stripper unit, The scope of ERIMS covered the refinery, power plant, dispatch fluidised catalytic cracking unit whilst units that have recently and marine operations. Since the expansion of the Vadinar been commissioned or revamped have already had HAZOP refinery to a capacity of 20 mmtpa, the ERIMS has also been studies completed. expanded to include: `` Crude Distillation Unit – II The study looked for deviations, to establish the possible `` Delayed Coker Unit causes, their consequences, availability of efficient safeguards `` Isomerisation Unit and arrived at a total of 206 observations which are currently `` Hydrogen Manufacturing Unit being tracked for implementation. `` Diesel Hydrotreater Unit `` Vacuum Gas Oil – Hydrotreater Unit Occupational health `` Utilities 1 and 2 (Expansion) Prevention of occupational health diseases is one of the prime focus points for Essar Energy. For example, at the Vadinar refinery Following a round of internal audits, undertaken in November and there is a clear focus on identifying unhealthy work practices or December 2012, these units were also audited for the first time by the risk from potential hazards in the workplace by monitoring DNV in the first periodic audit, in February 2013, along with other individuals’ personal exposure is the mainstay of activities. This base refinery units and power plant. During the closing meeting, normally leads to intervention and corrective actions. The key DNV declared continuation of IMS certification. While presenting interventions include a personal exposure assessment with the report, the documentation by the expansion units was regard to chemicals with an emphasis on interaction with appreciated, as was the high standard of housekeeping and chemicals, work practices, processes and operations, workplace improvement in contractor safety management. conditions and control measures, exposure duration and frequency and individual susceptibility. This allows the identification of areas for quantitative exposure assessment. Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 27 Environment We continuously recognise and assess environmental risks in our operations through risk and impact assessments and regular audits. Our approach is towards mitigating risks, minimising pollution, reducing our environmental footprint and optimising resource consumption. All the environmental aspects, impacts and plans are part of an environmental management plan which is specific to each site. Most of our operational sites are certified to ISO 14001. The sites that were commissioned during the reporting period are in the process of being certified in accordance with this standard. Currently, 97.7% sites are certified to ISO 14001 by revenues. Case study In our quest to reduce the burden on natural resources, water and material management has been given high priority. Sites Essar Power, Salaya: have used their material and water data to identify potential savings and improvement in efficiencies. Efficient recycling of Zero discharge scheme water which would normally be discharged as effluent has made most of our sites zero discharge sites thereby reducing the With dwindling water resources worldwide, conservation of requirement for freshwater withdrawal. Our power plants at water has become a priority for nations and industry alike. Hazira, Vadinar and Salaya and the refinery at Vadinar are zero Almost all industries have a reduction in freshwater discharge sites. consumption and wastewater disposal as one of their primary goals in their environmental protection efforts. We manage our emissions through continuous monitoring of stacks and periodic monitoring of ambient air quality. During the Essar Power decided to go a step further than just reducing reporting period most of our sites including the refinery at Vadinar, water usage, and made plans to have zero discharge of and the power plants in Hazira, Vadinar and Salaya, installed waste water from its operations. Due to the nature of the continuous stack emission monitoring systems. In addition, operation, water that is used in the cooling towers does not the Vadinar refinery installed a continuous ambient air quality have a significant change in its properties and still meets the monitoring station which allows real time data transmission to norms for irrigation and horticulture. Other uses identified central and state pollution control board authorities. were in dust suppression for ash and coal handling areas and fire water. Climate change and energy management Our approach towards climate change mitigation and adaptation An extensive system was put in place to divert all reusable continues to aim at providing clean solutions to our customers waste water from cooling towers and boiler blowdown to and reducing our carbon footprint by adopting the latest guard ponds where the water is tested and normalised. technology and energy conservation measures. In addition, Thereafter all water is reused and no water is discharged as managing regulations, stakeholders’ expectations and costs are effluent thereby making a large contribution to resource key factors in our approach. At Essar Oil, the greenhouse gas conservation and the environment. The scheme was (GHG) mitigation approach includes optimisation and energy implemented in July 2012. conservation schemes. Various activities were carried out across the Vadinar refinery which reduced energy consumption and in turn the GHG emissions. We continue to report our carbon performance to the CDP. For the second year in a row, Essar Oil was ranked the highest scorer in the energy sector by CDP, India. In terms of the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI), Essar Oil achieved a score of 72 out of 100, and was the only energy company in India to be featured in the list. Overall, Essar Oil India is positioned sixth in the CDLI list, cutting across all sectors. This score is achieved in spite of the refinery’s capacity addition and Nelson complexity index enhancement as well as inclusion of emissions being generated on account of the exploration and production division’s coal bed methane production operations being included for the first time which contributed to Essar Oil’s total emission count. Our power plants in Hazira collectively 28 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Health, safety and environment continued reported to CDP, India, under the ‘Other Responding Companies’ category. Please access the following link to download Essar Oil’s CDP response and the CDP India 200 Climate Change Report 2012: www.cdproject.net Our sites are committed to conserving energy to derive multiple benefits such as lower fuel consumption, better profitability, environment protection, and a lower carbon footprint. Individual proposals, discussions in small groups, and brain storming sessions for employees help to generate a variety of opportunities to save power. Key action is in saving energy and natural resources include the optimisation of existing processes, modification of processes or equipment and the inclusion of new technologies. Case study Our two power plants at Hazira together implemented 23 Hazira Power and Bhander energy saving projects ranging from equipment modification and optimisation to technology upgrades to result in an Power: E-waste handling estimated saving of over 12 million units of electricity, or 3,204 MTOE, resulting in a saving of over Rs.94 million (US$1.7 million). and disposal The emissions reduction as a result is estimated to be 12,800 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent. Electrical and electronic equipment contain hazardous materials and if disposed of improperly may pose a threat Comparing the results for the months where the generation was to human health and the environment. The Ministry of similar, we see a downward trend of auxiliary consumption. Environment and Forests, Government of India, enforced the electronic waste (e-waste) management handling and rules Hazira Power on 1 May 2012, putting the liability for recycling and reducing 125 2.5 e-waste on the producer in an attempt to reduce the Auxiliary Consumption (MU) e-waste in the country. Our power plants at Hazira had 100 2.0 already identified e-waste handling and disposal as part of Generation (MU) their environmental management plan before the rules came 75 1.5 into force. Both the plants had formulated a procedure for classification of e-waste, the process flow involving the user 50 1.0 and the stores function, identification of a Government approved recycler and final disposal. During the reporting 25 0.5 period, 2,180kg of e-waste was disposed of safely. 0 0 Nov 2012 Jan 2013 Generation (MU) Auxiliary consumption (MU) One energy conservation initiative involved the energy team at the CBM project at Raniganj, who found a much more efficient way Bhander power (BPL) of running the large number of pumps required to push gas 125 2.5 around the network on site. These so-called progressive cavity Auxiliary Consumption (MU) pumps were previously being operated at their optimum speed 100 2.0 through the use of variable frequency drives (VFDs) to control the motors operating them. But the problem with having multiple Generation (MU) 75 1.5 VFDs was that they generated harmonics in the power network which reduced the capacity utilisation of the generators being used to provide power. The Raniganj team therefore introduced 50 1.0 harmonic filters into the system, which resulted in an increase in power efficiency of nearly 10%. An estimated reduction of 79.56 25 0.5 metric tonnes of CO2 was achieved with this initiative during the first few months post-installation in FY2013. 0 0 Aug 2012 Nov 2012 Jan 2013 Generation (MU) Auxiliary consumption (MU) Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 29 Amongst various energy initiatives implemented at our refinery NIO has recently released the report of the comprehensive in Vadinar, one of the key initiatives was to recover desalinated monitoring conducted in 2012. Below are the major findings of condensate heat to be then used to heat demineralised water the study: and reduce cooling tower heat load. Before the implementation of the project, desalinated suspect condensate with an average Water quality temperature of 66 degrees Celsius was routed to the `` The water quality, in terms of temperature, salinity, pH, condensate tank without any heat exchange. With a little dissolved oxygen, biochemical oxygen demand, nitrate, modification to divert the desalinated condensate to the nitrite, phosphate, ammonia and phenols was comparable to demineralised water condensate exchanger, 2.9 gigacalories the baseline signifying uncontaminated status of the coastal per hour (GCal/hr) of energy was saved. Whilst the project cost waters off Vadinar. a minimal amount of US$1,800, the savings amounted to an `` The impact of release of warm and saline refinery effluent estimated US$182,000 per annum. largely return cooling water, even in the vicinity of the submarine diffuser was not evident on local ecology due to Biodiversity management high dispersion potential of the coastal waster. At Essar Energy, we follow a proactive and forward looking `` The levels of petroleum hydrocarbons (PHc) – the important approach to the management of biodiversity. indicator of water quality with respect to the unloading of crude oil at the single point mooring and loading of An extended environmental impact assessment is carried out petroleum products at the oil terminal, though variable, were by a qualified third party on all projects that could have an comparable to the baseline. impact on biodiversity. The comprehensive assessment includes biodiversity aspects and mitigation measures which are Sediment quality adequately addressed in the site environmental management `` The trend in the distribution of trace metals including plan. While most of our sites do not pose a threat to the chromium, nickel, copper, zinc, lead, cadmium and mercury, biodiversity around the areas of operations, there is naturally a risk in the intertidal and sub tidal sediments was broadly to the marine ecosystem around our refinery at Vadinar. comparable with that of the baseline and there was no evidence in their increase in the development and postThe Essar Oil refinery and the oil terminal (together referred to development phases of the Essar complex. hereinafter as the ‘Essar complex’) are located at Vadinar in the `` As in the case of water quality the sediment burden of PHc proximity of the Gulf of Kutch which is known for its rich and remained analogous to the baseline there by negating the diverse biodiversity. The Narara and Kalubhar reefs of the Gulf possibility of their built-up in the post-operational phase of which form the part of the Marine National Park and Marine the Essar complex. Sanctuary are in the close vicinity of the Essar complex. These `` Overall, the sediment quality of the coastal system off Vadinar reef microcosms host soft and hard corals and several other was good with the absence of detectable contamination by diverse species of reef flora and fauna, some of which are anthropogenic trace metals, PHc, organic carbon and protected by law. phosphorus due to the operations of the refinery and the oil terminal. Conscious of the ecological sensitivity of the Gulf off Vadinar and the need to maintain its biological wealth, Essar Oil has been Flora and fauna engaging the National Institute of Oceanography (‘NIO’), the `` The mangrove ecosystems of the Narara and Kalubhar reefs premier agency in the country devoted to the well-being of the were healthy without any indication of their degradation in the ocean environment, to conduct annual comprehensive marine post-operational phase of the Essar complex. In all six species monitoring in the region. The main objectives of the monitoring of mangroves, with the dominance of Avicennia marina, were are to assess the impact, if any, of ongoing activities of Essar Oil identified at these reefs. Narara reef sustained three species of on marine ecology and, if warranted, suggest mitigation sea grasses and 62 species of marine algae, while Kalubhar measures for maintaining a healthy marine ecosystem adjoining reef recorded 47 species of algae and three species of the Essar complex. The NIO study typically compares the results sea grasses. of the monitoring with the pre-refinery baseline (1994–04), as well `` The development and post-development phase of the Essar as the development and post-development phase of the Essar complex did not indicate measurable adverse impact on complex from 2006. phytoplankton and zooplankton in the coastal zone of Vadinar. `` The macro benthic standing stock off Vadinar was In addition, the Gujarat Institute of Desert Ecology (GuIDE), comparable with the baseline indicating absence of significant on behalf of Essar Oil, monitors the marine ecology at specified changes in their distribution subsequent to the operations of critical locations near to Vadinar every month for nine water the Essar complex. quality parameters, three sediment quality parameters and `` Narara and Kalubhar reefs continued to harbour a variety of 14 biological parameters. live corals in various densities at their reef flat as well as sub tidal reef segments. These corals were generally healthy but some were under the stress of sediment deposition and seaweed encrustation, a common and wide-spread occurrence in the Gulf and recorded even during 1993–94. 30 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Health, safety and environment continued `` Marine turtle, dolphin, whale and dugong have been reported Oil spills and emergency response in the Gulf but were not sighted during monitoring. Essar Oil, India utilises the services of a sister company, Vadinar Oil `` The Vadinar and Kalubhar region offered suitable feeding, Terminal Limited (VOTL), to manage crude oil imports and exports breeding and sheltering areas for a variety of migratory and and for distribution of petroleum products. VOTL is governed by resident birds. the International Maritime Organisation’s guidelines and protocol. Offshore pollution prevention and control is managed by VOTL. The GuIDE report, based on monthly monitoring for the year 2012–13, also confirms the absence of gross changes in marine In the event of a mooring mishap where the vessel breaks away ecology off Vadinar due to the operations of the refinery and the from the berth, the product berth loading arms are fitted with oil terminal and thus compliments the findings of the NIO. powered emergency release couplers and the single point mooring hoses are fitted with marine breakaway couplings to immediately NIO concluded in their report that the water quality, sediment shut off flow and prevent spills. quality and flora and fauna of the Vadinar segment of the Gulf of Kutch in the post-operational phase of the Essar complex In addition to these safety fittings, the terminal fully conforms to the were comparable with the baseline of 1993–04 within the Indian coast guard requirements with regard to Tier 1 spill response natural variability inherent to coastal waters, and there was no equipment and training of response personnel as recommended evidence of degradation in marine ecology subsequent to the by IMO. 100% of employees at the terminal are trained by the operations of the refinery and the oil terminal. Indian coast guard on oil spill response Tier 1 emergencies. A select number of employees are also trained to handle Tier 2 Pursuant to the IUCN list of threatened species of birds in emergencies. India, the Marine National Park at Jamnagar District recorded two species belonging to the ‘Vulnerable’ category, one Effluent and waste species classified as ‘conservation dependent’ and five Oily sludge is one of the hazardous wastes generated as a result of species listed as ‘near threatened’. refinery operations. High water content in the sludge generated from the effluent treatment plant at the Vadinar refinery resulted in IUCN list of threatened birds of India larger volumes to be disposed of. Both bio-sludge and oily sludge were combined thereby compounding the quantity. With abundant S. No English Name Scientific Name Category sunshine at the site it was decided to first segregate bio-sludge 1. Indian Skimmer Rynchops albicollis VU from oily sludge then turn, spread and sun-dry the mixtures. 2. Dark-rumped Swift Apus acuticauda VU The proportion of water reduced from 70% to 15% with a corresponding reduction in quantities to be disposed of. 3. Dalmatian Pelican* Pelecanus crispus CD 4. Painted Stork Mycteria leucocephala NT The bio-sludge is used for horticulture and the oily sludge is sent to 5. Black-necked Stork Ephippiorhynchus asiaticus NT the treatment, storage and disposal facility site for disposal. This has resulted in a vast reduction in hazardous waste disposal and 6. Black-headed Ibis Threskiornis elanocephalus NT operating expenses. 7. Lesser Flamingo Phoenicopterus minor NT 8. Beach Thick-knee Esacus magnirostris NT 4500 *Non-breeding visitor 4000 ETP sludge generation (tonnes) Cat. Category 3500 EW Extinct in Wild 3000 CR Critical EN Endangered 2500 VU Vulnerable 2000 CD Conservation Dependent 1500 NT Near Threatened DD Data Deficient 1000 N Non-breeding visitor 500 0 2011 2012 2013 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 31 Water At our coal bed methane operations at Raniganj in West Bengal, so-called ‘produced water’ is water trapped in underground formations that is brought to the surface during oil and gas exploration and production. In traditional oil and gas wells, produced water is brought to the surface along with oil or gas. In CBM production, wells are drilled into coal seams, and the water located there is pumped to the surface in order to allow gas to be released from the coal seams. Because the water has been in contact with the hydrocarbon-bearing formation for centuries, it has some of the chemical characteristics of the formation and the hydrocarbon itself. However, the produced water may be put to beneficial use taking into account the chemical characteristics, geographical considerations and the cost of pre-treatment. Case study At Essar Energy’s CBM Raniganj project, the depth of de-watering Vadinar: Energy saving from the reservoir ranges from a 600m to 1,600m. The ground water table level is at a depth of 300m which is much higher opportunities than the reservoir water level. The produced water is within an impermeable rock structure so there is no interconnectivity of the reservoir water with the ground water. Refinery operations are generally energy intensive operations and more often than not, there are opportunities Essar Oil installed a reverse osmosis plant for treating the produced for energy reduction. The energy conservation team at water and using the treated water for CBM processes such as Vadinar continually works at identifying such opportunities. hydro fracturing, workover and drilling which otherwise would have During the reporting period, the team implemented four required large quantities of freshwater. In the last year, 332,584 scm projects that resulted in energy savings of 18,224,085 kWh. of produced water was generated and used for various processes These projects ranged from operational change to process as mentioned above. change. All the projects undertaken were thoroughly studied for existing configuration, proposed modification, Given the sparse supplies of water in many regions of India, there is investment required, energy saved and payback period a strong focus on water conservation. For example at our power before implementation. plants at Hazira, Gujarat, we have adopted several specific measures over the last three years. Most of these measures are One of the projects was a rerouting of light gas oil pump based on the simple principles of reuse, recycle and recover. For around to increase the crude preheat temperature to the example cooling tower blow down from the plants is either used for desired level which, previously, was a big concern earlier horticulture or as fire water. The same is also sent for utilisation at due to limitations in crude distillation unit heater duty. the hot briquetted iron plant at the nearby Essar Steel site. At times, This project alone resulted in energy savings of cooling tower blow down is diverted through a bio-filtration bed to 2,093,400 kWh. the swale located in the plant premises. The swale has biodiversity indicators such as fish, and 100% fish survival has been seen with In another case, which resulted in energy savings of 18 close monitoring of swale water quality and periodic tests by a third kW per hour and a total of 76,464 kWh saved during the party. This water is also used for horticultural purposes. Bhander reporting period, the differential pressure between the Power has also installed a reverse osmosis plant to process source and destination for product transfer was used cooling tower blowdown and reuse the permeated water in the instead of using a pump. power plant water cooling water systems. In addition to the above, two clean development Large savings have been made in the intake of water by the power mechanism projects, which have already been plants due to recycling. This has also reduced the discharge of implemented contributed to carbon emission reductions. water as effluent to near zero. The projects are as follows: `` Fuel switch from fuel oil to natural gas in existing 77 MW power plant at Essar Oil India. `` Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions through replacement of fuel oil with natural gas in refinery furnace operations at Essar Oil India. 32 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Product responsibility Maintaining quality of our products Marketing – India As an ISO 9001 certified organisation, we deploy stringent Essar Oil has continued its excellent relationship with its measures to ensure the quality of our products. The quality customers. Our uncompromising focus on product and service control assessment starts from the raw material stage when quality has helped us to serve our customers better. We try to crude oil is unloaded, then continues through crude and build long-term relationships, by helping customers derive the product process streams and right through to product maximum value from our products. We meet our customers ship loading. regularly, both individually as well as in organised customer meets. We strive to improve further by actively seeking Our refinery at Vadinar has a fully equipped laboratory to certify suggestions as well as feedback from customers on our the refinery’s range of products, for example LPG, kerosene, past performance. aviation turbine fuel/jet fuel, gasoline, diesel, furnace oil, bitumen, pet coke and vacuum gasoil. The facilities have been Of Vadinar’s sales during FY2013, around 69% by value was upgraded and new infrastructure built to house additional sold in the Indian domestic market during the year and the equipment with the completion of the refinery expansion. We remaining 31% was exported. also have a dedicated jet fuel testing laboratory approved by the Directorate General of Aeronautical Quality Assurance. We have three main customer segments – public sector The laboratory has been designed to cater to the jet fuel undertakings (PSUs), such as state owned oil companies, direct demands complying with BIS and DEF STAN 91. In addition, bulk customers and retail outlets. Of these, the PSUs are our the laboratory has a true boiling point unit to predict the crude’s largest customers. Indeed, the public sector oil marketing characteristics before it is processed. companies took around 61% of our total sales by value in FY2013. We supply the PSUs with large quantities of gasoline As a part of the reliability and competency assessment of our (motor spirit/MS), diesel (high speed diesel), kerosene (aviation laboratory, the Vadinar refinery has been participating in the turbine fuel/superior kerosene oil) and liquefied petroleum gas, International Proficiency Testing Programmes conducted by the while direct bulk customers are our largest customers for ASTM standards body for various products and gasoline and various specific products such as petcoke, sulphur, bitumen diesel fuel engine correlation scheme conducted by the Energy and fuel oil. Institute. This participation has ensured our confidence in certifying the products before releasing to our customers. Domestic market sales by product (refinery product only) All products manufactured at Essar Oil UK’s Stanlow refinery are certified to internationally recognised standards by an FY11 FY12 FY13 independent laboratory certified to the quality management LPG 596 576 819 system: ISO 17025:2005 (general requirements for the MS 851 828 933 competence of testing and calibration laboratories). In addition to the final certification by the laboratory our product quality ATF/Kero 706 630 589 release processes and internal quality management systems HSD 5,344 4,777 7,818 ensure that from feedstock selection right through the FO 761 540 336 manufacturing process to final release our products always meet customers’ expectations. Our road transport fuels, petrol Bitumen 456 261 195 and diesel, are certified respectively to British Standards BS Petcoke – – 1,683 EN228:2012 and BS EN590:2009 and A1:2010 and meet the Sulphur 81 80 210 most stringent regulatory requirements for supply within the European Union. Our Aviation fuel (Jet A-1) is certified to UK Sub-total 8,795 7,692 12,583 MOD Defence Standard 91-91, which is the internationally recognised standard for Jet A-1 aviation fuel for use in Domestic market sales by customer type commercial aircraft. (including traded product) FY11 FY12 FY13 PSU 7,289 6,802 10,112 Direct Customers & Traders 1,212 843 2,439 Retail 557 128 154 Total 9,058 7,773 12,705 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 33 Oil marketing companies We have had long and productive relationships with all the public sector oil marketing companies in India – Indian Oil Corporation, Bharat Petroleum Corporation and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation. We have long-term product off-take agreements with Indian Oil Corporation and Bharat Petroleum and we are in the process of extending our agreement with Hindustan Petroleum. The annual off-take numbers are finalised at the beginning of the financial year and the pricing is transparent and formula based. Price adjustments are either done on a fortnightly or monthly basis, depending on the product. Products are supplied through multiple modes – rail, road, pipeline or coastal shipping. Case study Direct customers Essar Oil, India: Generating Our direct sales comprise of sales to petroleum product traders and commercial end users. We supply to a vast array of industrial value for the retail outlets’ segments, such as cement factories, power plants, chemical industries, fertilizer plants, construction companies etc. franchisees Last year, we started selling a new product, petcoke, in the market. We had finalised agreements with high volume In its quest to offer a better business environment for customers, to ensure that from the first day of production, its franchisees, Essar Oil continued to develop strategic the product can be sent out smoothly from the refinery. With alliances with alternative fuel and non-fuel retail producers. facilities to move the product by road, rail and coastal shipping, The Company entered an agreement with state-run Gujarat we have the flexibility to ensure maximum realisation. State Petroleum Corporation to provide CNG at its retail outlets, thus offering multi fuel services to its customers. With the increase in the refining capacity and complexity of our Currently, the company also has CNG sourcing refinery, our crude diet has changed and so has the sulphur arrangements with other major players including Sabarmati production. Sulphur production has almost tripled compared Gas, Adani Gas, GAIL, Gujarat Gas Corporation, to last year, and we have ensured that most of the resultant Indraprastha Gas Limited and Mahanagar Gas Limited. production is sold in the domestic market. At a time when most private fuel retailers outlets are closing for business, as Indian Government policy on fuel pricing hampers sales in private fuelling stations, Essar Oil, which has a large number of operational retail outlets, compensates its dealers by providing a 12.5% fixed rate of return on their investment. The Company has around 1,400 operational retail outlets and an additional 200 are being constructed. Essar Oil has also been entering agreements with fuel and non-fuel franchisees to offer its customers value and effectively using available land in a retail outlet’s premises by forming links with brands such as Café Coffee Day, the country’s largest coffee conglomerate. The Company has existing links with around 23 brands across segments such as lubricants, agro products, banking and financial services and food and beverage companies. 34 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Product responsibility continued Essar retail outlets Exploration and production Essar Oil has an extensive network of 1,400 operational retail CBM gas is a promising energy solution for India, which fuel outlets across India and close to 200 outlets under various has large deposits of coal and limited oil and gas reserves. stages of construction. We have entered into agreements with According to the Directorate General of Hydrocarbons various public sector oil marketing companies to supply our database, India has an estimated 92 trillion cubic feet (tcf) of retail network from their refineries and depots. This helps us to CBM gas reserves. India is the world’s third largest producer lower the cost of fuel supplied. of coal; however commercial production of CBM is still at a very early stage in the country. Essar is one of the first few Essar Oil has a franchise model in petrol retailing. We were the companies in India to have started commercial production. first private entity to introduce this model in the country. The franchisee owns the land and invests in the equipment and Our CBM block at Durgapur, in West Bengal, sells CBM mainly other infrastructure. This model has helped us to increase our in the Durgapur-Asansol industrial belt. CBM, which is 99.9% network reach, without any capital expenditure. natural gas, is an alternative to fuel oil. We commenced sales from our CBM blocks in August 2010 through cascades and Public sector oil marketing companies receive subsidies from then from August 2011 through a dedicated pipeline. As at the the Government of India, through which they set their retail prices end of March 2013, there were 143 wells drilled with 75 in below cost. The Indian Government has deregulated the pricing production. Production is currently around 100,000 scm/d. of petrol, while subsidies for diesel prices are being removed in Having secured phase III environmental clearance for Raniganj gradual increments, but are still significant. Bulk diesel sales in March 2013, we have consent to increase the number of have been deregulated, which is a step in the right direction, wells drilled to 650. Our immediate intention is to increase the and we look forward to the completion of the process in retail number of wells to 350, which will enable us to reach our target diesel, which will then ensure a level playing field between the production level of around 3 mmscm/d. The remaining wells will public and private oil marketing companies. Our overall retail be drilled over the lifetime of the field to maintain production. sales during FY2013 stood at 154,000 metric tonnes. Power business We have been adding multi-fuel options across our network. As Our Power portfolio, originally consisting of gas and liquid of end March 2013, we have 25 stations offering compressed fuel-fired generation capacity, now has significant coal fired natural gas (CNG) and five offering auto liquefied petroleum gas capability. All of our new plants and those under development (ALPG). We commissioned 12 CNG outlets and one ALPG are coal-fired and will utilise both domestic as well as imported outlet during FY2013. We have entered into strategic tie-ups coal. Our focus in the future is to complete current projects and with all leading gas marketing companies, including consolidate our position. As at 31 March 2013, our installed Indraprastha Gas and Mahanagar Gas. capacity was 3,910 MW, up from 1,600 MW at the beginning of the financial year. We have projects under construction to Customer testimonials increase that to 6,700 MW. “Essar Oil has been a very reliable supplier of petcoke for ACC and Ambuja group for the last year and has played a significant role in helping us. They have played a key role in helping us to overcome technical challenges in increasing the consumption of petcoke in our plants which is a higher grade and efficient fuel compared to the indigenous coal. The performance on quality and delivery parameters has been above our expectations. They have been very proactive and have addressed our queries on top priority. We look forward to continuing our relationship with Essar Oil for future requirements as well.” Rajeev Saffar, Coal Sourcing, ACC Limited and Ambuja Cements Limited Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 35 Community The community engagement projects at Essar Energy’s India During operations, a three pronged engagement approach locations are undertaken through the Essar Group Foundation is followed including consultation with the team at sites, (the ‘Essar Foundation’), which is a registered not for profit discussion with district level authorities and third party organisation under the Indian Trust Act, 1882. The engagement needs assessment outcome. model is designed to deliver maximum value to the community in line with the Essar Foundation’s philosophy. Subsequently, a plan of activities for the year is drawn up to ensure that the projects undertaken during the year have Our mission towards socio-economic improvement of maximum impact on the community. neighbourhood communities is an investment for the future and follows an equally dedicated and in-depth execution approach The Essar Foundation team located at sites visits the villages which is as follows: surrounding our operations regularly to interact with the community `` Assessment of social structure and understanding the which serves as a platform for the villagers to raise any issues. socio-economic and political dynamics `` Identification & Implementation of projects in line with During the last year, the Essar Foundation partnered with business goals & Government programmes third-party agencies to conduct need and impact assessments `` Third party assessment to evaluate the positive impact of our at Vadinar, Salaya, Tori and Durgapur for various projects and community projects subsequently undertook several activities in the area of education, health and community care. Community impacts and engagement All of our brown-field and green-field projects in India have to The Essar Foundation also celebrated local and international obtain prior environmental clearance from the Ministry of events with the community to promote social causes. Environment and Forests, based on the evaluation of the environmental impact assessment (EIA) report and public At Stanlow, the site has community liaison meetings which consultations. Land acquisition, rehabilitation and resettlement include senior site management and representatives of local are generically addressed in the EIA’s environmental communities, local authorities and regulators. management plan and implemented as required by the rehabilitation and resettlement policy of the state Government The following gives a snapshot of activities and the where the project is located. Essar Energy is committed to abide spend by region during the reporting period by the law of the land. Health Rs.16.4 million (US$300,000) Our engagement with the community starts at an early stage, Education Rs.11.27 million (US$204,877) when decisions on siting a project are made, and continues Community Care Rs.11.81 million (US$214,783) through the entire lifecycle of operations. Essar Energy (India operations) Essar Energy (India operations) Total number of beneficiaries by sector Spend by sector (US$) 142 0 214,783 89,140 300,000 96,052 Health Health 17,938 204,877 Education Education Community Care Community Care Environment Environment 36 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Community continued Vadinar/Salaya – Number of beneficiaries by sector Vadinar/Salaya – Spend by sector 142 0% 33% 49,974 51,691 52% 15% Health Health 6,735 Education Education Community Care Community Care Environment Environment CBM Raniganj – Number of beneficiaries by sector CBM Raniganj – Spend by sector 28% 17,999 34% 25,230 9,560 Community Care Community Care Education 38% Education Health Health Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 37 Tori – Number of beneficiaries by sector Tori – Spend by sector 3,225 35% 750 50% 9,628 15% Community Care Health Education Education Health Community Care Mahan – Number of beneficiaries by sector Mahan – Spend by sector 9% 6,525 39% 11,220 850 52% 0 Community Care Community Care Education Education Environment Health Health 38 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Community continued Millennium Development Goals During the Millennium Summit of the United Nations in 2000, a collective promise was made by 193 United Nations member states and the world’s leading development institutions to free people from extreme poverty and multiple deprivations. This pledge became the eight Millennium Development Goals to be achieved by 2015. Essar Energy aims to accelerate progress towards achievement of these goals. Please see the table below for the approach and contribution made last year against each goal. Following this are more details on some of the projects which Essar Energy has been engaged in across the various segments, plus case studies, which together illustrate the broad spectrum of work which has been undertaken in this area. Millennium Development Goal Our approach Our contribution last year Eradicate extreme Support the Shishu Mangalam project Scientific study of prevalence of malnutrition and eradication measures poverty and hunger which identifies and corrects malnutrition through the Shishu Mangalam project Empowering the poor to earn a livelihood Training of underprivileged youth to enter the workforce in skilled jobs and avoid poverty and hunger Achieve universal Enabling education through infrastructure, `` Upgraded three existing aanganwadis (child development centres) in primary education facilities, learning environment, well-trained Vadinar and Salaya teachers, scholarships, enrolment drives `` Provided skill based and vocational training to 538 people at Durgapur and and free education to primary children in 100 at Tori the vicinity of our Indian sites `` Adopted 25 primary schools in Durgapur for providing food, sports equipment and inter alia benefiting 2,220 children `` Provided free education, library facility and organised extra-curricular activities benefiting 850 children at Mahan `` Organised events in Vadinar, Salaya and Durgapur on alternative education benefiting 6,728 children Promote gender Empower women through financial Providing training in rural skills such as livestock management, stitching, equality and independence and freedom of decision monetary management and kitchen gardening and food nutrition. empower women making Linking vocational training in areas such as stitching, tailoring and handicrafts with the market to facilitate additional income. Providing rural girls with the skills to enter the workforce Improve maternal Strengthen the existing health system Preventive and curative healthcare; infant healthcare, ambulance and health, reduce child for effective delivery of Government 24x7 institutional delivery services mortality, combat health programmes and build for the HIV/AIDS, malaria community level health functions through and other diseases infrastructure, facilities and specialist personnel in remote locations Ensure Improve the overall environmental Plantation drive of over 15,000 saplings, water harvesting, renewable environmental situation in the vicinity of our operations energy and anti-plastic drives sustainability by maintaining their natural habitat and restoring the ecological balance One of the key areas in which Essar Energy has been engaged is to improve children’s nutrition levels and health, notably through the Shishu Mangalam project in Gujarat. The 2011 Global Hunger Index Report ranked India 15th whilst the World Bank estimates that India is ranked 2nd (after Bangladesh) in the world in terms of the number of children suffering from malnutrition. Child malnutrition has severe consequences for mobility, mortality, productivity and economic growth. Gujarat has a particularly high proportion of malnourished children, with 44.7% of children underweight and 22.3% of the population undernourished, while 6.1% of children who die under the age of five do so from hunger. According to the National Family Health Survey III, 2005–06, every second child under three years age is underweight, and every second adolescent girl is anaemic. Given this situation, the Essar Foundation, in collaboration with the District Panchayat, Jamnagar, started the Shishu Mangalam project during June and December 2012 in Khambhalia block, one of the 10 Taluka (administrative divisions) of the district of Jamnagar. This block has the highest percentage of malnutrition (38%) among children under the age of five years. The project strategy was to leverage the existing Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) structure and to focus exclusively on raising the health and nutritional level of malnourished children below six years old thereby reducing the number of children falling in to the highly malnourished category. Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 39 Showing changes in severely undernourished children covered by the Shishu Mangalam project June 2012 November 2012 Severely undernourished children Severely undernourished children Moderately undernourished children Healthy children Age Boys Girls Total Boys Girls Total Boys Girls Total Boys Girls Total Total 6–12 months 94 67 161 22 14 36 34 19 53 26 22 48 137 1–3 years 228 242 470 79 99 178 88 89 177 36 33 69 424 3–6 years 192 199 391 63 73 136 71 72 143 21 15 36 315 Total 514 508 1,022 164 186 350 193 180 373 83 70 153 876 (Source: Calculations based on the data compiled by the ICDS from the Shishu Mangalam Health Card) A physical assessment was conducted to identify and grade the nutritional status of children. Health checkups of children in yellow zones were carried out by the medical officers of the primary health centre and those in red zones were carried out by paediatricians. Medical causes were identified and basic treatment as well as referral was ensured. Additionally, a high protein nutrition supplement was provided along with nutrition education and individual tracking of weight gain was carried out through a separate monitoring mechanism. Post completion of the project, a third party assessment was completed to study the impact and the results showed significant improvement in the nutritional status of children (see table above). Meanwhile in the UK, other initiatives to improve training and skills levels among young people are well established. Essar Oil UK helps to train the young engineers, technicians and operators of the future through their association with the ‘Training Tomorrow’s Engineers’ (TTE) facility situated close to their refinery in Stanlow. Established by industry for industry in 1990 as a strategic training provider, TTE moved in 2001 to a £1.8 million purpose built training centre to provide the manufacturing industry with young people trained to the highest standards. TTE has since grown to become one of North West England’s leading providers of sponsored Level 3 apprenticeships in Engineering and Laboratory Operations with Whole Person Development incorporated into the training. TTE has been awarded a ‘Grade 1 – Outstanding’ by the Adult Learning Inspectorate and has delivered success rates on advanced apprenticeships well above the national average. The facility currently recruits around 50 apprentices per year of which 20 are sponsored by Essar Oil UK. Demand is high, with 500 to 600 applicants applying for the places available on the programme. Since its inception, Essar has sponsored approximately 200 apprentices, with 80 currently progressing through the three-and-a-half-year training course. The recruitment and selection process is managed by TTE staff, closely supported by 10–12 Stanlow Refinery personnel who sit in on the interviews and help assess the results of aptitude tests. Final selection for the 20 sponsored apprentices is completed by the Excel Training Centre at Stanlow. Essar also currently has two engineers who have been seconded to TTE as Training Officers. TTE remains a key element of the recruitment process at Stanlow, with the programme providing the majority of the site’s future maintenance and operating technicians. Over the years, a number of apprentices have developed their careers further through onward sponsored education and are now in highly responsible positions such as technologists or engineers. Another initiative in Gujarat is at Salaya, a 400-year-old port town near Vadinar, which has a largely seagoing and fishing population. Whilst the men work at sea for nine months of the year the women manage their households and look after children and the elderly. The population is predominantly Muslim and women’s movements are largely restricted due to traditional customs. In order to empower women to be self-reliant, supplement the household income and enhance their skills, Essar Foundation established a stitching centre. A highly experienced trainer was identified and the centre began operations with 10 trainees. To date, more than 100 women have been trained and four self-help groups formed, providing incomes to the trainees. The products are sold through exhibitions organised from time-to-time with the ultimate aim of becoming a successful, selfsustaining brand. 40 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Community continued Also in the Vadinar and Salaya area of Gujarat, there have been various initiatives aimed at assisting the farming community, reflecting the fact that animal husbandry plays a very important role in the rural economy in India. For example, as shown in the livestock census 2007 by the Gujarat Livestock Development Board, there were 7.98 million cattle and 8.77 million buffaloes in Gujarat alone. Last year, Essar Foundation partnered with Gujarat Rural Institute for Socio-Economic Reconstruction, which is the state level society of BAIF Development Research Foundation, to undertake a baseline survey to assess the needs of the community in the villages around Vadinar and Salaya. As the report showed, animal husbandry continues to be one of the Case study major sources of income for over 3,000 families in the villages. However, a lack of knowledge and inadequate facilities has led Durgapur – instilling selfto the deterioration in the health of livestock, directly impacting the income of the community. reliance amongst rural girls Essar Foundation has launched an initiative in partnership Jasmin Kahatun, aged 22, came from a farming family with the Institute for improving livestock health and management in Akandara village and was struggling to make ends practices. The main objectives of this project include improving meet. She was eager to assist her family but lacked livestock health, training farmers in modern animal husbandry the skills, training and confidence to take up a job. methods, setting up cattle care, breeding and fodder development Jasmin participated in the Information, Education and centres and providing market linkages to improve the livelihoods of Communication campaign, undertaking the intensive the farmers. training that gave her the requisite tools and selfconfidence to understand the retail and marketing sector In the first phase, the animal husbandry project will cover, over and enter the workforce. a three-year period, 15 villages in the Lalpur and Khambhalia blocks of Jamnagar district. Since its launch in November 2012, Jasmin now earns a salary, along with additional vaccination camps have been conducted in seven villages, incentives, at one of the biggest store chains in Durgapur. covering nearly 10,000 cattle, sheep and goats. She has overcome many challenges such as the long commute to work and extensive working hours and has Across on the eastern side of India, near Essar Energy’s Tori changed her family’s attitudes to female employment power project in Jharkhand state, there has also been a strong through her self-confidence and aspiration. focus on improving education. Free and compulsory education was the vision of the founding fathers of India, but remains a Jasmin said: “The opportunity has taught me many things dream for many parts of the country even today, including Tori, besides developing friends in the retail, sales and a cluster of villages amidst remote forests. Besides the lack of marketing domain and having a mentor to guide me schools, the area was bereft of other basic facilities such as whenever required. I’m really very thankful to the Essar hospitals, roads and electricity. The socio-political turmoil has Foundation for this training programme.” added to the backwardness of the region. Over 100 young people, many of whom are girls, have The Essar Foundation identified education as a prime need and been trained, entered the workforce in reputed teamed up with Hole-In-The-Wall Education Limited (HiWEL), a organisations and now receive a healthy income. venture of NIIT Limited, for enabling education even when there is no teacher present, as in some cases, teachers are not motivated to attend school. The acquisition of basic computing skills by children can be achieved through incidental learning provided the learners are given access to a suitable computing facility, with entertaining and motivating content and minimal guidance. Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 41 Two playground learning station’s (PLS), consisting of ICT learning kiosks specially designed by HiWEL, were commissioned, one at Government Middle School, Chakla and another at New Primary School, Chatro, built by Essar. One PLS consists of two multimedia computers, associated hardware and peripheral devices to provide open and outdoor access to computers by children. The device runs on solar panels. The local teachers were provided training by HiWEL officials to optimise use of the learning stations by the children. Multi grade educational content provided at the learning station address the learning needs among children across all classes through educational games. This enables children to learn concepts in English, maths, IT and science, using puzzles and quizzes to foster analytical and reasoning skill. They also use educational Case study videos on fundamentals in English, Hindi, maths, science, life skills, environment and social science. Education initiative School attendance shot up from just five students to 180, which at Vadinar and Salaya: has also motivated the teachers to come regularly, thus creating a thriving learning environment for a deprived locality. Model Aanganwadi Project Health is another key area of focus, not least given its Aanganwadis are centres created under the Integrated importance to national economic growth and so there is a real Child Development Services (ICDS) programme, by the concentration at Essar on improving the health and wellbeing of Government of India. These centres cater to educational, people in communities close to its operations. health, hygiene, and nutritional needs of children aged between two and five years. For every 1,000 people, one Typically, rural areas near Essar facilities tend to have low aanganwadi is established. accessibility and thus very limited availability of healthcare services. The Essar Foundation in association with the Government of Gujarat, embarked on a project to develop 25 preThe Essar Foundation has committed significant resources schools called ‘Nandghar’ at Aanganwadi Centres in 15 to support both preventive and curative healthcare in such villages around Essar Oil’s refinery at Vadinar and the communities, where disease and periodic epidemics are nearby Salaya power plant. Nandghar is a Gujarat prevalent. The organisation promotes awareness, facilitates Government project for Aanganwadis, which aim to provide access and increases the availability of health services in remote a child-friendly space and made attractive through the use locations. The Essar Foundation also works closely with public of mural paintings, alphabets and numbers on walls. healthcare providers to enhance capability levels among staff, funds the provision of doctors and paramedics, builds new The Essar Foundation developed four aanganwadis to health centres, provides critical equipment such as ambulances, provide a modern environment to the children in the villages. and manages mobile health services across its locations. The Essar Foundation teamed up with local NGOs to help The Essar Foundation at Vadinar has been running a project build the skills of the Aanganwadi caregivers. Essar since 2006 which includes three health centres together with volunteers created toys and learning aids from waste and an ambulance and referral service at Vadinar and Khambhalia. other material, and the learning materials were donated to the aanganwadis of the Jhakhar, Singach, Vadinar and Firstly, Essar Foundation identified a need for such a facility, Timdi villages. given gaps in the existing health services to the community. In conjunction with the District Administration and Government institutions an objective analysis was made of the challenges and limitations within the government mechanism and resources. Thereafter consultations included the Panchayat, the women, elders, Aanganwadi centres and other community based organisations on access to reproductive and child health care services. 42 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Community continued Secondly, in terms of implementation, after motivating doctors, Age UK Cheshire worked during the year with six centres close nurses and paramedic staff to attend to remote villages and to the Stanlow refinery. Three were based in Ellesmere Port, two deploying educated young people from the community, a in Frodsham and one in Helsby increasing opportunities and community health centre with basic pathological services was participation for older people who only had limited access to the made ready with free medical check-ups, diagnostic services and arts. The project covered a range of activities which included medicines provided by Essar. A calendar based visit of the mobile poetry, visual arts, crafts, singing and music. In total the grant health van ‘Arogya Vahini’ was planned and implemented bringing from Essar enabled the project to interact with 162 participants, health care to the remotest areas around the Vadinar and six staff members and two volunteer artists. Khambhalia region, reaching out to approximately 50,000 people. Those taking part in the project were fulsome in their praise for After five years of the health project, Chetna, a nonthe initiative. They specifically cited: stroke patients who found governmental organisation working for improvement in the singing helped them with their speech; verbal interaction helped nutrition and health status of children, assessed the impact members with memory problems; singing also helped improve of the project and found satisfaction expressed by the staff, breathing, lung capacity and circulation and participants felt patients, community, women and authorities. An average of relaxed, encouraged and happy after sessions, while mixing with 29,487 people were treated annually between November 2007 a group helped increase people’s confidence and self-esteem. and November 2012. Another important initiative near the Stanlow refinery involves At Durgapur, in West Bengal, close to Essar Energy’s Raniganj ENTEP Properties, a Joint Venture between Essar Oil UK and CBM gas production project, the Essar Foundation has been Cheshire West and Chester Council, which was set up in 1983 providing periodic doorstep medical services through a mobile to provide affordable industrial units for small businesses. The medical unit covering 20 villages for the last three years. This low cost of renting a unit makes it attractive to start-up mobile unit is very popular with people in the villages and is businesses and individuals who are setting up for the first time. heavily utilised. In 2013 the business provided £15,000 of sponsorship to support the position of a full time Youth Worker within the Youth At Stanlow in the UK, Essar Oil UK engages heavily with several Federation’s ‘NGage’ scheme – enabling the charity to access segments of the local community, including elderly people who further match funding. can sometimes find themselves isolated and without support. Essar Oil UK teamed up with Age UK Cheshire to back their NGage is a two year mentoring and confidence building project WearPurple Arts initiative. The project is run by Age UK Cheshire, offering one-to-one support for young people experiencing supported by Cheshire West and Chester Council, and gives multiple problems to give them opportunities to build positive people over the age of 50 the opportunity to work with futures. All beneficiaries are young people, aged 13–18, living professional artists to learn new skills and gain confidence in their in deprived areas of Ellesmere Port – 90% of whom are known creative abilities. The various arts help to raise people’s selfto the police and Youth Offending Service due to a history of esteem, confidence and motivation and these experiences have alcohol, drugs and crime, and often subject to violence wide reaching benefits in the everyday lives of the people involved. and intimidation. It is the aim of all WearPurple projects to improve people’s NGage builds relationships and trust between the young wellbeing, confidence and self-esteem through participation in person and a project worker, or mentor, supporting entry to creative activities, providing a safe and relaxed environment in employment, volunteering, education, training and access to which to engage in creative activities whilst encouraging people other support services. Each young person is supported for to socialize and make new friends. up to 6–12 months, with one hour weekly contact through a combination of face-to-face support and phone calls. During FY2013, Essar Oil UK funding was used to develop a programme of activities for older people within day-care and In the last two years, NGage has received 62 referrals to residential homes. Each project involved a professional artist support young people, 18 for prevention purposes for those at and a trainee artist working within day care centres and risk and 44 young offenders. There were 34 young offenders residential homes, working directly with participants and training who engaged with the project and all prevention cases resulted care staff to continue creative activities once the project finishes. in an 85% retention rate. It is notable that 100% of those referred for prevention and 68% of young offenders had not re-offended while 29 young people were known to be in education, employment and training at the end of their contact. Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 43 Memberships Institution Scope Link The Associated Chambers of ASSOCHAM, India’s premier apex chamber, covers a www.assocham.org Commerce and Industry of India membership of over 200,000 companies and professionals across the country. As an apex industry body, ASSOCHAM represents the interests of industry and trade, interfaces with Government on policy issues and interacts with counterpart international organisations to promote bilateral economic issues. Centre for Chemical Process CCPS is a not-for-profit, corporate membership organisation www.aiche.org/ccps Safety within AIChE that identifies and addresses process safety needs within the chemical, pharmaceutical, and petroleum industries. CCPS brings together manufacturers, government agencies, consultants, academia and insurers, to lead the way in improving industrial process safety. Chemical Industries Association The CIA represents the chemical and pharmaceutical businesses www.cia.org.uk across the UK. The Association focuses on influencing policy agenda across various industry issues and providing advice and professional services to its members, including training and handling and implementing new regulations. Confederation of Indian Industry CII is a non-governmental, not-for-profit, industry led and www.cii.in industry managed organisation, playing a proactive role in India’s development process. Founded over 115 years ago, it is India’s premier business association, with a direct membership of over 8,100 organisations from the private as well as public sectors, including small and medium enterprises and multinational corporations, and an indirect membership of over 90,000 companies from around 400 national and regional sectoral associations. Engineering Equipment and The EEMUA is a non-profit membership organisation based www.eemua.co.uk Material Users Association in the UK that aims to improve the operational, environmental and safety performance of the industrial facilities and assets of its member companies through sharing of best practices and experiences among members. Joint Oil and Industry Fire Forum JOIFF focuses on fire hazard management in the high hazard www.joiff.com industries and other commercial and industrial organisations. The JOIFF works towards developing the skills and knowledge of emergency response personnel through training, shared learning and technical advisory. Oil Companies International The OCIMF is a voluntary association of oil companies worldwide www.ocimf.com Marine Forum which have an interest in shipping of crude oil, petroleum products, allied products and gas. The OCIMF’s mission is to promote safe and environment friendly operations of global oil and gas movement and improving design and operation standards. Petroleum Federation of India PetroFed is a non-profit organisation representing the www.petrofed.org hydrocarbon and related companies in public, private and joint sectors to promote the interests of petroleum industry in line with public and national policies, through self-regulatory environment. UK Petroleum Industry The UKPIA is an association of nine member companies engaged www.ukpia.com Association in the downstream oil industry in the UK and represents their interests on a host of common issues such as refining and distribution and marketing. The association also spearheads the industry’s position on various legislative issues. United Nations Global Compact The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for www.unglobalcompact.org businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. By doing so, business, as a primary driver of globalisation, can help ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies everywhere. 44 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Performance indicators Health & safety EEplca Refinery – Vadinar Refinery – Stanlowb FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 HSE Training – number of employees 4,007 4,922 2,767 1,703 3,812 – 1,324 12,533 2,075 HSE Training – number of contractors 5,110 5,825 4,193 1,879 1,853 – 2,506 HSE Inductions – Contractors 27,168 29,578 16,022 24,626 25,670 10,511 – 1,633 1,977 HSE Meetings – Employees 271 405 379 199 212 248 – 112 48 HSE Meetings – Contractors 86 375 246 19 70 12 – 179 198 Contractor Competency Assessment 915 1,005 758 795 390 241 – 402 273 Contractor Tool Box Talks 68,495 97,266 89,961 65,925 86,414 70,475 – 7,681 11,433 HSE Inspections 981 6,876 6,927 377 1,834 707 – 3,152 5,235 Near Misses 1,080 2,768 3,358 517 731 735 – 1,365 2,055 Million hours worked – Employees 3.98 5.39 37.61 3.00 3.05 3.91 – 1.19 2.01 Million hours worked – Contractors 8.11 13.64 4.59 9.45 16.78 – 1.40 2.10 First Aid Cases 33 85 164 21 29 31 – 45 59 Medical Treatment Cases 19 29 50 8 18 13 – 3 6 Lost Time Injuries – Employees 0 2 1 0 0 0 – 0 0 Lost Time Injuries – Contractors 2 4 8 0 3 2 – 0 2 LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked – Employees 0 0.07 n/c 0 0 0 – 0 0 LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked – Contractors 0.05 0.06 n/c 0 0.07 0.04 – 0 0.19 Overall LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked 0.03 0.06 0.05 0 0.05 0.03 – 0 0.10 Fatalities – Employees 0 0 0 0 0 0 – 0 0 Fatalities – Contractors 0 0 1 0 0 1 – 0 0 Lost Day Rate per 200,000 hours worked – Employees 0 n/c n/c 0 0 0 – 0 0 Lost Day Rate per 200,000 hours worked – Contractors n/c n/c n/c 0 3.28 71.76 – 0 0 Fatality rate per million hours worked 0 0 0.03 0 0 0.05 – 0 0 Occupational Disease Rate 0 0 0 0 0 0 – 0 0 Number of Tier-1 process safety events 0 1 3 0 1 0 – 0 3 Number of Tier-2 process safety events 17 39 38 17 35 33 – 4 5 Process Safety Event Rate per million hours worked n/c n/c n/c 0.45 0.57 0.31 – 1.53 1.94 Process Safety Training – Number of employees n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c 386 – n/c n/c a Consolidated data for all the sites included in the boundary of this Report. b Data included from August, 2011 in alignment with the date of acquisition of Stanlow refinery. n/c Not calculated. Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 45 Health & safety continued E&P – Mehsana E&P – Raniganj FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 HSE Training – number of employees 0 0 12 16 528 1,176 HSE Training – number of contractors 5 0 0 36 199 847 HSE Inductions – Contractors 0 0 6 18 104 76 HSE Meetings – Employees 6 9 3 5 23 27 HSE Meetings – Contractors 0 8 7 43 93 17 Contractor Competency Assessment 0 0 0 31 0 47 Contractor Tool Box Talks 2 57 40 169 415 360 HSE Inspections 10 9 22 88 148 171 Near Misses 0 0 0 5 14 83 Million hours worked – Employees 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.19 0.28 0.52 Million hours worked – Contractors 0.14 0.11 0.14 1.74 2.13 4.11 First Aid Cases 0 0 1 4 7 19 Medical Treatment Cases 0 0 0 10 4 8 Lost Time Injuries – Employees 0 0 0 0 2 1 Lost Time Injuries – Contractors 0 0 0 2 1 3 LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked – Employees 0 0 0 0 0.14 0.38 LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked – Contractors 0 0 0 0.23 0.09 0.15 Overall LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked 0 0 0 0.21 0.25 0.17 Fatalities – Employees 0 0 0 0 0 0 Fatalities – Contractors 0 0 0 0 0 0 Lost Day Rate per 200,000 hours worked – Employees 0 0 0 n/c n/c n/c Lost Day Rate per 200,000 hours worked – Contractors 0 0 0 n/c n/c n/c Fatality rate per million hours worked 0 0 0 0 0 0 Occupational Disease Rate 0 0 0 0 0 0 Number of Tier-1 process safety events n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c Number of Tier-2 process safety events n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c Process Safety Event Rate per million hours worked n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c Process Safety Training – Number of employees n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c Not calculated. 46 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Performance indicators continued Health & safety continued Power Business Group EPoL BPL FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 HSE Training – Employees 1,224 1,367 1,241 324 593 435 491 474 329 HSE Training – Contractors 876 1,241 1,517 306 237 277 274 318 232 HSE Inductions – Contractors 2,524 2,171 3,452 1,207 1,000 857 1,081 867 571 HSE Meetings – Employees 61 49 53 18 18 20 18 18 20 HSE Meetings – Contractors 24 25 12 6 6 2 6 6 2 Contractor Competency Assessment 89 213 197 12 57 34 22 75 20 Contractor Tool Box Talks 2,399 2,699 7,653 1,184 1,247 2,924 966 1,220 3,276 HSE Inspections 506 1,733 792 228 910 425 217 783 318 Near Misses 558 658 485 39 69 12 44 61 1 Million hours worked – Employees 0.85 0.85 8.03 0.20 0.22 0.22 0.14 0.15 0.15 Million hours worked – Contractors 1.57 1.57 – 0.85 0.91 0.59 0.61 0.42 0.27 First Aid Cases 8 4 54 4 1 1 2 0 0 Medical Treatment Cases 1 4 23 0 4 0 0 0 1 Lost Time Injuries – Employees 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Lost Time Injuries – Contractors 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked – Employees 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked – Contractors 0 0 n/c 0 0 0 0 0 0 Overall LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked 0 0 0.02 0 0 0 0 0 0 Fatalities – Employees 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Fatalities – Contractors 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Lost Day Rate per 200,000 hours worked – Employees 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Lost Day Rate per 200,000 hours worked – Contractors 0 0 n/c 0 0 0 0 0 Fatality rate per million hours worked 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Occupational Disease Rate 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 n/c Not calculated. Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 47 Health & safety continued VPCLc EPGL, Salayad FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 HSE Training – Employees 409 300 311 – – 166 HSE Training – Contractors 296 686 924 – – 84 HSE Inductions – Contractors 236 304 526 – – 1,498 HSE Meetings – Employees 25 13 4 – – 9 HSE Meetings – Contractors 12 13 6 – – 2 Contractor Competency Assessment 55 81 75 – – 68 Contractor Tool Box Talks 249 232 1,323 – – 130 HSE Inspections 61 40 36 – – 13 Near Misses 475 528 221 – – 251 Million hours worked – Employees 0.41 0.48 0.51 – – 5.37 Million hours worked – Contractors 0.17 0.24 0.91 – – First Aid Cases 2 3 9 – – 44 Medical Treatment Cases 1 0 4 – – 18 Lost Time Injuries – Employees 0 0 0 – – 0 Lost Time Injuries – Contractors 0 0 0 – – 1 LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked – Employees 0 0 0 – – 0 LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked – Contractors 0 0 0 – – 0.04 e Overall LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked 0 0 0 – – 0.04 Fatalities – Employees 0 0 0 – – 0 Fatalities – Contractors 0 0 0 – – 0 Lost Day Rate per 200,000 hours worked – Employees 0 0 0 – – 0 Lost Day Rate per 200,000 hours worked – Contractors 0 0 0 – – 0.60e Fatality rate per million hours worked 0 0 0 – – 0 Occupational Disease Rate 0 0 0 – – 0 c FY2013 data also includes Vadinar PI and PII commissioned during the reporting period. d Data included from the date of start of commercial operations i.e. April, 2012. e Combined for employees and contractors. 48 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Performance indicators continued Environment Refinery – Vadinara Refinery – Stanlowb Unit FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Material consumption c million units 14.76 13.49 19.77 – 6.15 10.12 Direct Energy consumption d thousand GJ 7,100 6,438 78,998 – 26,000 39,535 Indirect Energy consumption e thousand GJ 322.70 150.6 39.10 – 403.40 586.19 Energy intensity f f 2.51 2.49 3.95 – n/c 3.93 Energy saved thousand kWh n/c 6,298 18,224 – n/c n/c Total water withdrawalg million m3 21.12 26.62 44.81 – 3.21 11.60 Water intensity h h 1.43 1.97 2.27 – n/c 3.83 Volume of water recycled and reused million m3 4.75 4.99 13.14 – n/c 0.18 Percentage water recycled and reused % 22.51 18.75 29.33 – n/c 0.47 Total direct & indirect greenhouse gas emissions thousand tCO2e 2,609.53 2,526.40 5,432.53 – 1,831.10 2,693.63 Scope 1 emissions thousand tCO2e 2,529.31 2,489.01 5,421.94 – 1,831.10 2,693.63 Scope 2 emissions thousand tCO2e 80.22 37.39 10.59 – 0 0 Carbon intensity i i 0.18 0.19 0.27 – n/c 0.31 Ozone Depleting Substances kg 300 390 456 – n/c <100 NOx hundred tonnes 16.04 4.46 3.42 – 28.78 39.32 SOx hundred tonnes 49.33 24.83 35.82 – 81.35 101.53 PM10 hundred tonnes 3.26 4.18 3.65 – 1.22 1.87 CO hundred tonnes 5.67 3.89 2.42 – n/c n/c VOC hundred tonnes n/c n/c n/c – n/c 30.32 Total wastewater generated million m3 1.81 1.64 3.05 – n/c 31.02 Wastewater recycled % 100 100 99.44 – n/c 0.60 Total water discharge million m3 2.94 3.38 0.02 – 24 3.66 Hazardous wastej thousand tonnes 34.34 81.81 69.82 – 5.17 18.75 Non-hazardous waste thousand tonnes 1.41 0.67 0.54 – n/c 3.97 Waste sent to landfill thousand tonnes 1.50 0.55 0.11 – n/c 0.67 Waste recycled thousand tonnes 30.51 77.84 66.67 – n/c 2.58 Number of Significant Spills number 0 0 0 – 0 2 Volume of Significant Spills thousand litre 0 0 0 – 0 323.50 Environmental protection expenditurek INR 2,746,763.92 969,666,987.50 285,452,128.20 – n/c n/c Volume of flared hydrocarbon thousand tonnes n/c n/c 25.83 – n/c 6.57 Volume of vented hydrocarbon thousand tonnes n/c n/c n/c – n/c 3.03 Contribution of flaring to total GHG emissions thousand tCO2e n/c n/c 20.49 – n/c 19.56 Benzene content in fuel % n/c n/c n/c – <1 <1 Lead content in fuel n/c n/c n/c – 0 0 Sulphur content in fuel ppm n/c n/c n/c – <10 <10 a Vadinar refinery data includes power plant data i.e Vadinar Power and FY2013 data also include Vadinar PI and PII commissioned during the reporting period. b Data included from August, 2011 in alignment with the date of acquisition of Stanlow refinery. c Material consumption is in tonnes of crude processed for Vadinar and Stanlow refinery; m3 natural gas at EPoL, BPL. d Direct energy consumption includes energy consumption by non-renewable sources including natural gas, internal fuel oil, fuelgas, FCC coke, Naphtha, HSD and coal at our refineries; imported coal, light diesel oil and heavy fuel oil at EPGL, Natural gas at power plants in Hazira; high speed diesel, CBM gas at Raniganj and Naphtha at Mehsana. e Indirect energy consumption includes electricity purchased from non-renewable energy sources. f Energy intensity for refineries – GJ/tonne of crude processed; power plants – GJ/MWh; E&P – GJ/scm. g Total water withdrawal includes water withdrawn from surface water bodies with the exception of Stanlow refinery which withdraws only 18% from the river. h Water intensity for refineries – m3/tonne of crude processed; power plants – m3/MWh; E&P – m3/scm. i Carbon intensity for refineries – tCO2e/tonne of crude processed; power plants – tCO2e/MWh. j At Vadinar refinery, except for oily sludge which is sent to pollution control approved authority, remaining waste is either reused or recycled. k Excludes capital expenditure at Vadinar. n/c Not calculated. Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 49 Environment continued E&P – Mehsana E&P – Raniganj Unit FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Material consumptionc million units 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.11 Direct Energy consumption d thousand GJ 0.02 0.00 0.24 65.80 114.55 218.95 Indirect Energy consumption e thousand GJ 0.29 0.21 0.29 n/c n/c 69,642 Energy intensity f f n/c n/c 0.23 n/c n/c 5.19 Energy saved thousand kWh n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c – Total water withdrawal g million m3 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.02 0.38 Water intensity h h n/c n/c 0.36 n/c n/c 0.03 Volume of water recycled and reused million m3 n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c 0.09 Percentage water recycled and reused % n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c 20 Total direct & indirect greenhouse gas emissions thousand tCO2e 0.04 0.04 n/c 17.82 18.60 20.64 Scope 1 emissions thousand tCO2e 0.03 0.04 0.02 17.82 18.60 – Scope 2 emissions thousand tCO2e 0.00 0.00 n/c 0 0 – Carbon intensity i i n/c n/c 0.02 n/c n/c – Ozone Depleting Substances kg n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c NOx hundred tonnes n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c 515.14 SOx hundred tonnes n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c 0 PM10 hundred tonnes n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c 0 CO hundred tonnes n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c VOC hundred tonnes n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c Total wastewater generated million m3 n/c n/c 0.01 n/c n/c 0.01 Wastewater recycled % n/c n/c 0 n/c n/c 0 Total water discharge million m3 n/c n/c 0.01 n/c n/c 0.01 Hazardous wastej thousand tonnes 0 0 n/c 0 0 4 Non-hazardous waste thousand tonnes 0 0.04 n/c 0 0.00 0 Waste sent to landfill thousand tonnes n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c 8.95 Waste recycled thousand tonnes n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c 41.92 Number of Significant Spills number n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c 0 Volume of Significant Spills thousand litre n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c 0 Environmental protection expenditure INR n/c 81,235 536,067 2,316,459 8,213,835 34,110,033 Volume of flared hydrocarbon thousand tonnes n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c 2,447.15 Volume of vented hydrocarbon thousand tonnes n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c 0 Contribution of flaring to total GHG emissions thousand tCO2e n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c 5.80 Benzene content in fuel % n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c Lead content in fuel n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c Sulphur content in fuel ppm n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c c Material consumption is in tonnes of crude processed for Vadinar and Stanlow refinery; m3 natural gas at EPoL, BPL. d Direct energy consumption includes energy consumption by non-renewable sources including natural gas, internal fuel oil, fuelgas, FCC coke, Naphtha, HSD and coal at our refineries; imported coal, light diesel oil and heavy fuel oil at EPGL, Natural gas at power plants in Hazira; high speed diesel, CBM gas at Raniganj and Naphtha at Mehsana. e Indirect energy consumption includes electricity purchased from non-renewable energy sources. f Energy intensity for refineries – GJ/tonne of crude processed; power plants – GJ/MWh; E&P – GJ/scm. g Total water withdrawal includes water withdrawn from surface water bodies with the exception of Stanlow refinery which withdraws only 18% from the river. h Water intensity for refineries – m3/tonne of crude processed; power plants – m3/MWh; E&P – m3/scm. i Carbon intensity for refineries – tCO2e/tonne of crude processed; power plants – tCO2e/MWh. j At Vadinar refinery, except for oily sludge which is sent to pollution control approved authority, remaining waste is either reused or recycled. n/c Not calculated. 50 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Performance indicators continued Environment continued Power Business Group EPoL Unit FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Material consumption c million units n/c n/c n/c 612.22 450.19 241.98 Direct Energy consumption d thousand GJ 0.86 0.74 2.70 434.52 359.37 234.32 Indirect Energy consumption e thousand GJ 0 0 0.04 – – 2.82 Auxiliary consumption thousand MWh 56.02 48.60 42.54 55.97 45.79 29.54 Energy saved thousand tCO2e 0 6.31 0.01 0 3,153 8.95 Total water withdrawalg million m3 7.24 5.89 13.56 3.86 2.97 1.85 Water intensity m3/MWh n/c n/c n/c 1.40 1.50 1.73 Volume of water recycled and reused million m3 1.09 0.75 0.70 1.02 0.58 0.26 Percentage water recycled and reused % n/c n/c n/c 84 74 58 Total direct & indirect greenhouse gas emissions thousand tCO2e 2,311.75 1,873.61 1,095.63 1,199.67 882.22 478.68 Scope 1 emissions thousand tCO2e 2,311.75 1,873.61 211,189 1,199.67 882.22 477.96 Scope 2 emissions thousand tCO2e 0 0 0.72 0 0 0.72 Carbon Intensity tCO2e/MWh n/c n/c n/c 0.44 0.45 0.45 Ozone Depleting Substances kg 14.50 29.50 16 2 23 7.50 NOx hundred tonnes 1.52 1.67 17.28 1.05 1.02 0.25 SOx hundred tonnes 0 0 39.27 0 0 0 PM10 hundred tonnes 0.65 0.77 16.66 0.33 0.35 0.10 Total wastewater generated million m3 1.67 1.27 1.08 1.22 0.78 0.45 Total water discharge million m3 0.58 0.52 0.38 0.20 0.20 0.19 Total wastewater recycled million m3 1.09 0.75 0.70 1.02 0.58 0.26 Hazardous waste kl 54.6 30.66 13.27 44.31 9.87 5.67 Non-hazardous waste tonnes n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c Waste sent to landfill tonnes 0 0 0 0 0 0 Number of Significant Spills number 0 0 0 0 0 0 Environmental protection expenditure INR 1,279,933 1,114,026 30,753,565 531,193 388,413 420,759 c Material consumption is in tonnes of crude processed for Vadinar and Stanlow refinery; m3 natural gas at EPoL, BPL. d Direct energy consumption includes energy consumption by non-renewable sources including natural gas, internal fuel oil, fuelgas, FCC coke, Naphtha, HSD and coal at our refineries; imported coal, light diesel oil and heavy fuel oil at EPGL, Natural gas at power plants in Hazira; high speed diesel, CBM gas at Raniganj and Naphtha at Mehsana. e Indirect energy consumption includes electricity purchased from non-renewable energy sources. f Energy intensity for refineries – GJ/tonne of crude processed; power plants – GJ/MWh; E&P – GJ/scm. g Total water withdrawal includes water withdrawn from surface water bodies with the exception of Stanlow refinery which withdraws only 18% from the river. n/c Not calculated. Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 51 Environment continued BPL EPGL, Salaya Unit FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Material consumption c million units 574.70 515.6 311.90 – – d Direct Energy consumption d thousand GJ 425.33 381.13 241.67 – – 2,224.90 Indirect Energy consumption e thousand GJ 0 0 0 – – 40.44 Auxiliary consumption thousand MWh 55,964 48,557 31,281 – – 11,234 Energy saved thousand tCO2e 0 3,153 3.92 – – 0 Total water withdrawalg million m3 3.38 2.92 1.80 – – 9.91 Water intensity m3/MWh 1.29 1.23 1.27 – – 2.80 Volume of water recycled and reused million m3 0.07 0.17 0.13 – – 0.31 Percentage water recycled and reused % 14 35 52 – – 8.86 Total direct & indirect greenhouse gas emissions thousand tCO2e 1,112.08 991.38 616.95 – – 210,103.20 Scope 1 emissions thousand tCO2e 1112.08 991.38 616.95 – – 210,094 Scope 2 emissions thousand tCO2e 0 0 0 – – n/c Carbon Intensity tCO2e/MWh 0.43 0.42 0.43 – – n/c Ozone Depleting Substances kg 12.50 6.50 8.50 – – 0 NOx hundred tonnes 0.47 0.65 0.24 – – 16.79 SOx hundred tonnes 0 0 0 – – 39.27 PM10 hundred tonnes 0.32 0.43 0.15 – – 16.51 Total wastewater generated million m3 0.45 0.49 0.24 – – 0.39 Total water discharge million m3 0.39 0.32 0.11 – – 0.08 Total wastewater recycled million m3 0.07 0.17 0.13 – – 0.31 Hazardous waste kl 10.29 20.79 0 – – 7.60 Non-hazardous waste tonnes n/c n/c n/c – – n/c Waste sent to landfill tonnes 0 0 0 – – n/c Number of Significant Spills number 0 0 0 – – 0 Environmental protection expenditure k INR 748,740 725,613 670,190 – – 29,662,616 c Material consumption is in tonnes of crude processed for Vadinar and Stanlow refinery; m3 natural gas at EPoL, BPL. d Direct energy consumption includes energy consumption by non-renewable sources including natural gas, internal fuel oil, fuelgas, FCC coke, Naphtha, HSD and coal at our refineries; imported coal, light diesel oil and heavy fuel oil at EPGL, Natural gas at power plants in Hazira; high speed diesel, CBM gas at Raniganj and Naphtha at Mehsana. e Indirect energy consumption includes electricity purchased from non-renewable energy sources. f Energy intensity for refineries – GJ/tonne of crude processed; power plants – GJ/MWh; E&P – GJ/scm. g Total water withdrawal includes water withdrawn from surface water bodies with the exception of Stanlow refinery which withdraws only 18% from the river. n/c Not calculated. 52 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Performance indicators continued Labour EEplca Refining & Marketing – Indiab Refinery & Marketing – UKc,d Power Business Groupd E&Pd FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Total workforce by type Employees 2,744 3,967 3,912 1,463 1,410 1,397 – 1,002 1,018 1,086 1,301 1,235 195 254 262 Fixed term contracte 43 92 80 9 18 15 – 24 27 20 35 23 14 15 15 Third party contract f 2,891 3,814 3,890 1,651 2,200 2,152 – 500 86 296 372 1,560 944 742 92 % employees covered by collective bargaining g g g 0 0 0 – 55 56 0 0 0 0 0 0 % women employees 5.61 6.48 6.66 6.15 6.10 6.08 – 9.06 10.24 3.98 3.97 3.74 10.00 11.20 9.39 Number of employees by category Senior 161 188 221 90 82 87 – 29 37 50 52 63 21 25 34 Middle 513 824 848 308 330 351 – 258 269 155 177 167 50 59 61 Junior 2,104 3,029 2,908 1,065 998 959 – 739 739 901 1,107 1,028 138 185 182 Number of employees by gender Male 2,623 3,779 3,712 1,373 1,324 1,312 – 933 938 1,062 1,283 1,211 188 239 251 Female 155 262 265 90 86 85 – 93 107 44 53 47 21 30 26 Number of employees by age group less than 30 1,396 1,763 1,594 677 619 577 – 184 186 657 830 719 62 130 112 30–50 1,249 1,809 1,848 731 738 764 – 506 469 408 455 490 110 110 125 More than 50 133 469 535 55 53 56 – 336 390 41 51 49 37 29 40 % employees returning to work after parental leave n/c 80 97 n/c 100 50 – 0 100 n/c 100 100 n/c 100 h Employee turnover by category Senior 19 21 35 14 8 13 – 4 0 3 5 15 2 4 7 Middle 64 64 103 39 27 32 – 11 17 17 12 35 8 14 19 Junior 265 250 351 138 125 161 – 18 13 96 89 125 31 18 52 Employee turnover by gender Male 334 306 449 183 148 190 – 27 27 113 101 161 38 30 71 Female 14 29 40 8 12 16 – 6 3 3 5 14 3 6 7 Employee turnover by age group Below 30 156 159 256 80 80 125 – 1 7 54 67 85 22 11 39 30–50 170 142 190 98 73 74 – 14 17 56 37 69 16 18 30 More than 50 22 34 43 13 7 7 – 18 6 6 2 21 3 7 9 Total hires 876 584 357 297 141 132 – 35 81 524 321 62 55 93 85 Hires by category Senior 21 26 57 5 4 6 – 6 3 12 6 11 4 5 9 Middle 114 80 82 54 16 3 – 11 31 49 32 10 11 14 22 Junior 741 478 218 238 121 123 – 18 47 463 283 41 40 74 54 Hires by gender Male 832 586 329 286 132 127 – 63 65 499 310 56 47 81 81 Female 44 53 31 11 9 5 – 21 16 25 11 6 8 12 4 Hires by age group Less than 30 598 424 215 177 100 110 – 30 39 388 224 35 33 70 31 30-50 257 193 113 119 40 19 – 51 35 122 86 16 16 16 43 More than 50 21 22 32 1 1 3 – 3 7 14 11 11 6 7 11 Average hours of training per employee n/c 37.60 44.10 n/c 27.20 35.36 – 19.40 24.60 n/c 68.4 77.28 n/c 9.12 11 Average hours of training by gender Male n/c n/c n/c n/c 27.20 n/c – 20.20 25.05 n/c 14.16i 77.04 n/c 4.48 10.90 Female n/c n/c n/c n/c 30.40 n/c – 11 21.10 n/c 11.2i 82.72 n/c 9.68 12.10 Number of employees appraised by gender n/c n/c 3,324 n/c 1,471 1,382 – 20.20 464j n/c n/c 1,222 n/c 239 256 Male n/c n/c 3,082 n/c 1,377 1,299 – n/c 376j n/c n/c 1,177 n/c 211 230 Female n/c n/c 242 n/c 94 83 – n/c 88j n/c n/c 45 n/c 28 26 a Includes consolidated numbers for Refining & Marketing – India, UK, Power and E& P business. b Employee analysis includes permanent employees only. c Data included from August, 2011 in alignment with the date of acquisition of Stanlow refinery. d Employee analysis includes permanent and fixed term contract employees. e Personnel directly hired through the company on a fixed term contract basis for a period ranging one and three years for certain projects. f Includes contractors and sub-contractors hired for specific jobs at sites. g Only stanlow refinery has employees covered under collective bargaining. h Not applicable as no employees took parental leave during the reporting period. i Training data by gender available for external training only. j Includes non-unionised staff only. n/c Not calculated. Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 53 GRI G3.1 OGSS; IPIECA/API/OGP and UNGC Content Index Standard Disclosures Part I: Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis GRI Indicator Level of IPIECA Profile Disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Indicator UNGC COP Element Remarks 1.1 Statement from the most Fully 2–3 Statement of senior decision-maker of the continuing organisation. support 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, Fully 2–3 and opportunities. 2. Organisational Profile GRI Indicator Level of IPIECA Profile Disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Indicator UNGC COP Element Remarks 2.1 Name of the organisation. Fully Front cover 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or Fully 6–7 services. 2.3 Operational structure of the Fully 6–7 organisation, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organisation’s Fully Back cover headquarters. 2.5 Number of countries where the Fully 6–7 organisation operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal Fully http://www. form. essarenergy.com/ about-us/our-groupstructure.aspx 2.7 Markets served (including Fully 32–33 geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/ beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting Fully 6-7, 17, organisation. 32, Performance indicators section 2.9 Significant changes during the Fully 9 reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting Fully 8 period. 54 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 GRI G3.1 OGSS; IPIECA/API/OGP and UNGC Content Index continued 3. Report Parameters GRI Indicator Level of IPIECA Profile Disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Indicator UNGC COP Element Remarks 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/ Fully 4 calendar year) for information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous Fully 5 report (if any). 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, Fully 5 etc). 3.4 Contact point for questions Fully 5 regarding the report or its contents. 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully 4–5 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., Fully 4 countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations Fully 4 on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint Fully 4 ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and Fully ISO 9001; ISO the bases of calculations, including 14001; OHSAS assumptions and techniques 18001; GHG underlying estimations applied to Protocol, IPCC the compilation of the Indicators 2006; OGP; IFRS, and other information in the report. UNGC and other Explain any decisions not to apply, relevant industry or to substantially diverge from, the standards GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any Fully None restatements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such restatement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous Fully 4 reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of Fully 53–69 the Standard Disclosures in the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice Fully 5 with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 55 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement GRI Indicator Level of IPIECA Profile Disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Indicator UNGC COP Element Remarks 4.1 Governance structure of the Fully AR 52–55, 57–58 Actions taken organisation, including committees to implement under the highest governance Principles 1–10 body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the Fully AR 58 highest governance body is also an executive officer. 4.3 For organisations that have a Fully AR 57 unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or nonexecutive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders AR 58, 64 and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation Fully AR 65 for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organisation’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest Fully AR 59–60 governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the Fully AR 56,68 composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements Fully 18, 20–24 Actions taken of mission or values, codes of to implement conduct, and principles relevant Principles 1–10 to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest Fully AR 57–58 Actions taken governance body for overseeing to implement the organisation’s identification Principles 1–10 and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 56 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 GRI G3.1 OGSS; IPIECA/API/OGP and UNGC Content Index continued 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement continued GRI Indicator Level of IPIECA Profile Disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Indicator UNGC COP Element Remarks 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Fully AR 59 highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how Fully AR 34–39 Actions taken the precautionary approach or to implement principle is addressed by the Principle 7 organisation. 4.12 Externally developed economic, Fully 43 Actions taken environmental, and social to implement charters, principles, or Principles 1–10 other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations Fully 43 (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organisations in which the organisation: *Has positions in governance bodies; *Participates in projects or committees; *Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or *Views membership as strategic. 4.14COMM List of stakeholder groups Fully 10–12 engaged by the organisation. 4.15 Basis for identification and Fully 10 selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder Fully 11–12 engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17COMM Key topics and concerns that Fully 11–12 have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 57 Standard Disclosures Part II: Disclosures on Management Approach (‘DMAs’) GRI Indicator Level of IPIECA G3.1 OGSS DMAs Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Indicator UNGC COP Element Remarks DMA EC Disclosure on Management Actions taken Approach EC to implement Principles 1,4,6 and 7 Aspects Economic performance Fully 16–17 Market presence, including local Fully 32–33 content Indirect economic impacts Fully 17 Reserves Fully http://www. essarenergy. com/operations/ exploration-andproduction.aspx DMA EN Disclosure on Management Actions taken Approach EN to implement Principles 7, 8 and 9 Aspects Materials Fully 23 EnergyCOMM Fully 23 Water Fully 23 Ecosystem services including Fully 23 biodiversity Emissions, effluents and waste Fully 23 Products and services Fully 23 Compliance Fully 14, 23 Transport Fully 23 Overall Fully 23 DMA LA Disclosure on Management Actions taken Approach LACOMM to implement Principles 1, 3 and 6 Aspects Employment Fully 19 Labour/management relations Fully 19 Occupational Health and Fully 22–23 SafetyCOMM Training and education Fully http://www.essar. com/section_level1. aspx?cont_ id=R8HhjeqM9ZQ= Diversity and equal opportunity Fully 21 Equal remuneration for women Fully 21 and men 58 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 GRI G3.1 OGSS; IPIECA/API/OGP and UNGC Content Index continued Standard Disclosures Part II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) continued GRI Indicator Level of IPIECA G3.1 OGSS DMAs Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Indicator UNGC COP Element Remarks DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR Aspects Investment and procurement Fully 20–21 practices Non-discrimination Fully 20–21 Freedom of association and Fully 20–21 collective bargaining Child labour Fully 20–21 Prevention of forced and Fully 20–21 compulsory labour Security PracticesCOMM Fully 20–21 Indigenous rightsCOMM Fully 20–21 Assessment Fully 20–21 Remediation Fully 20–21 DMA SO Disclosure on Management Actions taken Approach SO to implement Principle 10 Aspects Local communitiesCOMM Fully 35 CorruptionCOMM Fully 14 Public policy Fully 4, 43 Anti-competitive behaviour Fully 14 Compliance Fully 14 Emergency preparedness Fully 23, 30 Involuntary resettlement Fully 35 Asset integrity and process safety Fully 23, 26 DMA PR Disclosure on Management Actions taken Approach PR to implement Principles 1 to 8 Aspects Customer health and safety Fully 32 Product and service labelling Fully 32 Marketing communications Fully We retain well established advertising firms who follow country codes as applicable Customer privacy Fully 32 Compliance Fully 14 Fossil fuel substitutes Fully Currently we do not have any plans for fossil fuel substitutes. Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 59 Standard Disclosures Part III: Performance Indicators Economic GRI Indicator Level of IPIECA Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Indicator UNGC COP Element Remarks Economic performance EC1COMM Direct economic value generated Fully 17, 35–37 SE4 and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2COMM Financial implications and other Fully 27–28 Actions taken risks and opportunities for the to implement organisation’s activities due to Principle 7 climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s Fully As per statute defined benefit plan obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance Fully None received during received from government. the reporting period Market presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry Fully 21 Outcomes from level wage by gender compared implementing to local minimum wage at Principle 1 significant locations of operation. EC6 COMM Policy, practices, and proportion Partially Local refers to the SE5, SE6 Currently, of spending on locally-based country of operation proportion of suppliers at significant locations and as part of spend on locally of operation. our procurement based suppliers processes, the is not part of our suppliers available data collection locally are given system and we preference. will report in 2014 EC7COMM Procedures for local hiring and Fully Local is defined SE5–SE6 Actions taken and proportion of Senior Management as same country outcomes from hired from the local community at and most of our implementing significant locations of operation. employees are Principle 6 hired locally. See the performance indicators section for Senior Management hired. Indirect economic impacts EC8 COMM Development and impact of Fully 35–42 SE4 infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9COMM Understanding and describing Fully 17 SE6 significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. OG1 Volume and type of estimated Fully http://www. proved reserves and production. essarenergy. com/operations/ exploration-andproduction.aspx 60 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 GRI G3.1 OGSS; IPIECA/API/OGP and UNGC Content Index continued Standard Disclosures Part III: Performance Indicators continued Environmental GRI Indicator Level of IPIECA Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Indicator UNGC COP Element Remarks Materials EN1COMM Materials used by weight or Fully Performance Outcomes from volume. indicators section implementing Principle 8 EN2COMM Percentage of materials used that Fully No input materials Outcomes from are recycled input materials. were recycled implementing Principle 8, 9 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by Fully Performance E2 Outcomes from primary energy source. indicators section implementing Principle 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by Fully Performance E2 Outcomes from primary source. indicators section implementing Principle 8 OG2 Total amount invested in Fully None invested in the renewable energy. reporting period OG3 Total amount of renewable energy Fully None generated by source. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation Fully 28–29, 31, E2 Outcomes from and efficiency improvements. Performance implementing indicators section Principle 8, 9 EN6 Initiatives to provide energyFully None during the E3 Actions taken efficient or renewable energy reporting period to implement based products and services, and Principles 8 and 9 reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect Fully Performance E2 Actions taken energy consumption and indicators section to implement reductions achieved. Principles 8 and 9 Water EN8COMM Total water withdrawal by source. Fully Performance E6 Outcomes from indicators section implementing Principle 8 EN9COMM Water sources significantly Fully None E6 Outcomes from affected by withdrawal of water. implementing Principle 8 EN10 Percentage and total volume of Fully Performance E6 Outcomes from water recycled and reused. indicators section implementing Principle 8 and 9 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 61 GRI Indicator Level of IPIECA Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Indicator UNGC COP Element Remarks Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, Fully 29–30 E5 Outcomes from leased, managed in, or adjacent implementing to, protected areas and areas of Principle 8 high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant Fully 29–30 E5 Outcomes from impacts of activities, products, implementing and services on biodiversity in Principle 8 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Fully 29–30 E4, E5 Outcomes from implementing Principle 8 EN14COMM Strategies, current actions, and Fully 29–30 E5 Actions taken future plans for managing impacts to Implement on biodiversity. Principle 8 OG4 Number and percentage of Fully 29–30 significant operating sites in which biodiversity risk has been assessed and monitored. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species Fully 30 Outcomes from and national conservation list implementing species with habitats in areas Principle 8 affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 COMM Total direct and indirect Fully Performance E1, E4 Outcomes from greenhouse gas emissions by indicators section implementing weight. Principle 8 EN17COMM Other relevant indirect Not – E1 Outcomes from Currently it is not greenhouse gas emissions by implementing part of our data weight. Principle 8 collection system and we will report in 2015 EN18 COMM Initiatives to reduce greenhouse Fully 27–29, 31 E1 Actions taken and gas emissions and reductions outcomes from achieved. implementing Principles 7, 8 and 9 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting Fully Performance E7 Outcomes from substances by weight. indicators section implementing Principle 8 EN20 COMM NOx, SOx, and other significant Partially Performance E7 Outcomes from Currently we are air emissions by type and weight. indicators section implementing not consolidating Principle 8 VOC emissions from sites other than Stanlow and will report in 2015 EN21 Total water discharge by quality Fully Performance E9 Outcomes from and destination. indicators section implementing Principle 8 EN22COMM Total weight of waste by type and Fully Performance E10 Outcomes from disposal method. indicators section implementing Principle 8 62 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 GRI G3.1 OGSS; IPIECA/API/OGP and UNGC Content Index continued Standard Disclosures Part III: Performance Indicators continued GRI Indicator Level of IPIECA Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Indicator UNGC COP Element Remarks OG5 Volume of formation or produced Fully 31 water. EN23COMM Total number and volume of Fully 24 E8 Outcomes from significant spills. implementing Principle 8 OG6 Volume of flared and vented Fully Performance hydrocarbon. indicators section OG7 Amount of drilling waste (drill mud Not – Currently it is not and cuttings) and strategies for part of our data treatment and disposal. collection system and we will report in 2014 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, Fully 415 tonnes of waste Outcomes from exported, or treated waste was transported implementing deemed hazardous under the by Stanlow refinery Principle 8 terms of the Basel Convention during the reporting Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and period percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected Fully 29–30 Outcomes from status, and biodiversity value implementing of water bodies and related Principle 8 habitats significantly affected by the reporting organisation’s discharges of water and run-off. Products and services EN26 COMM Initiatives to mitigate Fully 23–24, 26–27 Actions taken environmental impacts of to implement products and services, and extent Principles 7, 8 of impact mitigation. and 9 EN27 Percentage of products sold and Fully We do not have Outcomes from their packaging materials that are products that are implementing reclaimed by category. packaged Principles 8 and 9 OG8 Benzene, Lead and Sulphur Fully Performance content in fuels. indicators section Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines Fully None in the reporting Outcomes from and total number of non-monetary period. implementing sanctions for non-compliance with Principle 8 environmental laws and regulations. Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts 23–24, 26 Outcomes from of transporting products and implementing other goods and materials used Principle 8 for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall EN30 Total environmental protection Fully Performance Actions taken and expenditures and investments indicators section outcomes from by type. implementing Principles 7, 8 and 9 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 63 Social: Labour Practices and Decent Work GRI Indicator Level of IPIECA Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Indicator UNGC COP Element Remarks Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment Partially Performance Currently we are type, employment contract, and indicators section not collecting region, broken down by gender. gender specific data for the contractor workforce and will report this indicator in 2014 LA2 Total number and rate of new Fully Performance Outcomes from employee hires and employee indicators section implementing turnover by age group, gender, Principle 6 and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time Fully http://www.essar. employees that are not provided com/article. to temporary or part-time aspx?cont_ employees, by major operations. id=agH2dggGe14= LA15 Return to work and retention rates Fully Performance after parental leave, by gender. indicators section Labour/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees Fully Performance Outcomes from covered by collective bargaining indicators section implementing agreements. Principles 1 and 3 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) Fully Minimum notice Outcomes from regarding significant operational period is either as implementing changes, including whether it is per management of Principle 3 specified in collective agreements. change procedure which is part of the management system or as specified in the bargaining agreement Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce Fully Less than 25% HS1, Outcomes from represented in formal joint SE16 implementing management-worker health Principle 1 and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes. LA7COMM Rates of injury, occupational Fully Performance HS3 Outcomes from diseases, lost days, and indicators section implementing absenteeism, and number of Principle 1 work-related fatalities by region and by gender. LA8 Education, training, counselling, Fully 35–42 HS2 Actions taken prevention, and risk-control to implement programmes in place to assist Principle 1 workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered Fully 24 SE16 Actions taken in formal agreements with trade to implement unions. Principle 1 64 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 GRI G3.1 OGSS; IPIECA/API/OGP and UNGC Content Index continued Social: Labour Practices and Decent Work continued GRI Indicator Level of IPIECA Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Indicator UNGC COP Element Remarks Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year Partially Performance SE17 Currently we are per employee by gender, and by indicators section not consolidating employee category. training hours by gender and employee category and will report in 2014 LA11 Programmes for skills Fully www.essar.com/ SE17 management and lifelong learning myworld@essar that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees Fully Performance SE17 receiving regular performance indicators section and career development reviews, by gender. Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance Fully Performance SE15 Outcomes from bodies and breakdown of indicators section, implementing employees per employee AR 57, AR 60–61 Principles 1 and 6 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Equal remuneration for women and men LA14 Ratio of basic salary and Fully 21 Outcomes from remuneration of women to men by implementing employee category, by significant Principles 1 and 6 locations of operation. Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 65 Social: Human Rights GRI Indicator Level of IPIECA Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Indicator UNGC COP Element Remarks Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of Partially 20–21 SE8 Outcomes from Currently number significant investment agreements implementing of contracts and and contracts that include clauses Principles 1 to 6 agreements that incorporating human rights have undergone concerns, or that have undergone screening is not human rights screening. part of our data collection system and we will report in 2015 HR2 Percentage of significant Partially 20–21 SE9 Actions taken and Currently number suppliers, contractors and outcomes from of contracts and other business partners that implementing agreements that have undergone human rights Principles 1 to 6 were declined is screening, and actions taken. not part of our data collection system and we will report in 2015 HR3 Total hours of employee training Partially Performance SE8 Outcomes from Number of hours on policies and procedures Indicators section implementing spent on human concerning aspects of human Principles 1 to 6 rights training rights that are relevant to during the operations, including the induction training percentage of employees trained. is not part of our data collection system and we will report in 2015 Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of Fully No case in the SE18 Actions taken and discrimination and corrective reporting period outcomes from actions taken. implementing Principles 1, 2 and 6 Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations and significant Fully We abide by the Actions taken suppliers identified in which human rights to implement the right to exercise freedom laws applicable Principles 1 to 3 of association and collective to the countries bargaining may be violated or at where we operate. significant risk, and actions taken The governing to support these rights. law adequately addresses the human rights requirements for operations and suppliers identified as exposed to human rights violation. 66 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 GRI G3.1 OGSS; IPIECA/API/OGP and UNGC Content Index continued Social: Human Rights continued GRI Indicator Level of IPIECA Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Indicator UNGC COP Element Remarks Child labour HR6 Operations and significant Fully We abide by the Actions taken suppliers identified as having human rights to implement significant risk for incidents of laws applicable Principles 1, 2 child labour, and measures taken to the countries and 5 to contribute to the effective where we operate. abolition of child labour. The governing law adequately addresses the human rights requirements for operations and suppliers identified as exposed to human rights violation. Prevention of forced and compulsory labour HR7 Operations and significant Fully We abide by the Actions taken suppliers identified as having human rights to implement significant risk for incidents of laws applicable Principles 1, 2 forced or compulsory labour, and to the countries and 4 measures to contribute to the where we operate. elimination of all forms of forced or The governing compulsory labour. law adequately addresses the human rights requirements for operations and suppliers identified as exposed to human rights violation. Security practices HR8 COMM Percentage of security personnel Fully All security SE10 Outcomes from trained in the organisation’s personnel hired implementing policies or procedures concerning directly by the Principles 1 and 2 aspects of human rights that are Company are relevant to operations. trained in different aspects of human rights Indigenous rights HR9COMM Total number of incidents of Fully No case in the Actions Taken and violations involving rights of reporting period Outcomes from indigenous people and actions implementing taken. Principles 1 and 2 Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of Fully 20–21 operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. OG9 Operations where indigenous Fully 35–37 communities are present or affected by activities and where specific engagement strategies are in place. Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to Fully No case in the human rights filed, addressed and reporting period resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 67 Social: Society GRI Indicator Level of IPIECA Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Indicator UNGC COP Element Remarks Local communities SO1 Percentage of operations with Fully 35–42 SE1 – implemented local community SE5 engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes. SO9COMM Operations with significant Fully 35–42 potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. SO10 COMM Prevention and mitigation Fully 35–42 measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. OG10 Number and description of Fully None significant disputes with local communities and indigenous peoples. OG11 Number of sites that have been Fully None decommissioned and sites that are in the process of being decommissioned. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of Fully 100% business SE11–12 Outcomes from business units analysed for risks units are analysed implementing related to corruption. for such risks Principle 10 SO3 Percentage of employees trained Fully 14 SE11 Outcomes from in organisation’s anti-corruption implementing policies and procedures. Principle 10 SO4 Actions taken in response to Fully No case in the SE11 incidents of corruption. reporting period Public policy SO5COMM Public policy positions and Fully 43 SE14 Actions taken participation in public policy to implement development and lobbying. Principles 1 to 10 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind Fully None SE14 Outcomes from contributions to political parties, implementing politicians, and related institutions Principle 10 by country. Anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Total number of legal actions for Fully No case in the anti-competitive behaviour, antireporting period trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance SO8 COMM Monetary value of significant fines Fully No case in the and total number of non-monetary reporting period sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. 68 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 GRI G3.1 OGSS; IPIECA/API/OGP and UNGC Content Index continued Social: Society continued GRI Indicator Level of IPIECA Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Indicator UNGC COP Element Remarks Involuntary resettlement OG12 Operations where involuntary Fully None resettlement took place, the number of households resettled in each and how their livelihoods were affected in the process. Asset Integrity and Process Safety OG13 Number of process safety events, Fully Performance by business activity. indicators section Social: Product Responsibility GRI Indicator Level of IPIECA Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Indicator UNGC COP Element Remarks Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health Fully 32 HS4 Actions taken and and safety impacts of products outcomes from and services are assessed for implementing improvement, and percentage of Principle 1 significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of Fully No case in the HS4 Outcomes from non-compliance with regulations reporting period implementing and voluntary codes concerning Principle 1 health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service Fully 32 HS4 Actions taken and information required by outcomes from procedures, and percentage of implementing significant products and services Principle 8 subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of Fully No case in the HS4 Outcomes from non-compliance with regulations reporting period implementing and voluntary codes concerning Principle 8 product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer Partially 10–11 Results of surveys satisfaction, including results of not available. Will surveys measuring customer be reported in satisfaction. 2014 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 69 GRI Indicator Level of IPIECA Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Indicator UNGC COP Element Remarks Marketing communications PR6 Programmes for adherence to Fully We retain well HS4 laws, standards, and voluntary established codes related to marketing advertising firms communications, including who follow country advertising, promotion, and codes as applicable sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of Fully No case in the non-compliance with regulations reporting period and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated Fully No case in the Outcomes from complaints regarding breaches of reporting period implementing customer privacy and losses of Principle 1 customer data. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines Fully No case in the for non-compliance with laws reporting period and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Biofuels OG14 Volume of biofuels produced and Fully Currently we purchased meeting sustainability neither produce nor criteria. purchase biofuels IPIECA Process Safety Fully 23, 26, Performance Indicator HS5 indicators section 70 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 GRI Check Statement Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 71 Assurance Statement The Board of Directors and Management Assurance criteria Essar Energy Plc The assurance engagement was planned and performed in Mauritius accordance with the International Federation of Accountants’ International Standard for Assurance Engagements Other than Ernst & Young LLP (EY) was retained by Essar Energy plc. (‘the Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE 3000) Company’) to provide independent assurance to Essar Energy and the second edition of AccountAbility’s AA1000 Assurance Plc’s Sustainability Report (the Report) for the financial year Standard 2008 (AA1000AS). Our evidence-gathering 2012–13. procedures were designed to obtain a ‘limited’ level of assurance (as set out in ISAE 3000) on reporting principles and The Company’s management is responsible for the content of a ‘Type 2 Moderate’ level of assurance (as per AA1000AS), as the report, identification of the key issues, engagement with well as conformance of sustainability performance indicators as stakeholders and its presentation. EY’s responsibility, in per GRI G3.1 (2011) Guidelines and the IPIECA Oil and Gas accordance with the company’s management’s instructions, is Industry Guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting. to carry out a ‘limited’ assurance engagement on the Report and to include specific observations from our work. The What we did to form our conclusions assurance statement should not be taken as a basis for In order to form our conclusions we undertook the following interpreting the Company’s performance across the scope of key steps: issues covered in the Report. 1. Interviewed select key senior personnel of the Company to Our responsibility in performing our assurance activities is to the understand the current processes in place for capturing management of the Company only and in accordance with the sustainability performance data as per GRIG3.1 guidelines, terms of reference agreed with the Company. We do not the Company’s sustainability vision and the progress made therefore accept or assume any responsibility for any other during the reporting period; purpose or to any other person or organization. 2. Reviewed the Company’s approach to stakeholder engagement and processes for determining material issues Scope of Assurance through interviews and review of associated documents with The scope of assurance covers the following aspects of issue owners at the corporate office at Mumbai the Report: (Maharashtra) and units at Hazira, Vadinar and Salaya in `` Data and information related to the Company’s sustainability Gujarat and Raniganj in West Bengal; performance for the period 1st April 2012 to 31st March 2013 3. Reviewed relevant documents and systems for gathering, `` The Company’s internal protocols, processes, and controls analysing and aggregating sustainability performance data in related to the collection and collation of sustainability the reporting period; performance data; 4. Interviewed the top management to understand their `` Review of information on sample GRI G3.1 (2011) core commitment to sustainability, systems for sustainability indicators covering the Company’s Corporate Office at performance management and the future outlook. Mumbai and the following sites of operations: 1. Refining and Marketing: Vadinar, Gujarat Observations 2. Power: Essar Power Gujarat Ltd., Essar Power and `` The company discloses its sustainability performance to its Bhander Power, Gujarat stakeholders using several internationally accepted 3. Exploration and Production : Raniganj, West Bengal frameworks like Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) G3.1 Guidelines, GRI Oil and Gas sector supplement (GRI OGSS), Limitations of our review AccountAbility 1000 Principles Standard as well as IPIECA The assurance scope excludes: Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on voluntary sustainability `` Aspects of the Report and data/information other than those reporting. The Company is now a signatory to United Nations mentioned above; Global Compact further demonstrating its commitment to `` Data and information outside the defined reporting period i.e. sustainability; 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2013; `` The company has placed considerable emphasis on `` The Company’s statements that describe expression of sustainability and health and safety aspects during the opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim or future intention reporting period with these being on the agenda at the provided by the Company; Board level; `` Data and information on economic and financial `` Going forward, the Company may further strengthen its data performance of the Company. management systems and internal controls, especially with respect to GHG (greenhouse gas) emissions and human resources’ data, to ensure greater consistency in data being reported across locations. Few data discrepancies were evidenced between the data maintained at sites and at the corporate headquarters; 72 Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 Assurance Statement continued `` The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) team has several Our assurance team and independence programs in place and engages closely with communities Our assurance team, comprising of multidisciplinary around the company’s sites, focusing on health and professionals, has been drawn from our climate change and education. sustainability network and undertakes similar engagements with a number of significant Indian and international businesses. As Our Conclusions an assurance provider, EY is required to comply with the On the basis of our review scope and methodology, our independence requirements set out in International Federation conclusions are as follows: of Accountants (‘IFAC’) Code of Ethics1 for Professional Accountants. EY’s independence policies and procedures Inclusiveness: ensure compliance with the Code. We are not aware of any matter that would lead us to conclude that the Company has not applied the principle of inclusivity in engaging with key stakeholder groups. The Company transparently discloses its stakeholder engagement approach and activities in the sustainability report. The Company’s engagement with some key stakeholder groups such as local for Ernst & Young LLP communities, suppliers and efforts to address their concerns Sudipta Das were evidenced during our review. Partner Materiality: 18 July 2013 Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe Kolkata that any material issue has been excluded from sustainability reporting by the Company. The Company has mapped its material issues as a materiality matrix which is disclosed in the sustainability report. Going forward the report could cover actions and a roadmap on material issues in greater detail. Responsiveness: We are not aware of any matter that would lead us to believe that the Company has not applied the responsiveness principle for dealing with stakeholders on material aspects covering its sustainability performance. The Company’s responsiveness to its customers, suppliers, and local communities was evidenced. Reliability of performance information: We reviewed the accuracy and completeness of sustainability information in the Report. Nothing has come to our attention that causes us not to believe that the data has been presented fairly, in material respects, in keeping with the GRI-G3.1 guidelines, IPIECA Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting and the Company’s reporting principles and criteria. Data errors were found in a few GRI G 3.1 indicators during assurance and were subsequently corrected by the Company in the final Report. 1 International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants. This Code establishes ethical requirements for professional accountants. The guidance related to network firms was updated in July 2006. Essar Energy plc Sustainability Report 2013 73 Glossary AA1000APS 2008 AccountAbility Principles Standard 2008 ISAE The International Standard on Assurance Engagements AA1000AS 2008 AccountAbility Assurance Standard 2008 ISO International Standardisation Organisation ALPG Auto liquefied petroleum gas IUCN The International Union for Conservation API American Petroleum Institute of Nature ASTM American Society for Testing and Materials LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate BPL Bhander Power Limited, Hazira mmscm million metric standard cubic metres CBM Coal Bed Methane mmt million metric tonnes CDLI Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index mmtpa million metric tonnes per annum CDP Carbon Disclosure Project MSDS Material Safety Data Sheet CO2 Carbon Dioxide MW Mega Watt Code The Corporate Governance Code, NGO Non-Governmental Organisation published by the FRC NIO National Institute of Oceanography CNG Compressed Natural Gas OCIMF Oil Companies International Marine Forum DGSA Dangerous Goods Safety Advisor OGP The International Association of Oil and DNV Det Norske Veritas Gas producers E&P Exploration and Production PHA Process hazard analysis EIA Environmental Impact Assessment PHc Petroleum hydrocarbons EPGL Essar Power Gujarat Limited, Salaya PLS Playground learning station EPoL Essar Power Limited, Hazira PSU Public Sector Undertaking ERIMS Essar Refinery Integrated Management scmd standard cubic metres per day System SIRE Ship Inspection Report Programme Essar Foundation The Essar Group Foundation SP Social Performance ETP Effluent Treatment Plant TTE Training Tomorrow’s Engineers FRC Financial Reporting Council UNGC United Nations Global Compact FTSE FTSE 100 Index, London Stock Exchange VFDs Variable frequency drives GCal/hr Gigacalories per hour VOTL Vadinar Oil Terminal Limited GHG Greenhouse Gas VPCL Vadinar Power Company Limited GRI Global Reporting Initiative GRM Gross Refinery Margin GuIDE Gujarat Institute of Desert Ecology HAZOP Hazardous Operation HiWEL Hole-In-The-Wall Education Limited HR Human Resources HSE Health, safety and environment ICDS Integrated Child Development Services IMO International Maritime Organisation IPIECA The global Oil and Gas industry association for environmental and social issues www.EssarEnergy.com Registered office: Essar Energy plc 2nd Floor Lansdowne House 57 Berkeley Square London W1J 6ER T: +44 (0) 20 7408 8700 Head office: Essar Energy plc Essar House 10 Frère Félix de Valois Street Port Louis Mauritius T: +230 405 1400 www.essarenergy.com
