UN GLOBAL COMPACT PT. Karisman Primalulang – 2013 Communication on Progress Period covered by Communication on Progress (COP) From : January 2012 To : December 2012 PT. KARISMAN PRIMALULANG (The inQuest Consulting) Ruko Cibubur Indah Blok A No. 17 Jl. Lapangan Tembak Cibubur Ciracas – Jakarta Timur Mail to > inquest@cbn.net.id Phone > 62 21 872 6091 Fax > 62 21 2937 8284 www.theinquestconsulting.com www.targetbc.com Our Commitment to Sustainable Development It has been a year since we first signed off the United Nations Global Compact, we believe there are still so much to be done. This Communication on Progress (COP) is our first communication to our stakeholder on what had done in the area of Global Compact Commitment. Last year we established company policy on human rights, labor, and environmental as foundation on how we operate. We start the implementation of the policy internally on how we manage our human resources and began to manage our environmental footprints to better awareness and responsible business. What we had been doing in the business of training and consulting are actually inline with our commitment to sustainable development and 10 Principles of Global Compact. Facing future challenges, we believe that efforts must be strengthen. We will integrate the 10 Principles in Global Compact into our business and further disseminate these principles to our clients. With this, we also further our commitment and support to United Nations Global Compact to foster sustainable development. Chandra Wirman CEO Human Rights behavior in any form of convenient communication media. Principle 1 : Business should support and respect the protection of internationally Measurement of Outcomes proclaimed human rights. PT. Karisman Primalulang has not been Principle 2 : Make sure that they are not subject to any investigations, legal cases complicit in human rights abuses or incidents involving Human Rights Assessment, Policy and Goals PT. Karisman Primalulang support and respect human rights in our operations. We ensure that all staff, clients and visitors are not deprived of their human rights in any way. All management and employee uphold code of conduct to outline steps that had to be followed to ensure this principle is upheld, as well as obligations to the community to ensure that the company is not complicit in human right abuse. Implementations PT. Karisman Primalulang does not and Figure 1 Business Conduct will not carry out business with any clients or engage in activity which leads to the abuse and violation of internationally recognize human rights are known or reported. PT. Karisman Primalulang also not tolerate any form of harassment or discrimination against any individual, including employees, managers, or clients. This is applies to, such as, training, performance, assessment, promotions, layoffs, remuneration, and all other employment practices and working conditions. Every employee may consult or report of any discrimination and/or harassing Figure 2 Employment and Human Rightrs at Work Labor place emphasis on the individual’s level of qualification, experience and knowledge. Principle 3 : Business should uphold All employees have individual contracts of freedom of association and the effective employment detailing their terms and recognition of the right to collective conditions of employment including job bargaining. title, employment status, pay rates, Principle 4 : The elimination of all forms of benefits, roles and responsibilities. forced and compulsory labor Principle 5 : The effective abolition of Employees are provided with a dynamic child labor and challenging environment. They are Principle 6 : The elimination of often given a diverse range of tasks and discrimination in respect of employment projects, giving them the opportunity to and occupation deepen their knowledge. Whenever an employee needs help, peers will go to Assessment, Policy and Goals extraordinary lengths to make certain that they are assisted. We constantly PT. Karisman Primalulang does not invest in their personal development, support any forms of forced or formal trainings to day-to-day coaching compulsory labor and does not allow to from team mates. hire any child labor at any cost and condition. There is no restrictions for Open dialog is conducted with employees employee to enjoy freedom of association to understand their aspiration as well as and right of collective bargaining. sharing ideas, through this communication scheme every employee PT. Karisman Primalulang provide equal has the opportunity to express his / her opportunity working environment that opinions and find the best solution. values all of their employees in terms of Employee has the right to collective their social, intellectual and personal bargaining, to reach collective agreement. contribution to the company in every sector of its operations without any Our current goal is to create a discrimination of gender, racial/ethnic, workplace of diversity that attracts the culture, religion, age, or political opinion. most talented employees and enables them to develop their potency. We Implementation believe that a successful company There was no employee under 14 years embodies a diverse yet inclusive old working in PT. Karisman Primalulang. culture, where we respect and leverage Company’s recruitment and performance the differences we bring to the workplace. assessment are using competency based Measurement of Outcomes framework. This process ensures an objective perspective is taken in relation No labor incidents have been recognized to all recruitment decisions as well as or reported during this period promotions or other compensations are Environmental environmental requirements. Principle 7: Businesses should support a As a common company which provide services, paper, electricity, water and precautionary approach to environmental transportation fuel are main material that we challenges; use to operate our business. Though we have Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to not recorded yet, PT. Karisman Primalulang promote greater environmental has started to find ways to reduce responsibility; and environmental impact of its activities. Re-use Principle 9 : Encourage the development of paper is practically implemented if and diffusion of environmentally friendly applicable as a way to minimize waste. In technologies order to preserve energy, we are used to Assessment, Policy and Goals being wise regarding air conditioning and lights. Air conditioning and lights are not to be Though our activities are not likely turned on before 08.00 AM and only in the damage the local or global environment, certain area where it is used. promote environmental sustainability is Refer to the electricity consumption data, it part of our main business as a shows that the consumption number was very consultation company of management variant, this condition was influenced by our system. mobile activities which was not always in the office. Implementation Measurement of Outcomes PT. Karisman Primalulang is a consultation service company, one of ours main business is PT. Karisman Primalulang has not been provide services of consultation and training subject to any investigations, legal cases regarding environmental and energy or incidents regarding environmental management system. We are helping our clients how to manage the environmental impact during this period. impact from their operations refer to certain standard, applicable regulations and other Figure 3 Electricity Consumption 80000 60000 40000 20000 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Ags Sep Oct Nov Dec Anti ‐ Corruption assets derived from the company that have been either unrecorded or falsified Principle 10 : Business should work when described in the relevant books and against corruption in all its forms, records and no other improper accounting including extortion and bribery practice has been adopted in the period under review. Assessment, Policy and Goals PT. Karisman Primalulang does not We ensure that our services meet the requirements stipulated by the support any form of corrupt practice by its appropriate regulatory bodies as well as management, staff or clients. This includes refusal to practice in any legal requirements. All transactions on behalf of the company are appropriately corruption, bribery or extortion. Compete fairly and ethically and within the described in the accounts of the company. External auditing of financial accounts has framework of applicable competition laws ensures that the company’s expectations has been company’s commitment to run the business. in relation to prevent corruption, bribery and extortion are maintained. Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Management and employee is required PT. Karisman Primalulang has not been not being part of the offering, paying or involved in any legal cases, investigations receiving of bribes; that no payments or other events related to corruption and have been made which knowingly violate the laws of the countries and that no bribery . receipts or payments of money or other COMPANY SERVICES The inQuest Consulting is one leading Advice consulting firm focused in business sustainability. Planning Our strengths are in the area of Training Environment Management, Occupational Consulting Health and Safety Management, Quality Management and in recent years, we Implementation gain expertise on Corporate Sustainability. Auditing & Compliance Assessment The clients were ranging from medium Coaching up to multinational companies from various business including, mining, oil & Sustainability Reporting gas, plantation, manufacturing, banking, food, and many other services. Reviewing
