responsible jewellery council 2013 Annual Progress Report RJC Members are committed to responsible business practices in the diamond, gold and platinum group metals jewellery supply chain, from mine to retail. Responsible Jewellery Council 2013 Progress Report 3 The RJC Responsible Standards: Jewellery The Council’s focus is on the development and implementation of Certification Programs. These use independent third party auditing Council to verify that Members of the RJC conform to the RJC’s standards. The Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC) is an The RJC Code of Practices: international not-for-profit organisation bringing together over 450 member companies across the RJC’s first Standard was launched in 2009 and jewellery supply chain. It sets standards via multiis a mandatory requirement for all Commercial stakeholder processes, accredits independent third Members of the RJC to be certified against within party auditors, and provides training on achieving 2 years of joining. The Code of Practices sets the certification. More than 250 RJC Members have foundation for responsible business practices in the already achieved certification against the RJC Code supply chain at an individual business level. of Practices. RJC’s 15 trade association Members and 12 Supporters provide a vital platform for It is available in English, French, Italian, Gujurati, RJC’s outreach to the global jewellery supply chain. Chinese, Spanish and Portuguese. The RJC is governed by a Board of Directors, supported by a number of Committees and The RJC Chain-of-Custody Standard: administered by a Management Team located in Australia, Canada, Italy and the United Kingdom. This voluntary Standard was launched in March The RJC welcomes new Members, small, medium 2012 for gold and platinum group metals supply and large, from all parts of the jewellery supply chains. It aims to support responsible sourcing chain, including trade associations. RJC also thanks efforts by linking uptake of the Code of Practices its valued Supporters and welcomes engagement by individual Members at each step of the from interested stakeholders. supply chain with conflict-sensitive due diligence practices. RJC has worked closely with the OECD and related industry initiatives on harmonisation across the various programs. contents 04 Forewords  RJC Board of Directors 05 RJC Members in Figures  RJC Members 06 2012 at a Glance  Standards and Certification 08 Impacts  Monitoring and Evaluation 10 Benefits of RJC  Applications to join 12 Responsible Sourcing 14 How to Join RJC 15 Photo Credits and References 4 Responsible Jewellery Council 2013 Progress Report Forewords The RJC continues to build its strong reputation for transparency, ethics and synergy in its eighth year of operation. Through its formative stages, it has simultaneously built and operated a viable certification system while also growing a membership base spanning the mine to retail sectors. Through an enviable model of member-to-member engagement, a committed, transparent committee structure and continued outreach to key external stakeholders, RJC is a strong, respected voice in the global industry with a diverse range of members and supporters that all lend their voice to RJC’s messaging. james courage 2013 opened with RJC further entrenching its membership base in Europe and Chairman North America as well as honing its engagement in India and Asia. This work will continue through valued relationships with RJC’s trade association members and trade fairs, its work within the OECD platform, being a Full Member of the ISEAL Alliance and a long-standing Participant in the UN Global Compact. The jewellery industry is one of challenge and change. For those that have watched the RJC with interest over the past few years, I hope the content of this report motivates you to join a steadfast group of your peers to make a stronger, ethical jewellery industry. The RJC is pleased to provide its second annual progress report to its membership and supporters, the jewellery industry, media and external stakeholders. The 2012 report outlined seven years of the RJC’s growth and accomplishments. The 2013 report reflects the past year’s accomplishments and demonstrates the RJC’s continuing work across membership growth, certification benchmarks, standards development and auditor engagement. michael rae This report is an important vehicle for the RJC to communicate its progress and highlight achievements over the past year. I welcome your comments and feedback Chief Executive and thank you for your interest in the RJC. Officer Responsible Jewellery Council 2013 Progress Report 5 RJC Members in Figures RJC Members: RJC Certifications: 20% growth on last year From 360 in March 2012, to 430 in March 2013. 60% growth on last year From 150 in March 2012, to 240 in March 2013. 2012 Combined sales of diamonds, US Value of global jewellery US $48 $102 gold and platinum group sector demand for gold: metals in the jewellery supply chain by all RJC Members (includes successive supply chain sales): Billion Billion Value of diamond content Value of global jewellery sector demand for platinum: in retail jewellery sales: US US $23 Billion $4 Billion RJC surveyed its Certified Members in 2012 on whether they would recommend RJC Certification to the industry: 73% Respondents would recommend RJC Certification to all eligible businesses in the jewellery supply chain 26% 0% Respondents would recommend RJC Certification to businesses interested in responsible business practices Respondents would not recommend RJC Certification 6 Responsible Jewellery Council 2013 Progress Report London, 2012 at Brussels, Belgium UK a Glance Las Vegas, USA Baselworld & Geneva, Switzerland Peru, South America Chain-of-Custody Quarter 1 The RJC Chain-of-Custody Standard for precious metals was January to March launched in March 2012. The first gold refiner certifications followed shortly after. Standards Committee Trade fairs RJC merged its Consultative Committee with its Standards Each year, RJC participates in key international trade fairs to Committee, to form one multi-stakeholder committee with engage with industry and stakeholders on its standards and oversight of standards development. certification programs. Regional workshops RJC held several workshops for the diamond sector in Mumbai, in collaboration with Social Accountability International (SAI). Quarter 3 Standards harmonisation July to September RJC agreed cross-recognition of gold refiner audits with the London Bullion Market Association (LBMA) and the EICC-GeSI Conflict Free Smelter (CFS) program. Responsible Jewellery Council 2013 Progress Report 7 Bonn, Germany Rome, Italy Mumbai, India DRC, Africa Partnerships RJC announced a Memorandum of Understanding with the Quarter 2 Italian government to promote uptake within the Italian April to June jewellery sector. The 2013 RJC Annual General Meeting will be held in Milan. Engagement ISEAL Alliance RJC worked with other stakeholders to help finalise RJC became a Full Member of the ISEAL Alliance, and implement the OECD’s Supplement on Gold for its demonstrating our commitment to a strong voluntary Due Diligence Guidance on Responsible Supply Chains standards program for our Members. of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. Translations RJC released translations of the Code of Practices documents in French, Italian, Gujurati, Chinese, Spanish and Portuguese. Supporters Supporters of the RJC extend the outreach of the RJC mission Quarter 4 through their networks. The Fondation de Haute Horlogerie October to December joined as a Supporter in November 2012. 8 Responsible Jewellery Council 2013 Progress Report Impacts ISEAL Impacts Code In 2013, RJC is evaluating RJC is a full member of the ISEAL Alliance, the global association for sustainability standards. RJC is progressively patterns of non-conformance implementing ISEAL’s Impacts Code, which helps standards systems to better understand the sustainability results identified through audits, to highlight of their work, and the effectiveness of their programs. where further training and guidance In 2013, RJC is evaluating patterns of non-conformance is required and to feed into a multiidentified through audits, to highlight where further training and guidance is required and to feed into a multi-stakeholder stakeholder review of the RJC review of the RJC Code of Practices. In 2014, RJC is planning to carry out field work in key sectors and regions, such as the Code of Practices. diamond cutting and polishing sector in India and others, to evaluate impacts data on the ground. Impact of RJC Certification – a theory of change RJC Certification results in improvements to RJC Members’ management systems and business practices, leading to improvements to their own social and environmental performance, and providing assurance to stakeholders that responsible business practices are being followed. These outcomes will have a beneficial effect on underlying social, human rights, ethical and environmental conditions found within the jewellery supply chain in general, providing positive impacts for workers, communities, business partners, the environment and broader stakeholders. These impacts will increase through continuing growth of Certified Members of the RJC, supported by the ‘role model’ effect of RJC Certification that demonstrates and promotes responsible practices to other industry participants. Responsible Jewellery Council 2013 Progress Report 9 Corrective Action areas RJC Certification requires corrective action plans to be Minor Non Conformances implemented for areas of non-conformance. The top 6 areas 30 PERCENTAGE OF MEMBERS WITH MINOR where changes are being implemented by Members are: 30% 30% 25 • Improving policies and procedures to combat bribery and corruption 20 22.5% 22.5% • Improving systems to combat money laundering risks for high-value materials such as diamonds, gold and platinum NON-CONFORMANCES AGAINST THIS PROVISION 15 group metals • Enhancing internal assessment of risks and implementation 13% 10 of controls for worker health and safety 11% • Improving systems for managing working hours in 5 accordance with RJC requirements • Improving systems for legal and regulatory compliance 0 S EY G CE ISM TH TY G RS L CE S S RY ION NT AL FE KIN OU GA N ES ER IBE AT E ON ERIN AN RO HE SA LE PLIA IN TN • Engaging with significant business partners to assess BR LIT YM .2 M ND FIN TER .1 1 ACI PA 1 AU ND OF 2.6 AND 8 W OR H 4.1 OM BUS PAR D F L A 2. C 4.3 risks and promote good practice related to responsible AN business practices PROVISION FROM THE RJC CODE OF PRACTICES These efforts are positive developments being taken by Members that collectively strengthen corporate responsibility in jewellery supply chains. Certified Members by Country RJC Certified Members are spread throughout the world The number of individual retail stores of Certified Members with operations in more than 45 countries. The RJC Code of are not fully counted in the graph below. Additional data on Practices is being applied in Europe, India, North America and this would significantly expand the presence in the UK and the Far East. Strong uptake of RJC Certification is prominent USA particularly. The RJC Code of Practices review will result in Belgium, USA, India, France, Hong Kong, United Kingdom in new data collection strategies that will enable RJC to better and Switzerland. analyse aggregate trends in future Progress Reports. Geographical Scope of RJC Certified Members 120 NUMBER OF CERTIFIED ENTITIES/FACILITIES 100 80 60 40 20 0 LA NIA LIA RIA IUM NA ZIL DA HILE INA LIC ARK CE NY RAS NG DIA AEL ALY PAN RG AU SIA IUS CO IBIA DS ICO ND SIA ORE ICA REA AIN KA EN ND AN ND KEY TES OM USA NAM BWE GO ME TRA UST LG WA BRA ANA C CH EPUB NM RAN RMA DU KO IN ISR IT JA BOU MAC LAY URIT ONA AM RLAN TO R RELA RUS AP AFR KO SP I LAN WED RLA TAIW AILA TUR IRA NGD T A AN AR AUS A BE OTS C E F GE ON NG M MA MA M N THE UER OF I G H H SR S ZE TH M I VIE ZIMB B HR D H HO XE SIN OUT OUT IT BE DK ZEC LU NE P LIC S S SW ARA ITE N C B D U PU ITE RE UN COUNTRY THAT CERTIFIED ENTITIES/FACILITIES ARE LOCATED IN 10 Responsible Jewellery Council 2013 Progress Report Benefits of RJC De Beers Goldlake Producer Refiner Certified: October 2012 Certified: June 2012 “De Beers’ commitment to meeting the highest standards “Goldlake IP was founded on the principles that a is embedded in our commitment to ‘live up to diamonds’, disciplined execution of good operating practices married and guides us in the delivery of our commercial goals. It is to a purpose to improve people’s lives results in a ‘win win’ particularly pleasing to receive confirmation that we measure for business and society. The RJC certification is a welcome up to the exacting requirements of credible and external validation of our business model and we are pleased to join standards like the RJC’s. De Beers remains committed to the growing family of certified members committed to assure supporting industry-wide initiatives like the RJC Certification jewellery lovers that their pieces are free from harm to people System that reinforce stakeholder and consumer confidence or planet.” in the diamond industry.” Producer trade association refiner service industry Canadian Jewellers Association HRD Antwerp Trade Service Industry Association Certified: September 2012 Association Member since: February 2012 “We are pleased to be certified by the Responsible Jewellery “The CJA provides leadership and education to ensure Council. It shows HRD Antwerp’s commitment to improving the adoption of best practices among all its members. We its quality standards not only on a technical level but also are very pleased to add the CJA’s support with the many on an ethical level for one purpose only, to safeguard international jewellery associations which are current confidence in the diamond industry.” members of the Responsible Jewellery Council. As the voice of the Canadian jewellery industry, it is our continued commitment to expand our presence outside of Canada to better serve our members.” Responsible Jewellery Council 2013 Progress Report 11 Millions of people worldwide work in the jewellery supply chain. The RJC Code of Practices aims to strengthen responsible practices, benefiting workers, environment, communities, and the integrity of businesses that join the Council. Dimexon Cookson Diamond Manufacturer Trading, Cutting and Polishing Certified: January 2012 “At Cookson Precious Metals we have a genuine belief Certified: January 2013 that good practice is good business. Completing the RJC “Dimexon is pleased to have achieved the RJC Member Certification process allows you to identify what really Certification for a three year period, having successfully happens in your business not what you think happens. This completed its comprehensive evaluation and audit process allows us to drive continuous improvement and build standards. The RJC certification is highly acknowledged pride within the business.” and offers assurances concerning the integrity, transparency and accountability of all stakeholders in the Diamond Jewellery pipeline.” diamond trading, supporter manufacturer retailer cutting & polishing JCK EVENTS Ben Bridge Supporter Retailer Supporter since: January 2011 Certified: September 2011 ”JCK Events are one of the industry’s leading trade shows “As an early adopter and supporter of the purpose and across the world. We are constantly dealing with change principles of RJC, Ben Bridge Jeweler is pleased to have both in the trade show business and the jewellery business. received official Certification and be part of the organisation, Jewellery trade shows play a key role in supply chain which reflects our long time commitment promoting ethical transparency by linking exhibitor to retailer. Providing a corporate behaviour and human rights in the production transparent, ethical environment to conduct business is and sale of our jewelry as well as our adherence to essential. By supporting the Responsible Jewellery Council, environmentally sound and friendly business practices.” JCK Events underlines its strong commitment to corporate responsibility and integrity.” 12 Responsible Jewellery Council 2013 Progress Report Responsible Sourcing Since 2010, RJC has Companies in many sectors are supporting the development of programs that aim to tackle a wide range of supply chain been working through risks. In the jewellery supply chain, companies are increasingly interested in responsible sourcing, whether driven by conflict its own programs and minerals regulation or brand leadership on CSR. Downstream in collaboration with companies are seeking assurances for mining practices generally, as well as for due diligence on sources by precious others to address key metals refiners and diamond traders. responsible sourcing Since 2010, RJC has been working through its own programs and in collaboration with others to address key responsible challenges for the sourcing challenges for the jewellery supply chain. RJC’s Chain-of-Custody standard aims to tie together the urgent jewellery supply chain. need to address conflict in specific regions, with RJC’s broader long-term mission of responsible environmental, social and ethical practices through the supply chain. Responsible Jewellery Council 2013 Progress Report 13 RJC has been proud to play a leading role in these efforts for the jewellery sector and welcomes stakeholders to continue to work with us on implementation and further program development in the coming years. OECD Due Diligence Guidance Solidaridad Gold Program RJC has worked closely with the Organisation for Economic The RJC and non-profit organization Solidaridad are Cooperation and Development (OECD) on the development collaborating on activities that support their shared goal of of Due Diligence Guidance for the Responsible Supply Chains ensuring better, more transparent and accountable practices of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas, throughout the gold supply chain. This includes joining forces particularly the Supplement on Gold. Cross-recognition to encourage broader participation in RJC by companies in agreements under the RJC Chain-of-Custody standard the Global South. The collaboration aims to develop case have been developed with related programs and initiatives, studies, stakeholder presentations and evaluations that can including the London Bullion Market Association, the strengthen uptake and impact of the RJC standards. Conflict-Free Smelter program, the World Gold Council Solidaridad launched a pilot project in 2010 to support and the Fairtrade-Fairmined producer standards. better practices at mid-scale industrial gold mines, including RJC’s Chain-of-Custody standard is designed to support the improved environmental and social conditions for workers kind of supply chain due diligence approaches laid out in the and communities around the mines. Together with the OECD Guidance and under Section 1502 of the US Dodd mining companies that join the project, Solidaridad is pilot Frank Act. RJC continues to play a central outreach role in testing RJC’s Code of Practices as a tool in achieving this goal. the jewellery sector to raise awareness and implementation Solidaridad selected the Code of Practices as the standard for of the OECD Due Diligence Guidance and related initiatives certification of the mining companies based on the outcome for conflict-sensitive sourcing of gold. of a 2010 comparison study of standards used by the mining industry in which RJC ranked the highest. Swiss Better Gold Initiative Solidaridad is also partnering with branded jewellers that are Members of RJC to pilot test the RJC Chain-of-Custody standard from the mining companies to the market. The Better Gold Initiative (BGI) is a private – public partnership, driven by the Swiss Better Gold Association (SBGA) and supported by SECO, the Swiss State Secretariat for Economic Affairs. The overall goal of the project is to build up simple market mechanisms that honour compliance of producers with standards on traceability, accountability, labour conditions, environmental, social governance and community relations performance. Working with interested Swiss refiners and certified producers, the pilot project aims to develop an innovative supply chain from mine (Peru) to market (Switzerland). RJC’s Code of Practices and Chain-of-Custody Standard for larger small-scale and medium-scale mines and the Fairtrade and Fairmined standard for artisanal and small-scale mining have been identified as the two certification schemes the BGI will work with. 14 Responsible Jewellery Council 2013 Progress Report how to join rjc Commercial Membership Trade Association Membership: Open to any company that is actively involved for commercial Open to any trade association whose members are actively reasons in the diamond, gold and platinum group metals involved in the diamond, gold and platinum group metals jewellery supply chain. jewellery supply chain. Association Members are not required to seek RJC certification. Membership Fees: Membership Fees Membership Category Annual Membership Fee Rates Currency Annual Membership Fee Rates • Diamond, gold and/or 0.0045% of Annual platinum group metals Relevant Sales* (ARS) Great British Pounds Sterling – GBP £1,500 producer; or This percentage translates to $45.00 per million dollars of Annual • Jewellery retailer United States Dollars – USD $2,450 Relevant Sales • Wholesaler; or 0.003% of Annual • Gold and/or platinum Relevant Sales* (ARS) Why become an RJC Association Member group metals trader, refiner This percentage translates to $30.00 per million dollars of Annual or hedger; or Relevant Sales • Demonstrate leadership in business responsibility issues • Diamond trader, cutter to your membership. and polisher; or • Support the interests and reputation of your own • Jewellery manufacturer; or membership through a liaison role. • Service Industry (e.g. gem • Access materials to use in educational activities within your laboratory) membership. • Minimum fee: £100 GBP or $170 USD • Engage in dialogue emerging issues and challenges at an international level. • Maximum fee: £63,750 or $102,000 USD • *Annual Relevant Sales (ARS) is defined as the total sales derived from • Benefit from RJC’s networking and collaboration those parts of the applicant’s business that are directly involved int he opportunities. diamond, gold and/or platinum group metals supply chain. RJC Supporters: Why become an RJC Commercial Member Open to any organisation that is not eligible for Commercial Membership of the Council, but which seeks to support • Achieve RJC Member Certification which provides evidence the achievement of the Council’s mission through financial of responsible business practices. and/or in-kind support. Supporters of the RJC play the very • Enhance and preserve strong brand reputation increasing important role of extending the outreach of the RJC through resilience and strengthening your brand. disseminating information about the Council and its activities • Join a community of confidence with a mine to retail supply to their respective contacts. chain initiative. • Contribute to standards and policy development for the sector. Contact RJC with any questions • Enjoy free RJC training delivered by online webinars and workshops at main Trade Fairs. or to ask for an application form: applications@responsiblejewellery.com Responsible Jewellery Council 2013 Progress Report 15 photo credits & references Cover Page Page 6 & 7 Manufacturer Pandora S/A Quarter 1 Section Cookson Precious Metals Responsible Jewellery Council Page 2 Trade Association Pandora S/A Quarter 2 Section Canadian Jewellers Association Rio Tinto Page 4 Service Industry Image of James Courage Quarter 3 Section R. Donald Woodrow for HRD Platinum Guild International Responsible Jewellery Council Antwerp NV Image of Michael Rae Quarter 4 Section Supporter Corin Rossouw Vacheron Constantin/ Compagnie JCK Events Financière Richemont SA Page 5 Retailer Tacy, Tacy’s 2011 Diamond Pipeline: Page 8 Michael W. Fukuda for Ben Bridge www.idexonline.com/pdf_files/2011_ De Beers Group of Companies Jeweler Pipeline.pdf Page 10 & 11 Page 12 WGC, Gold Demand and Supply, Producer R. Donald Woodrow for HRD Full Year 2012: De Beers Group of Companies Antwerp NV www.gold.org/investment/statistics/ Refiner Page 13 demand_and_supply_statistics Goldlake I.P. S.p.A. Union Française de la BJOP Johnson Matthey, Platinum 2012 Diamond Trading, Page 15 Interim Review: Cutting and Polishing Rio Tinto www.platinum.matthey.com/ Dimexon Diamonds Limited media/1393522/platinum_2012_ interim_review.pdf Responsible Jewellery Council First Floor, Dudley House 34-38 Southampton Street London, WC2E 7HF United Kingdom Tel + 44 (0) 20 7836 6376 Fax + 44 (0) 20 7240 5150 info@responsiblejewellery.com www.responsiblejewellery.com
