2011/2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT protection r rigoureusement. Celle-ci se définie -dessous. Aucun visuel ou texte ne doit té des logotypes. PAGE 1 | REXEL | RAPPORT DE DÉVELOPPEMENT DURABLE 2011 I CONTENTS I 04_MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 10_Communication on Progress (COP) OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD 11_Ethical approach 06_Rexel, building the future together 08_Governance and stakeholders 12 _EXPERTISE IN ENERGY MANAGEMENT 20 _ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 30 _SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 32_Promoting safety and well-being in the workplace 40 _SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY 42_Standing by our local communities 14_Promoting eco-efficient solutions 22_Consolidating environmental stewardship 34_Supporting employee career development 44_Fostering access to energy efficiency for all 16_Accelerating the expansion of renewable energies 24_Improving energy efficiency at our facilities 36_Reinforcing social dialogue and equal opportunity 46_Advocating a responsible approach to the supply chain 18_Raising customer and consumer awareness 26_Reducing transportation-related carbon emissions 38_Associating employees to the Group’s performance 28_Reducing and recovering waste 48_INDICATORS 50_Recognized commitment PAGE 2 | REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT | REXEL | PAGE 3 I MESSAGE FROM RUDY PROVOOST, CHAIRMAN OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD I In 2011, Rexel joined the United Nations Global Compact. ” With this report, I want to reaffirm Rexel’s commitment to putting these universal principles into practice. BUILDING THE FUTURE TOGETHER” Rexel’s commitment to sustainable develop“Improve Access to Energy Efficiency for All”. will continue to offer opportunities to support ment addresses the Company’s responsibilities In 2012, we signed a partnership with Ashoka, our employees and to make Rexel an even towards its employees, society and the envithe world’s largest organization of social enbetter place to work. ronment and is fully embedded in the Energy trepreneurs, and through them we have identiin Motion company plan. fied our first community project, which seeks Helping our customers manage and reduce to increase access to sustainable home ownertheir energy consumption, improving our enviOur mission is to support customers around ship for disadvantaged people in the United ronmental footprint, partnering with our supthe globe, wherever they are, to create value States. We will continue to develop partnerpliers, engaging with our employees on a and run their businesses better, by providing ships with our suppliers, NGOs and public daily basis and focusing our community ina broad range of sustainable and innovative authorities in the promotion of this mission for volvement on helping people to win the battle products and services for automation, technithe foreseeable future. against fuel poverty: these are the key objeccal supply and energy management. With this tives that will guide us in driving sustainable mission and our international footprint, Rexel Over the past two years, we have strengthened results for our business. is uniquely positioned to make a real and our expertise in energy management and impositive impact at a global and local level with plemented a range of actions designed to reall our stakeholders and the communities in duce our environmental impact, including the which we operate. first Group-wide assessment of our carbon footprint. In line with our company strategy, we This Sustainable Development Report docuwill continue to drive momentum through susments the progress we have made as a Group tainable development initiatives from delivering and defines a roadmap for improving performore eco-efficient product ranges and solumance. tions, to introducing ‘smarter’ ways to manage our own energy consumption and optimizing In 2011, Rexel joined the United Nations the integral supply chain. Global Compact, in which we agreed to follow and promote ten key principles in the areas of At Rexel, we are also committed to being an We will continue to develop human rights, labor standards, the environment employer of reference for our people by conpartnerships to promote and the fight against corruption. With this reducting a regular staff survey to better underport, I want to reaffirm Rexel’s commitment to stand our employees’ opinions and improve a sustainable future. putting these universal principles into practice. their engagement, by extending our company benefits scheme and by ensuring employees We have redefined our community involvement across the Group are aware of our Ethics Guide with a charter and a mission statement to of principles and practices. In the future, we PAGE 4 | REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT | REXEL | PAGE 5 I REXEL, BUILDING THE FUTURE TOGETHER I Our mission No. 1 Rexel’s mission is to support customers IN NORTH around the globe, wherever they are, AMERICA* No. 1 to create value and run their business NORTH AMERICA * EUROPE * better, by providing a broad range IN ASIA-PACIFIC* 600 branches 1,250 branches of sustainable and innovative products and services for automation, technical No. 2 7,200 employees 16,400 employees IN EUROPE* supply and energy management. Thanks to our unique combination of global 37 COUNTRIES* reach and local presence, we offer our customers consistent levels of services 28,000 EMPLOYEES* in all activities and locations, wherever €12.7 billion they are, in whatever they need. IN TURNOVER* Our values 2,200 BRANCHES* Our company plan, Energy in Motion, is about creating a company culture, representing a unique identity and image. In order to bring the Rexel culture to life, we have defined six core values that describe who we are and how we operate. €450 million Values provide the guiding principles IN SALES OF ECOwhich define the “Rexel way of doing EFFICIENT PRODUCTS* business” in a consistent way, valid 91,630 tCO e 2 across boundaries, and relevant for OF DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS* all employees. Values capture what we stand for, and believe in, making us unique, 86% and allowing us to make a difference. OF THE GROUP’S EMPLOYEES SAY THEY ARE TREATED WITH RESPECT** Deliver the best customer experience LATIN AMERICA Nearly 60% Join forces for success OF REXEL’S SUBSIDIARIES & OTHER OPERATIONS * ASIA-PACIFIC * ARE INVOLVED IN THEIR Encourage to innovate COMMUNITIES* 100 branches 250 branches Engage people to develop their talents Trust each other Enjoy making a difference 1,400 employees 3,000 employees * As of 31 December 2011 ** Internal survey Satisfaxion11 PAGE 6 | REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT | REXEL | PAGE 7 I GOVERNANCE AND STAKEHOLDERS I Rexel strives to maintain a dialogue with all its stakeholders based SHAREHOLDERS on transparency and ethics. SUPERVISORY BOARD Stakeholders Initiatives on information, feedback and dialogue Rexel department(s) All stakeholders Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report, Document de référence, Communications Strategic Committee Audit Committee Compensation Committee Nomination Committee Sustainable Development Report, Group website (www.rexel.com), social media Employees and Intranet sites, Ethics Guide, charters, regular information campaigns Human Resources, MANAGEMENT BOARD social partners (Communication Weeks), awareness campaigns (Ecodays), in-house magazines Communications and newsletters (Interaxion), Works Councils, Health and Safety Committees, European Works Council, collective agreements, Employee Opinion Survey (Satisfaxion11), one-on-one yearly interviews Risks Committee Customers Specialized press, catalogues and brochures, websites and e-commerce sites, Marketing, Sales information channel for professionals (Inexel TV), showroom and demonstrations, Management, trade shows, customer tours, sales events, technical trainings, satisfaction surveys, Communications EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE questionnaires and evaluations and Quality Departments of Sustainable Functional departments End-users Webmagazine (www.electrical-efficiency.com), web applications Marketing, Sales Development and CSR* (moninstallateurexpert.fr), general public surveys (Rexel-Harris Interactive and Communications Survey, Rexel UK-YouGov Survey) Suppliers and Specialized press, sales figures and customer feedback, annual conventions, Supplier Relations, Management committees at zone or country level contractors tours and interviews, business partnerships (service level agreements, joint Purchasing, Marketing, marketing initiatives), evaluation questionnaires, ethics and environmental clauses Quality, Legal Shareholders Biannual letter to shareholders, quarterly releases, dedicated section Finance, Investor Community of Sustainable Development and CSR* officers on the website, annual General Shareholders’ Meeting, regional meetings with Relations shareholders Investors and Financial press, Q&A sessions, quarterly releases, Investor Day, earnings calls, Finance, Investor Rexel is a société anonyme (limited on recommendations from four Committee, which is the key strategic financial analysts roadshows, personal meetings Relations company) with a Management specialized committees under its authority: think tank of the Group. The Sustainable Board and a Supervisory Board, the Audit Committee, the Strategic Development and Corporate Social Non-financial Q&A sessions, reporting to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), interviews Sustainable Developa corporate structure enabling it Committee, the Compensation Committee Responsibility program is directed rating agencies and watches: ratings recognition (Vigeo, SAM, EIRIS, CDP, etc.) ment, Investor Relations, to split the management and control and the Nomination Committee. by an operational governance group Human Resources functions attributed respectively comprised of the Group Sustainable Trade Member of the AFEP (French Association of Private Enterprises) and MEDEF Communications, to the Management Board and The Management Board is Rexel’s collegial Development and Corporate organizations (Movement of the Enterprises of France), partners with national trade organizations Legal Supervisory Board. body responsible for managing Rexel Social Responsibility departments, (FGME, NEAD, EUEW, etc.), round tables, workshops, conferences that oversees the Risks Committee, the functional departments, the Country General, sectorPress releases, press kits, dedicated section on the website, press conferences, Communications The Supervisory Board is composed which assists the Management Board Management Committees and the specific and interviews financial media of 12 members including four in its mission of Group risk management. community of Sustainable Development independent members. It oversees Rexel’s Alongside this corporate governance and Corporate Social Responsibility Public institutions, Variety of statements: Authorization to Operate, workplace accidents, income Legal and others local authorities taxes, taxation, etc., round tables, workshops, conferences, regulatory watch management by the Management structure, Rexel’s operational structure correspondents under at the instigation Board and performs its duties based is organized around an Executive of the Executive Committee. You can find more information on the Rexel Group’s corporate governance in the Document de référence (Supervisory Board and Committees, Management Board, Executive Committee, Risks Committee, internal control and risk management). * Corporate Social Responsibility PAGE 8 | REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT | REXEL | PAGE 9 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) I I ETHICAL APPROACH I Rexel joined the Global Compact in December 2011, thereby The Group’s ethics are rooted in common principles shared declaring its commitment to respect and endorse within its sphere by 28,000 employees who live and work in 37 countries. of influence the 10 universally recognized principles on human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption. ” Principles of the Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS Our Policy • Ethics Guide Examples of our initiatives • Health and Safety Committee (CHSCT) – References A PROCESS FOR PROGRESS • Businesses should support and • Legal Guidelines to include ethics 64% of the Group’s entities have an HSC p.11 respect the protection of internationally clause in contracts • Rexel Plus Protection for All insurance already p.32/33 proclaimed human rights; covers 5,000 employees in 11 countries p.30 to 39 • Make sure that they are not • Ethics clause in supplier contracts and audits p.46/47 The Group’s ethics approach The most stringent principles Promoting ethics is a part complicit in human rights abuses is a process for progress and practices of business ethics of our daily responsibility” LABOR STANDARDS • Ethics Guide • Social dialogue bodies: European Works with origins in our professional work are detailed in the Ethics Guide. John Gschwind • Businesses should uphold the freedom • Social reporting protocol Council and CHSCT – 43% of entities have that helps uphold our reputation, Created in 2007, an updated version VP Legal, General Counsel and Corporate of association and the effective recognition a European Works Council – 111 collective further instil trust in our partners and will be released in 2013. The Guide Secretary of Rexel Holdings USA and of the right to collective bargaining; agreements signed in 2011 mostly p.11 • The elimination of all forms of forced in Western Europe and Brazil p.45 sustain our growth. All of Rexel’s explains the behaviors and manners Ethics correspondent for the United States and compulsory labor; • Rexel UK’s program “Promoting p.48/49 employees are held to the highest to uphold in a variety of business • The effective abolition of child labor; the electrical trade to women” professional standards of ethics. relationships and situations: John Gschwind’s work implication • The elimination of discrimination in • Option to report unethical practices in conveying good ethical practices Rexel recommends its employees purchasing, customers, gifts, to American employees has allowed respect of employment and occupation to an Ethics Officer using an online form to always act with integrity and in an conflicts of interest, confidentiality, the USA to obtain some of the best ENVIRONMENT • Environmental Charter and its Guide • Environmental management systems under ethical manner in order to preserve diversity, public speaking, scores in the 2011 issue of the internal • Businesses should support • Environmental reporting protocol way – eight entities are ISO 14001 certiﬁed the trust and respect of its customers, harassment, etc. Satisfaxion11 survey. a precautionary approach • Legal Guidelines to include • Employee awareness campaign on shareholders, suppliers, co-workers, to environmental challenges; environmental clauses in contracts environmental issues (mostly energy-related) • Undertake initiatives to promote • Energy In Motion company plan during the Ecodays event partners and the communities greater environmental responsibility; • WEEE collection – 64% of branches p.22/29 it operates with. Inside the Group, the Ethics • Encourage the development and do collect WEEE p.14/19 program is managed and diffusion of environmentally friendly • Environmental supplier audits p.48/49 implemented by a network of some technologies • Development of energy efﬁcient offers, eco-efficient products solutions and 40 Ethics correspondents. Anyone, renewable energy solutions whether they are an employee or not, can contact them anonymously with ANTI-CORRUPTION • Ethics Guide • Training in business ethics questions or report ethics issues. • Businesses should work against • Competition Law Compliance • Ethics clauses in contracts with suppliers p.11 corruption in all its forms, including Program • Supplier audits p.46/47 Preventive and corrective measures extortion and bribery • Legal Guidelines to include ethics are also put into place to ensure the clause in contracts procedures for reporting to Ethics correspondents are operating fairly. The Ethics correspondents also work to encourage the development, adherence and monitoring of action plans to expand the program in their countries. PAGE 10 | REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT | REXEL | PAGE 11 EXPERTISE IN ENERGY MANAGEMENT By helping its customers consume less and better, Rexel is putting sustainable development at the core of its business. Through its contact with installers and decision-makers, the Group serves as a catalyst that is accelerating the widespread adoption of eco-efficient products. Its market knowledge coupled with its expertise as an integrator also gives it the leading role in popularizing and developing renewable energy solutions. In this way, Rexel has been able to adapt its offer and organization to meet energy management issues. Sustainable development is a major part of its company plan and has become integral to the Group’s performance. PAGE 12 | REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT | PAGE 13 I ENERGY MANAGEMENT I AT STAKE • Offering and promoting products and solutions that foster energy efficiency. x2 : the demand for electricity worldwide is expected to double in the next 20 years* AND • Helping our customers reduce their environmental footprint 80-90% of electricity can be saved by using LEDs, which last 20 to 30 times • The Energy Efficiency European Directive longer than conventional light bulbs of September 11, 2012: and improve their performance. as part of the objective Up 41%: increase of Rexel’s sales in lighting retrofit products from 2010 to 2011 to reduce the EU’s energy consumption 20% by 2020, * Source IEA 2007 every Member State must set three-year objectives (2014, 2017, 2020). 1/ PROMOTING ECO-EFFICIENT Managing consumption with customized services MORE INFO SOLUTIONS Rexel offers customized services such as energy audits, profitability and environmental • About eco-efficient solutions: www.electrical-efficiency.com benefit analyses, recommendations, training and facility management systems. In an (Solutions section) effort to better fulfill the demands of a range of market segments, the Group has put • About EcoPowerSavers: into place an organization and teams specialized in energy efficiency. In 2009, Rexel’s http://www.ecopowersavers. American subsidiary, Gexpro, began offering Active 8, an end-to-end system that com.au/ A range of efficient products handles the entire project from the initial diagnosis to the performance assessment https://twitter.com/ EcoPowerSavers Energy management is Rexel’s core business. The Group’s offer combines products once the project is finished. In Spain, ABM Rexel developed a vertical commercial http://www.facebook. with the highest efficiency rating, automated equipment and the best energy offer called Genera designed for the hotel sector and public utilities. In Finland, the com/EcoPowerSavers management systems. Low-consumption products make it possible to manage energy Kandela program is helping customers manage their energy consumption. • About Active 8: required to light, heat, air-condition and power industry. Equipment automation is http://www.gexpro.com/ designed to manage and optimize consumption. It includes home automation and active8/ control systems like motion detectors and centralized controls. These energy-saving agents are solving energy problems for Rexel’s customers. The potential energy savings in residential and commercial buildings is estimated at 30% and rises to nearly 60% in industry. SPOTLIGHT To help its customers reduce systems. The offer was EcoPowerSavers: consumption, Rexel Australia developed for residential BRIEFLY j the one-stop solution designed a one-stop shop customers through franchised • The lighting retrofit at Mantesshop for eco-efficient solutions. installers and customers la-Jolie Hospital in France led to INITIATIVE part of a project to reduce refrigeration motors The offer pre-empted the in the industrial and services 80% less electricity being consumed. Lower energyenergy consumption and a new energy management AUSTRALIA introduction of Australia’s segments. It is expected consuming gas in 2,000 independent gas system. It will be completed carbon tax in July 2012 to be expanded and is playing • The upgrade at the twin Deutsche Bank towers in Frankfurt, stations stations in the United States. in late 2013. aimed at incentivizing energy a major role in reducing Germany reduced consumption savings. EcoPowerSavers the environmental footprint by 67% for heating and 90% In association with Blue Earth UNITED STATES was launched in January of of Rexel’s customers. of their CO2 emissions. and eCORE Technology, that year to guide customers Since 2011, Rexel’s American the project includes lighting through the process from subsidiary Gexpro has been retrofits, installing more efficient the initial recommendation to installing products and PAGE 14 | REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT | PAGE 15 I ENERGY MANAGEMENT I AT STAKE • Helping protect energy resources and cutting CO2 emissions by being one of the market benchmarks. €25 billion : projected sales in the global photovoltaic market in 2015, compared with €17 billion in 2011* AND • The Rexel Group • Encouraging the switch to renewable energies and guiding our customers Up 8%: sales in Rexel Renewable Energy solutions in 2011 (€292 million, attends all the major including €83.9 million in wind [up 56% versus 2010] ) trade shows on renewable in their choice. energy: Inter Solar in * Source Rexel, IEA, IMS Research Germany, WindPower in the United States, the Renewable Energies Expo in Paris, etc. 2/ ACCELERATING THE EXPANSION production costs – will soon be achieved and in turn trigger a significant resurgence MORE INFO OF RENEWABLE ENERGIES • About renewable in demand. The Group is poised to meet that demand. energy solutions: http://www.electricalLong-term growth in wind power efficiency.com (Solutions/ renewables section) In the wind power market, Rexel has tailor-made solutions to meet customer http://www.facebook. expectations. From delivering cables to providing fully-integrated services, the Group com/Electrical.Efficiency. The development of the photovoltaic market offers everything from supplying and inventory management to provisioning the Magazine.Rexel The photovoltaic market is a large market with a strong potential for future growth. products on the assembly lines. http://twitter.com/Elec_ The efficiency of photovoltaic solutions has already been proven as well as their ability Eff_Mag to reduce emissions in the residential and services sectors (see inset). Rexel, with its In Canada where a booming wind power market is projected to emerge by 2025, international outreach, is able to target this market by proposing kits and a full range Rexel has been working closely with engineering firms and project developers for of components that includes solar panels, mounting structures, inverters, special a number of years. The Group is now a driver behind the expansion of wind power cables and safety equipment. In particular, Rexel Belgium has further expanded in in that market working hand-in-hand with manufacturers, assemblers and installers. this sector by joining forces with key market players to offer a line of high-quality components and customized solutions. The Group is anticipating positive market growth, especially in Europe. In fact, grid parity – leveling the cost of photovoltaic power generation with conventional energy SPOTLIGHT Coventry Golf Club in the system is primarily based Managing the United Kingdom wanted on installing LEDs and motion BRIEFLY j carbon footprint to reduce its carbon detectors and optimizing • Westburne (Canada) is helping footprint, so in 2011 Rexel the use of natural light. launch a 270 MW wind turbine park. INITIATIVE energies has been tasked is a biannual event that UNITED KINGDOM UK conducted an extensive Sixteen solar panels were Green Days with designing Rexel’s green provides an opportunity energy audit of its operations. also installed. Result: the • www.naturalsparx.co.uk build green offers line of products and services. to talk about the latest Based on a detailed analysis Club’s electricity consumption is Rexel UK’s new webstore for professionals in renewable energies The team is comprised products, suppliers, of its consumption units was cut by 25% for and photovoltaic panel installers. INTERNATIONAL and energy management a reduction of 5 tCO2e. of specialists in marketing top initiatives and market processes, the British Rexel’s expert team and green technologies from outlook. subsidiary recommended specializing in energy efficient the countries where the Group a solution combining a lighting solutions and renewable does business. Green Days upgrade and a switch to solar energy. The new lighting PAGE 16 | REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT | PAGE 17 I ENERGY MANAGEMENT I AT STAKE • Proving to our customers the economic and environmental advantages of eco-efficient solutions and renewable energies. 150 articles in two languages* were published in late 2012 in the Group’s energy-efficiency online magazine, www.electrical-efficiency.com • Contributing to the public debate on energy in line with our societal 9 out of 10 people think energy-efficiency is an important issue AND (see inset Consumer Survey below) • LEDZmeet is a space commitment to promote energy efficiency. 80% of Rexel’s subsidiaries provide training for their customers devoted to LED lighting located near Utrecht in the * French and English Netherlands and designed by Rexel for its customers. 3/ RAISING CUSTOMER AND A spokesman on energy efficiency issues MORE INFO CONSUMER AWARENESS There is legitimate reason for Rexel to be part of the debate on energy use. The Group • About our international survey: knows that consumers can be somewhat in the dark on these issues, so it has develwww.rexel.com oped a whole range of tools to share its expertize with the general public. Its online (Commitments/international magazine on energy efficiency (www.electrical-efficiency.com) is designed to raise barometer for energy efficiency section) the level of understanding on the problems at hand and foster broader awareness of Raising awareness and educating customers • Our online magazine on eco-efficient innovations. Available in both English and French, it is aimed at profesenergy efficiency: www. In light of market and technological advances, independent electricians and installers sionals and the general public. Alongside this initiative, Rexel commissioned Harris electrical-efficiency.com need to update their skills in order to be successful advocates of energy saving Interactive to conduct a global survey on how European and American consumers • Ledzmeet: solutions for their customers. With its proven expertise, not to mention its role as perceive energy efficiency (see inset). The subsidiaries are also getting caught up in www.ledzmeet.com a distributor, Rexel is offering them targeted modular training courses that change the momentum. Leading up to the implementation of the Green Deal (British law on • About Sigma Home: http://www.bre.co.uk/ from country to country. The classes last from a few hours up to a week and provide energy efficient buildings), Rexel UK conducted a study to gather data on consumer information on everything from new lighting sources to climate engineering equipment. behavior. Customers in industry and the service sectors are more attuned to the comprehensive support program for energy management that the Group can provide. Dedicated energy saving solutions areas are present in our branches offices. Regardless of the type of customer, the true test lies in proving that solutions offer profitability and environmental benefits. But the best rationale yet is the example the Group is setting by adopting solutions to meet its own energy requirements (see pages 24/25). SPOTLIGHT While professionals generally the United States. The key Consumer Survey have a good grasp on takeaway was that consumers BRIEFLY j energy efficiency, perception are aware of the issues: EUROPE, among consumers is a bit 9 out of 10 people see • Rexel France is co-organizer of the Énéo Trade Show, the world’s INITIATIVE conventional home. Designed and another part is being used UNITED STATES trickier. So Rexel launched energy efficiency as a major leading expo on sustainable building A “model” green home for opinion leaders and endto display the construction the first international survey challenge, but they have and clean energy. users alike, the model home sits framework and equipment, to measure how the general limited knowledge about UNITED KINGDOM public perceives issues existing solutions. • Both a showroom and just outside London and serves which includes LEDs, air-source engineering office, ABM Rexel’s In 2011, Rexel’s UK subsidiary as a life-sized showcase for heat pumps, solar panels, surrounding energy efficiency. Ciudad de la Luz in Madrid, Spain The survey was conducted displays the entire range of ecounveiled its low-consumption Rexel’s products and solutions. a home automation system by Harris Interactive in 2011 efficient lighting solutions. house that saves about four A family has already tested and a recharging station for on a sample of 4,000 people times as much energy as a the livable part of the house electric cars. in France, Germany, the United Kingdom and PAGE 18 | REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT | PAGE 19 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY IMPROVING OUR PERFORMANCE Rexel’s environmental challenge lies with the fact that its environmental impacts are scattered accross all its different work locations, rather than the scale of these. With operations in 37 countries, the Group has doubled in size in five years and now runs close to 2,600 sites. In light of the global issues of climate change and resource conservation, Rexel is striving to shrink its footprint. Out of a concern to increase its environmental performance and achieve its operational excellence objective, the Group has set three top priorities: energy efficiency at its facilities, transportation optimization and waste management. PAGE 20 | REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT | PAGE 21 I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I AT STAKE • Overseeing a consistent environmental approach based on a quantified worldwide assessment of our environmental impacts. 81% of sites have rolled out the Rexel Environmental Charter 8 entities were ISO 14001 certified in 2012 and 14 are in line to be certified AND • As a member of the association Entreprises pour l’Environnement (Companies by 2014 for the Environment), • Defining objectives, measuring our progress and communicating reliable and Rexel is helping spread tangible results. 40 environmental correspondents and 33 validators information and best practices on managing environmental impacts in 32 countries – the outreach of Rexel’s reporting network through its publications (e.g. “Measuring and managing your greenhouse gas emissions”). 1/ CONSOLIDATING The Group’s key environmental and social performance indicators are verified by MORE INFO ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP • Our Environmental Charter: an independent third-party the auditing firm Ernst & Young, which has performed a www.rexel.com (Commitments limited assurance engagement (see pages 48/49 on Indicators). section) • Our Document de réference, Chapter 3: www.rexel.com A joint platform for environmental management (Finance/Documentation and regulated information) Relevant reporting As a first step toward environmental management, the Rexel Environmental Charter • Our Bilan Carbone®: Since 2006, Rexel has been conducting annual Group-wide consolidated environmental is now being rolled out in more than 80% of its sites. It has made a considerable www.rexel.com reporting as part of a proactive approach to measure its impacts. In anticipation of the contribution to enforcing good practices at branch level. Many subsidiaries have also (Press/News section) regulatory requirements listed in Article 225 of the Grenelle 2 Law, the objective is to set up environmental management systems (EMS) to determine, measure and control fully cover the financial reporting scope. New acquisitions will also be included within their impact. Rexel intends to make this program a Group-wide standard and is worka two-year time frame. ing toward implementing standardized management procedures to better control its environmental performance. As added proof of their initiatives, several subsidiaries are With the publication of its first Bilan Carbone® in 2010 (see inset) and the improvement of involved in the ISO 14001 certification process. In 2011, the Czech subsidiary joined its annual reporting, Rexel has become a veritable expert in environmental management the Group’s seven ISO 14001 certified entities. by enhancing its collection and data analysis processes and implementing dedicated reporting software. Advancing our know-how The quality needed to properly manage environmental issues also stems from the expertise of our teams, which collect, process and analyze data. The 40 environmental correspondents around the world are integral to BRIEFLY j the success of this process and play a key role in sharing know-how and exchanging best practices. In an effort to lead this expert community, every • Since 2011, Rexel has reported CARBON FOOTPRINT INITIATIVE of its operations (Germany, from suppliers to customers. year since 2011, the Group has organized a Sustainable Development to the Carbon Disclosure Project The “Carbon Culture” Australia, Spain, the United In 2013, the Group will carry (CDP), an initiative that analyzes States, France and the United out another carbon footprint seminar. This annual colloquium is an opportunity to share ideas on the the carbon performance of large 18% EUROPE, AUSTRALIA, Kingdom). Key finding: Rexel analysis over an even wider Group’s strategy and exchange views, approaches and action plans in a corporations on behalf of over 500 investors. fewer GHG* emissions UNITED STATES does not emit much CO2 scope. mutually beneficial atmosphere that fosters continuous improvement. 65,263 related to electricity itself, but indirectly generates • Rexel strives to step up its 53,592 consumption (Scope 2) In 2010, Rexel conducted its a significant amount of reporting coverage and transparency * Greenhouse gas measured in by referring to the Global Reporting first global carbon footprint greenhouse gases (GHG), Initiative standard G3.1. tonnes of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e) assessment on a representative two-thirds of which comes 2010 I 2011 scope that covered 70% from transporting its products PAGE 22 | REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT | PAGE 23 I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I 5% ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION THE GROUP’S IN DISTRIBUTION CENTERS ELECTRICITY (average breakdown by use) CONSUMPTION in GWh AT STAKE • Reducing our environmental footprint by applying innovative energy Lighting57% Process* 23% reduction of CO2 efficient solutions. HVAC & Heating 12% emissions related • Showing the efficiency and benefits of our solutions and our know-how. 217 Offices 5% 196 175 to energy consumption Miscellaneous** 3% from 2010 to 2011 * Special equipment like compressor conveyors, strapping machines, 2009 I 2010 I 2011 stamping machines, etc. ** Other equipment, like ventilators, fences, household appliances, burglar alarm systems, etc. 2/ IMPROVING ENERGY footprint while at the same time serving as a testimony to the economic and ecological AND • Cloud Computing EFFICIENCY OF FACILITIES relevance of the solutions it distributes. made it possible for Rexel’s Norwegian Employee awareness subsidiary, Elektroskandia Norge, to reduce the Beyond technological advances, user awareness is a crucial component of the success energy consumption of its IT servers by 60%. of the Company’s energy management program. In order to encourage eco-friendly Serving as a model habits, every year Rexel holds a week-long event called EcoDays, aimed at raising As a leading player in the electrical equipment and services market, Rexel is adopting awareness on environmental issues. For the 2011 campaign, named “Energy Efficiency and installing the eco-efficient solutions it distributes to its customers at its sites. in the Workplace,” a website was set up in eight languages to invite all employees to reduce energy consumption in their daily lives. The EcoDays website also gives emThe Group conducts onsite energy audits so it can then roll out the appropriate soluployees access to a forum where they can exchange ideas, projects and best practices. tions: eco-efficient products, control and management systems and the use of renewable energies. Rexel does all it can to cut its consumption and direct emissions, while helping with peak curtailment and grid load adjustment. Over the last two years, the Group has been “relamping” several buildings, headquarters, branches and warehouses (see inset). This has enabled Rexel to shrink its environmental SPOTLIGHT In 2012, Rexel France timers on electric convectors, BRIEFLY j From audits conducted an energy audit Rexel France expects to cut at eight of its distribution its annual gas consumption • Since 2011 the Group’s Finnish to savings entity, Elektroskandia Suomi, has centers. It was found that by 1,896 MWh and electricity INITIATIVE headquarters in Dallas, over 120,000 m of space 2 been using 100% hydraulic powered FRANCE 40% of the energy consumed by 318 MWh for an emissions Texas and its largest had already been upgraded. electricity, which has reduced its “Relamping” at these sites was from gas, reduction of 483 tCO2e. annual indirect carbon footprint warehouse in Mansfield, In the Mansfield warehouse mainly for heat, and 60% by 400 tCO2e. UNITED STATES Massachusetts (10,000 m2). alone, electricity savings are from electricity, primarily Ballasts and low-consumption estimated at 863 MWh/year. • Installing photovoltaic panels used for lighting and special Since 2011, Rexel USA has light sources, motion and in some of its branches in Germany, equipment (forklifts and Austria, France and Slovakia has cut been working on a massive light detectors were installed conveyors). By regulating annual greenhouse gas emission lighting retrofit project to optimize lighting by 50 tCO2e. heating units and boilers, at 65 sites, including its performance. By late 2012, instituting a lower room temperature and putting PAGE 24 | REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT | PAGE 25 I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I AT STAKE • Reducing fuel consumption and cutting direct and indirect emissions related to transportation, which accounts for 70% of our carbon footprint. 130 gCO /km 2 : the average emissions rate of Rexel’s vehicle fleet in Europe • Preparing for regulatory changes, especially carbon taxes, and our customers’ 13%: the projected decrease in the Group’s fuel consumption between AND 2010 and 2014 by changing the vehicle fleets at its European subsidiaries • Rexel is taking special requirements in logistics efficiency. care in Europe to reduce 22%: the reduction of GHG emissions generated by transporting products its heavy vehicle emissions in the framework on Rexel’s fleet between 2010 and 2011 of European tax reforms (European Directive called “Eurovignette”). 3/ REDUCING TRANSPORTATIONRexel is also improving its own fleet management by streamlining routes, optimizing MORE INFO RELATED CARBON EMISSIONS • Our Document de réference, loads and fine-tuning measuring instruments. Due to these efforts, in 2011 the greenChapter 3: www.rexel.com house gas emissions generated by internal transportation went down 22% from 2010 (Finance/Documentation (constant scope and with 10% fewer vehicles). and regulated information) Modernizing the vehicle fleet Greener logistics Rexel is also modernizing its fleet of vehicles used for sales team travel, which accounts Rexel has implemented programs to optimize its supply chain in all the countries where for nearly one-third of the Group’s emissions. Gradually upgrading the fleet with more it operates. The goal is to reduce distances travelled, fuel consumption and greenhouse energy-efficient models through framework agreements with carmakers and leasing gas emissions while maintaining a high quality of service for its customers. companies is significantly reducing fuel consumption and emissions. By the end of 2012, 75% of the vehicles were upgraded and their environmental performance has already The program is being developed both internally and with its subcontractors. Apart from cut the greenhouse gas emissions generated from business trips by 26% since 2009. incorporating environmental guidelines into its carriers selection process, the Group advocates freight commingling – in other words, pooling merchandise flows with other local businesses (see inset). INITIATIVE optimizing delivery routes, number of trucks on a daily the environment when it SPOTLIGHT Freight commingling they decided to pool their route dropped from 25 to 18, selects its carriers: shorter fleets. A pilot project was which cut emissions by Eco-friendly logistics distances, pollution standards that pollute less UNITED STATES introduced in the Los Angeles 90 tCO2e every year. There for vehicles and training truck area where both brands have are plans to expand the system drivers. Its 2015 objectives: a dense network. All trucks to other areas by 2014. SWEDEN The Rexel and Gexpro brands 40% of vehicles Euro 4 or have their own supply chain were equipped with GPS better and 65% of drivers system in the United States. systems to accurately Rexel Sweden, ISO 14001 trained in eco-driving. As they were trying to reduce manage logistics flows and certified since 2008, their environmental impact by air emissions. The average is particularly attentive towards respecting PAGE 26 | REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT | PAGE 27 I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I AT STAKE • Preventing wasted resources and diminishing the amount of packaging used and waste generated by our operations. 7,800 tons of packaging and 2,500 tons of paper used in 2011 Group-wide • Reducing the impact of our waste and our end-of-life products 80% of Rexel branches practice selective sorting by collecting them for recycling. 13,270 tons of waste recovered in 2011, amounting to 65% (59% in 2010) Group-wide 25 tons of batteries collected in 2011 by Rexel 63% of Rexel branches collect WEEE from customers in 2011 4/ REDUCING AND Selective sorting and recycling MORE INFO • Our Document de réference, RECOVERING WASTE For many years, Rexel has been using a selective sorting system for its waste at Chapter 3: www.rexel.com branches and distribution centers. This enables the Company to recycle materials and (Finance/Documentation to recover boxes, plastic and scrap wood, to name a few. In 2011, the recycling rate and regulated information) was 65%, i.e. 13,270 tons of recovered waste, compared with 59% in 2010. Managed waste production Collection of WEEE Cardboard, wood and paper make up most of the common waste generated by Rexel’s When it is not processed through a specialized channel, Waste from Electrical and operations. Rexel wants to limit its impact at the source. The Group is primarily raising Electronic Equipment (WEEE) can cause pollution that harms ecosystems and poses employee awareness to encourage them to save paper and cut down on purchases of health hazards. Out of a concern for managing the end-of-life cycle for the products consumables, plus it is moving toward using more reusable packaging (see inset). Not it sells, Rexel is participating in an effort to recycle WEEE. The Group’s entities have only does reusing packaging (cardboard boxes, palettes and cable drums) save money, set up systems to collect this waste at 63% of its sites and send it to the appropriate but it also reduces the amount of waste in the warehouses. waste processing facility. In addition to regulatory requirements, some subsidiaries have teamed up with private partners or public agencies (see inset). In 2011, over 1,000 tons of WEEE were collected. SPOTLIGHT To help its customers recycle have been supplied with Helping our WEEE, Rexel’s American recycling bins for bulbs, BRIEFLY j customers recycle subsidiary Gexpro is giving tubes, lighting hardware, • In the United States, Rexel has them boxes with prepaid and electronic security and begun working with a single service INITIATIVE and fulfill customer orders by about the same. Rexel France UNITED STATES, port tax stamps to send control equipment. Recylum provider named Oakleaf to optimize Smart packaging replacing them with reusable will be making the initiative FRANCE back their WEEE directly processes this waste in its waste recycling process. plastic containers. A trial was standard practice and plans to its partner Veolia’s accordance with existing • In Germany, Finland, Norway FRANCE conducted at 13 branches to install smart chips in the treatment plants. On its side, regulations in a way that is and the United Kingdom, Rexel around Nancy, France. In containers to optimize the Rexel France has signed safe both for the environment subsidiaries have set objectives In 2011, Rexel France launched 18 months, the consumption inventory management systems. an agreement with Recylum, and workers. to reduce and recover their waste. a pilot project to reduce use of of cardboard boxes was an environmental organization the cardboard shipping boxes down by almost 15 tons that is certified to process used to resupply its branches and the volume of waste commercial WEEE. All of Rexel France’s branches PAGE 28 | REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT | PAGE 29 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SUPPORTING OUR EMPLOYEES Making people an integral part of the Group’s values and practices is one of Rexel’s fundamental principles. Its social responsibility is reflected through its support for the universal rights declared in the United Nations Global Compact that the Group and its subsidiaries embrace in their human resources policies. Team spirit and the Group’s success would not be possible if its workers were not committed to these founding principles. Bolstered by the Energy in Motion values, social responsibility plays a key role in promoting workspace safety and welfare, developing skills, encouraging social dialogue, providing equal opportunities and associating employees to the Group’s performance. PAGE 30 | REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT | PAGE 31 I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I AT STAKE • Protecting our employees worldwide in their right to safety, health and hygiene and standardizing best practices. 2.5 to 4.2 : between 2009 and 2011, the increase of the number of training hours each person in the Group received in safety AND • A telephone hotline was opened in Spain and Portugal to help employees • Always striving to improve working conditions, particularly 5,000 employees in 11 countries covered by the “Rexel Plus Protection find a balance between for All” welfare protection program home and work. The by improving our social benefits. initiative includes medical 86% Rexel employees state they are treated with respect* and legal support as well as services like computer * Source: Employee survey Satisfaxion11 repair and finding a plumber. 1/ PROMOTING SAFETY AND Improving social protection MORE INFO WELL-BEING IN THE WORKPLACE The Group was concerned about providing social protection for its workforce, so in • Our Document de référence, Chapter 3: www.rexel.com 2010 it introduced a universal welfare protection program. “Rexel Plus Protection for (Finance/Regulatory All” gives 5,000 workers in 11 countries supplemental coverage for occupational illdocumentation and nesses and workplace accidents. All companies the Group acquires that offer fewer information section) social services than “Rexel Plus” are automatically enrolled. The Group is also diligent • About “Rexel Plus Preventing health and safety risks Protection for All”: about worker benefits, which are a vital component for a responsible employer. Rexel www.rexel.com Beyond its legal obligations, the Group is responsible for keeping a close watch on primarily focuses its efforts on countries where the need is more important (see inset). (Press/Press Releases the health and safety of its employees. The main risks for Rexel’s workers are related section) to driving, falls, operating machinery, handling materials, wiring and working on the computer. Each country deals with these risks in its own way while respecting the Ethics Guide and in compliance with local laws. The primary prevention methods remain medical supervision, awareness campaigns and training. In many countries, safety training has become a matter of course. The Group’s objective is to comply with the most stringent health and safety practices around the world. SPOTLIGHT Only one-third of the Group’s it was supplemented A helping hand 900 employees in China were with awareness training BRIEFLY j for social benefits covered by a supplemental in preventive medicine. insurance plan. The social In 2012, 1,000 workers • In 2010, the “Rexel Plus” program won the International Social INTERNATIONAL security plan that covered in the United Kingdom were Responsibility Award at the ORAS INITIATIVE opinion survey. The topic in terms of commitment and the remaining workers did granted lower deductions, C&B (Compensation & Benefits) not allow them to access mainly for ambulance care, awards ceremony. Satisfaxion11 of personal respect received well-being. Last but not least, the most positive responses: four out of five people believed private healthcare networks. and their premiums did • In 2012, Rexel France introduced coverage to guarantee workers who INTERNATIONAL 86% of employees polled said they were personally fulfilled Since January 2012, the entire not go up. In Brazil, after are put on full disability allowing they were satisfied. There thanks to their job. staff has been covered by the acquisition of Nortel in them to receive income payments; In May 2011, 27,000 employees was also a high percentage supplemental insurance. 2011 and Etil and Delamano as an optional benefit, employees in 24 countries (96% of the total of respondents at Rexel who Alongside “Rexel Plus”, in 2012, a shared welfare with a dependent family member workforce) answered an internal said they are very satisfied medical coverage in Chile had protection program can benefit from support services. been instituted for all workers was introduced for all in 2011 and then in 2012 employees. PAGE 32 | REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT | PAGE 33 I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I PEOPLE IN THE GROUP WHO RECEIVED TRAINING IN THE YEAR AT STAKE (in %) • Making the best use of the Company’s human capital, a key asset of our vibrancy AND 2008 2010 2011 • Rexel developed a highand capacity for innovation. level training course called 43% 48% 64% the Business Leadership • Motivating, inspiring and earning employee loyalty by improving their skills Cycle in partnership with and supporting their career development. the International Institute for Management Development in Lausanne, ranked the leading management school by the Financial Times. 2/ SUPPORTING EMPLOYEE the best way to discuss. Assessments also serve as a springboard toward mobility within MORE INFO CAREER DEVELOPMENT • Our Document de référence, the Company, both in terms of promotions and making functional or geographic moves. Chapter 3: www.rexel.com (Finance/Documentation Encouraging communication and regulated information) As part of the support the Group offers its workers, it keeps them informed, fosters • About our award at the “One of the Best Workers dialogue and encourages the various entities to share their experiences. In 2012, the in France” contest (Un Skills development Group’s internal magazine Interaxion was redesigned and an online version created. It is des Meilleurs Ouvriers One of the tenets of Rexel’s social commitment is skills recognition. In light of rapidly available in three languages: French, English and German. The latest editions of Comde France): www.rexel.com (Press/Press Releases changing professions, markets and technologies, training is the crucial element in acmunication Weeks, the communication platform provided to the country sites, focused section) quiring new types of expertise. Local entities provide technical and regulatory training on the results of the employee opinion survey Satisfaxion11, managerial transition, the and manufacturers offer product training courses while the Group directs training of its company plan, the Community Involvement Charter and the employee shareholding managers. This last type of training was developed not only to gain skills, but also to plan Opportunity12. learn the nuts and bolts of managing change and steering innovation. Guidance for professional growth All employees must be able to take advantage of growth opportunities. This objective is primarily achieved through skills assessment and mobility management. For example, in 2011, 67% of the workforce sat down with their managers for an annual review, which is BRIEFLY j SPOTLIGHT • In 2011, three Rexel France A branch simulator: Elixir employees won the prestigious title of INITIATIVE program designed to seek in the host country. “Un des meilleurs ouvriers de France” out young talent and enhance The number of enrollees (One of the Best Workers in France) International INTERNATIONAL in the Electrical Energy Solutions Rexel’s reputation among has gone from 12 in 2011 Traineeship Sales and Consulting category. universities and the top to 15 in 2012 and should Elixir, a two-day program designed to simulate branch INTERNATIONAL business and engineering continue to climb. • Based on the idea that asking management over the course of a year, was tested in three is better than guessing, Rexel’s schools. Training lasts six countries in 2011. The simulator helped the trainees understand American subsidiary produced Launched in 2007, International months to one year and and manage the complex operations at a Rexel branch. In the a short maintenance manual for Traineeship is an internship is supervised by a tutor managers themed “What makes long term, 6,000 people will be able to take part in this program employees stay?” and gain a global perspective on Rexel’s core business. PAGE 34 | REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT | PAGE 35 I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I AT STAKE • Protecting and enforcing our employees’ rights to free speech and representation. • Galvanizing ethics in work relationships, especially in terms of anti-discrimination, More than 16,000 by the European Works Council employees are covered equal opportunity and respect for diversity. 520 employees in the Group are involved in labor representative bodies AND 23.1%: part of the women in the total workforce in 2011 (22.6% in 2010) • Since 2011, the European Works Council has had an 111 collective agreements were signed in 2011 Group-wide, Intranet site containing all mostly in Europe and Brazil the documents sent out to representatives. 3/ REINFORCING SOCIAL DIALOGUE Respect for diversity and equal opportunity MORE INFO AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY One of the principles in the Group’s Ethics Guide is dignity and personal respect. Rexel • Our Document de référence, Chapter 3: www.rexel.com does not tolerate any form of discrimination and provides equal opportunity for all in (Finance/Documentation hiring, training, compensation, job assignment and professional growth. and regulated information) • Our Ethics Guide: In terms of gender equality, many subsidiaries have taken up initiatives to support the www.rexel.com Stronger social dialogue (Commitments/Employees/ recruitment of more women (see inset). Yet, like the low rate of women in the specialEthics section) Rexel places great importance on its employees’ freedom of speech and representation. ized distribution sector, women still only make up 23% of the Group’s workforce. Rexel The Group encourages free speech among its employees, respects their right to also launched a series of initiatives for workers over 50, who account for 26% of the unionize and works with them to build an ongoing constructive dialogue on topics of Group’s workforce, and reinforces its commitment to help the disabled (see inset). mutual interest. Social dialogue is part of Rexel’s strategic growth and its business, but it equally concerns its policies on labor, training, health and safety. The European Works Council was set up in 2005 and plays an integral role in encouraging this social dialogue and spreading best practices. SPOTLIGHT is to find these workers and A measure then take any measures BRIEFLY j for the disabled needed to adapt their work • In 2011, Ethics correspondents Association (ECA) for the proficiency in sales. About stations. Rexel France handled 64 cases, most of them INITIATIVE FRANCE also has a subcontracting “Wired for Success” program a dozen women were in North America. One-third of the “Wired arrangement with the case referrals dealt with employee aimed at bringing more trained over two years and for Success” Rexel France continues protected worker sector, relations and another third with women into the electrician schedules were arranged fraud or theft. trade. Since October 2011, to accommodate working its commitment to actively particularly to handle garden UNITED KINGDOM help the disabled mainly maintenance and mail • Rexel’s Austrian subsidiary this course has been placing mothers. The trainees will held its first awareness workshop students in companies receive job placement by keeping disabled workers campaigns. An informational in 2012 on productive aging. The Rexel’s British subsidiary to combine an education support for one year. in their jobs. Considering and awareness campaign agenda addressed motivation and Newey & Eyre is working knowledge transfer. in technical skills with that 80% of disabilities about the disabled was with the Electrical Contractors are hidden from also introduced. view, the first step PAGE 36 | REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT | PAGE 37 I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I AT STAKE • Creating a stronger sense of belonging to the Group and recognizing individual and collective performance. 8,000 Rexel employees became Group shareholders between the first employee shareholding plan in 2007 and 2012 when Opportunity12 was launched – which is 25% of the Group’s employees* • Motivating our employees by providing them access to employee shareholding under preferential terms. 60% of the workforce receives variable compensation 1.94%: the share of capital owned by the Group’s employees and former employees as of November 23, 2012 * current workforce as of December 31, 2011 4/ ASSOCIATING EMPLOYEES Employee shareholding MORE INFO TO THE GROUP’S PERFORMANCE Since Rexel’s IPO, three shareholding plans in 2007, 2010 and 2012 have been • Our Document de référence, Chapter 3: www.rexel.com offered to employees under preferential terms (see inset). These shareholding plans (Finance/Documentation were exclusively reserved for employees and featured a discounted share price and a and regulated information) matching employer contribution in the form of free shares (a cash matching contribution • About Opportunity12: was offered in France). The plans link employees to Rexel’s performance and give www.rexel.com (Press/ Press Releases section) Variable compensation them a larger stake in the Group’s equity. Like employee shareholding and profit-sharing, variable compensation is one of the most useful ways of recognizing employees for their contribution to the Group’s Alongside these initiatives, a one-time free shares program was rolled out in 2011 to success. This recognition is an integral part of the Rexel culture. 536 branch and operational managers. Rexel’s six subsidiaries in France gave their employees an option to either collect the legally mandated profit-sharing bonus (€150) Even though the compensation package is managed locally, it must comply with two or deposit it into a fund invested in Rexel shares which provided a matching employer Group values: fairness and competitiveness. These are the same values that determine contribution of €150 in 2011 and €250 in 2012. More than 40% of the employees Rexel’s variable compensation policy, which is a way to make employees part of the chose the second option. Company’s success. Currently 60% of the workforce receives variable compensation. Almost half of the staff worldwide are also enrolled in a profit-sharing plan based on collective earnings (see inset). SPOTLIGHT All of the Canadian In 2011, profit-sharing Profit sharing employees who do was at an average of 8.6% BRIEFLY j in Canada not receive a bonus of annual wages. • 24 Opportunity sites, or commission (about one per participating country, INITIATIVE in 16 countries, four more employer contribution CANADA 1,800 people) are eligible were opened in February 2012 Opportunity12 than in 2010 (China, Australia, was added to the offer to mark the availability of holdings for the profit-sharing Brazil and Finland). Share (a cash matching contribution invested in the Opportunity07 plans. Alongside the INTERNATIONAL subscription price was at in France). Employees could employee shareholding plan, Incentive Compensation the plan proposed to employees €12.14, which is 20% off subscribe online in 13 of the Plan available to all after Rexel’s IPO in 2007. The new employee shareholding (outside the US) the average 16 countries. employees, the Management plan launched in September price over the 20 day period Incentive Plan reserved 2012 involves over 90% before the offering opened. for managers is tied of the Group’s employees A free share matching to sales, quality, employee training, etc. PAGE 38 | REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT | PAGE 39 SOCIETAL Rexel has always been involved in corporate philanthropic RESPONSIBILITY actions and upholds its commitment to local communities.The Group puts the unifying theme of promoting access to energy SUPPORTING efficiency for all at the center of its community involvement approach. With its extensive knowledge in this domain, Rexel wants to help combat energy insecurity. The Group’s responsibility towards society is also conveyed through its relationships with LOCAL suppliers and contractors, especially when it comes to respect for the environment and ethics. COMMUNITIES PAGE 40 | REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT | PAGE 41 I SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY I TOTAL DONATIONS OF THE GROUP’S SUBSIDIARIES AT STAKE 2009 2010 2011 • Consolidating our foothold in the economic and social fabric and supporting development in places where we operate. • Guiding and advocating community involvement among our employees. €400,000 €670,000 €700,000 1/ STANDING BY OUR Employee involvement AND • Rexel signed LOCAL COMMUNITIES Employees are not only inspired and motivated by serving the community but most a partnership importantly their involvement is vital to the success of the Group’s societal program. with the Télémaque Institut, which helps That is why Rexel supports their participation in these actions and wants to give all of youths from disadvantaged them an opportunity to make a difference. The Group also encourages its subsidiaries areas. Rexel provides both financial and one-on-one to create skills-based sponsorship programs that are deeply meaningful for employees, support for middle and Contributing to local development who can become involved as program promoters or leaders, or lend their skills and high school students through a program where Through its dense network and worldwide operations, Rexel is firmly rooted in the experience to a local or global project. employees tutor a student local fabric of many regions. Above and beyond its economic leverage, Rexel wants to during his/her schooling. be part of the peaceful development of its local communities. This civic engagement translates into a broad range of grassroots initiatives. It inspires the subsidiaries to routinely mobilize for technical training, medical research and philanthropic actions. MORE INFO They provide free products and electrical equipment and collect donations for athletic, • Institut Télémaque: cultural and charity associations. Rexel also provides relief to local communities www.institut-telemaque.org/ that have been victims of a natural disaster. Emergency funds collected by Rexel • Our Document de référence, Chapter 3: www.rexel.com subsidiaries and employees are mostly matched by the Group. (Finance/Documentation and regulated information) SPOTLIGHT A special support fund was Employees making also created in 2010 to help Group employees who were INITIATIVE two disabled community a difference centers run by the SOS victims in the February 2010 Helping earthquake in Chile, most of the disabled Children’s Villages association UNITED STATES, which is being used to rebuild in Mexico and Germany. CANADA, CHILE homes. Over €100,000 was GERMANY, MEXICO Hohenroth Village (Germany) houses 160 young disabled Rexel’s Canadian and collected from employees adults who work in the American employees took in 15 countries. With donations collected by its employees, Rexel’s agriculture and artisan sectors. part in the 2011 Relay for subsidiary Hagemeyer Life, an international collection Germany is supporting drive to raise funds for the battle against cancer. PAGE 42 | REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT | PAGE 43 I SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY I AT STAKE • Preventing energy insecurity, particularly in the most disadvantaged communities, 8.4% in France, 8.6% in the United Kingdom, 7% in the United States: percentage of household budget related to energy spending (transportation and housing)* by leveraging our expertise. 75 to 89% of people surveyed think electrical equipment distributors play a key role in promoting • Aligning our community actions to improve our business and employee skills. energy efficiency (2011 Rexel-Harris Interactive Survey on energy efficiency) 1.5 billion inhabitants of developing countries do not have access to electricity and even when modern power utilities are available, they are usually too expensive * Source: www.electrical-efficiency.com 2/ PROMOTING ACCESS A collaborative process AND • In 2011, Rexel’s TO ENERGY EFFICIENCY FOR ALL Each subsidiary is encouraged to design and implement its own societal program. It American subsidiary can support a local community project, build a partnership with a non-profit association Gexpro donated several solar panels to the TV show or organize a fundraiser (also see pages 42/43). The Rexel Group also actively works “Extreme Makeover: Home to implement projects with its partners, which include customers, suppliers and nonEdition” for a low-income family in Columbus, Ohio. governmental organizations. In 2011 and 2012, these efforts resulted in the conclusion A unifying area of commitment of two global partnerships; one with the organization Ashoka and the other with the The Group is actively involved with its local partners to provide its skills for the poorest Schneider Electric Foundation (see insets). members of the community. It is natural that Rexel promotes initiatives for better use and optimized consumption of energy. Joining the fight to end energy insecurity is a logical application for the Group’s expertise and its sense of responsibility towards MORE INFO society. This area of commitment takes on a deeper meaning as an integral part of • About Ashoka: Rexel’s company plan Energy in Motion. www.ashoka.org/ • Our Community Involvement Charter: www.rexel.com In 2012, Rexel made its commitment official in a Community Involvement Charter and Guide. It provided a chance to merge the efforts of the Group’s subsidiaries focused on joint objectives with actions to support progress in the area of energy efficiency through education, vocational training and public housing. SPOTLIGHT Training electricians BRIEFLY j CHINA • Dr Electrics is an energy-saving In 2011, Rexel joined forces subsidiaries Rexel Inc. and who are working with Rexel awareness campaign conducted INITIATIVE in schools by Rexel’s Brazilian The Ashoka Fellows with the organization Ashoka Gexpro pledged funds to promote access to energy subsidiary Nortel in partnership In 2012, the Rexel Group signed a partnership with to provide support for innovative to Stacey Epperson, founder efficiency. with the Brazilian Ministry of Culture. the Schneider Electric Foundation in line with its UNITED STATES social entrepreneurs working on of Next Step, a company that co-development approach for all stakeholders. • 2012: International Year energy efficiency. Rexel sponsors provides access to affordable The first initiative launched in September 2012 aims of Sustainable Energy for All Ashoka Fellows, who receive eco-efficient factory-built homes. (designated by the United Nations to support a vocational school for electricians financial backing through grants The ultimate goal with Ashoka General Assembly). in Taiyuan, Shanxi province, China. It is a joint initiative and technical support. In 2012, is to create an international with the China Environmental Protection Foundation the Group and its American pool of social entrepreneurs designed to upgrade and equip two workshops and educate 300 students over two years. PAGE 44 | REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT | PAGE 45 I SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY I AT STAKE • Ensuring product compliance, respect for the environment and the health and safety of our customers. 34% of the Group’s purchases are made from suppliers that are signatories of the United Nations Global Compact • Sharing our commitments in sustainable development with our commercial partners. 17%: share of responsible purchases out of all purchases in 2011 in French companies, versus 13% in 2009* * Source: Opinion Way Obsar 3/ ADVOCATING human rights and dignity, not to use child labor, forced labor or undocumented labor MORE INFO A RESPONSIBLE APPROACH and to disparage any form of discrimination towards employees. • Our Document de référence, Chapter 3: www.rexel.com (Finance/Documentation Responsibility for our products IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN and regulated information) Rexel ensures the products it sells comply with regulations, and therefore monitors • About the Bizline testing and plans for regulatory changes, particularly the European RoHS Directive and laboratory: www.rexel.com (Press/News section) REACH regulation. A system was indeed introduced to inform customers on product • RoHS: Restriction of Joint ethical responsibility compliance and especially about the presence of SVHCs. A similar measure is planned Hazardous Substances to be put into place in accordance with new standards, for instance on user safety Rexel has been a United Nations Global Compact signatory since 2011 and makes • REACh: Registration, labelling (GHS-CLP regulation). Evaluation, Authorisation and its trade partners part of its ethics policy. Considering ethics as a joint responsibility, Restrictions of Chemicals Rexel takes the social, environmental and societal aspects of business into account Moreover, Rexel is implementing stronger quality and safety controls for its own brands • SVHC: Substances of Very in its relations with suppliers and contractors. Any business looking to establish and High Concern products. In 2012, the Group started a proactive lifecycle assessment initiative on a develop business relations with the Group and its subsidiaries must abide by the • GHS-CLP: Globally list of select products (see inset). principles set out in its Ethics Guide. So Rexel has inserted special clauses in its Harmonised System of Classification, Labelling and procurement contracts stipulating an obligation to comply with national laws and Packaging international agreements, particularly on employee rights, health and safety, and the environment. Suppliers also have to strictly comply with the guidelines on free competition and denounce any type of corruption. They agree with Rexel to uphold SPOTLIGHT Rexel’s American subsidiary, score, it may be disapproved, Supplier Gexpro Services, is one certified or conditionally INITIATIVE One of the Group’s own brands, of the European Cooperation to modify their technical audits of the Group’s most advanced approved. Audited suppliers Bizline, embarked on a preliminary for Accreditation) for its testing specifications. By doing so, entities in conducting audits always receive a document Lifecycle assessment INTERNATIONAL at its suppliers’ facilities. listing corrective measures study on lifecycle assessment laboratory. Bizline conducted Rexel is planning for ongoing for Bizline products The audits look into finances, they need to take. (LCA) in 2012 for some of the LCA by working closely regulatory reforms on its products. The study is part with its suppliers and contractors. environmental labelling. the environment, the quality FRANCE system, operations and safety. of an ongoing quality and It gave them better visibility safety process that had already on which items were contributing The two-step procedure starts prompted it to obtain COFRAC to the products’ environmental with the supplier completing accreditation (the French arm footprint and allowed them a self-evaluation, followed by a Gexpro onsite audit. Based on the supplier’s PAGE 46 | REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT | PAGE 47 I ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS I I SOCIAL INDICATORS I UNIT 2011 2010 VARIATION 2011 2010 CONSUMPTION OF RESOURCES HEADCOUNT Water consumption m 3 498,643 401,974 24% Total number of employees 28,310 27,716 Energy consumption % of women 23.10% 22.60% Electricity consumption MWh 175,259 196,017 -11% % of managers 19.50% 19.40% Gas consumption MWh 157,710 142,848 10% % of employees with Fixed Term Contracts 4.10% 3.60% Fuel consumption MWh 10,677 12,012 -11% Average age of employees 40.1 ans 40.3 ans Packaging consumption, including: Tons 7,800 4,108 Total number of recruitments 4,591 3,732 Cardboard Tons 3,808 2,293 Turnover 14.20% 14.50% Plastics Tons 469 377 WORK ORGANIZATION Wood Tons 3,090 Absenteeism rate 2.80% 3.00% Other packaging Tons 434 1 438 TRAINING Paper consumption, including: Tons 2,481 2,595 -4% % of employees trained during the year 63.70% 48.10% Commercial paper Tons 1,303 1,333 -2% DIVERSITY Stationery paper and others Tons 1,224 1,262 -3% % of employees reporting handicap 0.80% 0.70% WASTE HEALTH & SAFETY Quantity of waste generated Tons 20,717 18,676 11% Frequency rate 7.8 7.7 ( per million working hours ) Total quantity of waste recovered Tons 13,270 11,104 20% Severity rate 0.2 0.1 % of branches collecting WEEE from customers % 63% 72% 8% ( for 1,000 working hours ) GREEN HOUSEGAS EMISSIONS ** % of employees trained in safety 40% 41% GHG Emissions Scope 1 EMPLOYEE SHAREHOLDING GHG emissions related to onsite energy combustion tCO2e 34,541 31,918 8% % of the share capital held by employees or former employees in the context 0.60% 0.62% of the employee shareholding plans GHG emissions related to the transportation of products by the Rexel fleet tCO2e 26,975 34,510 -22% GHG emissions related to business travels by car tCO2e 30,112 GHG Emissions Scope 2 GHG emissions related to electricity consumption tCO2e 53,592 65,263 -18% * Methodological note SALES OF “ECO-EFFICIENT LIGHTING AND RENEWABLE ENERGY” SOLUTIONS In an effort to meet external reporting requirements, particuFor more details on the information reported and the methSales of eco-efficient lighting and renewable larly regulatory obligations and requests from stakeholders odology, see Chapter 3 – Corporate Responsibility in the In million of 463 402 15% (customers, investors, ratings agencies, etc.), since 2006 Document de référence. energy solutions euros Rexel has been conducting environmental, social and societal Sales from eco-efficient lighting solutions In million of reporting. In anticipation of Article 225 of the Grenelle 2 Law, euros 172 122 41% the reporting process is designed to cover the same scope ** Rexel opted to disclose its greenhouse gas emissions by Sales from wind energy solutions In million of 84 58 45% used for the financial statements. The reporting procedures using Scopes 1 and 2 of the GHG Protocol methodology. euros are also verified by independent auditing firm Ernst & Young, The electrical production-related emissions factors used are which limited moderate assurance in 2010 and 2011 on the 2009 factors issued by the International Energy Agency. Sales from photovoltaic solar energy solutions In million of 208 222 -6% euros the key indicators for the Group’s environmental and social The other emissions factors are taken from the ADEME’s Bilan performance. Carbone® v6 methodology. PAGE 48 | REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT | REXEL | PAGE 49 I RECOGNIZED COMMITMENT I NON-FINANCIAL RATINGS VOLUNTARY COMMITMENTS AWARDS Since Rexel’s IPO in 2007, In an effort to achieve transparency a wide range of stakeholders and progress, the Group participates (ratings agencies, investors, etc.) In 2012, Rexel joined the Advanced in a number of projects and As part of its commitment to have requested information Sustainable Performance Indices publications to interact with the association Entreprises pour about the Group’s performance Eurozone®, a group of 120 of the best its stakeholders and encourage In 2012, Fortune Magazine named l’environnement (Companies for stock values in the Euro Zone using Rexel one of the World’s Most Admired in sustainable development. good practices. the Environment), Rexel takes part a best-in-class approach. Companies in its 2012 ranking based The socially responsible in various publications, for example on nine criteria that include human “Measuring and Managing your investment (SRI) indices monitor resources management, quality Greenhouse Gas Emissions” (May the performance of the largest management and social responsibility. 2011) and “Climate Actions in the international companies based on Workplace” (November 2012). This ESG criteria (Environment, Social Since 2010, Rexel has been reporting allows Rexel to help spread information Rexel has been on the FTSE4Good to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), and good practices on environmental and Governance). Rexel’s efforts Index since March 2011, which selects an independent non-profit organization issues like energy management and have earned it listings on three its members according to economic, that evaluates the carbon performance climate change. social and environmental criteria. SRI indices: ASPI Eurozone, of large companies and their climate STOXX Europe Sustainability change strategy on behalf of over 500 investors. and FTSE4Good. In 2012, Rexel was also chosen to integrate the in STOXX® Europe Sustainability, a group of listed companies from 18 European countries. PAGE 50 | REXEL | 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011-2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT | REXEL | PAGE 51 Contact information: sustainability@rexel.com Rexel, limited company with a Management Board and a Supervisory Board, Headquarters: 189/193, boulevard Malesherbes, 75017 Paris. RCS Paris 479 973 513 – Publication Director: Pascale Giet – Publication Manager: Julien Fernandez, Laurence Galand, Xavier Galliot, François Ledard – Design and production: – Photo credits: J-L Bertini/Picturetank (cover, p. 14), Plainpicture (p. 02, 03, 12-13, 30-31), Graphicobsession (p. 02, 03, 20-21, 40-41), Laurent Zylberman (p. 04), Rexel (p. 16, 18, 19, 24, 25, 26, 28, 29, 33, 34, 35, 36, 38, 39, 43, 45, 47), Thinkstock (p. 17), DR (p. 27, 37, 42) – Printing: E-Graphics – Paper from sustainably managed forests (FSC label) – Publication: December 2012
