UN G l o b a l Co mpac t Co mm un i c at i o n on Progress 2013 Co ntent s 03 A Tradition of Responsibility 04 About Giesecke & Devrient 05 06 – 08 Key Progress in 2012/13 Our CSR Management 09 – 12 Human Rights and Anti-Corruption 13 – 16 Labor Standards 17 – 20 Environmental Protection 21 – 22 Security and Society 23 – 24 25 – 27 Corporate Citizenship At a Glance – G&D’s CSR Program A t r a d i t i o n o f r e s p onsi bi l i ty G&D can look back on a heritage of more than 160 years. As a successful family-owned business, our goal is to preserve resources for future generations. We take responsibility for the social impact of our business activities and are mindful of the challenges involved in achieving sustainable operations within our value chain. During the 2012/13 reporting period, we made targeted improvements in the area of corporate social responsibility (CSR). In Germany, for example, we introduced a centralized energy management system, which will facilitate the systematic reduction of our energy consumption. The roll-out of myPerformance in 2013 saw the start of a process that will gradually ensure standardized and fair evaluations for all employees across all international subsidiaries. Our rigorous compliance management system has now been independently audited. Our employees worldwide received training on policies and regulations designed to ensure lawful behavior. This third G&D communication on progress documents our activities in 2012/13 in the areas of human rights, the fight against corruption, labor standards, environmental protection, and corporate citizenship. At the same time, we are renewing our commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, which we first pledged to support in 2010. Dr. Walter Schlebusch Chairman of the Management Board Giesecke & Devrient GmbH 3 About Gi esecke & D e v rie n t Giesecke & Devrient was established in 1852 by Hermann Giesecke and Alphonse Devrient as the “Officin für Geldund Werthpapiere” in Leipzig, a city with a rich printing and publishing heritage. After initially specializing in printing banknotes and supplying the associated security paper, the company gradually expanded its core business to include other security technologies, particularly in the fields of smartcards, electronic payment, personal identification, Internet security, and special security solutions for mobile telephony. As an internationally leading technology provider, G&D safeguards reliable transactions and the authenticity of identities and values for its global public and private sector customers across three business units: Banknote Mobile Security Government business unit: business unit: Solutions business unit: Banknote paper and printing, Hardware, software, and services ID card and personalization systems, security paper and foils, plant engineering, for mobile security applications: SIM cards, border control solutions, travel documents, services for printing firms, banknote processing bank cards, authentication solutions, SIM and electronic healthcare cards and solutions, systems, security features and sensor device management, subscription management, systems for personal identification, technology, service and technical support. ­Trusted Service Management (TSM) for NFC-based and systems for authentication and protection applications such as mobile payment and of online electronic transactions. secure ­loading and execution of applications on mobile devices. Key fi gures 2012 Research and development has always been a priority for G&D. The Group currently has 1,092 developers working on new pro• S ales of 1.789 billion euros (of which 88 percent generated ducts and processes. Compared to the previous year, investment in research and development was increased in 2012 by approoutside ­Germany) ximately ten percent to 128 million euros. G&D holds some 7,300 patents and patent applications worldwide. • 11,213 employees (as of the end of 2012) • 58 subsidiaries, joint ventures, and associated companies • Presence in 32 countries on all ­continents Key figures 2012 4 K e y p r o g r e s s i n 2 0 1 2 /13 C o m pl i a nce • Founding member of the Banknote Ethics Initiative (BnEI) (p. 11) • Successful completion of the compliance management system audit (IDW PS 980 standard) (p. 9) • Introduction of a procedure for handling third-party codes (p. 25) • Introduction of a Group-wide data protection management system (p. 10) Em pl o yees • Implementation of a Group-wide evaluation process for managers and employees (myPerformance) (p. 13) • Global Talent Management: Adaptation and expansion of the existing program to include additional regions (p. 16) • Re-audit of the berufundfamilie certificate with new goals and measures (p. 15) Envi ro nm ent •R  oll-out of a standardized sustainability reporting system with the metrics collected extended to include additional sustainability data (p. 17) • Introduction of a centralized energy management system and worldwide survey of energy efficiency measures (p. 19) • Verification of the carbon footprint by an external third party (TÜV Nord, scope 1 and 2) (p. 17) • Certification of additional sites (ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001) (p. 27) 5 Ou r C SR ma n a g e m e n t: Creat ing a nd s­ y s t e m at i c a lly m an ag i ng va l ues Everything we do as a company is ultimately measured against our slogan, Creating Confidence. Trust in our products and solutions not only serves as the basis for our economic success, but also sets the standard for our interaction with our employees, business partners, and the environment. We seek to uphold our corporate values of trust, quality, sustainability, responsibility, and integrity to the benefit of all. For G&D, this means responsibly managing natural resources along our value chain, implementing forward-looking HR policies, and actively addressing the impact of technological developments on society. K e y as p e c t s o f o ur stra tegy The basis of G&D’s CSR strategy is a voluntary commitment, which defines our understanding of corporate social responsibility across the entire Group. Our objective is to use CSR to G&D commitment create value for the society we live and operate in and for our www.gi-de.com > company. About G&D > CSR Our CSR strategy is divided into the five action areas of the environment, employees, procurement, compliance, and corporate citizenship, plus the key area of security and society. In 2010, we signed on to the UN Global Compact and commitG&D values ted ourselves to its ten principles covering human rights, labor trust, quality, sustainability, responsibility, integrity standards, environmental protection, and the fight against corruption. Action Area Key Area Action Area Action Area Action Area Action Area R e s p o n s i b i l i t y req ui res di a l o g Environment Employees Procurement Compliance Corporate Security and Citizenship Society We are not only committed to the UN Global Compact, but also to maintaining an open and transparent dialog with our Standards and certification, e.g. G&D Code of Conduct, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, stakeholders. We value this dialog highly because total trust in Sustainability Management, Energy Management, Compliance Management, etc. our company and products is crucial to the long-term survival For more of our business. Discussions with our stakeholders open up information on G&D’s different perspectives, which enable us to bring new inspiraCSR commitment UN Global Compact participation dialogs, see the 2012 tion and ideas to our work. progress report and www.gi-de.com > About G&D > CSR Strategy and Management > CSR Strategy 6 very high Relevance for stakeholders Data security Data protection Security needs Resource conservation of society Green certification of buildings Energy efficiency Occupational health Forced and safety labor Environmentally friendly production processes Health impact of products Sustainable supply chain Child labor Anti-corruption Work-life efforts Climate balance protection Diversity Familymanagement friendliness Environmentally Energy-neutral/ friendly packaging Anti-discrimination energy-saving products Cotton Political impact of business activities Weak Governance Zones Demographic change Social audits Relevance for G&D high high very high Human Rights Employment Environment Product Responsibility Market & Society In 2011/2012, we created the G&D materiality matrix in order to prioritize our CSR activities. During discussions with colleagues and external stakeholders, we asked about the CSR issues that G&D should focus on now and in the future. Analysis of the resulting views and expectations forms the basis of the strategic direction of our CSR activities. 7 www.gi-de.com > About G&D > CSR > Compliance Cod e of C onduc t – an ov e ra rch ing s e t o f r u le s Our Code of Conduct is an overarching management tool, which lays down the rules that apply to G&D around the world – at every location, in every business unit, and in our dealings with business partners and with each other. The Code of Conduct combines the ten social and ecological principles of the UN Global Compact, the core employment standards of the International Labor Organization (ILO), the UN Human Rights Declaration, and the requirements of the OHSAS 18001 System s a nd sta nda rds f o r m a na gi ng occupational health and safety standard. o ur C SR a cti vi ti es Sustainable and consistent management of operations across a global organization requires clear guidelines, programs, and management systems. Activities relating to protection of the climate, the environment, and health and safety are brought together in our sustainability management system (p. 17). For several years now, we have been using certified ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 management systems. In June 2013, we introduced an additional centralized energy management system in accordance with ISO 50001, initially at our four German l­ocations (p. 19). Our compliance management system ensures that the values and principles of the Code of Conduct and other guidelines are upheld (p. 9). Last year, the organization, suitability, and effectiveness of our compliance management system in Germany and at G&D subsidiaries in other countries was tested and validated in accordance with the assurance standard of the Institute of Public Auditors (IDW PS 980). 8 PrincipLE Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PrincipLE Hu m an r i ght s a nd anti -co rrupti o n: Businesses should make sure that A p p ly i ng va lu e s – r especti ng rul es they are not complicit in human rights abuses. We are wholly committed to respecting and supporting our own employees and the employees of our customers and human rights. We have therefore laid down binding rules in suppliers the opportunity to ask questions confidentially, to 10 our Code of Conduct that reject all forms of discrimination. obtain advice, and to report potential compliance violations. In the 2012/13 reporting period, four issues were reported Alongside these principles, it is essential for a company that and investigated by the relevant bodies. PrincipLE identifies itself with values of trust, quality, sustainability, responsibility, and integrity to have systems and measures in The organization, suitability, and effectiveness of our compliBusinesses should work against corruption place to fight corruption. We therefore enforce a strict zeroance management system in Germany and at G&D subsidiaries in all its forms, tolerance policy: Violations are not accepted by G&D and misin other countries were examined and validated in accordance including extortion conduct is penalized accordingly. with the assurance standard of the Institute of Public Audiand bribery. tors (IDW PS 980). G&D is one of the first SMEs in Germany to have carried out this review; another review is planned for 2014/2015. C o m pl i a nce m a na gem ent system The basis of our anti-corruption and anti-discrimination policy is our Code of Conduct, which applies to every one of our employees and incorporates important standards. Our compliance management system ensures that our anticorruption and anti-discrimination policy is observed. The Compliance Office provides advice and support for our employees and partners on all compliance issues. As part of its audits, Corporate Auditing checks that legal requirements and internal corporate guidelines are complied with across the entire Group. The Compliance Office reports important events and global developments to the Management Board on a quarterly basis, which the Management Board then reports annually to the Supervisory Board. By setting up a compliance helpline, we have a global tool that gives both 9 In te rn a l c omp l i ance t h r o ugh r ai s i ng awa re n e s s a nd p r e v e n t i o n External complianc e with our stand ards We see preventative measures and programs as fundamental In order to ensure the responsible handling of data, we have Our business partners are bound by the same standards as to avoiding potential violations. Through the Statement on established a Group-wide data protection management systhose that apply to G&D. As part of their qualification procBusiness Controls, an annual declaration by top level managetem. For each company in which we hold a majority stake, a ess, key suppliers (A and B suppliers) receive the Compliance ment on corruption, antitrust law, security, data protection, Local Privacy Officer has been appointed. He or she reports Questionnaire for G&D Business Partners. In addition, they labor standards, human rights, and environmental protection, quarterly on all activities and incidents to the Group Privacy also have to sign the Agreement on Business Ethics with its we ensure that relevant laws and our internal rules are impleOfficer, who then reports quarterly to the G&D Management reference to special Supplier Conduct Principles when working mented and that compliance is monitored. The response rate Board. Special training measures are used to raise awareness with the Mobile Security business unit. By the end of 2013, 80 to the Statement on Business Control is nearly 100 percent. among our employees of the importance of responsible use percent of our key suppliers should have signed the Compliof data. ance Questionnaire and/or the Agreement on Business Ethics. Our compliance management follows the principle: prevent, The response rate is currently 70 percent. investigate, act. G&D has further refined its associated risk map to create Risk Map 3.0. This is based on the Statement In line with the UK’s new anti-corruption legislation, we have on Business Controls, the Corruption Perceptions Index comdeveloped an anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) policy. In piled by Transparency International, and the results of reports 2012, the first training sessions on this policy were undertaken from G&D subsidiaries, as well as their key data (sales, customwith 170 sales partners. Further training sessions are planned er base, etc.). The focal point of the regular updating exercise for business partners, such as suppliers. in 2013 was antitrust law. Over the past five years, we have carried out over 100 audits An important element of our prevention strategy is the proviof suppliers that include CSR-related issues to check complision of extensive training for our employees. We have develance with our guidelines. oped a worldwide e-learning program for our intranet as well as classroom training sessions on compliance-relevant topics, Many security technologies require rare minerals. The extracincluding anti-corruption and dealing with business partners. tion and processing of these minerals repeatedly raises human By the beginning of August, some 80 percent of our employrights issues. Accordingly, we have composed a statement on ees globally had taken part in these training sessions. responsible handling of these conflict minerals. 10 Bankno t e E t h ic s Init i at i v e The Banknote Ethics Initiative (BnEI) is an international initiative of the banknote industry, established with the goal of implementing strict ethical principles in business. It was introduced at the Currency Conference in Athens on May 13, 2013. G&D is a founding member of the initiative. The chairman of the initiative, Antti Heinonen, former head of the Banknotes Directorate at the European Central Bank, discusses the core mission of the BnEI. M r . He i n o n e n , what a re the m a i n a rea s o f f o cus o f the Ba nkn o te Ethics Initiative? “We are concentrating on the prevention of corruption and compliance with antitrust law within the banknote sector. Maintaining high ethical standards has become increasingly important. Only in this way can the industry preserve its most valuable asset – the trust of customers and other stakeholders.” Wh o i s y o u r t ar g e t gro up? “All companies in the banknote sector who would like to join the initiative – printers as well as manufacturers of paper, printing inks, security threads and foils, and machines. No candidate has yet completed the entire process, but we are hoping that the first companies will receive accreditation by the end of the year.” Wo u l dn’t y o u e x p e c t every co m pa ny i n the ba nkn o te secto r to co mplete the membership p r o c e s s w i t h fl y i ng co l o rs? “Smaller companies in particular may not have all the tools available to them, even if they do comply with all the regulations. Accordingly, we have published the BnEI Code of Ethical Business Practice, as well as a detailed handbook with a catalog of tools, in order to illustrate best practice.” www.bnei.com 11 www.genderdax.de In f o cus: Eq ua l o ppo rtuni ti es f o r wo men Human rights include equal treatment of all our employees. Our project entitled “Women in Business.” This will support sucthree-step diversity policy is an important tool for tackling discessful professional women to move into management roles crimination on the basis of gender, age, or cultural background. and break through the glass ceiling as well as helping women At various locations (including Munich and Barcelona), there is in key functions across the entire region to network. In addian Equal Opportunities Officer, whose job is to ensure equal tion to a broad spectrum of training content, there will be treatment of female and male employees. a focus on peer-to-peer advice. This international approach provides an effective way to benefit from examples of best To promote the professional development of our female practice from other countries. em­ployees, the Management Board has set a goal of increasing the proportion of women in the executive and global manIn Germany, supported by the Federal Ministry for Women, agement team (comprising over 500 managers) to 15 percent genderdax provides a platform for exchanging information by 2015. on practical issues. Since 2011, G&D has been one of the 50 companies selected to be a member of the genderdax comIn 2012, we founded a women’s network to promote women. munity, which supports highly qualified women in specialist The objective is to identify factors that have a positive impact and managerial roles. on the professional development of women. The Management Board and HR are working together to formulate recommenCurrently at G&D … dations and define concrete measures. The women’s network •1  1 percent of executive and global has also initiated a mentoring program between female manmanagers, agers and young trainees (both female and male). • 27 percent of the executive pool, • 34 percent of participants in the global Top Talent program and regional talent In June 2013, G&D held a pilot seminar for women, entitled programs for professionals, “Women in Positions of Responsibility: Shaping Your Own • 25 percent of Supervisory Board Future.” In October 2013, the seminar will be held again. members, “Women in Leadership – Individual Style, Strong Impact” is a • and approximately 60 percent of training session that is now firmly established. Through virtual trainees in the G&D Group Graduate Program meetings and training sessions, we intend to continue promoting international networking among female managers in ... are women. the coming year and plan to introduce an EMEA-wide pilot 12 La bor sta nd a rd s : 3 Sho wi ng a p p re c iat io n – w o r k i ng t o g e t h e r As an international company, we have committed ourselves to complying with fundamental labor standards, which are laid PrincipLE down in our Group-wide Code of Conduct and based on the principles of the International Labor Organization (ILO). Freedom Businesses should of association, non-use of forced or child labor, equal opportunities for all employees, and a safe working environment are the uphold the freedom of key principles that G&D has defined for itself. association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Development of our value-based management cul ture 4 The G&D Code of Conduct sets out an ethical framework for our company. This presupposes a value-based corporate culture, which is reflected in leadership practice and in the interPrincipLE action between employees. Businesses should 5 uphold the elimination 2011 saw the launch of a Value-Based Leadership project. This of all forms of training concept has now been carried out with senior and forced and compulsory labor. middle management in selected countries worldwide, such as PrincipLE Sweden, India, and Germany. Global roll-out is scheduled to Businesses take place by 2014. should uphold the effective abolition In order to ensure a consistent Group-wide evaluation process of child labor. for employees and managers based on agreed objectives and tasks, G&D has developed a global performance management 6 system. Roll-out of myPerformance to include all international subsidiaries commenced in 2013. The standardized employee evaluations cover uniform competencies and appraisal levels that can be applied to different cultures. myPerformance has PrincipLE already been implemented in Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Businesses should the UK, and India. uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 13 Occupa ti o na l hea l th a nd sa f ety Demographic ch ange The health of our employees is part of our social responsibility Health promotion also has an important role to play in addresand a key quality attribute. As confirmed in the materiality sing demographic change. Our holistic personnel policy is matrix, this subject is of major importance to our internal and carefully tailored to different employee life stages in order to external stakeholders. G&D is currently developing an occupahelp overcome demographic challenges. We have also develtional health management system, which will eventually be oped a demographic strategy based on the three pillars of rolled out across the entire Group. The basis of the system is managing talent, maintaining employee performance levels, OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Assessment), and leadership and professional development. Assessments with several international locations having already been certicovering each business area are used to analyze specific chalfied in accordance with this standard. The process has already lenges in the individual business units and develop measures been completed for all our German facilities. to counter demographic change. Our three-pillar strategy was confirmed by a stakeholder dialog held in March 2012 with Our policies and strategies relating to the environment and scientists, occupational physicians, and HR strategists. occupational health and safety have been incorporated into an overarching sustainability management system. For occupaDuring the reporting period, we held a seminar in Munich tional health and safety, we have developed 19 indicators called “50 plus: Prospects for Your Professional Future” on based on the GRI standard. Group-wide collection of data multiple occasions. Based on the experience gained with started in 2013. this seminar, we are identifying and reviewing further measures for our staff members. During the reporting period, we successfully implemented four pilot projects on ergonomics in the workplace, diet, movement, and inner balance. Additional activities included first-aid training for trainees and the implementation of local health promotion measures, such as smoking cessation seminars as well as evacuation drills and safety training. Starting in the fall of 2013, the ergonomics project will become a regular program including activities such as workplace analyses and seminars. 14 Wo rk l if e ba l a nce We want to make it easier for our employees to create a better G&D was once again awarded the berufundfamilie certificate balance between their work and private life and to foster in Germany for its commitment to family-friendly working working conditions that take their family situation into considpractices. The third re-audit took place in May 2013 in accorderation. We believe that we can only compete internationally ance with a new certification procedure for long-standing for the best-qualified staff if we respect the private needs of participants. We are committed to implementing further our employees. extensive measures designed to facilitate a work-life balance for parents. These will cover, for example, promoting flexible Having developed our workplace childcare facilities in previous working locations, work-life balance as a fixed pillar of health years, last year we focused on providing assistance for emmanagement as well as the development of innovative ployees with dependent relatives. We held new seminars on concepts to promote a family-aware management culture. caregiving, living wills, and power of attorney, which were warmly welcomed. In the future, we intend to significantly extend our support in this area. Examples include providing reports on the intranet about combining work and caregiving. Inf o gra phi c: Pa rt-ti m e po si ti o ns a t G & D Germany To end o f 2010 To end of 2011 MI D -2012 MI D2013 7.4 percent of 8.4 percent of 9.2 percent of 9.4 percent of workforce workforce workforce workforce 15 Sel ected a cti vi ti es i n the a cti o n a rea e mployees • Implementation of the Valued-Based Leadership training concept • Group-wide standardized myPerformance evaluation system for employees and managers, based on defined objectives and tasks • Development of an occupational health management system • Seminar “50 plus: Prospects for Your Professional Future,” which was very well received by employees • New seminars for employees on caregiving, living wills, and power of attorney • As well as the existing summer vacation program in Munich, introduction of an English-language journalist camp for the 11to 14-year-old children of our employees •C  hildcare voucher system at our UK site, which offers employees tax benefits • Assuming 100 percent of health insurance costs for employees, their children, and parents at our site in India; provision of r­egular German courses (three times per week) for employees during working hours G l o ba l ta l ent pro gra m s As a leading global technology provider with sites in 32 countries, G&D takes an increasingly international approach to employee development. Accordingly, we expanded our existing talent program in Munich and launched regional initiatives for our subsidiaries in EMEA (Europe, the Middle East, and Africa), APAC (Asia Pacific), and North and South America. In the future, access to advancement programs will be offered every two years based on an analysis of employees with potential in each region. Lloyd Jansen, Supply Chain Manager for Banknote Processing and Mobile Security at G&D South Africa in Johannesburg, took part in the new analysis of employee potential at the end of 2012. “I would like to have an international career at G&D and gain ­experience of different business environments in addition to the one I am currently working in. The talent program provides the ideal framework for me to develop and achieve my professional goals at G&D,” said Lloyd Jansen. All the selected candidates take part in one and a half years of training modules in team management, career development, and personal skills. Particular emphasis is placed on G&D’s values and the intercultural skills of the participants. After completion of the program, the participants remain in close contact with the G&D employee development team. 16 PrincipLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary PrincipLE Businesses should 8 undertake initiatives Prinzip PrincipLE Businesses should Unternehmen die sollen Entwicklung encourage the 9 approach to to promote greater und Verbreitung development and environmental challenges. environmental umweltfreundlicher diffusion of responsibility. Technologien fördern. environmentally friendly technologies. P rotect ing t h e e n v i r o n­m e n t: C onsi de ring g e n e rat i o n s t o c o m e As a family-owned business, we have a special focus on meetPerf o rm a nce i ndi ca to rs f o r cl i m a te a nd ing the needs of present and future generations. For us, this envi ro nm enta l pro tecti o n includes the responsible use of resources and protection of our environment and climate. This has also been confirmed by our Having a sustainable value chain is defined as a strategic longstakeholders in a materiality survey (p. 7). In the fall of 2013, term corporate objective in our Code of Conduct. G&D will share ideas and seek input as part of another stakeholder dialog on “Sustainability – Customer Requirements and The main tool used to plan and manage G&D’s sustainability Regulation,” focusing on energy efficiency. activities is the sustainability management system, which is based on the ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, and (since mid2013) ISO 50001 certified management systems. Last year, we expanded our database, which follows Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards. Since June 2013, in addition to energy and emissions data, we have been collecting data on other sustainability factors, such as production of waste, water consumption, wastewater, and occupational health and safety. We use this data to identify indicators for individual aspects of sustainability, which form the starting point for drawing up specific measures for managing sustainability. By the beginning of 2014, we aim to have created a comprehensive reporting structure based on performance indicators. In June 2013, we reviewed and condensed our policies on the environment, energy, and health and safety. The new guidelines are binding across the entire Group. 17 Cli m a t e p rot e c t i o n s t r a t e g y Subjects such as energy consumption and CO2 emissions are becoming increasingly important for the entire production and supply chain. To systematically improve our carbon footprint across all areas of our corporate activity, we have drawn up a climate protection strategy. Our overall objective is to cut direct and indirect CO2 emissions (scope 1 and 2) by ten percent by 2016, compared with the reference year 2010. We 199, 671 t o ns o f C O 2 fro m s e rvice s will also publish these reduction targets as required by our p ro vide d o r s e rvice s a nd p ro duct s participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project. acquired, such as materials purchased, o r fro m bus ine s s t ra ve l ( s co p e 3) Establishing our corporate carbon footprint is an important milestone, providing us with information on the greenhouse gas emissions for each site. Last year, we completed the calcu114, 014 t o ns o f C O 2 fro m lation of CO2 emissions for 24 sites. t he p urcha s e o f e ne rgy fro m e le ct ricit y a nd dis t rict he a t ing ( s co p e 2) 40, 622 t o ns o f C O 2 from dire ct e m is s io ns , re le a s e d by o ur o wn p ro duct io n fa cilit ie s , f o r e xa m p le ( s co p e 1) OU R C ARBON FOOTPRIN T IN 2012 G&D’s total emissions for 2012 were approximately 22,400 tons higher than in the starting year 2010. This is primarily due to a rise in reported activities contributing to supply chain emissions (scope 3). Otherwise, the figures for 2012 are satisfactory: Despite significant growth in sales and headcount, the annual direct and indirect emissions (scope 1 and 2) remained almost constant at 150,000 tons. Data collection was verified by an independent third party, German technical inspection agency TÜV Nord. We have been planning concrete reduction measures (energy management system) since 2013. 18 www.gi-de.com > About G&D > CSR > Climate and Environmental Protection > Measures Energy m a na gem ent system Green products and product carbon footprint In June 2013, as an important step towards reducing our CO2 Alongside reducing CO2 emissions at our production facilities emissions (scope 1 and 2), we introduced a central energy and in all corporate processes, G&D is working on a green management system (EnMS) in accordance with DIN EN ISO product policy. We are using more and more alternative, eco50001, initially at the four German sites: Munich, Leipzig, friendly materials and are continuing to develop our green Königstein, and Gmund. The EnMS was integrated into the products. The Green Working Group in the Mobile Security existing sustainability management system. business unit meets four times a year to identify and prioritize solutions. The certified energy management system serves to capture detailed information on energy consumption at the production An important example of our responsible use of natural resourcsites, enabling us to develop strategic goals and operational es is the green SIM card, which has a card body made of measures to improve our energy efficiency. The Munich site, cellulose. A card body for payment cards made of PLA material for example, is running a project to reduce the energy con(natural polyactide) should be available by the end of 2013. sumption of its IT equipment by the end of 2014. The objective is to lower the electricity requirement per IT client by five percent. We also want to increase cooling efficiency as part of infrastructure management by 15 percent by 2015. Last year, in the card production facility in Nitra, Slovakia, an energy recovery system was put in place, resulting in savings of around 765,400 kWh of energy in 2012 at the location. We are currently working on a comprehensive energy concept for our banknote paper facility in Louisenthal, Germany. In 2013, we intend to use heat recovery to significantly lower the energy consumption required for heating the building and for compressed air supply. We are also investigating whether we can generate eco-friendly electricity by installing an additional turbine in our own hydroelectric plant. 19 En viron me n t a l p r o t e c t i o n i n p r o duc t i o n Add i ti o na l a cti vi ti es i n the Envi ro nm e nt fac il it ie s a cti o n a rea : Foil facility for banknote paper at Louisenthal, Germany • In 2013, G&D took part in the sustainability campaign week When constructing the new production facility for high-security organized by the German Council for Sustainable Developthreads and foils used in banknote paper production at the ment. This involved our employees in Munich making a Louisenthal site in Germany, G&D invested in efficient technolcontribution to resource protection by handing in their old ogy for heat recovery. The building, which was commissioned personal cell phones to be recycled. The proceeds went to in July 2013, has rotary heat exchangers for the recovery of environmental projects in Bavaria, Germany. To help boost heat and moisture in air-conditioning systems. In addition, the health of our employees, we offered them a free bicycle the production facilities were equipped with heat exchangers inspection. Staff were also given information about the that use the waste heat from machine exhaust air as well as highest consumers of energy in the workplace. the exhaust gas heat produced by operating the post-combustion plant. The waste heat extracted is fed back into the cycle • As a contribution to emissions reduction, G&D provided five and used to heat the buildings. parking spaces at the Barcelona site for electric cars. Employees can charge their electric vehicles here cost-free. Banknote printing in Malaysia At our Malaysian site, G&D invested in a new system for eco• Our UK location established an environmental steering comfriendly recycling of chemical solutions in banknote printing. By mittee, which monitors and manages a variety of different means of automatic filter cleaning and the induction of chemimeasures and programs on environmental and climate cals, employees are less exposed to chemicals than previously. protection (e.g. the introduction and communication of Smaller amounts of chemicals are used, which are now more recycling programs). environmentally compatible. The machine also runs more quietly and produces less dust. Due to improved filtration, the new system can recycle the solution more times. When new solution is required, a specialist company disposes of the waste solution in accordance with good environmental practice. 20 S e cur i t y and s o c i e t y: S a fe guar d i ng va lu e s – sha pi ng the f uture As an international technology provider, data protection and The first interim results were presented by the Tower task force data security are a crucial part of our core business. This is experts to attendees from academia, politics, and business at underscored by the results of our 2011/12 materiality survey the second Tower Talk, held in April 2013 in London. Here, (p. 7). The way in which data protection is understood and participants considered identity not only in a transatlantic conimplemented not only has an impact on the security of private, text, but also from a Chinese perspective. John C. Chiang commercial, and administrative data – the increasing digitalizafrom Beijing University underlined the cultural challenges intion of our society and the rapid spread of mobile applications herent in protecting identities. raise completely new issues around personal identity. Helping to shape the social opportunities and challenges of our digitalThe next highlight will be the conference on “The Future of ized world is a priority for G&D. We therefore continued with Identity” on November 28, 2013 at Bavaria’s EU office in our international and interdisciplinary “Identity – Talk in Brussels. Supported by the European Network and Information the Tower®” dialog platform last year and also extended it to Security Agency (ENISA), the focus will be on how our identity include new aspects. is changing in the digital age. In this context and in front of some 150 attendees, the first discussion results of the Following the first Tower Talk in May 2012, two groups of “Identity – Talk in the Tower®” initiative will be presented, experts – the Tower Task Forces – explored the ideas raised including the publications produced by the first two Tower during the inaugural event in greater depth. The first working task forces. group is currently looking into two scenarios of how the world may look in 2023 and discussing the outcomes of predicted technological development on our identity. Using imagined daily routines from the future, they are illustrating positive and negative impacts from the users’ perspective. In the second expert group, the participants are focusing on four applications, including electronic voting via secure mobile identification. Both Tower task forces will publish a summary of their discussions. From September 2013, a third Tower task force will dedicate itself to the subject of Big Data, where questions such as the following will be central: How does the collection of large volumes of data influence identities? How can data minimization be implemented? Which technologies can help to enable data minimization? 21 At a glance: • “ Identity – Talk in the Tower®” launched by G&D in 2012 as an interdisciplinary, international, and creative dialog platform “While we are happy to disclose • Key topics: identity, data protection, anonymity, and transalmost all our personal details on parency in our interconnected world social networking sites, we still • Annual discussion involving leading figures from the world want to protect our identity. of politics, business, and academia, which provides new Companies need to react accordingly stimulus for the initiative and adapt their products.” (Stefano Rodotà, long-standing data protection expert) “We don’t give enough thought to the influence that our increasingly hyper-networked world has on us, which is why I am following the “Identity – Talk in the Tower®” discussions with great interest.” (Juliet Lodge, Director of the Jean Monnet www.identity-tower.com European Centre of Excellence) www.future-identity.eu 22 C orpo rat e c it iz e n s h i p : Taki ng re s p on s ibil it y – s u p p o r t i ng c o m m i t m ent For Giesecke & Devrient, business activity is not solely measured by commercial metrics but also by the contribution we can make to the society in which we live. Our various activities in the fields of education, culture, and intercultural exchange were thus brought together in the Giesecke & Devrient Foundation in 2010. We also operate a corporate volunteering program. The G & D Fo und a ti o n – bri dgi ng tra di ti on, the f uture, a nd di f f erent cul tures The G&D Foundation was established in 2010 and is endowed Collaboration with other initiatives has also been continued. with 20 million euros. Nurturing and developing young people The Foundation was involved in the “Bookmark” (“Leseworldwide with a focus on intercultural skills lies at the heart zeichen”) project run by the Tatendrang volunteer agency of the Foundation’s work. Since 2011, the Foundation has in Munich. This supports children starting school who lack worked with the Goethe Institute to organize language and the necessary German language skills. The “Making More cultural exchange visits to Germany for groups of young Immigrants Teachers” program, an initiative of the Bavarian people from other continents. In 2013, the program saw 20 Ministry of Culture in conjunction with the ZEIT Foundation, participants from Mexico and Brazil spending time in Munich and the “Fit for Responsibility” program, which G&D supports and Berlin. together with the Roland Berger Foundation, were like-wise both continued. The goal of “Making More Immigrants G&D’ s historical roots lie in the printing arts, which is why the Teachers” is to generate interest in a teaching career among G&D Foundation also supports the Museum of the Printing pupils from migrant backgrounds. “Fit for Responsibility” Arts in Leipzig, thus making the historical heritage of our comawards scholarships across Germany to talented children and pany accessible to everyone. By helping to fund the “new young people from socially disadvantaged families. responsibility foundation” (“stiftung neue verantwortung”), the G&D Foundation supported new ideas and solutions during the reporting period in order to actively shape important issues that affect our future. 23 Ma ki ng spa ce f o r vo l unteeri ng G&D set up a corporate volunteering program in early 2012 to encourage its employees to volunteer. Employees can register to volunteer on selected projects and can also propose their own projects. If an employee devotes up to two days of their vacation or free time to volunteering, G&D will allow them the same number of working days to pursue this activity. Selected projects from the corporate volun teering program: • Excursion with refugee families • Renovating a classroom • Visiting an adventure park with a group of children from different cultural backgrounds • “Supervision by a third party” project to help separated couples maintain contact with their children www.gi-de-stiftung.org www.druckkunst-museum.de 24 At a glanc e – G& D ’ s CSR p r o g r a m Management systems, guid e l in e s , i n i t i at i v e s Acti vi ti es a nd pro gress G o a l s and outlook Details Global Compact Support for the UN Global Compact Third progress report 2012/2013 as per the requirements of the Ongoing UN Global Compact Prioritization of CSR issues and action areas Internal and external stakeholders surveyed (2011/12), materiality Update 2014 p. 7 matrix created and results discussed with the individual departments CSR strategy (mid-2012). Example: Taken into account when designing the strategic compliance program Raising awareness among employees and customers Intranet and online presence revised: Ongoing www.gi-de.com/responsibility Flagship “security and society” project Interdisciplinary and international Identity – Talk in the Tower® Task force on Big Data in September 2013; conference on p. 21 dialog platform continued (Berlin 5/2012, London 4/2013); two task November 28, 2013 in Brussels forces established (“Role of Machines” and “Control of Identity”) Group-wide Code of Conduct Code of Conduct for all employees and business partners; incorpoOngoing p. 8 Principles 1–10 rates the UN Global Compact, the ILO core employment standards, the UN Human Rights Declaration, OHSAS 18001; compliance checked by Action area: Procurement/Supply Chain and Compliance Corporate Auditing; Group-wide procedure for handling third-party codes developed and introduced Compliance management system with Compliance Successful completion of compliance management system audit Next audit 2014/2015 p. 9 Principles 1–10, Office in Munich (IDW PS 980) across the Group especially principle 10 Nearly all sites now have access to the compliance helpline; four Ongoing p. 9 Principles 1–10 incidents reported in 2012/2013 International e-learning training, as well as classroom training sessions, Global completion of the various compliance training p. 10 Principles 1–10 on compliance basics, Code of Conduct, anti-corruption, antitrust law, sessions by Q3 2013 data protection, and dealing with business partners Risk map updated (Risk Map 3.0), particularly with regard to Annual update p. 10 Principles 1–10, antitrust law especially principle 10 Training for 170 sales partners on the anti-bribery and corruption Training planned for other business partners (e.g. suppliers) p. 10 Principles 1–10, policy based on the UK Bribery Act especially principle 10 Statement on Business Controls confirmed by nearly 100 percent of Statement updated annually p. 10 Principles 1, 2, 5, subsidiaries (declaration by, among others, the local managing directors 6, 7, 8, 10 on corruption, antitrust law, data protection, the environment, labor standards, and human rights) Statement produced on the handling of conflict minerals Ongoing p. 10 Introduction of new corporate guidelines on donations and Group-wide transparency regarding donations and Principle 10 sponsorship sponsorship activities; standardized process Last update August 2013 25 At a gl a nc e – G& D ’ s C SR p r o g r am Management systems, guid e l in e s , i n i t i at i v e s Acti vi ti es a nd pro gress G o a ls and outlook Details Global Compact Action area: Banknote Ethics Initiative (BnEI) G&D co-founded the Banknote Ethics Initiative (BnEI) with the aim External audit of the compliance management system of p. 11 Principles 1, 2, 10 of defining binding ethical principles in business participating companies planned by end of 2013 Supplier selection process Compliance questionnaire and Agreement on Business Ethics with Agreement of 80 percent of the most important suppliers p. 10 Principles 1–10, Procurement/Supply reference to the Supplier Conduct Principles (in the Mobile Security by end of 2013 especially principle 10 business unit) used as part of the qualification process for key suppliers; 70 percent response rate to date Chain and Compliance Data protection management Completed setting up of a data protection management system; Development of data protection measures p. 10 Principles 1, 2, 10 Local Privacy Officer with reporting function appointed at majority stake sites; employee training on responsible handling of data Group-wide performance management of managers myPerformance for worldwide standardized evaluation of manageInternational roll-out by 2015 p. 13 Principle 6 and employees ment/employees in terms of performance and objectives achieved; introduced in the largest subsidiaries in 2013 Global talent program and leadership culture German talent pool extended to become global talent management Group-wide roll-out of the Value-Based Leadership p. 16 and p. 13 Principles 1, 2, 6 across three regions (EMEA, APAC, the Americas); Valued-Based training concept by 2014 Leadership training concept carried out with senior and middle management, roll-out started in Sweden and India Group-wide employee satisfaction survey Action items arising from the employee satisfaction survey (2010) Revise concept for employee satisfaction survey in 2014 Principle 6 implemented; monitored using the database Health management and promotion Indicators and data collection finalized (see sustainability management Certification of all major production locations according p. 14 Principle 6 Action area: Employees system); occupational health and safety extended to include preventative to OHSAS 18001 by 2014; long-term Group-wide imhealth promotion measures; four pilot projects implemented (ergonomics plementation of the health management system; regular in the workplace, diet, movement, and inner balance) activities around ergonomics as of the fall of 2013 Diversity management for age, gender, culture Phased establishment of diversity management with initial concepts Expansion of diversity management in 2014 to include Principles 1, 2, 6 and measures: step 1, age; step 2, gender step 3, cultural diversity Strategy for demographic change developed since 2012 with business Ongoing p. 14 Principles 1, 2, 6 unit workshops and reviewed via a stakeholder dialog (3/2012); “50 plus: Prospects for Your Professional Future” training session evaluated and new measures identified Women’s network continued: subject matter for projects identified Increase percentage of women in global and executive p. 12 Principles 1, 2, 6 and recommendations provided to HR; held pilot seminar for women in management from 11 to 15 percent by 2015; program middle management for global networking of female managers by 2014 Encouraging a healthy work/life/caregiving balance Flexible working-time models continued, proportion of part-time Extending support for employees who are caregivers p. 15 Principle 6 positions in Germany increased to 9.4 percent; vacation program for children extended, “berufundfamilie” re-audit in May 2013; advice for employees with dependents in need of care (since 2011) with new seminars on caregiving, living wills, and power of attorney Trainee recruitment and development National and international partnerships with schools and Ongoing universities continued 26 At a gl a nc e – G& D ’ s C SR p r o g r am Management systems, guid e l in e s , i n i t i at i v e s Acti vi ti es a nd pro gress G o a ls and outlook Details Global Compact Guidelines New guidelines replace the previous policies on the environment, Ongoing p. 17 Principles 7, 8 energy, and health and safety Sustainability management system for planning and Development of goals and indicators for protection of the environReporting structure based on KPIs by beginning of 2014 p. 17 Principles 7, 8 auditing sustainability activities ment, health and safety, as well as corporate real estate, following GRI standards; database extended to include sustainability data on occupational health and safety, production of waste, water consumption, and wastewater; based on these, measures for sustainability management are planned Energy management system Introduction of energy management system (EnMS) according to First measures from mid-2013, such as reduction of p. 19 Principles 7, 9 DIN EN ISO 50001 (initially at the four German locations Munich, Leipzig, energy consumption per IT client; improved cooling Königstein, Gmund); survey of all relevant production locations with efficiency as part of infrastructure management regard to reduction and efficiency measures carried out; EnMS integrated into sustainability management system, goals established to increase energy efficiency Action area: Environment Group-wide certification to ISO 14001 The following locations have already been certified according to Certification of all major production locations by 2014 p. 17 Principles 7, 8 and OHSAS 18001 ISO 14001: Athens, Barcelona*, Beijing*, Huangshi*, Knoxfield, Königstein*, Leipzig*, Louisenthal*, Markham, Mexico City, Munich*, Nanchang*, Nitra*, Silverwater, Tokyo, and our E-Kart joint venture in Gebze* (*= also certified in accordance with OHSAS 18001). More in 2013: Shah Alam*; OHSAS: Markham Carbon footprint Corporate carbon footprint: completion of third data collection/ Reduction of CO2 emissions by 10 percent between 2010 p. 18 Principles 7, 8 evaluation cycle for the 24 major locations; emissions data verified and 2016 by a third party (TÜV Nord); raising awareness of our carbon footprint carried out; concrete reduction measures planned since 2013; product carbon footprint for card products, which are manufactured and personalized at four different locations Conserving resources in production and processing Green Working Group in the Mobile Security business unit collects Product: card body for payment cards made of PLA p. 19 Principles 7–9 and prioritizes ideas for green products; new production building material end of 2013; ongoing in Louisenthal (800 tons of CO2 saved using exhaust air treatment and heat recovery compared to traditional systems); new systems for environmentally friendly recycling at the banknote printing facility in Malaysia; combined heat and power unit in Munich; biomembrane reactor in Königstein and Louisenthal for treating water Stakeholder dialog on environmental/climate protection Groundwork for stakeholder dialog on energy efficiency Stakeholder dialog in fall 2013 p. 17 Principles 7–9 Giesecke & Devrient Foundation Support of language and cultural exchange visit to Germany for 20 Ongoing p. 23 young people from Brazil and Mexico, Museum of the Printing Arts in Leipzig, and “new responsibility foundation” (“stiftung neue verAction area: antwortung”) in Berlin, as well as other projects Corporate Corporate volunteering program Corporate volunteering program started in Germany at the beginning Ongoing p. 24 Citizenship of 2012; example projects: Excursion with refugee families, renovating a classroom, visiting an adventure park with a group of children from AKA (Active for Intercultural Exchange Association), “Supervision by a third party” project 27 Giesecke & Devrient GmbH Corporate Communications Corporate Social Responsibility Prinzregentenstrasse 159 P. O. Box 80 07 29 81607 Munich GERMANY Phone: +49 (0) 89 41 19 24 21 Telefax: +49 (0) 89 41 19 12 08 csr@gi-de.com www.gi-de.com/responsibility
