AL-GHAZI TRACTORS LIMITED GLOBAL COMPACT SIGNATORY STATUS REPORT 2012 – 2013 1 Contents Page Scope of the Report ………………………………………..…….. 3 Message from Chairman ……………………………………… 3 UN Global Compact Leaders Summit 2013 ………………………… 5 AGTL Company Profile ……………………………………… 6 Facilities at AGTL Staff Town ………………………………... 7 AGTL Offices …………………………………………………… 8 The Ten Principles of the Global Compact ………………….……… 9 AGTL Social and Environmental Responsibility ...……………….... 10 AGTL – Equal Opportunity Employment …………………………. 11 AGTL – Labour / Management Relations ……………………………. 11 AGTL – Corporate Governance ……………………………..…… 11 AGTL – Health and Safety ………………………………………… 12 AGTL – Corporate Social Responsibility …………………………… 13 AGTL’s initiatives in the field of CSR and Environment ……………... 14 2 Scope of the Report This report incorporates Al-Ghazi Tractor’s efforts in People, Social and Environmental activities. We see individuals (internal and external) satisfaction not as value-added but a core part of our organization. Message from Chairman Composed of a rich variety of individuals, Al-Ghazi Tractors Limited is a living company – a community of unique persons with the ability to learn how to co-exist with other communities and within our physical environment. We do so by being attuned to the environment – inquiring, learning, sharing and creating a positive conducive environment or the value creation process and economic value addition. As an organization that is worthy of people’s commitment, we as a living system are involved in the simultaneous pursuit of economic prosperity, environmental quality, social equality – the triple bottom line – with the resultant vector being the technology that we offer. Economic Sustainability We at AGTL are thus committed to economic sustainability, environmental sustainability, socio-political sustainability, culture and above all to Sustainable Agriculture, Sustainable Farm Management, Sustainable Yields and conservation. We are committed to transforming our operations towards reducing the environmental impact. Pakistan’s economy is basically agrarian. We serve the agricultural sector to feed Pakistan. The tractor we offer is the bulwark of agriculture. We produce Farm Machines and equipment and as the lowest cost producers of high quality products, we add directly to increasing rural income, improved farming and economic competitiveness. 3 Water & Energy Conservation Recognizing that agricultural water is a non renewable resource and that unsustainable irrigation system are resulting in an undesirable burden on the agricultural economy, we at AGTL have embarked on a speedy programme to offer High Efficiency Irrigation Systems. The technology we offer will shift focus of attention from productivity per unit of land to productivity per unit of water – to get more from less. We thus offer farming systems that are environmentally sound, profitable, productive and compatible with socioeconomic conditions. Our customer – the Farmer – is the steward of the environment. We at AGTL are a link between the rural communities and the society at large. Our goal is to strive to use the current sustainable practices and to utilize the latest production techniques to remain competitive in the global markets. Transforming a whole society AGTL was the first to break the land in Dera Ghazi Khan in 1984 in the midst of a parched desert. We have built an oasis in the desert. The AGTL manufacturing plant with its adjacent staff town has given fillip to the whole area by way of ancillary and allied activities. We take justifiable pride in the contribution that AGTL has made to the social dynamics of the region through its technical, financial and management acumen. We have indeed transformed a whole society in what is otherwise known as a less developed area of Pakistan. Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility at AGTL encompasses human and workers rights, employee relations, ethical conduct, human capital leadership, environmental impact, safety and community service. As a living company we are worthy of people’s commitment, a company that sustains its purpose, values, and identity. Our commitment guarantees company’s sustainability and longevity. 4 UN GLOBAL COMPACT LEADERS SUMMIT 2013 At the invitation of the United Nations, AGTL participated at the UN Global Compact Leaders Summit 2013: Architects of a Better World. Chaired by UN Secretary General, Mr. Ban Ki-Moon, the Summit unveiled a new global architecture for Corporate Sustainability. The Global Summit was attended on behalf of AGTL by CEO, Mr. Parvez Ali, and Company Secretary, Ms. Sobika Zubair. Corporate Sustainability and the UN Millennium Development Goals 2015 stressed on “Sustainable Agriculture”. In 2011-2012, AGTL had already launched its corporate theme on “Sustainable Agriculture”, as its Corporate Commitment and as wave of the future. Participating at the UN Private Sector Forum 2013: AFRICA, the CEO, Mr. Parvez Ali, spoke on the new initiatives that the AL-Futtaim Group – AGTL’s holding company, had launched in Africa and how Al-Futtaim’s activities will support job creation and bringing down the cost of production in Agri business of the region. 5 AGTL Company Profile Date of Incorporation …………………………. June 26, 1983 Date of Commencement of Operations …………… September 1, 1983 Date of Take Over by Al-Futtaim Group of Dubai .…… December 8, 1991 Start of Production at Dera Ghazi Khan Plant i) Auxiliary Plant ………………………... February 20, 1984 ii) Main Plant ………………………………. April 1, 1985 iii) Sheet Metal Stamping Plant ………… July 2006 iv) Production Capacity ………………………… 30,000+ Tractors per annum in a single shift Total Land Area ..…………………….……… 90 Acres Employees ………………………..…………… 1000 approx. 6 Facilities at the AGTL Staff Town Housing 120 family Homes and bachelor quarters for executives and workers Population of the staff town Approximately 440 Other facilities o Mosque o Hospital with ambulance. o Recreation centres for executives, workers and ladies, with indoor games, TV, videos, dish antennas, and other facilities. o Play grounds, parks, horticulture, and janitorial services. o School bus for pick and drop services to school and college going children of the staff for D.G. Khan city. o Private electric generator for uninterrupted power supply. o Clean water supply with UV filters. o Transport facility for D.G. Khan city and adjoining areas. o Waste water recycling plant for horticulture. 7 AGTL OFFICES Head Office Al-Ghazi Tractors Limited 11th floor, NIC Building Abbasi Shaheed Road Karachi Tel: 0213-5660881-5 Plant Al-Ghazi Tractors Limited Factory P.O. Box 38 Sakhi Sarwar Road Dera Ghazi Khan Tel: 0642-463159 Regional Offices Al-Ghazi Tractors Limited 10km, Sheikhupura Road Lahore Tel: 042-37912226 Al-Ghazi Tractors Limited 20 Industrial Estate Multan Tel: 061-6514057-9 Al-Ghazi Tractors Limited House N. A-8 Airport Road Sukkur. Tel: 071-5002852 Al-Ghazi Tractors Limited Flat No. 7, 2nd Floor, City Arcade Sector I-8, Markez Islamabad Tel: 051-4862524 8 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE scope and policy guidelines established by the Board. GLOBAL COMPACT The decisions, recommendations and decisions taken by these committees are put up for perusal of the Board. Human Rights These committees are as follows: 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. Ensure that they are not complicit in 1. Business Strategy Committee. The committee human rights abuses. reviews the policies, strategies and performance of the various business units of the company. It identifies Labour emerging issues, and endeavours to ensure that 3. Uphold freedom of association and the resources are managed effectively. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 2. Finance and Investment Committee. The committee 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and reviews financial performance, budget progress and pricing decisions. compulsory labour 5. The effective abolition of child labour 3. Enterprise Risk Management Committee. Having 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of established a sound system of internal control to employment and occupation safeguard company’s assets and to maximize Environment shareholders investment, the committee reviews and ensures continuity of smooth operations with respect 7. Support a precautionary approach to to internal controls, risk analysis, business impact, environmental challenges insurance, preventive maintenance, supply chain 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater management, technology, intelligence, credit risk, environmental responsibility foreign exchange risk, etc. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion 4. Human Resource and Remuneration Committee. The of environmentally friendly technologies Committee reviews the terms and conditions of 10. Corruption employment of staff and ensures to have an effective proactive succession planning process. Detailed compliance and adherence to the CBA agreement is also ensured. 5. Information and Technology Committee. Because of the criticality of IT to the success of the Company which operates on ERP, the Committee’s responsibility is to provide timely advise and direction on current and strategic IT issues, the future direction and leadership of IT. 6. The Employee & Process Safety Committee. The committee reviews policy development on a wide range of safety and health issues effecting employees and the company including site security, safety and employees health and safety components. 7. Environmental Committee. The committee focuses on a wide range of issues including hazardous waste, regulatory reforms, pollution prevention etc. In pursuance of the Ten Principles of Global Compact To put an end to Corruption the Company has in line a the Board has formulated various Management Statement of Code of Ethics for Employees – signed Committees comprising the CEO, General Managers, every year – committing to make a stand against and Senior Managers of the company. These committees corruption. meet as per their charter and focus on policy statement, 9 AGTL SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY AGTL was first to break the land in Dera Ghazi Khan in 1984 in the midst of a parched desert. We have built an oasis in the desert with the corporate objective of setting up an institution, which can trigger progress, and prosperity in the whole social fabric. We thus built a manufacturing plant which is a hallmark of engineering dynamics. For the manufacturing plant we also raised a whole infrastructure – staff town, school, hospital, power generation, water purification and recycling plant. The AGTL plant and staff town located at D.G. Khan has given fillip to the whole area by way of ancillary and allied activities. Apart from creating jobs and social dynamics, our community service extends from mosque to hospital. AGTL Hospital has been in the forefront of programmes of immunization on National Polio Days, holding of free eye camps. Environmental Responsibility o We integrate environmental responsibility into corporate decision making and in our union contract with the CBA. At AGTL o Management and labour promote pollution control and prevention through collective bargaining agreement. o With good housekeeping we apply practical, low cost steps to improve storage and handling of materials, lighting and workstation design thus reducing waste through damage of lost goods and less risk to the health and safety of worker. o We protect our workers against air and noise pollution by providing personal protection equipment. o We eliminate work-force hazards such as poor working ventilation, indoor pollution, poor lighting etc. o We have discarded the use of all lead based paints. o We provide clean water to workers and to their homes by installing UV filters on water outlets. o Our staff town conforms to safe, sound, and sanitary standards. o We sell waste products like wood and scrap metal that other industries re-cycle as raw materials. o We have set up a water re-cycling plant to treat sewerage. o We boast of heavy investment in horticulture which has stopped the march of the desert. 10 AGTL EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYMENT We practice “equal opportunity employment” without any discrimination of caste, creed or religion. The project being essentially an assembly cum manufacturing operation for heavy-duty work, most of the work force is of males. But the management also offers equal opportunities to women who are employed in both high and lower management positions. AGTL has broken a barrier by employing women at Dera Ghazi Khan. We also employ handicaps. The company does not employ any form of forced, mandatory and forced labour. It does not employ people younger than 18 years of age with a valid CNIC. AGTL – LABOUR / MANAGEMENT RELATIONS AGTL adheres to all the international standards of human rights. We conform to all the labour laws of the country. AGTL respects the rights of Collective Bargaining. The management and labour of AGTL enjoy cordial relations. Weekly meetings are held with CBA to discuss and resolve all issues. AGTL – CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND BUSINESS ETHICS AGTL is a text book example of Good Corporate Governance. The Board and management of AL-Ghazi Tractors Limited recognize that well-defined corporate governance processes are vital in enhancing corporate accountability and are committed to ensuring high standards of corporate governance to preserve and maximize shareholder value. In addition to compliance with regulations and best practices, the Board ensures that high ethical standards are reflected in business behaviour and culture of the Company. The Company actively participates in the fight against all forms of corruption, fully complying with principles of fairness, transparency and integrity. To ensure the highest standards are met, anti-corruption statement has been included in the Code of Ethics signed by all the directors and employees of the Company. 11 AGTL – HEALTH AND SAFETY AGTL accepts no compromise in the field of health protection with regard to safety of its employess at the workplace. No AGTL employe shall put other employees in a position of unnecessary risk that may cause damage to their health or physical wellbeing. The Company is committed to and recognizes that good health, safety and environment is critical to the success of the Company. From production of products which can be used “safely” by the customers, Health and Safety policy covers an action plan for occupational safety, occupational illness, conforming to labour laws for physical and psychological health of employees, friendly working hours, provision of comprehensive insurance to all, hospital facilities at the plant, ambulance services, provision of clean water through filtration plant, recreation facilities at the staff town, firefighting, demarcation of emergency exists and twenty four hours security for the plant and residents of the staff town. The Board had formed a management’s Health and Safety Committee which works to ensure health, safety and security of all its employees as well as the soceity. Firefighting, bomb disposal, first aid and other health and safety drills including dengue awarness programmes are undertaken as routine. 12 AGTL – CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Social Responsibility at AGTL means: Being responsible to the stakeholders of the Company – to make the future of the Company and the region sustainable. Efforts are thus directed so that CSR gets embedded in the Company’s culture and processes as a way of life. At AGTL we talk of CSR on a different level such as workplace initiatives like health, safety, the environment, community initiatives, education, engaging with customers, etc. There is a strong commitment to conforming to labour laws and legal compliance. The link between CSR and the Company’s performance has been a catalyst in reducing direct costs of energy, materials and other resources; it has improved productivity of workers through motivation; it has reduced management risks through establishment of governance systems and adherence to corporate governance laws and risk management strategies. We promote Sustainable Agriculture and are the lowest cost producer of a quality product – Tractor – the bulwark of agriculture. 13 AGTL’S INITIATIVES IN THE FIELD OF CSR AND ENVIRONMENT Sustainable Agriculture Committed as we are to sustainable agriculture, a system in which the farmer reaches the goal of producing adequate yields good profits following production practices that minimize any negative short and long term side effects to the environment and the well being of the community – we at AGTL have launched new initiatives in Farm Mechanization and Water Conservation Projects. With acute water shortages in the country the Government has accorded priority to mechanization of farming and on projects on water conservation. AGTL has entered into technical collaboration agreements with reputed international companies as potential suppliers of technical know how, machines and equipment for drip irrigation system, sprinkler systems and other allied products. The company thus offers “Smart Irrigation Solutions” for water conservation including Rain Guns, Sprinkler, Bubbler System, Drip Irrigation System and Center Pivot System. A collaboration agreement has also been signed with the University of Agriculture, Faisalabad, to gainfully draw from the vast experience and expertise of their specialists, agronomists, research training, labs and other allied facilities available at the University. AGTL will be in the forefront in every area of micro irrigation, be it for agricultural crop, horticulture, plantations, nurseries and green house in any topography, soil and climate conditions for farmers big and small. With a large dealer network spread all over the country, the company will offer the technology at the door steps of the farmer and the mechanical workshops will provide the required after sales support. AGTL Smart Irrigation Systems now being installed with efficiency as high as 95 – 98%; with water savings of approximately 70%; 40 – 70% savings of fertilizers; huge savings on labor; and all these promise almost a 100% or more increase in the yield. Overall goal is to develop economically viable agro ecosystem and to enhance the quality of the environment so that farmlands will remain productive indefinitely. AGTL’s goal is to strive to use the current sustainable practices and to utilize the latest production techniques to remain competitive in the agricultural market. AGTL’s focus is to ultimately build “Climate – Smart Agriculture” that seeks to position the agricultural sector as a solution to major challenges such as contribution to fight against hunger and poverty; rendering them more resilient to climate change; and reducing emissions. There is a need to start putting climate – smart agriculture into practice-working closely with farmers and their communities for social development based local conditions. 14 High Efficient Lighting Efficient use of natural capital where eco-efficiency is usually calculated as the economic value added in relation to its aggregated ecological impact led AGTL to the installation of energy efficient sun roof tops in the plant. This has drastically reduced the consumption of electricity with savings in energy costs. A conscious effort is made by all employees to conserve energy at all our offices and plant by switching off un-used air-conditioners and electrical equipment. Tree Plantation AGTL has built an oasis in the desert at Dera Ghazi Khan. Over 3000 trees which have been planted over the years guard the plant and the staff town which is spread over 90 acres. All employees and visiting dignitaries are encouraged to plant a tree. Automatic Burners Burners in paint shops and tractor body line have been automated to ensure temperature control. This has resulted in fuel savings, thus reducing environmental impact and improving financial efficiency. Waste Management At AGTL, we believe in turning waste in to a resource. This helps us devise an overall environmental strategy so as to achieve sustainable goals without sacrificing financial objectives. The principle is: Reduce, Re-use and Re-cycle. o At AGTL the assembly process is such that no waste is produced through Industrial metabolism. 15 o As also there is no hazardous waste. o Under an agreement with suppliers components rejected on line are returned. These include defective castings, forgings, sheet metals, wires, metal scraps, paper board cartons, wood, plastic parts, PVC parts, etc. These are all materials which are recycled and reprocessed into new materials. These materials are collected separately from general waste using dedicated places in the factory. o Oils refuse from testing of all engines are also sold and recycled for use as furnace oils. Thus turning waste into a resource. o Well designed septic tanks have been built in the factory to take care of the water that is used for washing the components and in the paint shops. These pre-treat the waste water before it enters the disposal areas where natural processes are expected to take care of the final treatment. Solids settle to the bottom of the tanks and form a layer of sludge which is removed once it gets filled – in several years. The sludge is auctioned. Water Purification AGTL has constructed a re-cycling plant for water being purchased from the canal for use in the staff town and the factory. Water being supplied is purified before it reaches the homes and the factory. UV filters have been installed at all places for drinking to prevent the spread of water borne diseases. Product Responsibility Our uncompromising commitment is to provide world-class tractors, at the lowest price, to satisfy customers on a consistent basis. The manufacturing plant is a state of the art unit which has a capacity to produce 30,000 tractors per annum in a 16 single shift. The plant operates on high efficiency with negligible waste. Quality assurance and quality improvement system exists at every level. AGTL was the first automobile company in Pakistan to quality ISO-9002. Our tractors are manufactured from non-hazardous material. We have discarded the use of all lead based paints. All manufacturing materials are procured from reputable suppliers and must conform to our quality standards. All tractors are tested before delivery. Community Investment, Development of local talent and investment in education At AGTL we maintain a close communication link between rural communities, researchers and the society at large: o We educate the farmer and his future generations on techniques of Farm Management with marketing programmes which have been specially designed to minimize overhead costs and to increase returns. Such programmes are held with intermittence throughout the country at the grass root level. o Tractor festivals, free service programmes are held throughout the year all over the country to improve the efficiency of resource utilization. o AGTL actively participates in polio campaigns in surrounding areas of DGK. o The Company has launched a programme to induct young diploma graduates from the DGK Polytechnique Institute. Special programmes are being launched to customize learning and development. o The company provides direct employment to a workforce of as many as 1000 local every day. o Merit scholarships are offered to students of the University of Agriculture, Faisalabad and its campus in Dera Ghazi Khan. Scholarships are also offered to the technical college of Dera Ghazi Khan for development of local talent. 17 o The Company is proactively providing internships to students of various institutions of the country as well as from other countries not only at the manufacturing plant in Dera Ghazi Khan but at all other locations. 18
