www.ottogroup.com CORPORAT E RESPONSI BI LI T Y REPORT 2013 ADDED VALUE(S) KEY MILESTONES IN THE REPORTING PERIOD (MARCH 2011 – FEBRUARY 2013) 03/2011 12/2011 04/2012 Commissioning of the world’s largest Death of the company founder, Founding of DBR, a joint company automated returns warehouse by Hermes Prof. Werner Otto, on 21 December at with Brazilian mail-order retailer Fulfilment in Haldensleben, Germany the age of 102 Posthaus, to expand e-commerce activities in Brazil 04/2011 12/2011 04/2012 Launch of ottogroupnet, a global Group Entry as an investor in the Project A intranet featuring virtual team rooms, Ventures incubator for e-commerce Second place in the ‘Working in Fashion social-media tools and news from across start-ups 2012’ employer-ranking by the journal the Group TextilWirtschaft 2011 2012 01/2012 05/2012 09/2011 Co-founding of the ‘CPI2’ climateprotection initiative to reduce CO2 Initial publication of a Declaration Implementation of a Stakeholder emissions in the supply chain of Compliance with the German Management System Sustainability Code of the Council for Sustainable Development 02/2012 10/2011 Inaugural meeting of the CR Board; 05/2012 Integration of EOS and baumarkt direkt resolution to halve the share of into the CR reporting process air-freight by 2020 Founding of the Senior Experts Consultancy to pass on the experience of retired employees to young colleagues 11/2011 03/2012 Sale of 49% of the shares in Otto Freizeit Founding of Yapital, a European cashless 05/2012 und Touristik cross-channel payment solution, to expand innovative payment services Deferral of the planned CO2 compensation project in Belarus 05/2012 11/2012 Critical report on dealing with parcel01/2013 delivery companies also affects Hermes. Acquisition of the brand rights and Commencement of certification of domains of the online shop Neckermann.de Resolution to expand the CR Strategy all contractual parcel-service partners 2020; the Paper and Durable Goods in collaboration with the testing, Strategy is newly incorporated auditing, verifying and certifying company SGS-TÜV Saar 11/2012 Young ClassX awarded German CSR prize 02/2013 for cultural engagement 06/2012 Completion of OTTO’s pilot project on the development of the Higg Index, an Announcement of the goal of ‘100% industry-wide benchmark devised by sustainable cotton for own and licensed the Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC) brands by 2020’ at the Group’s Annual to evaluate textile sustainability Financial Statements press conference 2013 09/2012 Discontinuation of the ‘Passion for 11/2012 Performance’ (P4P) IT project to standardise software across the Group; Received the Corporate Health Award 2012 under the auspices of the Federal 02/2013 instead, decentralisation of IT Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs Result of the CR Strategy ‘Best Multi-Discipline Player’ (2010 to 2012): half of the individual goals were not 09/2012 fully achieved and carried over into the current CR Strategy 2020 Launch of the forward-looking FOKUS 12/2012 project to profile the OTTO, Baur and Schwab brands in the intensely competi‘CO2 Accounting Tool’ rolled out at tive online market; in total, 647 full-time Hermes to collect accurate data on positions will be affected by 2015 by procurement-shipment CO2 emissions the approved restructuring 10/2012 Approval of the new Social Programme, which for the first time also integrates importers ABOUT THIS REPORT The Otto Group’s Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 presents a full account of its Corporate Responsibility (CR) activities, its business activities’ impact on people and nature, including goals and measures to manage its activities. Reference framework: The Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 follows on from the Otto Group’s Corporate Responsibility Report 2011, covering the period from 1 March 2011 to 28 February 2013 (financial years 2011/12 and 2012/13). The key figures collected relate to 13 Group companies unless stated otherwise, including the eleven Group companies which were already included in the previous reporting period: Baur, bonprix, Frankonia, Heine, Hermes, OTTO, OTTO Office, Schwab, SportScheck, UNITO and Witt – with the addition of baumarkt direkt and EOS for the reporting period 2011/12 and 2012/13. Details about the businesses belonging to the Group companies as well as their legal structures are provided in the company profiles from p. 8 onwards. The inclusion of EOS marks the first time the Financial Services segment has been included. In doing so, this report covers companies from all three of the Otto Group’s business segments. All companies in the CR Report 2013 have their headquarters in either Germany or Austria and an annual turnover of over 100 mn€. One exception is the company myToys.de: while it meets all the criteria, it is not included in the CR Report 2013. Overall, the 13 reporting companies account for 53% of the Group’s turnover. Reporting structure and contents: To produce this CR Report, the Otto Group conducted a Materiality Analysis based on a stakeholder survey (see p. 25 et seq.), which served to prioritise the CR topics for their presentation in this report. The introductory sections on the CR Strategy, CR Management, Stakeholder Dialogue, the Materiality Analysis and our CR Programme are followed by chapters on our CR fields of action: Assortment and Customers, Climate and Environment, Supply Chain, Employees, and Society. Unless indicated otherwise, these are based on the consolidated data and information of all 13 reporting companies. Any exceptions are highlighted in the introductory sections of the chapters. The specific challenges, combined with the results of the Materiality Analysis on the chapter’s topics, are presented at the start of each chapter on the respective field of action. This CR Report supplements the Otto Group’s Annual Reports for the years 2011/12 and 2012/13. It was produced in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines (GRI G3.0) and meets the requirements of the highest Application Level (Level A). It is also a Communication on Progress on the extent to which the Group has implemented the Principles of the UN Global Compact. Auditing: The CR Report 2013 has been audited and certified by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) under the stakeholder engagement standard AccountAbility (AA1000 AS). For example, this certifies the commitment of all divisions of the reporting companies to involve and actively engage with stakeholders. The symbol denotes that PwC has audited the key figures. Editorial remarks: The CR Report 2013 is available in German and English. The editorial deadline for this report was 31 May 2013. The next CR report is scheduled to appear in autumn 2015. For the sake of readability, this report omits gender-based dual entries and uses the masculine form. In those cases, however, both women and men are intended. Additional remarks: The Otto Group’s CR Report 2013 is available at www.ottogroup.com/cr-report. In addition, all of the Otto Group’s available key figures from the last four years can be viewed there individually using an online key-figures tool. An extended GRI Index supplementing the information in the printed report is also available online at www.ottogroup.com/cr-report. The Otto Group starts where it can create ADDED VALUE(S) – for itself and its stakeholders. Transparency is essential, dialogue is an important tool and sustainability is our goal. This logically leads to the Group’s core business processes, which must be managed responsibly and efficiently. CONTENTS C2 About this Report C3 The Otto Group’s Key Milestones in the 4 Fields of Action Reporting Period 2 Foreword 1 4 The Otto Group 4.1 3 1 Assortment and Customers Field of Action 34 Assortment 4 The Otto Group’s Business Model 39 Customers 6 Profile of the Otto Group 8 Portraits of the 13 Reporting Companies 4.2 41 Climate and Environment Field of Action 44 Climate Protection 2 14 Measuring Responsibility 14 The Otto Group’s Environmental Footprint 4 7 Operational Environmental Protection 3 16 Corporate Responsibility at the Otto Group 4.3 49 52 Supply Chain Field of Action Sourcing Markets 16 CR Strategy 54 Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain 19 CR Management 59 Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain 22 In Dialogue with Stakeholders 25 28 Materiality as our Compass CR Programme 2013 4.4 61 64 Employees Field of Action Personnel Responsibility 67 Diversity and Equal Opportunities 68 Employee Acquisition, Vocational and Further Training 70 Health Protection 4.5 7 1 Society Field of Action 7 4 The Otto Group’s Societal Engagement 7 5 Long-standing Foundation Work 7 6 Communication on Progress on the UN Global Compact and GRI Index 80 Assurance Statement C6 Publisher’s Imprint C 7 Awards » FOREWORD WE INTEND TO BE JUDGED BY OUR CLAIM TO ACT RESPONSIBLY. Hans-Otto Schrader CHAIRMAN OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (CEO) OTTO GROUP AND CHAIRMAN OF THE CR BOARD Hanjo Schneider MEMBER OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD, SERVICES OTTO GROUP AND PERMANENT MEMBER OF THE CR BOARD 2 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Dear Reader, the global economy has lost momentum mainly due to To ensure our CR Strategy is implemented, we estabthe crisis among countries and banks in Europe. While lished a new decision-making body in 2012: the CR trade and manufacturing increased in emerging countries, Board. Under the supervision of the Chairman of the many developed countries suffered a decline. Despite this, Executive Board and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) we are delighted that the Otto Group was able to moderOtto Group, it ensures that the necessary strategic deciately increase its turnover in the last financial year. Online sions are made across all Group companies, and that turnover levels in Multichannel Retail and overall turnconflicting goals are identified and resolved in good time. over levels in the Financial Services and Services segments increased strongly, with the results showing that Transparency creates trust and is the basis for measurwe are on the right track by expanding e-commerce and ability and manageability. Taking into account our extended continuing our strategy of internationalisation. area of responsibility, which also includes pre-production stages, we have gone one decisive step further: we have Pursuing sustainable business practices is a fundamental developed an analysis tool which calculates the Otto principle of the Otto Group. It is part of our self-underGroup’s environmental footprint along the entire value standing and consequently is embedded deeply within chain. Furthermore, we surveyed all key stakeholder our Group’s organisational structures. At the factories groups on topics which matter the most to our company. that produce goods for us we are working to ensure that With a response rate of more than 40 per cent, this conworking conditions are humane and safe, and also that tributed to the focus of our CR activities and this report. cultivation and production methods are environmentally friendly. This is an enormous challenge, given the comThis report meets Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) plexity of the supply chain and intense price competition. Guidelines and has been audited independently by an auditing firm. In doing so, it meets the requirements As trading companies, we are faced with additional chalof the highest Application Level A+. It also represents lenges. We want our merchandise to be produced in a our Communication on Progress on the extent to which way that is as environmentally friendly as possible, and to we have implemented the Principles of the UN Global instil a passion in our customers for sustainable products. Compact. By integrating the Financial Services segment To achieve this, we communicate these products’ added and the joint venture baumarkt direkt we have extended value while minimising their additional costs. the scope of our reporting. Furthermore, we plan to include the mail-order toy retailer myToys.de in our As a climate-protection pioneer we aim to further reduce next CR Report. our energy consumption and the resulting CO2 emissions – a challenge we are meeting by making Corporate ResponLooking forward, we wish to continue to be judged by sibility (CR) an integral part of our core business. In 2012 our claim to act responsibly while never resting on our we approved a new CR Strategy together with our Execsuccesses. utive Board colleagues, in which we set ourselves specific, verifiable goals up to 2020. These include using only cotWe hope you enjoy reading this report! ton from sustainable sources of cultivation for our textiles, and Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) certified timber On behalf of the Executive Board, in our furniture. Furthermore, in the future we intend yours, to integrate all suppliers in risk countries into our Social Programme. Hans-Otto Schrader Hanjo Schneider Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 3 The otto group 1 THE OTTO GROUP’S BUSINESS MODEL Founded in 1949 in Germany, with its companies and over 50,000 employees the Group is present in over 20 countries across Europe, North and South America, and Asia. The business model of our global retail and services group is based on three segments: Multichannel Retail, Services and Financial Services. MULTICHANNEL RETAIL 85% share of turnover Multichannel Retail is the Otto Group’s highest-turnover business segment. To meet customers’ individual needs, the segment covers Group companies which offer their assortment – including clothing, furniture, electrical equipment, toys and sports goods – via the sales channels of e-commerce, catalogues and over-the-counter retail. The Internet is now the Otto Group’s most important sales channel, with the Group generating around 57% of all revenues in the Multichannel Retail segment through its online platforms. shopping24 internet group 4 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 SERVICES 10% share of turnover The Services segment covers all the services of the retail logistics value chain – from sourcing, through quality testing, transportation and warehousing, to delivery to business and private customers. The Group’s logistics service providers and sourcing companies, which are consolidated under the umbrella brand Hermes, provide services to the Otto Group’s retail companies and other customers. 5% share of turnover FINANCIAL SERVICES The Financial Services segment covers the Otto Group’s range of international financial services, focusing on commercial services such as receivables management and consumer loans. All fully consolidated Group companies headquartered in Germany or Austria with an annual turnover of more than 100 mn€ are listed. Companies that are shaded are included in the CR Report 2013 (all companies with an annual turnover of more than 100 mn€, with the exception of myToys.de). For the other companies headquartered abroad, only the name of the company group is given. Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 5 The otto group 1 PROFILE OF THE OTTO GROUP The key element of the Otto Group’s DNA is its more than 60 years as a family company. Still family-owned today, early on the Group embedded respect for people and nature in its thoughts and actions – a foresighted understanding of business which is also reflected in our Vision and mission. Consequently, the Otto Group is not only a company rich in tradition, but is also a recognised pioneer in sustainable business practices. With around 53,800 employees, the Otto Group generGROUP STRATEGY ated turnover of 11.8 bn€ in the 2012/13 financial year. We derive our CR and Group strategies from our busiThe Multichannel Retail segment generated the largest ness mandate, Vision and mission. One of our key strashare of this, at 10,057 mn€. All segments achieved a tegic goals is to further strengthen our existing portfolio moderate increase in earnings versus the previous year. and to progressively expand nationally and internationally. By developing new businesses areas and models, we The Otto Group takes responsibility for people and aim to meet the future challenges posed by constantly nature in its business activities. This stated aim is at the evolving markets, and to benefit rapidly from new busiheart of our Vision and characterises our corporate misness opportunities. As a global Group we intend to have sion, ‘The Power of Responsibility’. We have laid the basis a home-shopping presence in selected markets and confor a uniform, Group-wide set of values with four core tinually strengthen over-the-counter retail. Within the elements: Profitability, Innovation, Diversity and SustainMultichannel Retail segment, e-commerce continues to ability. This forms the basis of our company culture and be the focus of our growth strategy. is intended to make a significant contribution to ensuring the sustainability of our business activities. Our Financial Services providers’ strategy comprises the expansion of business activities in their core markets and BUSINESS MANDATE, VISION AND MISSION AS THE BASIS OF OUR CR AND GROUP STRATEGIES the closing of strategic gaps in Europe and Asia through both organic and inorganic growth. Furthermore, the Otto Group has invested in numerous companies. In Business Mandate Our business mandate specifies within what framework and guiderails the age of e-commerce, logistics is increasing in importhe Executive Board, managers and staff are to carry out the tance and becoming a differentiating factor in the busiessential processes of the Otto Group’s sustainably profitable ness-to-consumer (B2C) segment. Besides speed, relibusiness model. Furthermore, our Vision and mission as well as our CR and Group Strategies are derived from the business mandate. ability and transparency in the supply chain, we place particular importance on the quality of service at the point of sale and the final mile to the end-customer. Through the Hermes group of companies we have placed a particuVision lar focus of our strategy on the area of services and logisWe are a globally active group of retailers and retail-related service providers with tics for private and business customers. The Hermes group successful business concepts that of companies intends to further consolidate its position acts responsibly for people and nature. as a provider of commercial services both in Germany and internationally. Mission BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT ‘The Power of Responsibility’ In the 2012/13 financial year the Otto Group increased Profitability its net turnover by 1.6% to 11,784 mn€ versus the previInnovation Diversity ous year. The reporting companies account for 53.1% of Sustainability the Group’s overall turnover, with 6,254 mn€. The companies which have been newly included since the 2011/12 6 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 financial year, baumarkt direkt and EOS, account for a other European countries fell slightly by 1.2% owing to share of 3.2%. The Otto Group’s profit in the financial the restructuring in France, exchange-rate adjusted turnyear now closed was 144 mn€. over growth of 5.4% was achieved in North and South America. KEY OPERATING FIGURES (FOR THE WHOLE GROUP) NET TURNOVER BY REGION (FOR THE WHOLE GROUP) in mn€ 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 in mn€ 11,597 11,784 Net turnover 10,132 11,404 11,597 11,784 11,404 whole Group 10,132 Net turnover 5,060 5,733 6,107 6,254 reporting companies 6,752 6,571 6,666 Publicly listed capital 2,036 2,081 2,000 1,910 5,785 whole Group Publicly listed capital 762 776 978 1,005 reporting companies 3,412 3,513 3,472 3,117 Liabilities 4,293 4,534 4,440 4,658 whole Group 979 1,153 1,172 1,316 252 268 246 244 Liabilities 1,348 1,763 2,357 2,656 reporting companies 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Profit for the year 211 181 23 144 Germany Europe* North and South America Asia whole Group *excluding Germany As the figures are rounded, the regional turnover figures do not always add up GROWTH IN THE FINANCIAL SERVICES AND SERVICES SEGMENTS to the total turnover amount. At the close of the 2012/13 financial year, Multichannel Retail remains the largest business segment, generating EMPLOYEE STRUCTURE 85% of the Otto Group’s overall turnover. However, its At the end of the 2012/13 financial year the Otto Group’s growth rate of 0.2% was clearly exceeded by those of employee headcount – converted to FTE (full-time the Financial Services and Services segments, which equivalents) – across all three segments was 53,823. The achieved 11.7% and 10.0% respectively. 13 Group companies included in this report employ some 42% of these, representing an increase of around 2% over NET TURNOVER BY BUSINESS SEGMENT (FOR THE WHOLE GROUP) the previous report. A detailed account of our employee in mn€ structure is provided in the chapter ‘Employees’. 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Financial 388 455 532 594 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES, REBASED AS FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES (FTEs) Services Multichannel 8,922 10,004 10,035 10,057 53,103 53,823 47,952 49,721 Retail Services 822 945 1,030 1,133 EUROPE STILL THE MOST IMPORTANT REGIONAL MARKET 18,131 20,248 22,341 22,445 At the close of the 2012/13 financial year, Germany remained the most important sales market, generating 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 57.3% of the Group’s turnover. While turnover levels in Whole Group Reporting companies Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 7 The otto group 1 PORTRAITS OF THE 13 REPORTING COMPANIES Multichannel Retail Headquarters: Hamburg • Employees*: 139 • Markets: AT, CH, DE, LU, NL • Stores: None Otto Group’s shareholding: 50.1% • Group companies covered by this CR Report: baumarkt direkt GmbH & Co KG Website: www.baumarktdirekt.de, www.hagebau.de baumarkt direkt is a retailer of DIY products and a As the majority of products offered by baumarkt direkt market-leading mail-order retailer in this sector. The are third-party articles, the main challenges lie in ensurjoint venture between the Otto Group and hagebau ing transparency of the origins of the raw materials unites the over-the-counter business of the hagebau and that humane working conditions are upheld in the stores with Internet and catalogue sales. sourcing countries. A further challenge is proving that the wooden products offered originate from sustainable sources. Headquarters: Burgkunstadt • Employees*: 3,772 • Markets: DE • Stores: None Otto Group’s shareholding: 49% • Group companies covered by this CR Report: Baur Versand (GmbH & Co KG), BFS Baur Fulfilment Solutions GmbH and Zweite Hermes TransStore Service GmbH & Co. KG • Website: www.baur.de The multichannel retailer Baur offers a broad assortment Besides reducing CO2 emissions for shipments and its of fashions, shoes and home furnishings comprising own own logistics and administrative locations, Baur is faced and third-party brands. Baur is positioned as a dedicated with the challenge of auditing social standards in the mail-order retailer for customers, providing high quality supply chain and responsibly selecting the raw materials and service standards. Around 80% of orders are generated used to produce goods. online. Another sales channel is the catalogue business. The Baur brand is aimed at women aged between 40 and 55 – a target group enthusiastic about sustainable products. Headquarters: Hamburg • Employees*: 1,365 • Markets: 27 countries • Stores: around 70 in Germany and approx. a further 20 in Austria, Switzerland and Italy • Otto Group’s shareholding: 100% Group companies covered by this CR Report: bonprix Handelsgesellschaft mbH, bonprix retail GmbH Website: company.bonprix.de bonprix is one of Germany’s and Europe’s leading vendors 10 mail-order retailers in Germany and operates one of of up-to-date fashions. With a turnover of more than Germany’s top ten most-visited online shops. The com1.2 bn€ in 2012, bonprix is one of the highest turnover pany offers affordable ladies’, men’s and children’s fashions companies in the Otto Group. bonprix is one of the top for every customer type and size through its Internet, 8 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 catalogue and over-the-counter sales channels. The assortwhile upholding social standards in production, monitorment also includes home textiles as well as furnishing ing the origin of raw materials and reducing the environarticles and accessories. mental impact during processing. The most frequently used raw material by far is cotton. In the area of climate While bonprix predominantly offers own-brand articles, protection, a key challenge is reducing the amount of supply-chain management is one of its biggest challenges. CO2 generated by purchasing and distribution transporThis includes producing goods at the lowest-possible cost tation activities. Headquarters: Rottendorf • Employees*: 594 • Markets: AT, CH, DE, FR • Stores: 23 and two outlets in Germany, two stores in France • Otto Group’s shareholding: 100% Group companies covered by this CR Report: Frankonia Handels GmbH & Co. KG • Website: www.frankonia.de Frankonia is a leading European provider of hunting Like other retailers, Frankonia is also faced with a susequipment. The assortment includes functional equiptainability challenge in the selecting of the type and ment for hunters and sports marksmen, including a origin of finished raw materials such as cotton, leather sophisticated collection of classics in ladies’ and men’s and metal. Furthermore, Frankonia exceeds statutory clothing. Besides its stores, Frankonia also offers its requirements governing the handling of hunting and assortment online and through catalogues. sports firearms through its stringent self-regulations. Another challenge lies in finding appropriate ways of communicating and advertising the company’s products. Headquarters: Karlsruhe • Employees*: 555 • Markets: AT, CH, DE, FR, NL • Stores: None Otto Group’s shareholding: 100% Group companies covered by this CR Report: Heinrich Heine GmbH • Website: www.heine.info Heine’s assortment includes high-quality fashion articles This vendor of high-quality products is faced with and furnishings in the medium-to-upper price segment. sustainability challenges, particularly in selecting and The company markets these mainly as own-brand articles processing the raw materials used. At Heine these cover via catalogues and its online shop. Besides the main cataa wide spectrum, with wool, assorted synthetic fibres, logue, each year it publishes numerous special catalogues. leather and timber being used. Another challenge lies in raising awareness among customers about sustainable consumption. *The employee number refers to employees on unlimited contracts at the companies covered by this report (headcounts, not rebased as FTEs) as at the end of the 2012/13 financial year. It includes working students and employees on parental leave but excludes trainees, interns, diploma students and temporary agency employees. Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 9 The otto group 1 Headquarters: Hamburg • Employees*: 5,241 • Markets: AT, CZ, DE, HU, NL, RU, SK Stores: None • Otto Group’s shareholding: 100% Group companies covered by this CR Report: Otto (GmbH & Co KG) • Website: www.otto.com The mail-order generalist OTTO, the core company of OTTO also sources goods and catalogue paper for other the Otto Group, is one of the most successful e-commerce Group companies, which in turn offer them to their cuscompanies and Germany’s largest online fashion and lifetomers in cross-selling assortments. This is why OTTO style retailer. OTTO’s share of turnover generated online has a special role in meeting the challenges in the supply now accounts for around 80% of its overall turnover. chain. These include complying with social standards in Many customers access otto.de on the move via their terms of the working conditions at suppliers’ factories, smartphones and tablets. In recent years its catalogues as well as in pre-production stages. It also focuses on the have changed from being sales tools to increasingly origin and processing of raw materials such as cotton and become marketing tools. Today, they are a key source of timber. In the case of the latter, large quantities are still purchasing inspiration for customers and as a result, they used to produce catalogues and advertising materials, stimulate customers to purchase online ranges at otto.de. even though these quantities are decreasing. Other topics The main Spring/Summer 2013 catalogue has a circulainclude reducing the environmental impact in the purchastion of around 4 million, although it is only one of around ing chain, cutting the CO2 emissions generated by logis60 different catalogues. tics, the company’s locations and employee travel, as well as the recycling of products at the end of their useful life. OTTO sells own-brand articles as well as those of other brands and retailers. In total, otto.de offers around 2.1 million articles and 4,000 different brands. Furthermore, Headquarters: Hamburg • Employees*: 288 • Markets: BE, DE • Stores: None Otto Group’s shareholding: 75.1% Group companies covered by this CR Report: OTTO Office GmbH & Co KG • Website: www.otto-office.com OTTO Office is an independent mail-order retailer The key task in sustainability is expanding the RANGE specialising in office equipment, communications techof sustainable, resource-efficient products together with nology and office furniture. The catalogue and online manufacturers of wooden and cellulose products, office shop offer articles from over 150 brand manufacturers. furniture and technical equipment, amongst others. Besides small and medium-sized companies, private customers also count among the buyers. The company is known for its rapid delivery, efficient purchasing and distribution policy, and reasonable prices. 10 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Headquarters: Hanau • Employees*: 1,056 • Markets: exports to 30 countries worldwide • Stores: None Otto Group’s shareholding: 100% Group companies covered by this CR Report: SCHWAB VERSAND GmbH • Website: www.schwabversand.de Besides a wide variety of trendy fashions aimed at a The sheego.de site emerged as test winner for customer target group aged between 25 and 55, Schwab also offers advice and sustainability in the ServiceAtlas Fashion a large selection of consumer electronics and household Shops 2012 competitive study. products. The mail-order retailer also exports its assortment to 30 countries around the world. sheego is the Similar sustainability challenges arise owing to the simispecialist brand for young, fashion-conscious women of larity of its textile assortment structure to OTTO’s. For size 40 (UK size 16) and upwards. This fashion company Schwab, another challenge lies in raising its customers’ therefore closes a gap in the market, opening up a world awareness of sustainable consumption and increasing the of fashion to plus-size women that was previously closed share of corresponding products in its overall assortment. to them. Headquarters: Munich • Employees*: 1,500 • Markets: D, AT, CH • Stores: 17 in Germany Otto Group’s shareholding: 100% Group companies covered by this CR Report: SportScheck GmbH • Website: www.sportscheck.com SportScheck is Germany’s leading multichannel retailer Its wide assortment of sports and leisure goods poses of sports goods, offering its range via its online shop, complex sustainability challenges to SportScheck in terms mobile shop, catalogues and over-the-counter stores. of supply-chain management. As many functional textiles SportScheck was founded in 1946 and has been part of contain synthetic fibres, particular attention is paid to the Otto Group since 1991. The company’s philosophy is the use of chemicals and energy; however, SportScheck to be a lifelong sporting companion and to inspire people can only have an indirect influence on how the articles for sport. The company holds city-runs as well as outdoor are manufactured, owing to the high number of thirdand winter events, thereby inspiring its customers to take party brands in its assortment. Another challenge facing up new forms of sport. SportScheck is to ensure energy is used as efficiently as possible at all its locations to reduce the amount of CO2 emissions generated. *The employee number refers to employees on unlimited contracts at the companies covered by this report (headcounts, not rebased as FTEs) as at the end of the 2012/13 financial year. It includes working students and employees on parental leave but excludes trainees, interns, diploma students and temporary agency employees. Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 11 The otto group 1 Headquarters: Salzburg • Employees*: 420 • Markets: AT, CH, IT • Stores: None Otto Group’s shareholding: 100% • Group companies covered by this CR Report: UNITO Versand & Dienstleistungen GmbH (Universal, OTTO and Quelle in Austria including Ackermann and Quelle in Switzerland) Website: www.universal.at, www.ottoversand.at, www.quelle.at, www.quelle.ch, www.ackermann.ch UNITO is the largest mail-order group in the Alpine In Switzerland, the company mainly sells textiles under region. Through this company the Otto Group covers the the Ackermann and Quelle brands. UNITO is present multichannel mail-order market in Austria, Switzerland in Germany through the Quelle.de brand as an online and the South Tyrol. With its multibrand strategy, retailer focusing on technology and living assortments. UNITO unites the brands OTTO, Universal, Ackermann, Quelle and Alpenwelt under one roof. In Austria, While UNITO predominantly offers cross-selling assortwith its broad assortment the Universal brand is the ments, its responsibility for how they are produced is market-leading mail-order business. As an e-commerceincreasing. This is because it is sourcing a growing share focused mail-order retailer, OTTO offers fashion & lifeof goods itself, such as large electrical household applistyle articles. Quelle.at is a durable-goods mail-order ances and traditional clothing. Involving customers is retailer. Alpenwelt offers traditional clothing collections. intended to raise their awareness of energy-efficient appliances, as these have the greatest environmental impact when in use. In customer communications, UNITO considers raising awareness of sustainable cotton and resource conservation to be core tasks. Headquarters: Weiden • Employees*: 2,582 • Markets: 10 countries in Europe as well as Russia and Kazakhstan Stores: Around 115 in Germany • Otto Group’s shareholding: 100% Group companies covered by this CR Report: Sieh an! Handelsgesellschaft mbH, AMBRIA GmbH, Creation L Handelsgesellschaft mbH, Josef Witt GmbH • Website: www.witt-gruppe.eu Witt is a mail-order retailer of clothing, underwear and The key sustainability challenge facing the company home textiles. The company’s target group comprises cusin terms of its assortment and customers is expanding tomers over the age of 50. Five different company brands the range of articles made from sustainable cotton – the including WITT WEIDEN and Sieh an! address the most commonly-used fibre for textiles. Besides shipdemands and requirements of this customer group. The ments, when it comes to reducing CO2 emissions its WITT International brand is especially tailored to meetown logistics locations are very much in focus, as Witt ing the needs of customers based abroad. Besides overhas its own distribution centre. Demographic change the-counter stores, the catalogue – and increasingly also and adapting the assortment to suit changing customer the online shop – are key sales channels. tastes are further key challenges for Witt. 12 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Services Headquarters: Hamburg • Employees*: 8,793 • Markets: AT, DE, GB, IT, RU • Stores: over 20,000 parcel shops in Europe, 14,000 of these in Germany • Otto Group’s shareholding: 100% Group companies covered by this CR Report: Hermes Europe GmbH, Hermes Logistik Gruppe Deutschland GmbH, Hermes Einrichtungs Service GmbH, Hermes Transport Logistics GmbH, Hermes Fulfilment GmbH • Website: www.hermesworld.com Through its twelve specialised group companies, Hermes For Hermes, reducing the CO2 emissions of purchasing covers the entire service spectrum along the retail value logistics, distribution transportation and of its own locachain: from the sourcing of products and testing, through tions takes top priority. Further core topics in this busitransport and distribution logistics, to delivery to the ness area include working conditions and the remuneraend-customer. Hermes is the world’s only service provider tion of its own employees, temporary agency employees that can offer its clients such an end-to-end service. In and staff at partner companies such as those involved in Germany alone, Hermes delivers up to 1.5 million conparcel delivery. Growing competition in the mail-order signments to private households every day. The target and parcel business as well as the resulting increase in group ranges from international business customers, for time and cost pressure in the delivery process currently whom Hermes handles the purchasing of goods, to pricount among the industry’s growing social and environvate customers receiving Hermes parcel deliveries. Since mental challenges. 2010 Hermes has grouped its long-term environmental and climate-protection activities into the ‘Hermes WE DO!’ initiative. FINANCIAL SERVICES Headquarters: Hamburg • Employees*: 1,584 • Markets: Over 45 subsidiaries in 27 countries in Europe, America and Asia Otto Group’s shareholding: 100% Group companies covered by this CR Report: EOS DID – EOS Deutscher Inkasso-Dienst, EOS KSI Inkasso Deutschland and 13 further EOS Group companies • Website: www.eos-solutions.com The EOS Group is one of the leading international of partner firms, the EOS Group has resources in providers of bespoke financial services, with a focus on 134 countries on all continents. Its main target sectors receivables management. With over 9,000 employees are banking, insurance, energy utilities, telecommunicaacross the globe and over 45 subsidiaries, EOS offers its tions and IT. some 20,000 customers in 27 countries security thanks to tailored services. Through its international network The main sustainability challenge is managing customers in financial difficulty. Besides this, data protection is a particularly important topic. *The employee number refers to employees on unlimited contracts at the companies covered by this report (headcounts, not rebased as FTEs) as at the end of the 2012/13 financial year. It includes working students and employees on parental leave but excludes trainees, interns, diploma students and temporary agency employees. Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 13 MEASURING RESPONSIBILITY 2 THE OTTO GROUP’S* ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT GOAL MEASURING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT The goods offered by the Otto Group are produced in over 70 countries. This requires resources including agricultural land, raw materials and water; it also results in harmful substances being released into the soil, watercourses and the atmosphere. We intend to reduce our environmental impact along the value chain over the long term – and to achieve this, we first need to identify the environmental hotspots. A special modelling tool which measures our environmental footprint provides this transparency. The particular feature of this tool is that the various environmental impacts are evaluated based on the external cost they cause in euros and in doing so, are made comparable. This comparability is a first milestone that will enable us to work together with suppliers and their pre-suppliers to reduce the negative environmental impacts in the supply chain. METHODOLOGY MODELLING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Statistical key figures Otto Group purchasing data on environmental impacts by cost type and sourcing country and their cost Example: Example: Specific greenhouse-gas estell MODELLING Purchasing volume for emissions per euro of t-shirts from China: purchasing volume for 1 mn€ clothing in China: 1.05 kg/€, external cost for greenhousegas emissions: 66 €/t Example: The external costs for the greenhouse-gas emissions of the purchased t-shirts, from the cotton field to production in China, are €69,300. The Otto Group’s various environmental impacts are identified, and by converting them into external costs are made transparent and comparable. * Based on the Estell calculation model by the Group’s own consultancy Systain Consulting GmbH. 14 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 FINDINGS A HUGE AMOUNT OF LEVERAGE EXISTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN AND PRODUCTION Almost 80% of the environmental damage Our environmental footprint results in caused by the Otto Group is attributable to external costs of more than 10% of the production of merchandise. our Group turnover. 10% 80% The highest costs arise through environmental impacts in the areas of climate change, water consumption and atmospheric pollution. 2% 29% 30% 38% 50% In terms of merchandise, textile production is responsible for half of all environmental impacts. Use of agricultural land Climate change Use of natural water Atmospheric pollution (negative resources impact on people/environment) NEXT STEPS IMPROVE ACCURACY, INCREASE TRANSPARENCY AND USE THE RESULTS > Inclusion of additional environmental impacts such as biodiversity and water pollution > Improvement in the accuracy of the findings > Increase in transparency and inclusion of further analysis aspects > Use of the findings to develop our CR Strategy further Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 15 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT THE OTTO GROUP 3 CR Strategy The Otto Group’s CR Strategy 2020 is a further development that embeds the principles of sustainable business practices even more deeply in the Group and its business processes. To achieve this, the Otto Group has set specific, measurable goals for the topic areas that are fundamental to the business model and which the Group has influence over. These goals are reflected in five topic-specific sub-strategies. The Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy approved FURTHER DEVELOPMENT AND BUSINESS FOCUS by the Otto Group Executive Board in 2012 is valid until We derive the strategic focus of our sustainability activithe 2020/21 financial year. The strategy is intended to ties from stakeholder and market requirements (see contribute to the Otto Group’s future viability. It covers p. 25 et seq.). The work focuses on these five fields of all reporting companies, as well as some additional Group action, which also provide the structure of our CR companies. Its focus is on re-engineering core business Report: Assortment and Customers, Climate and processes such as the procurement of goods, and unites Environment, Supply Chain, Employees, and Society. our company Vision, ‘Responsibility for People and Our CR Strategy 2020 ensures CR is integrated progresNature’, with the added value we offer our customers sively into our core business. It builds on our current through our broad and affordable range of sustainable strategy, ‘Best Multi-Discipline Player’, which remains products and services. Our CR Strategy 2020 serves as valid until the end of financial year 2012/13. We did not an umbrella strategy, encompassing five topic-specific fully achieve all our sub-goals in our current CR Strategy sub-strategies, each with an overriding goal. within the anticipated timeframe (see CR Programme, p. 28 et seq.). Nevertheless, through the experience we have gained we have been able to transfer, standardise and further develop our assortment and climate goals in our CR Strategy 2020. THE OTTO GROUP’S CR STRATEGY 2020 Efficient reduction of the negative impacts of the Otto Group’s business activities on people and nature, as well as the creation of positive effects through the integration of CR in the core business. Five overriding goals in three fields of action Company-specific goals in two fields of action Assortment and Customers Climate and Environment Supply Chain Employees Textile Strategy goal: Climate Protection Strategy goal: Social Programme goal: The Group companies set 100% sustainable cotton in 50% reduction in CO2 emissions 100% integration of suppliers their own goals own and licensed brands of own and licensed brands in the Social Programme Society The Group companies set their own goals Durable Goods Strategy goal: 100% FSC-certified furniture products Paper Strategy goal: 50% of paper used for catalogues and advertising materials to be FSC-certified 16 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 The Otto Group’s CR Strategy 2020 is an umbrella stratSCOPE OF APPLICATION OF THE CR STRATEGY 2020 egy encompassing the five specific sub-strategies from The reporting companies have committed themselves the Assortment and Customers, Climate and Environto all five core goals, where these are relevant to their ment, and Supply Chain fields of action. For each of their business model. For example, Hermes and EOS are not sub-strategies, the fields of action set out Group-wide involved in the Paper and Assortment Strategies owing goals to focus fundamental business processes on sustainto their business activities. Similarly, baumarkt direkt, ability. We do not manage goals and measures from the OTTO Office and UNITO are not pursuing the goal two further CR fields of action, Employees and Society, of achieving ‘100% sustainable cotton in own and licensed centrally; rather, our Group companies manage those brands’, as these companies carry hardly any of the artiindependently. cles concerned in their assortments. Prior to approving additional goals within the framework of one of the The Group’s Textile Strategy measures are intended to sub-strategies, we check which of the reporting compatighten the focus of our Group companies’ purchasing nies these are relevant to. For instance, an expansion of activities on environmentally friendly raw-material the Durable Goods Strategy might affect Frankonia, extraction and processing. The primary goal of our SportScheck and UNITO. Durable Goods Strategy is to switch our furniture assortment over completely to using FSC-certified LONG-TERM PLANNING timber from responsible forestry. The task of our Social With their long-term planning timeframe, the five Programme is to ensure that suppliers comply with social sub-strategies allow us to adopt a strategic approach standards. With the Group’s Climate Protection Strategy and conduct the necessary preparatory work within our we intend to cut the CO2 emissions of our locations, company organisation. When defining goals, we included facilities, shipments and employee travel. We have implethose Group companies involved in the CR Strategy. mented our Paper Strategy to increase the share of certified paper from responsible forestry used for catalogues ASSORTMENT AND CUSTOMERS: TEXTILE AND DURABLE GOODS STRATEGY and advertising materials. For the textile assortment of own and licensed brands, only sustainably cultivated cotton is to be used by 2020, The Group companies are responsible for implementing as required by the Otto Group’s Textile Strategy. To these sub-strategies and expanding them based on the achieve this we are promoting and using sustainably cultispecific requirements of their business model and their vated cotton in certified organic quality and also from stakeholders’ expectations. the Cotton made in Africa initiative (see CmiA, p. 35). Compared to the very resourceand CO2-intensive conFOCUSING ON PRIORITIES ventional cultivation process, CmiA saves around five The continual further development of the CR Strategy cubic metres of water and 60% CO2 for each kilogramme has resulted in a focus on topics which are critical to the of cotton produced. Otto Group’s future viability. With this concentration of measures we will achieve the greatest effectiveness. We will expand the Group’s Textile Strategy in this finanTo this end, besides very close stakeholder dialogue we cial year and the next in three directions. Firstly, it will are expanding our use of figure-based analysis tools, also apply to other fibres used, such as viscose, polyester such as our environmental footprint (see p. 14 et seq.). and wool. Secondly, besides raw-material cultivation and extraction, the processing stages that the fibres undergo to Consequently, our CR Strategy 2020 encompasses become a finished product will also be included. Thirdly, five sub-strategies on topic areas fundamental to our besides own and licensed brands, third-party brands are business activities: climate protection, environmental also to be included in the long term. Furthermore we will protection and conservation of resources for textile and set measurable target values in future for these additional durable-goods assortments as well as in catalogue proaspects of our Textile Strategy. duction, and social responsibility in the supply chain. The Group Executive Board has set an overriding goal to be achieved by 2020 for each sub-strategy. Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 17 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT THE OTTO GROUP 3 Through our Paper Strategy we intend to increase the TEXTILE STRATEGY share of FSC-certified paper used in catalogues and advertising materials to at least 50% by 2020. It covers Goal: 100% sustainable cotton in own and licensed brands by 2020. materials produced using the gravure printing process, which accounts for around 80% of the reporting compaKey figure: Sustainable-cotton share of the overall quantity of cotton used in own and licensed brands. nies’ total paper quantity. In total, the amount of paper consumed by the reporting companies to produce cataThe largest durable-goods assortments comprise furniture, logues and advertising materials is around 260,000 tonnes large household electrical appliances and multimedia annually. Although we now use less paper, this means articles. Under the Durable Goods Strategy approved in the Otto Group is still among the largest consumers of 2012, only FSC-certified timber is to be used in furniture paper in the German-speaking region. We are a pioneer by 2020. The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) is comin using FSC-certified printed materials (see p. 36, 47 et mitted to protecting forests through responsible felling seq.) and intend to further consolidate this position. and the associated conservation of biodiversity. PAPER STRATEGY The extent to which further assortments, such as multimedia articles and large household electrical appliances, Goal: 50% of paper used for catalogues and advertising materials are to be included in the Otto Group’s Durable Goods to be FSC-certified by 2020. Strategy will be agreed following the completion of a Key figure: Share of FSC paper in relation to total amount of paper pilot project that is currently running. used for catalogues and advertising materials produced using the gravure printing process. DURABLE GOODS STRATEGY Goal: 100% of furniture products offered to be FSC-certified by 2020. SUPPLY CHAIN: SOCIAL PROGRAMME In the Supply Chain field of action, through our Social Key figure: FSC-certified furniture share of overall furniture assortment. Programme we intend to improve the working conditions for those people who produce goods for the Otto Group CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENT: CLIMATE AND PAPER STRATEGY in risk markets. We review the progress made towards The Climate and Environment field of action focuses on achieving results based on key figures from our Social cutting CO2 emissions and sourcing sustainable paper. Database; by 2015 we aim to integrate all suppliers with The Otto Group’s Climate Protection Strategy aims at factories in risk countries. In addition to this, our Social halving location, shipment and mobility-related CO2 Programme has a range of qualification offers for suppliemissions by 2020 compared to the base year 2006. The ers which help them comply with social, environmental Group intends to achieve this as efficiently and costand quality requirements (see p. 54 et seq.). effectively as possible, primarily by increasing our energy efficiency. Operational implementation of the necessary measures will be performed locally in the individual SOCIAL PROGRAMME Group companies. Besides this, to additionally cut CO2 Goal: 100% integration of suppliers of own and licensed brands emissions in the upstream value chain we are increasingly in the Social Programme taking responsibility for emissions generated beyond our own locations and shipments. Amongst other comKey figure: Share of ownand licensed-brand suppliers integrated in the Social Programme. A supplier is deemed to be integrated when mitments in this area we are a founding member of the all its active factories that produce merchandise in risk countries CPI2 industry initiative (see p. 60). for the Otto Group can provide a valid and recognised certificate, audit or assessment. Alternatively, importers are also deemed to be integrated if they are BSCI members. CLIMATE STRATEGY Goal: 50% cut in location-, facility-, shipmentand mobility-related CO2 emissions by 2020 compared to the base year 2006. Key figure: Location-, facility-, shipmentand mobility-related CO2 emissions. 18 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT THE OTTO GROUP CR Management 3 Professional management is the basis for implementing the CR Strategy 2020. The Otto Group has adapted its CR organisation to meet the higher demands: all Members of the Otto Group Executive Board and CR Board set the strategic direction, with the Group companies’ Executive Directors responsible for operational implementation. At the Otto Group, every member of the Executive for planning and management, produces recommendaBoard is responsible for Corporate Responsibility (CR). tions – often in collaboration with the working groups – The central decision-making body for preparing strategic for the CR Board, and advises Group companies on CR decisions is the CR Board. It was established at the implementing our CR Strategy. start of 2012, is supervised by the Chairman of the Executive Board and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Otto The core tasks of the CR Division include steering stakeGroup, and meets three times a year. Together with the holder management and CR reporting, as well as linking Group Executive Board Member for Services, the Board and transferring knowledge between the Otto Group includes another permanent member. Topic-specific and the Group companies. For this purpose, in 2012 a working groups, headed by the Executive Directors and Best-Practice Club CR was held in which representatives Vice Presidents of the Group companies bonprix, Hermes from twelve Group companies took part. and OTTO, together with representatives from the CR Division, support the work of this decision-making body. CR CONTROLLING The working groups propose recommendations and preThe central tool for controlling our CR processes is our pare for the operational implementation of agreed meaCR data-management system. It stores all the key figures sures. In addition to the working groups, as part of our which allow us to review and compare internally the level CR Strategy 2020 project teams meet regularly to discuss of implementation of our CR objectives and the effectivecross-functional topics such as integrated reporting. ness of the measures taken. In terms of the Group companies involved in the sub-strategies, we collect key-figure KEY ROLE OF THE CR COORDINATORS data on employees, the climate and the environment The Otto Group has a decentralised structure. The Execuannually, assortment key figures every six months and tive Directors of the Group companies are responsible for Social Programme key figures on a quarterly basis. The achieving the CR goals and implementing CR activities development of the key figures is reported to the Otto in their company. In this regard, the CR Coordinators Group Executive Board every six months. play a key role in the Group companies: they coordinate their company’s respective CR activities, initiate new Since March 2013 our Group Guideline Sustainability measures and manage the administration of key figures. in Procurement has set out the social and environmental In doing so they are the interface to the Group CR Divirequirements on how all goods are sourced by the Group sion. While usually only one person performs this task at companies. our smaller Group companies, our larger Group companies each have dedicated CR areas. For example, OTTO At the start of 2011 we launched the Rollout Corporate and Hermes have both established their own CR manResponsibility to standardise our CR management. agement decision-making bodies, which decide on and Our initial aim was to integrate all Group companies organise the implementation of CR activities together by 2012 which together generate 90% of our Group’s with Vice Presidents and Division Managers. turnover; however, we did not achieve this goal. Instead, the sub-strategies will be rolled out to individual Group The Otto Group CR Division has a Group-wide consultcompanies based on specific topics. The reason for changing and management function within our CR organisaing our approach is our new focus on achieving a higher tion. It functions as an initiator and is responsible for degree of decentralisation. Consequently, the Group comdeveloping and planning Group-wide strategies and pilot panies now have greater autonomy, something which is projects. Furthermore, it provides the measurement tools reflected in a less standardised IT architecture. This led Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 19 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT THE OTTO GROUP 3 CR ORGANISATION OF THE OTTO GROUP Reporting Full Executive Board informs Recommendation CR Board (supervised by the Chairman of the Executive Board) Reporting Mandate Corporate Responsibility Climate Strategy Social Programme Textile Strategy Additional topic-specific Division working group working group working group working groups Group companies Reporting Advice Advice Executive Directors Operational level CR Coordinators to it becoming difficult to measure and control CR topics, Furthermore, we have Group Guidelines on anti-corrupmeaning that we were unable to achieve the proposed rolltion, donations, embargo measures, giving and receiving out using the proposed resources. gifts, as well as on data protection and security (see p. 40). Managers must inform their employees personally about GOOD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE what the Guidelines cover and about any changes. In The Otto Group is aware that in a global company with the event of questions or the suspicion of a violation, over 50,000 employees, complying with international employees can turn to an internal point of contact or laws and regulations may result in conflicts of interest an external ombudsman. In the case of violations, we and laws, which entail hidden risks. Within our Group, implement corresponding sanctions such as disciplinary as a key component of our existing Compliance Managemeasures or the termination of supplier relationships. ment System, our Compliance Committee ensures we comply with national and international laws as well as our own Guidelines. It comprises managers from the required Group Divisions such as Legal Services, Group Investigation, Data Protection, Group Audit and Corpor­ ate Responsibility. Besides this, our Code of Conduct (see p. 54), which applies Group-wide and which is a mandatory component of the Otto Group’s contractual relationship with suppliers, plays a key role. 20 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 LEGAL DISPUTES FORESIGHTED RISK MANAGEMENT Number Our Group-wide Risk Management System collects and analyses the risk associated with our business. This system commits all Group companies to perform a risk assessment each year. The Group Controlling Affiliates Divi19 15 sion is responsible for the analysis, which also serves as 4 8 a Group-wide early-warning system. 2 4 2 2 1 1 2 The short-term risks include currency risks and economic2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 growth fluctuations which impact on consumers’ willingness to spend. Longer-term risks include climate change, Legal disputes due to anti-competitive behaviour as the increase in extreme weather events may lead to Legal disputes related to consumer protection crop failures and a shortage of raw materials in sourcing Legal disputes due to diversity and equal-opportunity violations countries. In the reporting period, twelve cases of legal action were STRENGTHENING INNOVATION MANAGEMENT taken against Group companies due to anti-competitive Owing to intense competition, especially in home shopbehaviour; these mainly concerned trademark and decency ping, innovations are critical to the Otto Group’s business violations. The legal action taken relating to consumer success. To strengthen and expand the entire Group’s protection mainly concerned the unauthorised sending ability to innovate we have developed greater expertise of newsletters and e-mails. One unpermitted creditworth­ in our Corporate Strategy & Development Division to iness statement led to the payment of a fine. The three develop and implement innovations. The Group Division cases of legal action on diversity and equal-opportunity supports each Group company in setting their own focal grounds were all taken by the same person, who felt dispoints in strategically-relevant fields and advises them on criminated against owing to the online application process. embedding a systematic innovation-management process These cases were rejected by the courts. into their organisation. Furthermore, we established a central E-Commerce Competence Centre which deals VIOLATIONS exclusively with the latest developments in the online Number market and tests and implements these together with the 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 individual Group companies. against environmental 0 0 0 0 standards against health and 2 2 6 2 safety standards (product recalls) against product10 10 8 10 information standards against marketing 10 10 4 5 standards In terms of product recalls, this mainly concerned textiles in which an increased amount of azo dyes was identified. Product-information and marketing-standards violations, which totalled 27 in the reporting period, predominantly concerned confusing energy-efficiency labels and qualityseal claims. Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 21 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT THE OTTO GROUP 3 IN DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS The Otto Group is in constant contact with its stakeholders through direct discussions, surveys and at events. This enables us to identify their requirements and expectations of us early on, and to incorporate them in decisions. Our Stakeholder Management System is coordinated by a clearly defined procedure. In autumn 2011 we structured our Stakeholder ManageINVOLVING OUR STAKEHOLDERS ment System uniformly across the Group with a new We involve our stakeholders across four different levels. procedure. It sets out guidelines on identifying stakeFirstly, by providing information in our CR Report and holders, internal responsibilities, the division of duties on our corporate website. Secondly, our engagement and on involving stakeholders. Whether and how stakein face-to-face dialogue, such as at events or the workholder expectations are addressed depends on their shops we organise, goes far beyond being purely inforimportance and urgency. Our CR Division manages mative. The third level is through consultation, such as this process: it coordinates stakeholder dialogues and if by engaging in one-to-one exchange at a specialist level. required, performs risks assessments. The fourth and closest level of stakeholder involvement is developing goals and solutions together with our STAKEHOLDER EXPECTATION MANAGEMENT stakeholders, or at least involving them in the process. Our key stakeholder groups are: customers, suppliers, It relies on a great deal of trust on both sides, but can staff, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and also provide powerful stimuli. representatives from the spheres of politics, science and business. Their significance to us is measured based on Our forums serve to encourage exchange and involve what relationship exists to our business or products, or internal and external stakeholders as well as to extend what activities they can influence in our sales markets or interactions with them. In the reporting period, social at our Group locations. Stakeholder groups which are standards in the supply chain were the most intensely affected by our business activities are naturally also relediscussed topic. For example, we are involved in the vant. Stakeholder interactions relevant to the Group are living wages forums of the Round Table Codes of Conlogged in a dedicated database and assigned to a topic duct of the German Society for International Collaboraarea and a stakeholder group. tion – GIZ. Working conditions at the supplier factories also formed part of the local forums in risk countries The key parties for managing stakeholder dialogue are such as Bangladesh. the Executive Board, the CR Division, Corporate Communications and the Group companies. Approved interEstablished in 2008, we are one of the founding memnal information flows ensure that the Group companies bers of the Biodiversity in Good Company initiative (see respond uniformly to external enquiries, which are classiwww.business-and-biodiversity.de). As a result, we underfied into those with a high risk to our company’s reputation take to report regularly on our progress towards impleand those with a low risk. High-risk enquiries are sent menting a systematic biodiversity management system. directly to the CR Division for action; CR then works Furthermore, through the initiative we are actively involved together with Corporate Communications in the case of in various events, conferences and projects such as TEEB critical media enquiries. The table on page 23 shows how, Natural Resources Germany and the German Federal on which topics and through which channels we commuMinistry of the Environment, Nature Conservation and nicated with our stakeholders in the reporting period. Nuclear Safety’s project Corporate Biodiversity 2020. 22 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 OTTO GROUP STAKEHOLDER COMMUNICATION IN THE REPORTING PERIOD Target Group Information or Dialogue Format Topics Cross target-group communication • CR Report 2011 and corporate website • CR Strategy and media relations • Press releases • Social standards in the supply chain • Forums • Climate protection • Interviews NGOs • Memberships in associations and • Textile Strategy initiatives • Climate protection • Members’ meetings • Raw-material sourcing • Round-table events • Social standards in the supply chain • Working groups • Consumer protection • Bilateral meetings • Sustainability in commerce • Energy efficiency • Employee rights • Occupational health and safety • Diversity topics • Water scarcity • Down/live plucking • Timber • Organic cotton • Chemicals in the value chain Business • Topic-specific working groups • Consumer behaviour • Sharing of best-practice examples with • Social standards in the supply chain other companies • Climate protection Politics • Memberships of associations • Social standards in the supply chain and initiatives • Climate protection • Face-to-face discussions • Consumer behaviour Science management • Trend Study 2011 • Sustainability • University collaborations • Consumer behaviour • Involvement in collaborative projects • Climate protection • Social standards in the supply chain Customers • Customer information via online shops • Sustainable products and catalogues • Sustainability in the company • Personal contact via customer service • Data protection • Product information/certification • Raw-material sourcing • Online forums and social networks • Social standards in the supply chain Employees • Intranet • CR Strategy • Seminars • Employee engagement • Employee initiatives • New Social Programme • Best-Practice Clubs • Energy efficiency Suppliers supply chain • Supplier Codes of Conduct • Social standards in the supply chain • Audits/training courses • New Social Programme • Forums • Climate protection • Raw-material sourcing Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 23 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT THE OTTO GROUP 3 Raw-material sourcing, especially the new EU FLEGT IMPORTANCE OF FIELDS OF ACTON FOR THE COMPANY'S FUTURE SUCCESS timber regulation, was at the heart of numerous discusAssortment and Customers sions with NGOs, associations and companies. In developing our Textile Strategy we involved the European Employees not-for-profit organisation ‘Made-By’ very closely. Furthermore, dialogue with the animal welfare organisation Suppliers ‘Four Paws’ led to us further tighten the focus of our Climate and Environment internal Guideline on the use of downs. Society THE OTTO GROUP’S KEY MEMBERSHIPS AND COLLABORATIONS 5 4 3 2 1 Average order of importance > 2° – German CEOs for Climate Protection (initiated by Dr Michael Otto and a member STAKEHOLDER SURVEY PARTICIPANT STRUCTURE since 2007) in % > German Association of Environmental Employee (797) Management (B.A.U.M.) (since 1987) 4 2 11 Business partners (113) > Bundesverband der Personalmanager 5 Other (82) 5 [German Federal Association of Personnel NGOs (64) Managers] (since 2009) 5 Science (59) > Business in Good Company initiative 6 Customers (58) (founding member 2008) Suppliers (55) > Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) 9 62 Politics & government authorities (39) (since 2004) Media (14) > Carbon Performance Improvement Initiative (CPI2) Analysts (9) (founding member 2011) > German Association for Personnel Management (since the 1980s) > Forest Stewardship Council Germany (FSC) From July to September 2012, 3,400 internal and external (since 2006) stakeholders were surveyed online for their opinions on > Global Compact (member since 2002) the key fields of action and topics for our company. The > Founding partner of the Cotton made in Africa response rate was almost 40%. This allowed us to identify (CmiA) initiative (since 2005) core topics which we then incorporated into our Materi> German Trade Association (since 2009) ality Analysis (see p. 26). > German Nature and Biodiversity Conservation Union (NABU) (since 2007) CORE SURVEY RESULTS > Round Table Codes of Conduct forum (since 2001) Our analysis of the participant structure reveals that at > Social Accountability International (SAI) (since 1997) 62%, Otto Group employees accounted for a large share > Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC) (since 2010) of respondents, with the remaining 38% being external > terre des hommes (partner since 2008) to the company. > Textile Exchange (since 2006) > The Young ClassX (initiator 2010) The stakeholders surveyed were asked to rank our five fields > Business For Climate initiative (since 2012) of action in order of relevance (materiality). They rated the Assortment and Customers field as being the most relevant, followed closely by the Employees, Supply Chain STAKEHOLDER SURVEY 2012 and then Climate and Environment fields of action with With our Web-based survey in summer 2012 we further roughly the same weighting. The least relevant field of professionalised our approach to systematic exchange action was Society, which comprises the Group’s philanwith our stakeholders. It was the first time we had thropic CR activities not directly linked to our core busicomprehensively included all key stakeholder groups. ness activities. 24 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT THE OTTO GROUP MATERIALITY AS A COMPASS 3 Very diverse expectations are placed on us in terms of Corporate Responsibility. Unfortunately we cannot be active and provide information to the same level in all topic areas, which is why we conducted a Materiality Analysis in 2012 which differentiates between highly relevant and less relevant topics. Consequently, it serves as a compass for CR management and CR reporting. The requirements placed on sustainable business practices and Executive Directors then rated, on a scale from zero are growing ever more diverse. Maintaining visibility of to eight, the relevance of the same topics to the Group’s what matters most is especially important, given the well business success over a timescale of three to five years. over one hundred indicators of the Global Reporting The Materiality Analysis shows the results of both ratings Initiative (GRI) and additional frameworks such as the combined (see p. 26). UN Global Compact, the Carbon Disclosure Project and the German Sustainability Code on the one hand, and Overall the results of the Materiality Analysis confirm stakeholders’ increasing demands on the other. Achieving the Otto Group’s topic focus in the area of CR and the targeted improvements requires us to focus on central direction of the CR Strategy 2020. It was also used to set control levers which promise a high level of effectiveness the focus of CR reporting activities. As such, the Otto in relation to the effort involved. Group’s CR Report 2013 provides its stakeholders with extensive information on topics which were identified The Materiality Analysis, which takes into account various in the course of our Materiality Analysis to be more perspectives in relation to the challenges faced by comrelevant than others. panies, has established itself as the tool which enables the identification of relevant topics. 48 topics were idenAlongside quantitative, analytical models such as the tified based on the GRI Guidelines that are relevant to environmental footprint, stakeholder surveys and materithe Otto Group’s business model. Stakeholders first ality analyses remain key tools for identifying important rated these topics according to their importance to the topics and challenges, and for meeting these. Otto Group. Four Group Executive Board Members MATERIALITY ANALYSIS: CREATION AND INCLUSION IN REPORTING CR Board rates Identification topics in order Creation of Prioritisation Production and of topics Stakeholder of business Materiality of topics for publication of of potential survey relevance to the Analysis CR Report CR Report 2013 relevance CR Report Audited to AA1000 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT THE OTTO GROUP 3 THE OTTO GROUP’S MATERIALITY MATRIX The Materiality Matrix provides an overview of which Executive Board Members and Executive Directors then topics the Otto Group’s stakeholders considered especially prioritised their relevance for the company’s business important and which were rated as being highly relevant success over the next three to five years. to our business success. To achieve this, Otto Group Expansion of sustainable product ranges Product transparency highly relevant Work/life balance Resource efficiency CO2 reduction in transport/distribution Product safety Appropriate remuneration Energy Upholding efficiency human rights Raising awareness of Vocational and further training sustainable consumption Integration of Corporate Complaints management Measuring and Living wages and CR Strategy managing CR Environmental and climate CR in the Improved working Regenerative energy conditions in the protection in the value chain company culture Diversity Environmental protection in the product lifecycle supply chain Data Transparency Legal Binding compliance Waste reduction guidelines protection in the value chain Sustainability stimuli Stakeholders and recycling at Occupational safety in the sector Supplier qualification and health protection relevant company sites Water-saving at Lifelong learning Use of chemicals in the supply chain CR target-based remuneration company sites Engagement in environmental and nature protection Social projects in CO2 Anti-corruption Social projects at company sites the supply chain Dealing with temporary agency compensation employees and subcontractors Diversity of species Risk management Share of women in top management Ban on sourcing Sector-wide standards Contribution to local economy from risk countries Stimuli for societal discussion less relevant Managing customers Noise protection in financial difficulty less relevant relevant highly relevant Business Success 26 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 PRESENTATION OF TOPICS IN THE REPORT HIGHLY RELEVANT TOPICS FOR STAKEHOLDERS Our Materiality Analysis identified the topics relevant to the Otto Group’s stakeholders and business success, Topic Further information as well as providing the structure to this report, which is Work/life balance > Employees, p. 67 also published at www.ottogroup.com/cr-report. There Appropriate remuneration > Employees, p. 65 et seq. you will also find a Key Figures Tool which presents all Raising awareness of > A ssortment and Customers, the Group’s key performance indicators. Further inforsustainable consumption p. 34 et seq. mation is also provided in the form of our Web-based Complaints management > A ssortment and Customers, GRI Index: www.ottogroup.com/cr-report. While these p. 39 topics are among the key indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), they are less significant to the Otto Group. HIGHLY RELEVANT TOPICS FOR BUSINESS SUCCESS Topic Further information HIGHLY RELEVANT TOPICS FOR STAKEHOLDERS AND OUR BUSINESS SUCCESS Dealing with temporary agency > Employees, p. 66 employees and subcontractors Topic Further information Legal compliance worldwide > CR Management, p. 20 Product transparency  ssortment and Customers, > A Occupational safety and > Employees, p. 66, 70 and safety p. 37 et seq. health protection Energy and  limate and Environment, > C Environmental and climate > Supply Chain, p. 59 et seq. resource efficiency p. 46 et seq. protection in the value chain CO2 reduction in > C limate and Environment, Engagement in environmental > Society, p. 75 transport/distribution p. 45 and nature protection Living wages and appropriate > Supply Chain, p. 58 Transparency in the value chain > A ssortment and Customers, remuneration p. 37 CR and Corporate > Profile of the Otto Group, p. 6 Strategy Integration Vocational and further training > Employees, p. 68 et seq. Living wages and > Supply Chain, p. 57 et seq. appropriate remuneration CR in the corporate culture > Profile of the Otto Group, p. 6 Expansion of sustainable > A ssortment and Customers, p. product ranges 34 et seq. Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 27 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT THE OTTO GROUP 3 CR Programme 2013 The Otto Group’s CR Programme 2013 makes it transstakeholders and our business success. Individual Group parent which CR objectives have been achieved in the companies’ objectives from the previous CR Strategy can reporting period and which ones we have set ourselves be viewed online at: www.ottogroup.com/cr-report. again as part of our CR Strategy 2020 (see p. 16 et seq.). As with the chapter structure of this CR Report, we have As part of its CR Strategy ‘Best Multi-Discipline Player’, structured our CR Programme according to these five fields which remains valid until the end of the 2012/13 finanof action: Strategy and Management, Assortment and cial year, the Otto Group has set detailed and individual Customers, Environment and Climate, Supply Chain, objectives for the Group companies involved. However, we and Employees. As Group companies are responsible at a did not fully achieve all our objectives owing to the high local level for the activities in the Society field of action, degree of fragmentation and sheer amount of resources these activities are not part of this CR Programme. required. Our CR Programme represents a central pillar for the With the CR Programme 2013, we are focusing on selected further development of the Group’s CR activities. strategic objectives and will measure our level of achieveIt presents objectives which are highly relevant to our ment based on standardised key controlling figures. STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT Objective Objective timeframe Status Page/comment Updating of the objectives of the ten Group companies FY 2012/13 Objective CR Strategy transferred into involved as part of the CR Strategy and inclusion of at least achieved new CR Strategy 2020 two further Group companies in the CR Strategy p. 16 et seq. CR rollout in German and international Group companies 2012 Objective not Topic-specific rollout only of achieved substrategies at individual Group companies p. 19 et seq. Expansion of the CR organisation: nomination of a Executive 2012 Objective p. 19 et seq. Director responsible for CR and assignment of CR Coordinators achieved at all Group companies involved in the CR rollout Development and implementation of a Sustainability Guideline 2011 Objective Implemented in March 2013 for all Otto Group trading companies achieved late p. 59 Establishment of an integrated 2012 Objective not Delayed to end of 2013 owing to Compliance Management System achieved high degree of coordination effort p. 20 et seq. Full incorporation of myToys.de into the CR Strategy 2015 New objective and CR reporting 28 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 ASSORTMENT AND CUSTOMERS Objective Objective timeframe Status Page/comment Increase in the quantity of yarn processed for Cotton made 2011 Objective p. 35 et seq. in Africa (CmiA) to 750 t/year achieved Increase in the share of CmiA cotton articles (overall FY 2012/13 Objective not None of the Group companies assortment of textiles, own brands as well as third-party achieved involved (bonprix, Heine, OTTO, brands at some Group companies) (objective from previous Schwab) achieved the objective CR Strategy) p. 17 et seq., 34 et seq., www.ottogroup.com/cr-report Increase in the quantity of organic cotton to 450 t/year 2011 Objective p. 35 et seq., 59 achieved Increase in the share of organic-cotton articles in the FY 2012/13 Objective Objective achieved at OTTO; assortment (overall assortment of textiles, own brands as partially objective not achieved at bonprix, well as third-party brands at some Group companies) achieved SportScheck and Witt Increase in the share of further sustainable textiles FY 2012/13 Objective Sustainable shoe objective achieved (objective from previous CR Strategy) partially at Baur; synthetic-fibre objective achieved not achieved at SportScheck Launch of climate-neutral products and/or increase in the FY 2012/13 Objective Climate-neutral products share of climate-efficient products (objective from previous partially not introduced at OTTO, CR Strategy) achieved Frankonia and SportScheck; objective achieved at OTTO Increase in the share of FSC-certified wooden articles FY 2012/13 Objective Objective achieved at Baur, Heine, (solid wood/wooden articles assortment) achieved OTTO, OTTO Office p. 36 et seq. Increase in the share of efficient household electrical 2011 Objective not Efficiency criteria tightened appliances (refrigerators and freezers, washing machines, achieved from 2011. Share of 60.8% dish washers, electric ovens) to 85% achieved against new criteria p. 36 et seq. Tightening of data protection: development and implementation 2011 Objective Objective achieved late of new IT strategies (encryption of customer data) achieved late in October 2012 100% sustainable cotton in own and licensed brands FY 2020/21 New objective p. 17 et seq. 100% FSC-certified furniture products FY 2020/21 New objective p. 18 CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENT Objective Objective timeframe Status Page/comment Reduction of adjusted CO2 emissions by 50% versus FY 2020/21 Ongoing Latest status: -18.7% (FY 2012/13). the base year 2006/2007 To achieve this target, amongst other measures the Otto Group intends to halve the share of air-freight when purchasing goods by 2020 vs. financial year 2011/12 Integration of international companies of the Otto Group 2012 Objective Hermes UK; bonprix IT, FR, PL; with an annual turnover of > 50 mn€ in the Climate Protection partially UNITO integrated; Crate & Barrel, Strategy, incl. completed data-gathering for the base year achieved Otto Japan, Otto Group RUS to follow by end of 2014; future integration of companies with an annual turnover of >100 mn€ p. 19 et seq. Reduction of CO2 emissions at individual Group companies FY 2012/13 Objective Reduction target achieved at OTTO; (objective from previous CR Strategy) partially targets not achieved at bonprix, achieved SportScheck and Witt (each based on base year 2006/07) Detailed analysis of potential areas of locationand facility2012 Objective p. 46 related CO2 reduction within the framework of CO2 benchmarachieved king; derivation of possible measures/costs and definition of the order of investment by CO2-avoidance cost 50% cut in location-, facility-, shipmentand mobility-related FY 2020/21 New objective p. 18 CO2 emissions by 2020 vs. the base year 2006 50% of paper used for catalogues and advertising materials FY 2020/21 New objective p. 18 (gravure printing) is FSC-certified Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 29 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT THE OTTO GROUP 3 SUPPLY CHAIN Objective Objective timeframe Status Page/comment Implementation of the Social Programme in the newly defined FY 2010/11 Objective Implemented in risk markets of Egypt, Brazil, Bulgaria, Morocco and Romania achieved late FY 2011/12 p. 52 et seq. Expansion of the Social Programme to include at least two FY 2014/15 Ongoing Additional Group companies will further Group companies (previously 13) within the framework be included with the rollout of of the CR rollout and the three-year plan the new Social Programme p. 52 et seq. Implementation of the strategy for the systematic integration Rescheduled Objective not Importers will first be integrated of importers in the Social Programme to 2011 achieved with the new Social Programme p. 52 et seq. Development and implementation of a policy governing 2010 Objective Objective achieved late in October relationships with suppliers’ subcontractors achieved late 2012; as part of the Progress Assessment (stage 1 of the new Social Programme) suppliers must disclose their relationships to subcontractors. Audit objectives for Purchasing and Import organisations: 2011 Objective not 61.5% of order volume and 45.2% of • New markets: audit result ‘pass’ for 75% of order volume achieved suppliers audited in 2012; tightening and 50% of number of suppliers of criteria as a result of a change in • Existing markets: audit result ‘pass’ for 98% of order the calculation methodology in 2010 volume and 85% of number of suppliers (three instead of previously just one factory included per supplier) 100% integration of suppliers of own and licensed brands 2015 New objective p. 18 in the Social Programme EMPLOYEES Objective Objective timeframe Status Page/comment Production of a Group-level Strategy for Group-wide FY 2012/13 Objective p. 69 career promotion and employee development achieved Production of a Group-wide Diversity Strategy as well as 2012 Objective p. 67 the development and establishment of internal Diversity achieved controlling (annual progress report) Percentage of at least 20% women as well as at least 20% men FY 2015/16 Ongoing Latest status: in management positions and on all further hierarchical levels 16.9% of women in management positions p. 67 30 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 FIELDS OF ACTION 4.1 ASSORTMENT And CUSTOMERS 6% of the entire cotton assortment comprises sustainably produced cotton 16% of the furniture assortment is FSC-certified 57% of the turnover in the Multichannel Retail segment is generated online by the Otto Group Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 31 ASSORTMENT AND CUSTOMERS 4.1 CHALLENGES AND GOALS The Otto Group aims to raise awareness among its customers and inspire as many of them as possible for sustainable products. To enable them to make conscious purchasing decisions, we communicate the added value of these products clearly. ENCOURAGING SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION INFORMING AND RAISING AWARENESS TRANSPARENTLY As trading companies, we form an interface between proThe way customers search and buy from online shops ducers and customers – with the ability to exert influence indicates that only some of them are specifically looking in both directions. We see promoting sustainable confor responsibly made products. Their willingness to pay sumption as being both a commitment and an opportunity more for textiles made from sustainably produced cotton at the same time. In the case of the former, it is derived or energy-efficient electrical appliances is also limited. from our Vision (see p. 6) and the goals we set ourselves Sustainability labels can provide guidance when making within the framework of our CR Strategy (see p. 16 et purchasing decisions. However, the current range of seals seq.). If we successfully awaken consumers’ interest in and labels in the marketplace often overloads consumers sustainably produced products, new markets and sales with information. As such, it is our job to inform customers opportunities will open up to us. about the sustainability aspects of products in a transparent, clear and credible way. By doing this, we will also raise CUSTOMER PRICE SENSITIVITY awareness of sustainable consumption among customers Although the population’s awareness of sustainability has whose purchasing decisions are not based primarily on increased in recent years, our customers are still price-sensustainability criteria. sitive and usually opt for conventionally made products. Sustainably produced goods are often more expensive as SETTING CLEAR GOALS they are, for instance, subject to tighter regulations governThe assortment of the Otto Group companies comprises ing the cultivation of raw materials (such as through over a million different articles. Given this abundance, the certification), show smaller sales and purchasing volumes Group focuses its sustainability activities primarily on the or require seamless traceability of the production chain. raw materials of cotton and timber. Our companies conCustomers can achieve a further direct material benefit sume these in very large quantities in the goods they purin the case of energy-efficient electrical appliances: while chase, which gives the Group a huge amount of leverage. these usually cost more to buy, they ultimately save energy and therefore money when in use. However, this is not With its Textile Strategy the Otto Group aims to only use the case for environmentally friendly textiles produced sustainable cotton in textile products by 2020. To achieve under socially-acceptable conditions. This poses countless this, our Group is focusing mainly on Cotton made in challenges to us: on the one hand we must ensure that all Africa and organic cotton. Further qualities classified as products, even conventionally produced ones, meet minisustainable, such as recycled cotton, may count towards mum environmental and social standards; on the other our goal in future. This applies to the own and licensed hand we need to increase the number of certified sustainbrands of all Group companies with an annual turnover able products in our assortment in such a way that this of at least 100 mn€ and a relevant textile assortment. All results in no or negligible additional cost to the customer. textiles with a cotton share of at least 5% are included here. To achieve this, sustainable-product production processes need to be as cost-effective as possible. In its durable-goods assortment the Otto Group is working to source only furniture and home accessories made from FSC-certified timber by 2020. 32 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 MATERIAL TOPICS IN THE ASSORTMENT AND CUSTOMERS FIELD OF ACTION Expansion of sustainable product ranges Product transparency highly relevant Product safety Raising awareness of sustainable consumption Complaints management Data protection Stakeholders relevant Use of chemicals in the supply chain less relevant Managing customers in financial difficulty less relevant relevant highly relevant Business Success MATERIAL TOPICS IN THE ASSORTMENT AND CUSTOMERS FIELD OF ACTION The expansion of the Otto Group’s range of sustainable In the Assortment and Customers field of action, a clear products is of great importance both to our stakeholders picture emerged from our Materiality Analysis: the topics and our business success. We are pursuing this goal of product transparency, product safety and expansion of through our Textile and Durable Goods Strategies. the Group’s sustainable product ranges have maximum priority. Product safety has the highest relevance for the Otto Group’s business success. We ensure this through extenThe Otto Group’s stakeholders judge product transparsive quality checks and tests for harmful substances, in ency to be the most relevant topic – a topic that Group collaboration with our own testing institute Hansecontrol. companies are addressing by communicating the sustainIf product safety or quality defects are identified, product ability aspects of products, etc. We are also developing a recalls are initiated in line with procedural standards. sustainable product footprint. Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 33 ASSORTMENT AND CUSTOMERS 4.1 ASSORTMENT The Otto Group has effective levers to promote sustainable consumption in two key product groups: in the textile area, by using cotton which is cultivated organically or by the Cotton made in Africa (CmiA) initiative – and in the durable goods assortment, by focusing on wooden furniture from responsible forestry. Application scope of key figures level of achievement as part of the Textile Strategy The key figures in this chapter cover all eleven is measured based on these two values. From 2012/13 reporting companies in the Multichannel Retail this new key figure replaces the previous controlling segment. Exceptions are indicated at the relevant figure ‘Amount of Organic and CmiA Cotton Propoints. They include all of the Group’s sales channels cessed for Own and Third-Party Brands’. (Internet, catalogue and over-the-counter retail). While the previous key figure was not based on the In 2011/12 the minimum sales quantity for the precise cotton share in textiles, the weight of cotton gathering of quantity-based assortment key-figure can be recorded along with the amount of cotton data is one article sold. In the Otto Group’s last ordered, allowing the sustainability impacts to be CR Report, this was 20 pieces. This has resulted described in greater detail. Besides the amount of in a change in the base data which cannot be quanorganic and CmiA cotton processed, the Otto Group tified precisely. This may have the biggest impact previously also reported the number of different on furniture key figures, as furniture is often sold organic and CmiA articles offered in its companies’ in smaller quantities than textiles, for example. assortments by own and third-party brands. This key figure is captured for the last time for 2012, as the In 2011 the Otto Group also tightened the energyshare of sustainable cotton in terms of the overall efficient criteria for large electrical household amount of cotton purchased is much more meanappliances. As such, the values from 2011 cannot ingful than the number of different articles offered. be compared to those of previous years. The Otto Group has little influence over the fibre Special aspects selection of third-party brands, as these third parNew developments were the introduction of the ties hold the brand rights. We will therefore stop controlling figure ‘Quantity of Sustainable Cotton reporting this key figure and instead will concenOrdered for Own and Licensed Brands’ as well as trate on own and licensed brands where we hold its share of the total amount of cotton ordered. The the brand rights. SUSTAINABLE PRODUCT RANGE Ambitious goals The Otto Group’s assortment is subject to minimum The share of sustainable products in the Otto Group’s social and environmental standards. These are bundled assortment is still comparatively low when measured under our Group Guideline Sustainability in Procureagainst our target values. However, with the strategies ment (see p. 59), which has been in force since March approved in the reporting period covering the Group’s 2013. This sets out the requirements on the production most important assortment groups, textiles and durable conditions in terms of the goods as well as the raw mategoods, we have set ourselves ambitious goals to increase rials processed. Under this Guideline, the use of real this share. By 2020, the cotton ordered for own and fur and feathers or down obtained from live plucking licensed brands is to come entirely from sustainable cultiis banned across our entire assortment (see p. 59). vation – and furniture and home accessories are to be made entirely from FSC-certified timber by the same year. 34 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 These goals apply to all reporting companies with relevant Sustainably produced cotton assortments, thereby ensuring the Group’s approach is In the Otto Group’s textile assortment, cotton is clearly coordinated and strategic. In the past, individual subthe dominant fibre compared to polyester, viscose and goals were agreed with the Group companies as part of wool. Eight reporting companies currently offer almost the CR Strategy ‘Best Multi-Discipline Player’. These 6,000 different articles made from organic or CmiA goals were tailored to the individual companies’ respective cotton, with the vast majority being own and licensed assortment spectrum. The extent to which these goals brands. have been achieved can be viewed online in a detailed CR Programme at: www.ottogroup.com/cr-report. To achieve our Group-wide goal of only using sustainably produced cotton by 2020 for own and licensed brands, Cotton made in Africa we are focusing on cotton from the CmiA initiative as well as on organic cotton. In 2012 Group companies The goal of the Cotton made in Africa (CmiA) ordered 1,916 tonnes of sustainable cotton, equivalent to initiative is to enable African smallholder farmers 5.7% of the total quantity ordered. From 2009 to 2011 to improve their living conditions through their own the Group gradually increased the amount of sustainable efforts and to promote environmental protection. cotton sold thanks to the focused pursuit of clear goals. Through qualification measures, smallholder farmers In doing so, we partially achieved the sustainable cotton in Sub-Saharan Africa learn how to cultivate cotton objectives defined in our previous CR Strategy (see CR more efficiently and in an environmentally friendly Programme, p. 28 et seq.). way. Through measures such as using natural fertilisers, average CO2 savings of 60% can be achieved In contrast to what we announced in our last CR Report, per kilogramme of cotton. a new organic-cotton label for the single Group company OTTO was not developed. In the reporting period, the As with conventional cultivation, pesticides can also relevance of having our own organic-cotton label declined be used on cotton produced under CmiA guidelines, significantly, as OTTO is purchasing increasing amounts as this is not organic cotton. However, the initiative of organic cotton bearing the external label Global Organic does ban the use of certain pesticides and trains Textile Standard (GOTS). farmers to use pesticides responsibly. QUANTITY OF SUSTAINABLE COTTON* CmiA plays a key role for the Otto Group in achievin t ing its goal of ‘100% sustainable cotton by 2020’. This is because with CmiA, the use of a sustainable 708 raw material for the mass market is demonstrable. Through cost-efficient purchasing on the global market, the textile chain is only lightly burdened with additional costs. Among other factors, this is thanks to the underlying ‘mass-balance’ approach which 437 1.208 364 works in a similar way to the eco-electricity model: there is no need to report the individual products in 188 260 283 102 which the ordered CmiA cotton was used – what 2009 2010 2011 2012 matters is that the corresponding quantity of cotton is ordered and demand is created as a result. FurtherOrganic cotton CmiA cotton more, the requirements on farmers are less stringent *2009 – 2011: amount of organic/CmiA cotton sold; from 2012, order value than with organic cotton. based on cotton weight. Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 35 ASSORTMENT AND CUSTOMERS 4.1 SUSTAINABLE COTTON TEXTILES* Number 2009 2010 2011 2012 Own ThirdOwn ThirdOwn ThirdOwn Thirdbrands party brands party brands party brands party brands brands brands brands Overall textile-article assortment 74,050 26,913 78,087 34,817 78,519 53,917 92,885 71,639 Share, articles made from CmiA cotton 497 20 766 47 1,298 122 2,115 30 Share, articles made from organic cotton 1,296 20 1,649 46 1,974 461 2,074 ** 686 * Articles ordered by the Group companies themselves. ** bonprix only includes six months’ CmiA data For the Spring/Summer 2012 half-year, as no data is available covering the whole of 2012 owing to an internal change in the way data is gathered. FSC-certified wooden products FSC-CERTIFIED FURNITURE AND HOME ACCESSORIES* Besides cotton, timber is the second most frequently used raw material consumed by the reporting companies. It is 2009 2010 2011 2012 required mainly for catalogue and advertising-material Number of articles of 4,047 5,046 16,815 50,571 paper (see Paper Strategy in the Climate and Environfurniture and home accessories ment field of action, p. 47 et seq.) as well as for producing products from the furniture assortment. of which, number of 154 338 1,605 8,227 FSC-certified articles in the assortment The number of wooden articles recorded increased Share of FSC-certified 3.8 % 6.7 % 9.5 % 16.3 % significantly during the reporting period – from a good articles in terms of the overall furniture 5,000 in 2010 to over 50,000 in 2012. This is due in and home-accessories particular to the reduced minimum unit-sales number assortment and expansion of the assortment at Baur and OTTO. *Furniture and Home Accessories (solid wood, part solid and MDF (mediumIn addition, the number of reporting companies with density fibreboard) articles) as well as various additional wooden products relevant timber assortments has increased from six to from the overall baumarkt direct assortment. The reporting company takes eight compared to our last CR Report. Here the inclusion the following product groups into account, provided that the main constituent of the materials used is wood: garden furniture, bathroom furniture, of baumarkt direkt from 2011 has played a significant kitchen furniture, beach chairs, garden/storage, wooden pavilions, patio role. This increase emphasises the importance of timber roofs, garden decoration, fences, terrace decking, pet shelters, garden as a raw material for the Otto Group’s sustainability summer houses, carports, stairs, toys, floors. management approach. Energy-efficient electrical appliances The Group has committed to continually increasing the With ‘white goods’ – electrical appliances for cooking and share of wooden furniture and home accessories that are washing, for example – energy-efficient appliances have certified according to the criteria of the Forest Stewardfirmly established themselves in the assortments of the ship Council (FSC, see p. 18) – with the goal of achieving reporting companies, with a share of a good 60% (in 2012). 100% by 2020 in accordance with the Durable Goods At the single company OTTO, the Group’s biggest purStrategy approved at the start of 2013. In 2012 the share chaser of large household electrical appliances, the share of FSC-certified timber was 16.3%, which is much higher was almost 70%. However, altogether these values are lower than in previous years. FSC certification also helps us than in previous years, due to the far stricter criteria that meet the requirements on the Otto Group arising from the Otto Group has applied since 2011 in classifying electhe EU FLEGT timber regulation, which has been in trical goods as ‘energy-efficient’. The percentage achieved force since March 2013. this way reflects corresponding customer demand for efficient appliances and is only an illustration of current market developments. 36 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 The price categories below show there is still a demand PRODUCT TRANSPARENCY for appliances with lower energy efficiency. As part of its The Otto Group supports its customers when they select Durable Goods Strategy the Otto Group is also planning their products with clear information, presenting sustainto review the electrical appliances assortment for any ability aspects at the same time. Beyond this, we make a further sustainable improvement potential. special effort to analyse the production process and lifecycle of textiles and shoes in terms of their environmental You can find a list of the Otto Group electrical appliances and social aspects and to make this clear to consumers. assortment, subdivided into product groups, online at www.ottogroup.com/cr-report. It also includes details of Sustainability as a sales argument the respective energy efficiency criteria. The Otto Group makes its customers aware of sustainable products in that it presents them collectively, communiEFFICIENT LARGE ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES* cates their qualities clearly and intelligibly and provides customers with guidance. 2,316 Eco Facts as guidance 1,832 Eco Facts provide customers with quick and easy guid1,632 1,538 ance on sustainable product qualities. With this product labelling, the Otto Group reduces complex information about individual products to their core sustainability fea82.2 % 77.5 % 60.8 % tures. The Eco Facts are divided into six categories (see diagram). They are deployed on the websites and cata31.7 % logues of OTTO, Schwab, UNITO and Baur, and also 2009 2010 2011 2012 at baumarkt direct since 2013. Number of the total range of large electrical appliances A product footprint for textiles Share of efficient electrical appliances in the total assortment As part of its membership in the Sustainable Apparel *As from 2011 the Otto Group made its criteria for environmentally-friendly elecCoalition (SAC, see p. 60) the Otto Group is advocating trical appliances more stringent; consequently the values for 2009 and 2010 greater transparency in its value chain and in the assessare not comparable with those of this reporting period. As a result of the adjustment of product sustainability qualities. The purpose of ments made in the energy-efficiency categories, the key figure for 2011 only covers the first six months of that year. this initiative is to develop a sustainable product footprint Eco Facts Eco Bio Eco Recycling Eco Engagement Eco Energy Eco Ressource Eco Vital Products from Products from Products that Particularly Products that are Products that natural raw materecycled materials support social energy-efficient produced in a way promote or rials with a clear or sustainableraw or non-profit appliances and that conserves protect health environmental materials initiatives products resources advantage The Otto Group assigns an Eco Fact category to a product, either if it has been distinguished with a discriminating label that has been accepted by the Otto Group or it shows a clearly verifiable advantage over a conventional alternative product. Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 37 ASSORTMENT AND CUSTOMERS 4.1 that will serve as a benchmark for assessing the sustainThese environmental material requirements include testability of textiles and shoes. The Higg Index developed ing for formaldehyde, heavy metals and any carcinogenic at the end of 2012 will form the basis for this. As well as and allergenic dyes. The permitted limit values are deterincluding environmental and social aspects in the producmined on the basis of the latest science and technology. tion and processing of the raw materials used, it also takes Particularly strict testing parameters apply to children’s into account the use and disposal of the product by the clothing. customer. The testing of textiles for harmful substances is mainly In this process, the SAC goes far beyond analysing the required by the legislature and is part of the quality individual environmental impacts of textiles along their assurance process in the Otto Group. Consequently it product lifecycle – by providing a carbon footprint, for is no longer considered to be a targeted sustainability example. In a pilot project, OTTO has tested the Higg commitment and from now on it will accordingly no Index on ten textile products. This has shown that the longer be shown in any key figures in this report. detailed information requested about the production processes can only be provided with considerable effort. Standards for product recalls The insights gained from the pilot project are being fed Although the Otto Group ensures high standards and into the further development process of the Higg Index. strict safety checks for its products, shortfalls in quality and safety cannot completely be ruled out. In cases where PRODUCT QUALITY AND SAFETY a product has to be recalled, a uniform procedural process In their function as trading entities, the companies applies throughout the Group: where a Group company within the Otto Group are responsible for the quality carries production responsibility itself, for example through of the products they offer and consequently check them direct procurement of clothing, it carries out the product regularly. In the process, they are guided by the high recall itself in consultation with the public authorities standards of the Otto Group. involved. If the responsibility is with a third-party brand supplier, then that supplier is obliged to carry out the Systematic tests for harmful substances product recall. The Otto Group supports them here and The Otto Group monitors compliance with statutory gives them access to the customer data necessary for the requirements for the proof of safety of its textile clothing product recall process. In this reporting period the Otto assortments with systematic spot check inspections. To Group initiated eight product recalls in total. do this we use the expertise of the Group’s own testing institute, Hansecontrol. The reporting companies impose additional demands on the tests for harmful substances of their textile assortments, that go beyond statutory requirements and are orientated towards the Oeko-Tex Standard 100. 38 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 ASSORTMENT AND CUSTOMERS CUSTOMERS 4.1 First-class service is the key to a high level of customer satisfaction. The Otto Group companies continue to train and qualify their employees to provide this and seek dialogue with their customers. Strict standards apply when handling sensitive data. CUSTOMER ORIENTATION Regular customer surveys Satisfied customers form the basis for the Otto Group’s Otto Group companies regularly take stock of their cusbusiness success. The responsibility for all the measures that tomers’ satisfaction and wishes. To do this, many of the ensure customer satisfaction, as well as for customer surreporting companies carry out telephone or Web-based veys, lies with the Group companies. They work continusurveys every year, so that they can raise the quality of ously on further improving their service. In this reporting their own service and, consequently, customer satisfaction. period they were honoured for this several times (see box). High service quality Short waiting times on the telephone hotline or when Customer satisfaction: handling complaints make a considerable contribution to customer satisfaction. The companies in the Otto Group Selected awards for the reporting companies set their own standards in this process. Baur > Stiftung Warentest (German product-testing In the Otto Group, companies whose customers have got institute): result ‘good’ for customer service into financial difficulty are managed by EOS, the provider > Deutsches Institut für Service-Qualität of individual financial services specialising in receivables (German Institute for Service Quality, DISQ): management. This company looks for a solution that is award for ‘Best website from a German appropriate to the situation in dialogue with, and on an Mail-Order Company’ equal footing with, the defaulting payer. EOS checks all receivables packages before accepting them and only takes Bonprix on receivables that are undisputed. > Handelsblatt und Management Forum: German Online Retail Award Well-trained staff are the basis for good service and satisSchwab fied customers. In order for them to develop a better sense > ServiceValue GmbH: sheego is ‘very good at for customers’ needs, new employees at OTTO spend their customer advice and sustainability’ first two weeks at the Customer Centre. They answer enquiries there and engage in personal discussions with SportScheck customers. > Deutsches Institut für Service-Qualität (DISQ): Test winner in ‘Service Study on Sports Retailers’ UNITO > St Gallen University, IMAS Market Research Institute and ServiceRating: Universal is ‘Austria’s most customer-orientated service provider for 2012’ > Austrian Trade Association: ‘Most Family-Friendly Mail Order Company’ award. WITT > TÜV Rheinland: result ‘very good’ for customer service Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 39 ASSORTMENT AND CUSTOMERS 4.1 DATA PROTECTION AND IT SECURITY Monitoring IT security and data protection The Otto Group manages the personal data of millions The internal Group Audit department checks whether the of customers as well as that of employees and job appliindividual companies are complying with the regulations cants. Protecting this data from misuse is of fundamental in the Guidelines and implementing the measures preimportance in gaining the trust of our customers and scribed by the central data protection officers. External employees. To achieve this, the Otto Group has adopted checks supplement the internal audit processes. Eight of guidelines that apply across our Group and guarantees the 13 reporting companies are certified externally, with compliance with them through both external and internal TÜV seals, for example, or by Trusted Shops. Data prosecurity checks. tection in the financial area is particularly sensitive, so the information security management system in EOS GerInstruments for IT security and data protection many’s B2B Division is additionally certified in compliCompliance with the Group IT Security Guideline reguance with the international ISO 27001 norm. lates the protection of both private individuals’ data and sensitive company data against unauthorised access or A central location for data-protection information to customers theft, and defines the security demands on the IT sysStatutory regulations allow for customers to have free tems. Since June 2013, this Guideline has been compleaccess to information about their personal data that is mented with an additional Data Protection Guideline stored by companies. OTTO founded its own central that makes additional demands on the companies. Both location for managing this in 2011, which is concerned Guidelines fulfil the strict requirements of the German exclusively with the processing of corresponding customer data-protection laws. enquiries. The goal is to be able to give quick and reliable information in compliance with the law. Around 900 As well as the Group Guidelines, in its IT Core Security such enquiries from customers reach OTTO every year. Suite the Otto Group has an additional instrument to ensure IT security. It sets out security standards for all IT projects and is firmly embedded in project procedure. In 2012 the Otto Group extended it to embrace areas such as outsourcing and cloud computing. Coordination of data protection The Otto Group has combined the responsibility for data protection and IT security in the Data Protection and IT Security business unit, which functions under the responsibility of a Central Data Protection Officer. The Officer has been a permanent member of the Group Compliance Committee since 2010. He coordinates the Data Protection Officers at the individual Group companies and instructs them in dealing with particular data-protection issues. Additionally, a Group-wide network of IT Security Officers has been developed to promote the internal transfer of knowhow regarding any IT security issues. 40 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 FIELDS OF ACTION 4.2 CLIMATE And ENVIRONMENT 19% less CO2 emissions compared with 2006/07 16% less paper used for catalogues and advertising material compared with 2010 79% of the entire office paper in the Otto Group is from FSC or recycled paper Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 41 CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENT FIELD OF ACTION 4.2 CHALLENGES AND GOALS The Otto Group wants to avoid any negative impacts on the climate and environment being generated from its transport and from its own locations. Every year the Group procures around 100,000 tonnes of goods and delivers more than 120 million consignments through the Group company Hermes. 400 locations need to be supplied with power and heat. A DIVERSE GROUP STRUCTURE LOCATION AND MOBILITY CO2 EMISSIONS The numerous, diverse business models of the many difEnergy consumption at the Otto Group companies’ locaferent Group companies make implementing the Group tions and facilities causes more than a third of the Group’s Climate Protection Strategy and coordinating the envioverall CO2 emissions. These stem from power and heatronmental management system a big challenge. In view ing requirements in offices, warehouses, logistics buildings of the diversity of the Group’s structure, the Otto Group and over-the-counter stores. This means that the main sets Group-wide targets for reductions in CO2 emissions focus of attention is on continuous improvement in and the proportion of FSC paper used for catalogues and energy efficiency. advertising material – leaving the setting of objectives for other environmental areas up to the Group companies. Mobility includes both business trips and trips with company cars. However, it is only responsible for a small CLIMATE AWARENESS IN GOODS TRANSPORT proportion of the Group’s CO2 emissions. An important The Otto Group has more than a million articles in its starting point here is choosing CO2-efficient vehicles. assortment, which it purchases from all over the world. Around a third of the CO2 emissions recorded as part of GOALS TO MEET THE CHALLENGES the Otto Group Climate Protection Strategy is generated With its Climate Protection Strategy the Otto Group in transporting goods from suppliers to the retail compahas set itself the target of reducing its CO2 emissions nies’ warehouses. Ships are the preferred mode of transfrom transport, locations and mobility by 50% versus port here, but if customer-demand for certain articles is the 2006/07 base level by 2020. This is primarily to be greater than expected, the goods then usually have to be achieved through an increase in energy efficiency. It has air-freighted to keep delivery times to the end-consumer top priority in the Group’s climate protection measures, as short as possible. To avoid this, the anticipated sales even above the development of renewable energies. quantities need to be accurately forecast. Consequently, Through efficiency increases, not only does the Group precise control of stock levels is not only important reduce its CO2 emissions but also saves on energy costs in economic terms but has a considerable influence on and increases its own competitiveness. achieving the Otto Group’s climate targets. In order to significantly reduce CO2 emissions in proOn the other hand, around a quarter of the CO2 emiscurement transport, the Group has decided to halve the sions are caused by delivering goods to customers. Both amount of air-freight in goods procurement by 2020 the procurement and the distribution transport for the compared with that in the 2011/12 financial year. Otto Group retail companies is mainly carried out by the Group’s own company, Hermes. 42 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 MATERIAL TOPICS IN THE CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENT FIELD OF ACTION highly relevant Resource efficiency CO2 reduction in transport/distribution Energy efficiency Regenerative energy Environmental protection in the product lifecycle Waste reduction Stakeholders and recycling at relevant company sites Water-saving at company sites CO2 compensation Diversity of species less relevant Noise protection less relevant relevant highly relevant Business Success The consumption of resources associated with the Otto the principal objective of the measures that the Otto Group’s business activities causes considerable stresses Group companies are implementing in the course of on the environment. In this respect, the issue of resource the Group’s Climate Protection Strategy. The Group has efficiency is of great importance both for stakeholders the objective of helping to reduce its emissions through and for the business success of the Group. The Group greater energy efficiency. In this process, CO2 reduction has taken up resource efficiency as part of our environin transport and distribution is an important reference mental management system. Of equally high relevance figure. The Group is including this topic in its transportfor stakeholders and management is the issue of energy related climate-protection measures. efficiency; for this reason, using energy economically is Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 43 CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENT FIELD OF ACTION 4.2 CLIMATE PROTECTION The Otto Group’s Climate Strategy aims to reduce CO2 emissions by 50% by 2020. To achieve this, the reporting companies and three further Group companies are implementing climate protection measures in the areas of transport, locations and mobility. Application scope of key figures in the Climate Protection chapter of energy-efficiency improvements in absolute terms. The key figures in the climate protection topic area By way of illustration, however, the total CO2 emisare based mainly on financial years. Unless otherwise sions are also given here. indicated, the key figures for the 2011/12 and 2012/13 financial years include all 13 reporting companies as From the 2011/12 financial year onwards, the well as Alba Moda, 3 Pagen and myToys.de, which Otto Group has been using a new and more precise are Group companies also actively involved in the methodology for calculating the transport-related implementation of the Climate Strategy. In contrast key figures for procurement and distribution. Sigto the CR Report 2011, Alba Moda, 3 Pagen, baunificantly more primary data flows into this than markt direkt, EOS and myToys.de have now been with the previous methodology. In order to continue taken into account.* This means that the values for to be able to measure progress towards the target the 2006/07 base year have changed and now differ of 50% less CO2 by 2020 in relation to the 2006/07 from the entries in the CR Report 2011. The reportbase year, not only the previous year’s values for ing of CO2 emissions is based on the Greenhouse 2011/12 are included but also the values for the base Gas Protocol; CO2 emissions are monitored excluyear 2006/07 are included retrospectively in the new sively here. Any other greenhouse gas emissions are methodology. This sometimes leads to large differnot significant for the Otto Group business model. ences from the values generated by the previous methodology. It also means that comparisons with Special aspects the retrospectively adjusted years 2007/08 to 2010/11 CO2 emissions are always presented in an adjusted cannot be made. form – that is, relative to their performance units *The 18 companies included in the CR Report 2011 correspond precisely (see CR Report 2011, p. 86). With increasing busiwith the 16 Group companies accounted for in the CR Report 2013. The ness activity which, for example, triggers higher levresults for the Hermes Fulfilment and Sieh An! companies were includels of transportation, this generates a distorted view ed with those of the Group companies Hermes and Witt respectively. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CLIMATE STRATEGY Their share of the total turnover of the Otto Group is The Otto Group Climate Strategy measures should be currently more than 80%. Companies with annual turncarried out as efficiently and cost-effectively as possible: over of 50 to 100 mn€, who were originally also included energy efficiency has priority over the development of the in the Group Climate Strategy objectives, are not considGroup’s own renewable energy generation, the purchasing ered within the Group-wide rollout framework. The reaof green energy or the offsetting of CO2 emissions. As son for this is to enable greater concentration on the core a rule, each of the Group companies implements these companies in the Group. climate protection measures at a local level. The Group supports them in their operative implementation with In the first stage, four international subsidiaries – bonprix measurement and control instruments. in France, Italy and Poland, and Hermes in the UK – were included in 2012. In the next stage the further Group Group-wide rollout companies Crate & Barrel, Otto Group Japan and Otto The objective of the Group-wide rollout is to extend the Group Russia are to be integrated in the implementation Climate Strategy to all Group companies with annual of the Group Climate Strategy by the end of 2014. turnover of more than 100 mn€ by the end of 2014. 44 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Current results status TRANSPORT PERFORMANCE IN PROCUREMENT * AND DISTRIBUTION LOGISTICS ** The total adjusted CO2 emissions for the 16 Group comin mn tkm in mn deliveries panies taken into account here were 236,437 tonnes at the end of the 2012/13 financial year. This is a reduction 1,052 1,040 928 in CO2 emissions of barely 19% versus the 2006/07 base 122 131 125 year – and the goal is 50% by 2020. A reduction in emissions over the base year (– 29%) was achieved in procurement transport. Reducing the share of air-freight here made a contribution to this reduction. The CO2 emissions 14.6% 8.7% 10.2% at company locations were successfully reduced by around 2006/07 2011/12 2012/13 2006/07 2011/12 2012/13 13% versus the base year. (base year) (base year) *** Procurement logistics (ship, plane, truck or train) TOTAL CO2 EMISSIONS Share of air-freight in t Distribution logistics (car, truck) 290,968 290,968 * In procurement logistics, transport carried out or commissioned by 254,297 256,616 231,144 236,437 the Otto Group is considered exclusively. Transport by importers is not included in the calculations. ** Deliveries made through Hermes and other service providers are recorded here, including large items. *** Due to a calculation error, the key figure for distribution logistics was adjusted and consequently does not correspond with the values published in the CR Report 2011. 2006/07 2011/12 2012/13 (base year) The Otto Group handles its procurement and distribution absolute adjusted logistics mainly through its subsidiary, Hermes. The total transport-related CO2 emissions of the 16 Group compaIn the 2012/13 financial year, however, the adjusted nies involved amount to 139,623 tonnes for the 2012/13 CO2 emissions increased again slightly. The fundamental financial year. This corresponds to a reduction of around reason for this was the greater number of air-freight 22% versus the base year. Compared with the previous consignments which led to higher emission values in year the CO2 emissions increased by 7%. The rise over procurement transport compared with the previous year. the base year in procurement tonne-kilometres can be attributed to the increased significance of distant Asian sourcing markets. As well as the kilometres travelled, the PROCUREMENT AND DISTRIBUTION LOGISTICS quantity of goods procured also increased. In the 2012/13 financial year, the Group companies handled around 10% CO2 EMISSIONS FROM PROCUREMENT AND DISTRIBUTION LOGISTICS of their total transport service via air-freight. This generin t ates a great deal more CO2 emissions than sea-freight. In this reporting period, new measurement processes have 66,572 66,572 been established for both procurement and distribution 73,548 65,834 59,353 logistics. These enable a prompt, source-specific and 63,659 significantly more precise calculation of the respective 112,326 112,326 69,173 67,405 81,195 80,270 CO2 emissions. For the Group companies involved in the Climate Protection Strategy this provides some detailed 2006/07 2011/12 2012/13 control options. (base year) Distribution logistics (absolute) Distribution logistics (adjusted) Procurement logistics (absolute) Procurement logistics (adjusted) Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 45 CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENT FIELD OF ACTION 4.2 CO2 REDUCTION AT LOCATIONS AND FACILITIES in the number of buildings, by almost 19%. The Otto Group was able to significantly increase the amount of CO2 EMISSIONS AT LOCATIONS self-generated heat from renewable energy in the reportin t ing period. 2006/07* 2011/12 2012/13 (base year) CO2 benchmarking for buildings Total (absolute) 101,728 102,846 99,111 The CO2 property benchmarking process has served as Total (adjusted) 101,728 90,758 88,193 a central control instrument for CO2 reduction at Otto from electrical energy 72,685 68,107 66,875 Group company locations since 2010. Consequently it from heat energy 29,043 22,651 21,319 forms the basis for the strategic development of measures for assessment, planning and implementation. Priority * The emission factors can be accessed from the extended GRI Index under monitoring of the Group properties with the greatest www.ottogroup.com/cr-report efficiency potential (the ‘CO2 hotspots’) ensures both the ENERGY CONSUMPTION AT LOCATIONS AND FACILITIES greatest possible benefit to the climate and to economic in MWh efficiency. In autumn 2013 a detailed analysis of the 2006/07* 2011/12 2012/13 20 buildings with the highest CO2 savings potential will (base year) be concluded. Total energy demand** 275,250 309,147 301,684 of which, electrical power 140,795 165,609 157,864 CO2 REDUCTION IN MOBILITY of which, heating energy 134,455 143,538 143,820 CO2 emissions attributable to the operation of the comdemand pany car fleet and to employees’ business trips have a share of which, district heating 23,904 25,409 24,756 of around 4% of the total Otto Group emissions. These of which, heat generated 8,481 4,457 4,450 emissions figures are derived from the mobility volumes from heating oil that have increased over the base year from 66.8 to 81.2 of which, heat generated 102,070 107,106 105,567 million passenger kilometres. The main reason for this from natural gas 23% increase was the extension of data-gathering for of which, heat drawn or 0 6,565 9,047 business trips. However, these increased mobility volumes generated from renewable energies do not have an impact on the adjusted CO2 emissions, The Group’s own electricity 204 1,470 1,310 which have decreased by 17% from the base year in generation 2012/13. This is mainly due to lower emission factors resulting from more energy-efficient modes of transport * As the database has been extended to include five further Group companies and some individual errors have been corrected retrospectively, the values and from Hermes offsetting 471 tonnes of CO2 from for the base year differ from the information provided in the 2011 CR report. business trips by air in the 2012/13 financial year. ** The number of buildings on which this is based has been subject to certain variations over the years: 285 buildings in 2006/07, 340 buildings in 2011/12 and 350 buildings in 2012/13. This increase is mainly due to the opening of CO2 EMISSIONS FROM MOBILITY (COMPANY CARS, BUSINESS TRIPS, CAR FLEET) new shops and additional logistics facilities. in t The total adjusted CO2 emissions for the year 2012/13 10,342 10,342 9,322 10,476 amount to 88,193 tonnes. This corresponds with a reduc8,730 8,621 tion of around 13% over the base year and is mainly attributable to energy-efficiency measures. More than a third (37%) of CO2 emissions from the Otto Group arises from supplying the company locations and facilities with heat and energy. In this reporting period the total energy requirement rose by almost 10% compared with the base 2006/07 2011/12 2012/13 year. The reason for this was an increase in business vol(base year) ume, as reflected in an rise in absolute consumption in absolute adjusted logistics and warehouse buildings, as well as in an increase 46 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENT FIELD OF ACTION OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 4.2 The greatest scope for action in avoiding any negative impact on the environment is at the Otto Group’s own locations. That is why operational environmental protection is of great significance. Environmental management based on key figures controls the relevant processes. Application scope of key figures in the Environmental Paper consumption Protection chapter The largest share of paper consumption is the over 260,000 Unless otherwise indicated, the key figures for envitonnes used for catalogues and advertising material every ronmental protection are based on calendar years. The year. In spite of constantly growing e-commerce turnover, data takes all locations used for at least six months a great many customers still use catalogues as a source of with a usage area of more than 5,000 m², as well as inspiration. The shift towards e-commerce has nevertheall the headquarters of the reporting companies, into less had an impact on the amount of paper used: although account. A total of 44 locations are thus covered. In two new companies – baumarkt direkt and EOS – have the reporting period, the headquarters of EOS and been taken into account in calculating this key figure, the baumarkt direkt have been newly included. paper requirement for catalogues and advertising material declined by more than 15% between 2010 and 2012. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT USE OF PAPER IN THE OTTO GROUP The objective of the Otto Group’s environmental managein % ment programme is to analyse the impacts on the environ4 1 20 ment at the company locations, to define these with key figures and consequently to make them manageable. In the reporting companies, environmental management is closely linked to occupational safety management. Some of the Group companies have their environmental management systems externally assessed and certified every 95 80 year. Currently ten of the locations covered in this report have ISO 14001-certified environmental management Catalogues and advertising Share, gravure print, approx. systems. These are Altenkunstadt, Burgkunstadt, Weismaterial Share, offset and other printing main (Baur), Bergheim, Graz and Salzburg (UNITO), Packaging processes, approx. Hamburg-Essener Straße, Friedewald, Hückelhoven and Office paper Langenhagen (Hermes). Hermes is the only company in the logistics industry to have been certified through PAPER CONSUMPTION FOR CATALOGUES AND ADVERTISING MATERIALS the Trust Improvement Program (TIP) since 2003. The in t demands of the Trust Improvement Program go beyond 308,282 those of the ISO 14001 norm and can only be applied to 284,652 289,050 260,120 highly developed management systems. RESOURCE EFFICIENCY One of the most important objectives of the Otto Group is the responsible and efficient management of the resources deployed, such as wood products for the production of 26,449 21,812 19,077 18,781 (9.3%) (7.1%) (6.6%) (7.2%) printed materials or cardboard packaging. To achieve this, 2009* 2010* 2011 2012 the Group follows the ‘avoid, minimise, recycle’ principle. Employees are being made increasingly aware of the need Total quantity Share of FSC paper to economise with resources. Where avoidance is not possi* Due to an error in data-gathering these values have retrospectively been ble, the materials used should be fed into a recycling process. adjusted downwards by 9% (2009) and 5% (2010) respectively. Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 47 CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENT FIELD OF ACTION 4.2 As part of its Paper Strategy, the Otto Group has set EOS has also been included and this constitutes around itself the objective of increasing the amount of FSC® 16% of the total quantity. The declining shares of recy(FSC-C011850) paper produced for the gravure printing cled paper are also attributable to EOS, as to date excluof catalogues and advertising material to at least 50% by sively conventional paper has been used there. EOS has 2020. Of the 216,007 tonnes of gravure print paper used decided to completely change over to FSC office paper in 2012, 6.6% of it was FSC-certified. by 2014/15. In implementing its Paper Strategy the Group is first PURCHASING OF OFFICE PAPER concentrating on gravure print paper, as it constitutes in t 831 80% of the catalogue paper and is purchased centrally through OTTO. This means that a rapid and efficient 669 implementation of the Strategy is possible. In 2015 an 606 511 assessment and decision will be made about whether offset print paper can be included in the Strategy. As this 498 459 purchasing is carried out decentrally by the individual (74.5 %) 367 (55.3 %) 377 Group company Purchasing departments and in signifi(71.9 %) (62.1 %) cantly smaller quantities than with gravure print paper, 128 78 118 105 a changeover to FSC-certified offset print paper will (19.1 %) (15.3 %) (14.3 %) (17.3 %) involve significantly higher costs. Since the beginning 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 of the Group’s cooperation with the FSC, the label has Total quantity of DIN A4 and A3 paper already been displayed on around 900 million printed Recycled paper share FSC paper share items. With this amount, the Otto Group is one of the leading companies worldwide in its use of FSC paper. Waste and recycling Packaging Waste is avoided as far as possible. Wherever this prinThanks to environmentally responsible optimisation meaciple cannot be implemented, a recycling process duly sures, the quantity of packaging materials – such as cardtakes place. The Otto Group wants to continue to mainboard, filling material and plastic films – used in goods tain its high recycling rate of over 95%. The quantities deliveries was reduced in the reporting period by around of waste arising from the reporting companies remain 10%. At 84%, the majority of packaging material used is largely constant. made from cardboard that almost completely consists of recycled material. QUANTITIES OF WASTE BY CATEGORY in t SALES PACKAGING CONSUMPTION* 2009 2010 2011 2012 in t Total waste in t 30,246 33,503 36,976 33,312 2009 2010 2011 2012 Quantity of 254 95 146 77 10,912 11,454 10,913 10,276 hazardous waste Proportion of 0.8 0.3 0.4 0.2 *Only the sales packaging for the companies for which the Otto Group is rehazardous waste in % sponsible has been taken into account here. Any additional sales packaging, Quantity of non29,992 33,408 36,831 33,235 for which the suppliers of the articles are responsible, is not covered here. hazardous waste in t Quantity of non99.2 99.7 99.6 99.8 Purchasing of office paper hazardous waste in % Consumption of office paper has remained constant over Quantity for disposal in t 1,532 985 1,135 921 the long term. As the Otto Group purchases large quanQuantity for disposal in % 5.1 2.9 3.1 2.8 tities of this for long periods, however, it does result in Recycled quantity in t 28,714 32,518 35,842 32,391 variations in the annual statistics. Besides this, from the year 2011/12 onwards the office-paper consumption of Recycled quantity in % 94.9 97.1 96.9 97.2 48 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 FIELDS OF ACTION 4.3 SUPPLY CHAIN 51% ofis produced our order volume from risk countries in China 86% ofprovide our order volume is supplied by suppliers that can a valid audit result for their factories 96% ofat allleastaudited factories have achieved a pass result Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 49 SUPPLY CHAIN FIELD OF ACTION 4.3 CHALLENGES AND GOALS The Otto Group purchases over a million different articles from over 70 sourcing countries and works with several thousand different suppliers. The Group wants to offer its customers goods which have been produced in compliance with social and environmental standards. INTENSE COMPETITION Our overriding goal is to establish acceptable working As a retail group the Otto Group is active in an environconditions for suppliers’ workers. Through the measures ment dominated by intense competition and a high level taken, potential reputation risks are minimised which of customer price sensitivity. As such, our purchasing might result from negative reporting on incidents in the departments are under extreme cost pressure: the lower sourcing markets. Examples include news about accidents the purchasing price is for goods of a specific quality, the at factories that produce goods for the German market. better able the Group companies are to offer these at an attractive price. This makes a decisive contribution to our GOALS TO MEET THE CHALLENGES companies’ competitiveness. The Otto Group is committed to improving working and production conditions, and combining these with clear The conditions under which merchandise can be progoals. On the one hand, we intend to increase transparcured are influenced by the upward trend in raw-materials ency about where and how we commission goods to be prices, compliance with social and environmental stanproduced for us. On the other hand, we aim to improve dards in production and the purchasing volume per order. social standards at the factories. To achieve this, we The last factor often brings relatively little influence to revised our Social Programme (see p. 53 et seq.) in 2012 bear, owing to the huge range of articles offered by our and set ourselves the aim of integrating all suppliers of trading companies. Because the production quantities own and licensed brands with factories in risk countries ordered are often small, we are also limited in our ability into this Programme by 2015. Suppliers of brand prodto influence suppliers. ucts are not included. The Group sees its extended Social Programme as part of an ongoing development process SUPPLY CHAIN COMPLEXITY to make the supply chain more sustainable. With CPI2 Group companies order own and third-party brands (see. p. 60) and our environmental footprint (see. p. 14 from suppliers located in over 70 sourcing markets. As et seq.), we are also increasing our focus on the environpart of increasing globalisation and order variety, the mental impacts of the supply-chain processes. number of factories a supplier uses has also risen. These also award parts of their orders to other factories, which in turn have their own additional suppliers. RESPONSIBILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN Many of the factories of suppliers of own and licensed brands are located in countries where only weak legal and control systems exist to ensure compliance with social and working standards. Despite own checks and contractual agreements to maintain these standards, violations of human and workers’ rights cannot be excluded. In this complicated environment, we take responsibility and are committed to improving social and, increasingly, environmental standards in the production processes. 50 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 MATERIAL TOPICS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN FIELD OF ACTION highly relevant Upholding human rights Living wages Improved working Environmental and climate conditions in the protection in the value chain supply chain Transparency in the value chain Stakeholders Supplier qualification relevant Ban on sourcing Sector-wide standards from risk countries less relevant less relevant relevant highly relevant Business Success MATERIAL TOPICS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN FIELD OF ACTION consumed to produce goods based on financial and market Of particular relevance both to stakeholders and our data, in order to determine the environmental footprint business success is upholding human rights. At the of specific products (see p. 14 et seq.). We gained initial Otto Group, this forms part of every supplier relationship. experiences back in 2009 when determining the Product Living wages are also just as relevant – a topic we are Carbon Footprint of textile products. We use this within addressing as part of stakeholder alliances. the Sustainable Apparel Coalition (see p. 37 et seq., 60) to determine the full sustainable footprint of products. Environmental and climate protection in the value chain As part of the CPI2 climate-protection initiative (see p. 60), is a further topic which is ranked as highly relevant by our we have co-developed a management system which works stakeholders and Executive Board. To reduce the impacts towards managing and reducing CO2 emissions in the production has on the environment and climate, the Otto value chain. Group has started to estimate the amount of resources Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 51 SUPPLY CHAIN FIELD OF ACTION 4.3 SOURCING MARKETS The success of the Otto Group’s trading companies relies to a great extent on their purchasing strategy and their supplier selection. In this regard, our Codes of Conduct set out global, uniform social standards. Application scope of key figures Special aspects The key figures in this chapter refer to calendar years Although a new Social Programme came into effect and any deviations are indicated. They cover the on 1 March 2013 at the Otto Group, the figures in reporting companies from the Multichannel Retail this report are provided in standardised form using segment: Baur, bonprix, Frankonia, Heine, OTTO, the data-gathering methods of our previous Social OTTO Office, Schwab, SportScheck, UNITO and Programme. This ensures the figures are comparable Witt. In addition, the Group companies Alba Moda to previous years. Nevertheless, the way Social Proand Freemans are included in our Social Programme. gramme processes are presented corresponds to the The new reporting company, baumarkt direkt, will new model. first be integrated into our Social Programme from 2013/14, as the corresponding structures still need The key figures for the calendar years 2010 to 2012 to be established in the joint venture. are presented in the following. In 2010 we implemented a revised way of calculating key figures. Our previous Social Programme includes suppliers These cannot be compared to the previous years’ that have been working with the trading companies figures, however, as the scope of application in relacovered by this report for over a year, and which are tion to the factories, product groups and risk counsupported by purchasing organisations (so importers tries included was either expanded or modified. are not included here). OVERVIEW OF GOODS PURCHASING IN THE OTTO GROUP Code of Conduct Otto Group Code of Conduct Services Merchandise Procurement and Non-Merchandise Goods Non-merchandising Merchandise goods Own and are sourced primarily from Licensed brands third-party brands non-risk countries; Hermes has its own Code of Conduct for contractual partners from non-risk offering parcel-delivery from risk countries Brand producers have their countries services (see p. 66) own social programmes Focus of activities: e.g. Otto Group Social Programme 52 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 GLOBAL PURCHASING ORDER VALUE BY RISK MARKET* In its purchasing, the Otto Group differentiates between in t merchandising and non-merchandising goods. Non-mer2010 2011 2012 chandising goods include such items as transport services, Egypt 0.8 1.4 1.3 office equipment for our own requirements, catalogue Bangladesh 4.6 6.8 8.6 paper and services such as power and cleaning. The Group Brazil 0.2 0.1 0.1 purchases these almost exclusively from non-risk countries and they are therefore not included in the Social Bulgaria 1.5 1.9 1.9 Programme either. Since September 2012 the purchasing China (incl. Hong Kong) 55.5 53.4 50.8 of non-merchandising goods has been governed by its India 10.5 11.5 9.8 own Code of Conduct (see p. 66). Indonesia/Thailand 3.8 3.9 4.9 Morocco 0.8 2.0 1.4 Each year the Otto Group purchases around 4.7 billion Mauritius 0.3 0.1 0.4 euros worth of merchandising goods – and third-party Pakistan 2.0 1.7 1.9 brands account for around half of the merchandising Romania 0.7 0.6 0.5 goods that Group companies purchase. In this case, the Turkey 15.1 12.7 13.5 brand manufacturers are responsible for upholding social United Arab Emirates 2.7 1.9 2.8 and environmental standards in production. We review Vietnam 1.5 1.9 2.2 their own codes of conduct to ensure they comply with our requirements. Own and licensed brands account for *Risk markets are defined by the purchasing organisations’ locations from the other half of the merchandising goods that Group which the suppliers are managed. companies purchase; these are mainly produced in risk countries on behalf of the Otto Group. This is why we also take particular responsibility to ensure social and PURCHASING STRUCTURES environmental standards are upheld in production. The Otto Group purchases goods manufactured under own and licensed brands globally in different ways: through PURCHASING IN RISK MARKETS purchasing organisations such as Hermes-OTTO InterIn terms of our own and licensed brands, we place a large national (H-OI), importers or directly from the producer. proportion of our order volume with suppliers in countries H-OI is a fully owned subsidiary of the Otto Group. where human rights violations and socially unacceptable working conditions cannot be excluded, owing to inadeIn some cases, purchased merchandising goods are offered quate control systems. We classify these countries as risk to other Group companies in the form of cross-selling countries. We base our classification on the guidelines assortments. For example, UNITO buys a large proportion of the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) – of its goods as cross-selling assortments from Group coma global association of over 1,000 trading companies, panies including Baur and OTTO. The company with the producers and importers. direct business relationship with the supplier is always responsible for purchasing and can therefore influence We introduced our Social Programme in 1999 to enforce the sourcing of goods. The Group Guideline Sustainability social standards in risk countries. At the end of this reportin Procurement (see p. 59) sets out binding regulations ing period, the Group companies involved in our Social for this. Programme were working with 637 suppliers from 15 risk countries. Over half of our order volume from risk countries comes from China, making this country our largest sourcing market by a considerable degree, even if the share of order value has dropped compared to previous years. Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 53 SUPPLY CHAIN FIELD OF ACTION 4.3 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN Our Social Programme is intended to ensure suppliers comply with our Code of Conduct for Merchandising Goods. The Programme includes supplier auditing as well as their qualification and development. The goal: to establish a long-term, strategic partnership with suppliers. CODE OF CONDUCT FOR SUPPLIERS into our new Social Programme, taking previous audits The Otto Group’s Code of Conduct sets out social stanand measures into consideration. As before, pre-producdards which apply to all Group employees, business parttion stages such as yarn spinning and textile dyeing are ners and suppliers. The Group replaced it in September still not included in the Social Programme. As the Otto 2012 with two target group-specific documents: the Code Group does not have a contractual relationship with of Conduct for Merchandising Goods and the Code of pre-suppliers, the influence our trading companies have Conduct for Services and Non-Merchandising Goods. is very limited in this regard. By entering into a business relationship with the Otto Group, suppliers and business partners commit not only Since November 2012 we have been piloting our new to upholding these in their companies, but also to ensure Social Programme at three Group companies. With the their subcontractors abide by them. Our Codes of Conduct support of the purchasing divisions at bonprix, OTTO form the basis for reviewing whether all trading and busiand SportScheck, each of their ten largest importers were ness partners are complying with the standards. If a supincluded. In 2013 a further eight Group companies will plier does not commit to uphold the Codes of Conduct, join the Programme, with four further Group companies we do not enter into a business relationship with them. joining the year after. By the end of 2015 all Group companies with a turnover of more than 100 mn€ are to be Purchasing according to international standards included. The Code of Conduct for Merchandising Goods is based on the core working standards of the International Social Database as a management tool Labour Organization (ILO), the UN Convention on We gather the data generated through supplier audits – the Rights of the Child and the UN Convention on the audit results and company information – in a database. Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against It is our tool for controlling social management and Women. Further components include BSCI guidelines ensures our social-management processes are transparent. and OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Anyone involved in the purchasing process can access it, Both of the Group’s Codes of Conduct can be viewed such as our purchasing organisations and Group compaon the Internet at www.ottogroup.com. nies. The Group Executive Board and the Executive Directors of the Group companies are given a progress update OUR NEW SOCIAL PROGRAMME three times a year on the level of achievement of goals. The Otto Group’s new Social Programme aims to further improve the working and health situation of workers at THE THREE STAGES OF OUR NEW SOCIAL PROGRAMME all of our suppliers’ factories. The extension of the ProThe fundamental goal of our new Social Programme is gramme goes hand-in-hand with the successive expansion to integrate all suppliers in risk countries. Furthermore, of its scope of application: by 2015, all supplier of own suppliers are to be further developed through targeted and licensed brands are to be included in the Group’s qualification measures. We will achieve these goals through Social Programme. A supplier will be accepted when all a three-step model which upholds these aspects of our its active factories which produce merchandise in risk existing Social Programme: auditing and qualifying supcountries for the Otto Group can provide a valid and pliers. To achieve this, all factories first undergo a Basic recognised certificate, audit or assessment. Alternatively, Programme. In the second stage, suppliers selected by importers will also be accepted if they are BSCI members. the Group companies are given targeted support through We have incorporated our previous Social Programme qualification measures and developed into partners with 54 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 exemplary working conditions. The Excellence Programme STAGE 1 PROCEDURE – BASIC LEVEL is the third stage, in which suppliers that are especially relevant from a strategic point of view are further develAll factories oped on all topics above and beyond social aspects. Entry Assessment Stage 1: Basic Programme The Otto Group pursues this aim with the first stage of Producers of textiles and Durable-goods importers our new Social Programme: to make it transparent which durable goods (direct suppliers, suppliers and factories uphold social standards and to purchasing organisations) identify violations of our Code of Conduct to minimise Textile importers risks. This is performed in two steps: 1st step – Entry Assessment: The Entry Assessment is at the Progress Assessment Self Assessment start of the chain for all measures. At this point, the Group’s new Social Programme adopts the methodology 2nd step – Progress Assessment or Self Assessment: as in our of our previous Programme, but also requires that all previous Social Programme, after twelve months suppliers factories undergo the Entry Assessment. In the case of are obliged to fully assess their factories to ensure they are importers, active BSCI membership is also accepted. If a upholding our Code of Conduct. At this point, our new ‘pass’ is achieved in the Assessment, Group companies Social Programme differentiates between two types of can work together with the factory. Major violations of follow-up assessment: the Self Assessment for importers our Code of Conduct will lead to a ‘fail’, which rules out of durable goods such as furniture or electrical equipment, any collaboration. and the Progress Assessment for all other suppliers. The new development in terms of Entry, Progress or Self Assessment is that valid audits or certificates are recognised as proof that the factories have undergone an assessment of their social performance. No reassessment is required upon presentation of certain certificates such as SA8000, EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition) or WRAP (Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production). OVERVIEW OF THE NEW SOCIAL PROGRAMME’S CORE PROCESSES Stage 3: Excellence Programme Goals: · Overall improvement · Strategic partnership Stage 2: Development Programme Goals: · Promotion of exemplary working conditions · Closer collaboration Stage 1: Basic Programme Goals: · Improved working conditions · Auditing of all suppliers Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 55 SUPPLY CHAIN FIELD OF ACTION 4.3 The Progress Assessment is carried out by H-OI or the Assessment scheme for suppliers and factories independent auditing firm SGS and repeated annually. The supplier-performance assessment is derived from It determines whether the business relationship is to their factories’ auditing status, with BSCI audits and be continued with the supplier. The Self Assessment of certifications also included directly in the supplier durable-goods importers is performed using an online assessment. questionnaire which is also conducted annually. The details they give are checked at random by an external SUPPLIER PERFORMANCE auditor as part of site visits. ‘pass’ If available, three of the supplier’s factories Stage 2: Development Programme must have achieved at least a BSCI audit result of ‘improvement needed’ at the From the 2013/14 financial year we will incorporate facend of the year tories in the Development Programme of our new Social ‘incomplete’ If the conditions for a ‘pass’ in terms of Programme. This second stage is intended to develop supplier performance are not met, but at least a valid BSCI audit result or certificate strategically important suppliers, with whom the Otto is available at the end of the year Group works with very closely, as far as possible so that ‘not audited’ If no factory has a valid BSCI audit result they achieve a BSCI audit result of ‘good’ or gain SA8000 or certificate at the end of the year certification. To achieve this, we offer workshops which ‘not acceptable’ If sanctions* are brought against a factory are attended by representatives from up to ten different or directly against the supplier at the end of the year factories. Each year, we plan four to six workshops on different topics of our Code of Conduct for each factory. *Sanctions are applied if serious violations of the Code of Conduct Our programme is supplemented by e-learning courses, (e.g. in terms of working hours or wages) are discovered. webinars and site visits. SUPPLIER PERFORMANCE BASED ON ORDER VALUE* Stage 3: Excellence Programme Supplier performance in % From 2014 the third stage of our new Social Programme 2010 2011 2012 calls for selected factories to be included in our Excellence ‘pass’ 44.1 49.6 61.5 Programme. Besides social topics, the focus is on fully ‘incomplete’ 43.0 2.3 24.3 qualifying the factories on environmental and business ‘not audited’ 12.9 22.5 14.1 topics such as climate protection, chemical use, quality and productivity. ‘not acceptable’ – 0.6 0.1 *The Supplier Performance figure is determined by the BSCI audit valid at the SUPPLIER PERFORMANCE end of the year and by the factories’ certificates. Here, up to three factories per supplier are taken into account. We still use the methodology of our former Social Programme to measure our suppliers’ performance Overall, supplier performance in the reporting period (see CR Report 2011, p. 98 et seq.). While the new developed positively: over 60% of order volume is manuProgramme was approved in the reporting period, it factured by suppliers who have achieved a ‘pass’ audit will first be implemented in the 2013/14 financial year. result. The fact that 86% of order volume is placed with suppliers operating audited factories (result: ‘pass’ or ‘incomplete’) shows that these suppliers are preferred Our previous Social Programme comprises an initial when placing orders. Supplier performance displayed by ‘pre-scan’ of new suppliers, without which an initial order the number of suppliers can be viewed on the Internet at: cannot be placed. If Purchasing intends to enter into a www.ottogroup.com/cr-report permanent relationship with the supplier, a BSCI audit is conducted which must be repeated on a regular basis. Tailored, free-of-charge qualification courses for the factories complete our Programme. 56 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 DISTRIBUTION OF AUDIT RESULTS BY FACTORY in % 9.6 6.8 4.0 11.5 17.3 14.8 8.6 12.3 Certificate (SA8000/ICTI/Goodweave) 12.0 BSCI good BSCI improvement needed BSCI critical 2010 2011 2012 61.1 66.0 75.9 FACTORY PERFORMANCE DISTRIBUTION OF VIOLATIONS OF STANDARDS The assessment of supplier performance is detailed to the factory level in the above representation. It is based 2010 2011 2012 on the 527 (2011) and 453 (2012) BSCI audit results Management system 31 72 31 and certificates in risk countries. Documentation 69 143 76 Maximum working hours 62 101 58 Violations of standards Wages 49 116 74 The following list of violations is based on factories with Child labour/young workers 15 26 4 ‘critical’ or ‘improvement needed’ BSCI audit results. As Forced labour 2 2 0 in previous years, in the reporting period the majority of Freedom of association and 13 24 10 violations were in the areas of documentation, occuparight to collective bargaining tional health and safety, maximum working hours and Discrimination 2 0 1 wages. Violations in the area of child labour/young workWorking conditions 18 32 16 ers were not attributable to children working at the facto(cleanliness, ventilation, etc.) ries, but to young workers exceeding maximum working Health and social arrangements 32 75 38 hours and a lack of health checks, for example. In one Occupational health and safety 75 164 91 instance, however, a young worker produced a work perAccommodation 10 16 8 mit with a falsified date of birth. Violations in the area Environmental requirements 30 47 32 of forced labour concerned the unpermitted withholding of identity papers and portions of wages. Total number of violations 408 818 439 Total number of audits 265 370 203 In 2012 fewer audits were conducted compared to the previous year, owing to the migration to the Otto Group’s Qualification measures in risk markets new Social Programme; this also resulted in a correspondIn the 2011/2012 financial year the number of qualificaing drop in the number of violations identified in the tions carried out (see CR Report 2011, p. 99 et seq.) reporting period. However, in the reporting period the at factories in risk countries rose slightly from 63 in the average number of violations identified per audit versus previous year to 72. Over half of the qualifications were the previous year has remained generally the same at 2.2 carried out in the Chinese markets. and 2.1 respectively. In the 2012/2013 financial year, due to the transition to the new Social Programme no external qualifications were carried out in risk markets. However, 54 qualifications were carried out at factories by employees of the purchasing organisations. Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 57 SUPPLY CHAIN FIELD OF ACTION 4.3 ALLIANCES AND COLLABORATIONS Activities for Bangladesh The Otto Group’s aim is to raise social standards, espeOwing to the growing importance of Bangladesh as a cially at our suppliers in risk countries – and in doing so, sourcing country, the conditions there pose a particular improve local working conditions. To realise this aim challenge to us. Since May 2013 we have been a supwe are involved in international coalitions which allow porter of the Accord on Fire and Building Safety devela uniform approach to be adopted on global purchasing oped by international trade-union confederations, the markets. At the heart of this lies the conviction that joint Clean Clothes Campaign (CCC), the Workers Rights calls for improved working conditions are more powerful Consortium (WRC) and national trade unions from than solitary calls. Bangladesh. The new safety agreement includes binding, implementable and transparent regulations on indepenBSCI – improved working conditions at suppliers dent inspections, compulsory maintenance measures The Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) was and corresponding cost-sharing by international corpolaunched in 2004. The Otto Group was a founding memrate customers. The construction of a factory as a ‘social ber of this initiative which aims to improve working conbusiness’ in Bangladesh, which was announced in 2009, ditions in international value chains. To achieve this, it cannot be realised in this form owing to government conducts audits at supplier factories. If a company becomes regulations. As a result, at the start of 2013 we decided a BSCI member, it commits to generate two-thirds of its not to implement the project. turnover with BSCI-audited suppliers after three years. After five years, it must generate two-thirds of its turnAlliances for living wages over with suppliers which have achieved an audit result As part of improving working conditions at the factories, of ‘improvement needed’ or better. The BSCI currently the payment of living wages is a key topic. Together with has 1,000 members around the world including trading other companies, we are actively involved in achieving companies, producers and importers. appropriate wage levels through a non-competitive regulation that is binding on all market players in the Asian Commitment to high social standards sourcing markets. To this end, we are involved in the The Otto Group is a member of the organisation Social multi-stakeholder forum Round Table Codes of Conduct Accountability International (SAI). In doing so, we sup(see p. 22) and support the Asia Floor Wage Campaign port the work of this multi-stakeholder initiative which (AFWC) which is campaigning for living minimum is committed to improving workers’ human rights around wages in the Asian textile industry. the world. To achieve this, SAI has developed the internationally recognised social standard SA8000 and offers companies programmes to audit and improve purchasing and social management. BSCI: www.bsci-intl.org SAI: www.sa-intl.org AFWC: www.asiafloorwage.org Round Table Codes of Conduct: www.coc-runder-tisch.de 58 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 SUPPLY CHAIN FIELD OF ACTION ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN 4.3 Besides a social responsibility, the Otto Group also has an environmental responsibility for its value chain. To honour this, the Group analyses environmental impacts along the entire supply chain with the aim of reducing them. The Group Guideline Sustainability in Procurement covers the purchasing of raw materials. Group Guideline Sustainability in Procurement Greater biodiversity thanks to organic cotton A range of Guidelines set out how the Otto Group comBy offering organic cotton textiles, the Otto Group is panies source the goods they market. One of these is our playing its part in encouraging biodiversity. After all, Group Guideline Sustainability in Procurement. Since the aim of organic cotton cultivation is to avoid monoMarch 2013 it has applied to all Group companies and cultures and protect biodiversity in cultivation areas. sets out the environmental and social requirements under Annual crop rotation is therefore just as much a part which merchandising and non-merchandising goods are of the regulations as the ban on chemical pesticides sourced and sold. It brings together social and environand fertilisers, as well as on genetically modified seeds. mental requirements on products as well as the working conditions at suppliers, which were previously regulated Timber from sustainable forestry separately. The majority of regulations have already been Since the start of the 2013/14 financial year, binding legin force for many years, such as the commitment to using islation has been in place in the form of the EU FLEGT FSC-certified tropical wood. timber regulation governing the origin of wooden pro­ ducts. The regulation covers the sourcing of wooden pro­ The Group Guideline Sustainability in Procurement also ducts imported into the EU and stipulates that they should includes provisions on wildlife and species conservation, carry a certificate of origin. Given the lack of legislation, and bans, among other things, the sale of goods containing for many years the Otto Group reporting companies have real fur. For products containing down or feathers, there is been working according to an internal Group Guideline: also a ban on the use of materials gained from live plucking the Timber Sourcing Policy. Through this we actively or foie-gras production. ensured that as a raw material, timber was used responsibility and that it originated from legal sources. Our RAW-MATERIAL SELECTION AND CULTIVATION Timber Sourcing Policy regulations are therefore a good As part of the overall Textile Strategy goal (see p. 17 starting point for meeting the requirements of the EU et seq.), the Otto Group intends to only use sustainably timber regulation from 2013. cultivated cotton by 2020 for our own and licensed brands. The goal requires that the cotton is either To prevent illegal felling and promote sustainable forestry, organic cotton or that it was produced as part of the the Otto Group already prefers to work with certified Cotton made in Africa (CmiA) development policy suppliers. These source timber from forestry operators initiative (see p. 35). Through the Group goal, ‘100% working to Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) criteria sustainable cotton for own and licensed brands’, we are and which are certified to this organisation’s standards. not only promoting conscious consumerism but also This non-governmental organisation is committed to protaking social and environmental responsibility in terms tecting forests through responsible felling and the associof raw-material production. ated conservation of biodiversity. As part of our Group’s CR Strategy we have set ourselves the aim of only offering FSC-certified furniture products by 2020 (see p. 36). Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 59 SUPPLY CHAIN FIELD OF ACTION 4.3 TRANSPARENCY ALONG THE ENTIRE SUPPLY CHAIN Textile production – from the raw material to the finished article of clothing – involves using a considerable amount of raw materials and energy. With dyeing and tanning processes, for example, chemical agents are used which may contain heavy metals that could enter the air, water or soil. Given these environmental impacts, the Otto Group is redoubling its efforts to identify those processes in the upstream chain which have a considerable impact on the environment and nature. The ‘environmental footprint’ is a tool to assist with this (see p. 14 et seq.): it helps to identify environmental ‘hotspots’ so that countermeasures can be implemented effectively. Our work in the Sustainable Apparel Coalition is a further way of achieving greater transparency with regard to sustainability impacts in the supply chain. With the Higg Index (see p. 38), this organisation has developed a means of measuring production-related resource consumption based on individual products. CLIMATE PROTECTION INITIATIVE FOR GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAINS Together with seven other German trading companies, at the start of 2012 the Otto Group launched the climateprotection initiative ‘Carbon Performance Improvement Initiative’ (CPI2). The aim is to cut CO2 along the global supply chain. To achieve this, CPI2 developed an online management tool which the first set of suppliers is already using to evaluate and control their energy consumption across all areas of their business. The tool gives them a specific set of recommendations to save energy. So far, workshops have been held in China, India, Bangladesh and Turkey, with some 300 factories taking part. Currently, the tool is being piloted at factories in Bangladesh. 60 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 FIELDS OF ACTION 4.4 EMPLOYEES 1,242 employees are currently on parental leave 1,857 seminars were carried out in 2012/13 17% of employees in upper management are women Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 61 EMPLOYEES FIELD OF ACTION 4.4 CHALLENGES AND GOALS More than 53,000 employees work for the Otto Group in over 20 countries. The Group wants to offer them an environment where they can work creatively and develop new ideas. The task of the Group companies is to get the very best out of their potential. E-COMMERCE AND DIGITALISATION FAIR REMUNERATION For the Otto Group, digitalisation – and the e-commerce The companies in the Otto Group are acting in a dynamic growth potential that comes with it – is an opportunity and rapidly changing business environment where the and a challenge at the same time. The Group companies expectations of customers and other stakeholders are conare now required to design the necessary change processes stantly increasing. Peak orders in the service and logistics for this, in consultation with their employees. In this area in the pre-Christmas period, for example, present process, we consider it to be decisive for success to adjust human resources management with special challenges. working conditions to the changing demands of the marThe deployment of temporary workers in these circumket in such a way that each employee is able to reach his stances is unavoidable. As set out in their remuneration full potential. This change process is supported by a trainpolicies, Group companies are required to pay their own ing and development programme as well as an extensive employees appropriately, particularly those in the lower change management commitment. wage segments, and to deal fairly with temporary assistants, temporary agency employees and subcontractor DEMOGRAPHIC CHANGE companies. Demographic change is one of the greatest challenges of the future. With this in mind, it is important to dovetail GOALS TO MEET THE CHALLENGES all the elements of human resources to work strategically In the light of its human resources policy challenges, the with each other – from reinforcing the profile of the Otto Otto Group set itself the objective in the 2011 CR report Group as an employer brand, through recruiting, vocaof developing a Group-wide strategy for its management tional and further training for employees, to an extensive development, of cultivating segment-related cooperation diversity management programme. Reconciling employwith universities and developing a Group-wide Diversity ees’ work and family life in a healthy work/life balance is a Management Programme, including a Diversity Monitorkey factor here for the attractiveness of the Group coming Programme. These objectives have been achieved. panies as employers. Additionally, with the increasing average age of employees, lifelong learning and measures Any objectives and measures from the Employees CR for employee motivation and flexibility as well as for field of action are not managed centrally; instead they maintaining health and performance levels are becoming are managed directly by the Group companies. The Otto more and more important. Group is, however, pursuing a diversity objective that applies to all the reporting companies and is derived from its mission (see p. 6): by the 2015/16 financial year, the proportion of women and/or men should be at least 20% on all levels of the company hierarchy. 62 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 MATERIAL TOPICS IN THE EMPLOYEES FIELD OF ACTION highly relevant Work/life balance Appropriate remuneration Vocational and further training Diversity Stakeholders Occupational safety and health protection relevant Lifelong learning Dealing with temporary agency employees and subcontractors Share of women in top management less relevant less relevant relevant highly relevant Business Success MATERIAL TOPICS IN THE EMPLOYEES FIELD OF ACTION Group received bears witness to the great importance The Otto Group’s stakeholders have assigned the highest that we attach to health management. The greatest releimportance in human resources management to work/life vance, however, has been given to dealing with temporary balance. As part of its Diversity Monitoring Programme, workers and subcontractors, an issue that is often viewed The Otto Group is creating the necessary requirements for critically by the media and the public. Effective instruthis with Group-wide agreements and guidelines, along ments are encouraged here for fair and, at the same time, with specific initiatives and measures. Appropriate remueconomically viable solutions. neration is of just as much importance to stakeholders. The Group ensures this through remuneration systems One surprising result from this Materiality Analysis is the that are in line with the market and reflect performance, low significance attached to the proportion of female manfollowed by employee vocational and further training. agers in the top management, as is much discussed in the media. In the Otto Group, the strategically implemented Occupational safety and health protection makes a Diversity Management Programme is also contributing considerable contribution to the business success of the towards achieving constant improvements here, too. Otto Group. The Corporate Health Award 2012 our Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 63 EMPLOYEES FIELD OF ACTION 4.4 PERSONNEL RESPONSIBILITY The Otto Group’s employees bring the company values embedded in ‘The Power of Responsibility’ mission to life and thus contribute to the success of the Group. It is the task of the Group companies to provide them with an environment where they have the space and freedom to help shape the business. Application scope of key figures The Group Human Resources Division supports the The key figures in the Employees field of action Otto Group companies in realising their human resources cover the 13 reporting companies – with EOS and strategies and objectives. It evaluates developments and baumarkt direkt included for the first time. The figprovides effective knowledge transfer through specialist ures given include headcounts, hours worked and advice, workshops and best-practice examples. employees on parental leave. Trainees, interns, degree students, temporary assistants and temporary agency EMPLOYEE STRUCTURE AND HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT employees are not considered here as a rule, and any As at 28 February 2013, a total of 31,359 people – variations are indicated as such. Employee numbers including working students, employees on parental leave, are rebased as full-time equivalents (FTEs) and trainees, interns, degree students, temporary assistants given on p. 7. Each of the different calculation bases and temporary agency employees – were working for the are given here. reporting companies. The share of unlimited contracts rose in this reporting period, against the general market Some of the key figures are presented in terms of development, from 67% to 78%. This was mainly due financial years and some by calendar years. Where to the expiry of limited contracts and the conversion there is a variation between the reporting periods of limited contractual relationships to unlimited ones, of the reporting companies, the reporting period is particularly in the area of logistics. indicated. With indications expressed as percentages, deviations due to rounding up or down are possible, so The weekly working hours, as set out in the collective that the values do not always precisely add up to 100. agreements at the individual companies, were within the range of 37.5 to 40 hours. As well as strict compliance with the maximum statutory working hours allowed HUMAN RESOURCES STRATEGY (of ten hours per day), flexible working hours regulations The Otto Group’s Human Resources Strategy grants plenty apply in all reporting companies, depending on the area of independence and freedom to the Group companies in of activity. Altogether, around 48% of the employees managing their employees. That way they can accommodate in 2012/13 worked part-time. The proportion of female the specific challenges of each of their business environemployees working part-time was 63%, and of male ments. The Group-wide mission ‘The Power of Responsiemployees almost 25%. In addition to this, around half bility’ is a binding element and framework here; besides of the reporting companies offered job-sharing models, sustainability it also enshrines the value of diversity, which with most of them also offering their employees the is of particular relevance for human resources management. option to work from home. The reporting companies translate the values from the mission into their individual strategies and measures. The employee turnover rate among female employees declined to around 12% in the reporting period, after a rise caused by extraordinary effects in 2010/11. 64 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 EMPLOYEE FIGURES* NEW DIRECTION IN DIALOGUE With the FOKUS scheme, in 2012 the Otto Group 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 drafted one of the most important future projects in the Number of employees 26,822 30,193 32,610 31,359 Multichannel Retail segment. Its objective is to raise the in total profile of the OTTO, Baur and Schwab brands in the Share of employees 75.4 67.3 71.7 77.6 intensely competitive online market and to use the synerwith unlimited gies of the three retail companies more consistently. contracts in % Share of employees 13.5 17.0 15.5 11.4 with limited contracts Any human resources adjustments that are necessary in in % the course of this realignment are to be managed as far as Share of trainees 2.8 2.6 2.3 2.4 possible by means of a forward-looking Human Resources in % Policy and other socially acceptable measures across the Share of interns and 0.8 0.6 0.6 0.7 Group. In the upcoming restructuring, the close cooperadegree students in % tion with the employee representatives will be required in Share of temporary 4.0 5.9 5.4 3.9 assistants in % all phases to uphold the living culture of the Otto Group. Share of temporary 4.1 6.5 5.1 4.1 Additionally, various feedback instruments will be used agency employees in % to support dialogue between managers and employees. *Employees with limited, unlimited and temporary agency contracts as well as the interns, trainees and temporary assistants not accounted for in the In virtually all Otto Group company locations, Works CR Report 2011. With its extended portrayal of the contractual relationships, Councils represent the interests of the employees, and the percentage figures here differ from those given in 2011. employees concerns in the Group companies are regulated by means of Works Agreements. Accordingly, EMPLOYEE TURNOVER RATE IN TOTAL AND BY GENDER Hermes concluded a collective bargaining agreement in % whereby any operational redundancies are largely ruled 17.0 out until 28.02.2014. 14.8 12.6 12.4 12.9 12.5 12.4 12.6 9.7 9.9 9.3 11.5 FAIR REMUNERATION AND EMPLOYMENT Remuneration that is in line with the market and reflects performance is an essential basis for attracting and keeping employees. In their remuneration policies the reporting companies act largely independently, within 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 the framework of the collective agreements that apply and taking regionally different remuneration structures Total employee turnover Female employees Male employees into account. When employees are transferred, Hermes works exclusively with human resources service providers who verifiably apply the valid collective agreements. EMPLOYEE TURNOVER RATE BY AGE* in % As is typical for the industry, most temporary agency 30.1 31.1 employees are deployed in the distribution centres of the 24.7 26.5 Otto Group company Hermes Fulfilment. Here a company agreement ensures that at all locations the proportion 11.5 13.7 of temporary agency employees does not exceed 10%. 9.7 9.8 7.0 7.0 7.5 4.9 Remuneration for non-salary scale employees is assessed annually in the Otto Group and as a rule, is adjusted in 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 line at least with the collectively agreed increase. At EOS Employees under 30 Employees aged 30 – 50 the remuneration system is set out in a company agreeEmployees over 50 ment and any adjustments are negotiated annually with the Works Councils. *Data-gathering has been realigned: in 2009/10 as well as 2010/11 data was gathered in 10 reporting companies on a calendar-year basis. Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 65 EMPLOYEES FIELD OF ACTION 4.4 With the exception of upper management, all of the Dealing with subcontractors reporting companies’ employees are covered by collective Most of Hermes’ parcel deliveries are carried out by conagreements, as part of collective salary and Works tract partners. Recently the working conditions of these Agreements. subcontractors and their employees were the subject of criticism in the media – and this also included Hermes. COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Hermes was the first company in the industry to take in % steps. Together with the SGS-TÜV Saar, it developed 98.9 98.6 98.2 97.6 its own certification model. As a consequence, since early 2012 all contract partners are inspected by Hermes every year in spot checks for aspects of occupational safety, remuneration, quality and environmental protection. A written catalogue of questions is part of this, as is an on-site visit by SGS-TÜV Saar. The SAT Certification model is already having a positive effect and 60% of the 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 386 companies inspected in 2012 received the certification. In 40% of them there was a need for action. With Discretionary payments a view to long-term cooperation, Hermes supports its Over and above basic remuneration, the Otto Group offers contract partners in the process of remedying any deficits employees both within and outside collective salary scales identified in the inspection. If this does not work, Hermes additional financial remuneration, such as Christmas and ends its cooperation with these companies. holiday pay. Through stock-ownership plans in the form of profit-sharing rights, the reporting companies’ employees Additionally, since the beginning of 2011, a Code of can benefit directly from their company’s success. Around Conduct has set out the basis for all business relationships half of the reporting companies subsidise employees’ seain the parcel-delivery service. This obliges all contract son tickets for the local public transport. partners to comply with current legislation and employ and pay their employees fairly. In cases where the Code Managers, and as a rule non salary-scale employees, have has been breached, employees can apply directly and a variable part of their salaries that are linked to company anonymously to an ombudsman at any time. In the reportperformance and individual achievement of targets. The ing period, 26 people have made use of this option. An basic structure for the remuneration of the upper maninternal ‘whistle-blower’ system has also been established agement levels is bindingly established by Group Human to enable any breaches of the Code of Conduct to be Resources (see Otto Group Annual report 2012/13 for pursued effectively. Since the start of this programme in total remuneration figures, p. 151 et seq.). early 2011, a total of 240 breaches have been reported this way, and successfully processed. 66 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 EMPLOYEES FIELD OF ACTION DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 4.4 All employees in the Otto Group have the same opportunities – independently of their gender, age, social, cultural or ethnic background and physical constitution. The Group has committed itself to this by firmly anchoring the value of Diversity in its mission. DIVERSITY MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEE STRUCTURE BY GENDER* Since 2011, the Otto Group has brought all its activities in % for promoting diversity in the Group under the umbrella 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 of a Group-wide Diversity Management Programme. Share of male 36.8 38.7 38.4 39.0 This programme focuses on four groups: women and men, employees young and old, different nationalities and people with disShare of female 63.2 61.3 61.6 61.0 abilities – as well as on the three areas of action of recruitemployees ing and human resources, human resources development *Data corrected as Hermes Europe had previously included temporary and remuneration and organisation and corporate culture. assistants in this figure. Within this system, each of the Group companies sets its own goals and defines suitable measures. In the reporting MANAGERS BY GENDER* year the main focus was on the ‘women and men’ group. Around half of the measures are related to this target 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 group, followed by ‘young and old’ (35%). Examples of Total number 551 388 409 402 measures are the increase in the number of women in Share of male 84.4 83.2 84.4 83.1 management positions through flexible work structures, managers in % and special seminars for older employees. Share of female 15.6 16.8 15.6 16.9 managers in % A diversity monitoring process has been implemented *Upper management (supervisory staff, directors, managing directors). to enable greater transparency and measurability. This is supported in the diversity management process with a EMPLOYEES ON PARENTAL LEAVE* system of key figures and regular monitoring and reporting procedures. Any breaches of the Equal Opportunities 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Act are recorded throughout the Group. No complaints Total number 1,010 1,062 1,115 1,242 from employees were submitted in this reporting period. Share of male 7.7 9.8 12.0 15.3 employees in % WORK/LIFE BALANCE Share of female 92.3 9.2 88.0 84.7 How a company reconciles work and family life is a conemployees in % siderable factor in its attractiveness as an employer. The *Data corrected as Hermes Europe had previously included temporary reporting companies are improving their family-friendliassistants in this figure. ness with flexible work models (see p. 64), the option to work from a home-office and other measures. EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES Most of the Group companies have introduced tools and The number of employees on parental leave rose in the measures for integrating people with disabilities into reporting period, with the proportion of men reaching everyday working life. Many years ago already, Baur started 15.3%. The latter reflects young fathers’ need for more the initiative ‘The right employee in the right workplace’; time with their families. now ten per cent of the people it employs have disabilities (the figure for all the reporting companies in For many employees, the care of relatives is playing an 2012/13: 4.5%). ever more important role. Different reporting companies offer counselling in this area. Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 67 EMPLOYEES FIELD OF ACTION 4.4 ATTRACTING EMPLOYEES, VOCATIONAL AND FURTHER TRAINING Demographic change makes recruiting and developing excellent specialists and managers a great challenge for the Otto Group. The goal of its interconnected human resources work is to recognise potential talent at an early stage and to promote careers across the Group. RECRUITMENT AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING a professorship was endowed by the Otto Group. The To recruit new employees, as well as using the traditional Otto Group Foundation Professorship endowed to the channels the Otto Group exploits the diversity of the Zeppelin University (ZU) Friedrichshafen in 2010 Internet – from its own career website, through searches focuses its teaching and research activities on the subject at online job fairs, to using social media and mobile comof home shopping and service marketing. The Otto munication. The Group seeks contact with young people Group maintains further cooperations with the European through XING, Facebook, Twitter and YouTube to get Business School Reutlingen, the Leuphana University them interested in Group-wide career opportunities at Lüneburg, the Humboldt University Berlin, the Univeran early stage. sity of Münster and the Amberg-Weiden University of Applied Sciences. The Otto Group is one of the pioneers in mobile recruiting. In December 2012, the Human Resources BenchForward-looking vocational training mark study by the Cologne-based NetFederation business The companies in the Otto Group offer some 30 different consultancy distinguished the Otto Group with first place technical, industrial and commercial vocational training for its particularly user-friendly careers webpages. courses. As well as the specialised qualification of trainees, developing their personalities is also an important part Cooperation with universities of the training. This enables them to communicate their Cooperation with universities has proved itself to be an responsibility towards people and nature from the very effective instrument for raising the Group’s profile as an beginning as a core value of the Otto Group. employer brand and for recruiting young specialist talents. This way, potential candidates are guided towards the In this reporting period the Group trained more people topics relevant to the Otto Group and become interested than it needed. In 2012, 816 young people, a good 53% in starting a career in one of the Group’s companies. of them young women, successfully concluded their Cooperation with universities has been further developed vocational training in the reporting companies. Some of in the reporting period. the reporting companies increased the attractiveness of the training with special measures: in 2011 for instance, In the 2011/12 winter semester, in a collaborative project OTTO organised an educational trip to India for the with the Wedel University of Applied Sciences several trainees in cooperation with the Bürger Europas e.V. Otto Group companies launched the first consecutive (the Citizens of Europe Association). degree course in e-commerce in Germany. At the Hamburg University of Applied Sciences, the Multichannel The Group takes advantage of new media in its training Trade Management in Textile Business degree course – programme, too. For example, OTTO offers a broad prounique in Germany – was introduced back in 2007 and gramme of qualifications focusing on personality development, value development, sustainability and innovation. 68 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 EMPLOYEES FIELD OF ACTION 4.4 FURTHER TRAINING Further training for managers The reporting companies carry out their own measures for The success of the change processes introduced in the the further training and development of their employees course of the Otto Group’s greater alignment towards in line with their own specific demands. The Otto Group e-commerce is essentially dependent on managers. The Academy extends these local offers with a Group-wide Group plans to strengthen the expertise and qualifications programme of further training. Its contents focus on stranecessary for this change. Consequently, alongside the tegically relevant subjects, particularly on the increasing existing international programmes for potential managing digitalisation of retail, the internationalisation of Group directors, we are also offering needs-based leadership procompanies and the Group-wide development of young grammes to a larger target group. Over and above this, managers. The contents of these further development the Group is also focusing its attention on the personality programmes are of decisive significance in promoting development and leadership qualifications of its managers. an affinity with e-commerce among the employees. Also developed further in the reporting period was the In the 2012/13 financial year a total of 1,857 seminars range of specialist development programmes (within the took place, with more than 13,000 participants. To capProfessional Development Program), including the Buyture the requirement for further training in a targeted ing Development Program for high-potential Purchasing way, the Group companies use human resources instrustaff and the Procurement Development Program for ments such as employee surveys or feedback discussions. junior employees in the Procurement and Merchandising departments. FURTHER TRAINING DAYS* in days Talent management 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 The Group-wide further training activities for young Total training days 15,461 18,279 22,287 20,434 managers provided by the Otto Group Academy conEmployee 12,453 13,542 17,288 15,890 tribute towards the development of the cross-Group training days management network. The Talent Management System (excluding managers) is a platform to support this. This not only captures all the Manager training days 3,008 4,737 4,999 4,544 high-potential staff and their development history but also *Without Witt, as the company does not record this key figure in this way. their supervisor-appraisal processes. The system extends beyond the limits of the Group, as it also captures external talents – such as former employees or job applicants. Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 69 EMPLOYEES FIELD OF ACTION 4.4 HEALTH PROTECTION A comprehensive occupational safety and health management programme is an integral part of the Otto Group Human Resources policy. The focus here is on prevention – with the objective of maintaining employees’ health and performance ability. PREVENTATIVE MEASURES WORKING ACCIDENTS All the reporting companies have established a health The risk of injury in physically demanding activities in management system, which they continue to develop logistics or transport services is significantly higher than further. Accordingly OTTO has been offering its in mainly commercial activities. Consequently, working employees free psychological counselling since April accidents and days of absence are three times as high at 2012. Among the other preventative measures provided by Hermes – which is typical for the industry – than in the the Group companies are nutritional advice, relaxation other reporting companies. In 2012/13, after the Markettechniques, addiction counselling and health days. The oriented Warehousing Logistics realignment project and competence centre for the Group-wide health managethe process adjustments following the start-up of the ment programme is the aktiv.net Division, set up by new Hermes locations were concluded, the number of OTTO in 2000. aktiv.net has an integrated range of working accidents per 1,000 employees fell from 35.1 to services developed by an interdisciplinary team of experts. 27.5 compared with the previous year. ABSENTEEISM RATE* The issue of work safety is also of great significance for in days the logistics areas at Baur and Witt. For example, in 2009 2010 2011 2012 the reporting period, to prevent working accidents Baur 6.2 6.1 6.4 6.9 developed measures on the basis of comparisons with member companies of the German Retail and Goods *With the baumarkt direkt, EOS and Unito companies, the data is related Distribution trade association. The company also develto the financial year in each case and not to the calendar year. oped an occupational safety reporting system for its logistics area. In this reporting period Witt was successTHE HEALTH INDEX AS A MEASUREMENT PARAMETER fully certified in accordance with the OHRIS occupaAs part of the aktiv.net programme, OTTO draws up a tional safety management system for a second time. Health Index every year on the basis of an anonymous survey. It identifies employees’ state of health and perforWORK-RELATED ACCIDENTS* mance ability by means of a voluntary self-assessment. Targeted preventative measures are then developed on 2009/10 2010/11** 2011/12 2012/13 the basis of these results, which are intended to contribute Number of 25.6 31.5 35.1 27.5 towards compensating for the strain on the employees and, work accidents per 1,000 employees consequently, improve the productivity and powers of innovation of the company. Number of 6,426.3 9,004.6 11,557.9 7,737.6 accident-related days of absence In 2012 around 4,000 OTTO employees took part in the Number of work0 1 0 0 survey. With an index value of 63, the company is three related fatalities points above the average value of companies with com*According to the German trade association definition, including parable activity structures. No urgent requirement to act commuting accidents. became apparent from these results. In a second stage **C  orrection to the work-related days of absence and work accidents per 1,000 employees in 2010/11. they will be assessed for each department, made available to the respective managers and – if necessary – translated into precisely targeted prevention measures. 70 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 FIELDS OF ACTION 4.5 SOCIETY 483,000 African smallholder farmers have so far benefited from the activities of the Aid by Trade Foundation 4,600 Children are playing music as part of the Young ClassX project supported by the Otto Group 4,500 Ottoon theirGroupownemployees initiative accept Corporate Responsibility Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 71 SOCIETY FIELD OF ACTION 4.5 CHALLENGES AND GOALS Taking responsibility beyond our own business activities – this self-understanding has a long tradition at the Otto Group and lies at the heart of our mission ‘The Power of Responsibility’. The reporting companies act independently while the Group focuses its activities on education projects. DIVERSE ACTIVITIES PROJECTS IN SOURCING MARKETS While the reporting companies’ CR activities are bundled The challenges in the sourcing markets are complex. under the Group’s CR Strategy 2020, they organise their While our Social Programme focuses on working condiCorporate Citizenship activities locally. Consequently, tions in factories, the Otto Group also actively supports Group companies support a wide variety of different the families of workers and cotton farmers, especially social, cultural and sports initiatives in their area. Engagechildren and adolescents. The projects focus on providing ment at Group level is focused mainly on education. access to education, for instance for former child workers. EDUCATION IS THE KEY AWARENESS OF NATURE CONSERVATION Social activities within the Otto Group are shaped mainly Through dialogue platforms, exemplary initiatives and by the long-standing engagement of the company founder promoting nature-restoration and water-protection Prof. Werner Otto and the Chairman of the Supervisory measures, the Michael Otto Foundation has established Board Dr Michael Otto. A particular focus is on improva good reputation in nature conservation and environing education opportunities for young people. Through mental protection – one which must be safeguarded and the Group’s involvement we are pursuing philanthropic expanded. goals and facing the challenges confronting today’s knowledge society. 72 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 MATERIAL TOPICS IN THE SOCIETY FIELD OF ACTION highly relevant Sustainability stimuli Stakeholders in the sector relevant Engagement in environmental and nature protection Social projects in Social projects at company sites the supply chain Contribution to local economy Stimuli for societal discussion less relevant less relevant relevant highly relevant Business Success MATERIAL TOPICS IN THE SOCIETY FIELD OF ACTION company. The topics of sustainability stimuli in the From the Otto Group’s stakeholders’ perspective and for sector and social projects in the supply chain follow our business success too, the Society field of action is in order of priority according to their relevance for our less relevant on the whole than the Group’s other four stakeholders and our business success. fields of action (see p. 24). Of greatest importance is our engagement in the field of environmental and nature A wide range of initiatives run by the Group, the indiprotection. This is driven by the long-standing engagement vidual companies as well as the Foundations established of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board Dr Michael by Dr Michael Otto are devoted to these topic areas. Otto and makes a major contribution to how the Otto Group is perceived by the public as being a responsible Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 73 SOCIETY FIELD OF ACTION 4.5 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ACTIVITIES OF THE OTTO GROUP The Otto Group does not set the individual Group companies’ Corporate Citizenship activities: the companies are free to decide for themselves what social, cultural or sports activities they get involved in. At Group level, the focus is on the topic of education opportunities for youngsters. MUSICAL EDUCATION COMMITTED EMPLOYEES We have promoted The Young ClassX initiative since Our employees are often actively involved in the Group’s 2010. Under the patronage of Dr Michael Otto and the Corporate Citizenship activities. These include our First Mayor of the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg, Christmas Gift Campaign for Children in Need, which children and adolescents are introduced to classical music was launched Group-wide at the end of 2012 in collaboin a playful way. By studying musical pieces together, they ration with the Kinderzukunft Foundation which works acquire and develop characteristics such as team spirit, towards giving children a better future. The gifts were personal confidence and mental stamina. 43 schools in distributed to children in need in Romania as well as Hamburg and over 4,600 children are now taking part Bosnia and Herzegovina. in this initiative. In October 2012, as a co-initiator of The Young ClassX, the Otto Group was awarded the In total, over 4,500 Otto Group employees volunteered Kulturinvestor 2012 prize. during the reporting period, thereby proving the spirit embedded in our mission ‘The Power of Responsibility’ HELP GETTING ON THE CAREER LADDER of proactively showing social responsibility. Back in 2000, in cooperation with Hapag-Lloyd AG the Otto Group initiated a project to assist young school EDUCATION PROJECT IN INDIA leavers. The Hamburg Further Education Network (HANz) In cooperation with the child-aid organisation terre des was initially launched as the Hamburg Secondary School hommes, since 2008 we have been sponsoring an educaModel and has since been adopted by around 20 regions tion project in India – one of our key sourcing markets. in Germany. Even abroad, in cities such as London and The aim is to encourage children to attend an education Basle, the Hamburg Secondary School Model serves as centre where they learn to read and write and are prean example for similar projects. The initiative supports the pared to attend school. Youth clubs and libraries as well as transition of both lower secondary education school-leavfamily support, such as through microloans to help them ers, and pupils who drop out of upper secondary educaestablish their own small business, round off our activities tion, into work and training. In Hamburg alone, the share in combatting child labour. The project’s focus regions are of youngsters who started professional training directly the poorest northern Indian state of Bihar and the slums after completing their schooling has risen from 6.7% in of New Delhi. In the reporting period, some 1,100 children 2001 to 24.2%. benefited from the project. With this sponsorship initiative the Otto Group is countering the increasing shortage of skilled workers, amongst other issues. Through the initiative almost 100 pupils have received an apprenticeship within the Group over the past decade. 74 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 SOCIETY FIELD OF ACTION LONG-STANDING FOUNDATION WORK 4.5 Identifying environmental and social challenges with far-sightedness and countering them in a targeted way characterises the work of the Michael Otto Foundation and the Aid by Trade Foundation – both of which were founded by Dr Michael Otto. MICHAEL OTTO FOUNDATION Cotton made in Africa The Michael Otto Foundation has been actively involved The core tool of the Aid by Trade Foundation is the in environmental and nature protection since 1993. Its Cotton made in Africa (CmiA) initiative, which follows support focuses on protecting waterways and the sustainthe principles of a social business. The focus is not on able management of wetlands, especially in Germany and maximising profits, but on improving the living condiEastern Europe. tions of African cotton farmers. To this end, CmiA relies on an alliance of international trading companies which Between 2010 and 2012, the Foundation trained 24 new selectively purchase and process this sustainably cultivated managers of governmental and non-governmental organiAfrican cotton. Over 20 international trading companies sations from eastern European countries through which the are part of the CmiA Demand Alliance (see p. 35). Danube flows in water-meadow and river management. In the Living Alster project, the Foundation is actively involved Through training courses, the initiative shares cultivation in keeping the northern German River Alster as natural as methods with African smallholder farmers enabling them possible. The aim is to return native wildlife and plants to to boost their bottom-line earnings while protecting their natural habitat while at the same time strengthening the environment. Currently, around 435,000 farmers are the Alster as a recreation and nature area in Hamburg. cultivating CmiA cotton on areas totalling over 564,000 hectares; the improved cultivation methods have so far AQUA AGENTS brought them a 25% increase in crop yield. When the Through its AQUA AGENTS initiative, the Michael Otto farmers’ dependants are factored in, almost three million Foundation offers children, adolescents and young adults people are benefiting from the initiative. The initiative is the chance to implement their own water resource-protectherefore making a contribution to sustainable develoption projects, such as in the form of project weeks, adoptment in African countries such as Benin, the Ivory Coast, ing a stream or field trips to nature sites. To mark World Malawi, Mozambique and Zambia. Since November Water Day on 22 March 2012, some 125 primary-school 2012, the initiative has also been working in Zimbabwe. pupils took to Hamburg’s inner city to ask passers-by what they know about water and how they use it. The School project in Zambia AQUA AGENTS concept has received multiple awards Through the license fees that flow back to the initiative as part of the UN Decade of Education for Sustainable from the Demand Alliance companies, the Aid by Trade Development. Foundation finances social projects to improve the educational infrastructure or strengthen women’s rights, for AID BY TRADE FOUNDATION example. Together with the Zambian cotton company The Aid by Trade Foundation was founded in 2005. Its Dunavant Zambia and the German Society for Investaim is to improve living conditions and environmental ment and Development (DEG), the Foundation is supprotection in developing countries. It intends to achieve porting a project designed to offer around 3,700 children this by activating market forces in its sales markets, espein Zambia better access to education. It is also supportcially Europe and the USA. It focuses on initiatives that ing the construction of schools and the provision of are intended to improve the living conditions of cotton learning materials. farmers and their families in Africa, promote sustainable cultivation methods to protect the environment, establish strategic partnerships for a Demand Alliance and the brand ‘Cotton made in Africa’, as well as develop a verification system. Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 75 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ON THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT GRI Index COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ON THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT The Otto Group has been a member of the UN Global Compact The following Index provides an overview of the systems we since 2002. We are therefore unequivocal in our commitment to have implemented, the measures we have taken and what we upholding its Ten Principles in the areas of human rights, workhave achieved in the reporting period or intend to achieve in the ing standards, environmental protection and tackling corruption. future. The Otto Group’s actions are based on the Group’s Vision, This report is also a Communication on Progress for 2013. mission and CR Strategy. PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS MEASURES ACHIEVEMENTS Principle 1 Support for •C ode of Conduct (p. 52 et seq.) • Conducting qualification • Training of employees with sourcing-market activities human rights •S ocial Programme to uphold measures to uphold the Code on upholding the Code of Conduct Principle 2 Exclusion of social standards and human rights of Conduct (p. 57) • 72 supplier-qualification courses on upholding the human rights abuses in risk countries (p. 56 et seq.) • Holding training courses to standards of the Social Programme (p. 57) •C ode of Conduct of the Hermes raise employee awareness of • 86% of our order volume placed with suppliers that can Principle 3 Ensuring Logistik Gruppe Deutschland the implementation of the Code provide a valid audit result for their factories (p. 56) freedom of association (p. 66) of Conduct • 96% of all audited factories achieved a pass result Principle 4 Elimination •G roup Guideline Sustainability in • Update of the Social Programme • 97.6% of Otto Group employees covered by collective of all forms of forced Procurement (p. 59) (p. 54 et seq.) bargaining agreements (p. 66) labour Principle 5 Abolition of child labour Principle 6 Elimination •G  roup Agreement to strengthen • Introduction of Diversity • 16.9% of women in management positions (p. 67) of discrimination diversity and safeguard against Management (p. 67) • 15.3% of male employees took paternal leave (p. 67) discrimination • Implementation of Diversity • No complaints received regarding the principle of controlling (p. 67) equal opportunities (p. 67) Principle 7 Precauti•C  ode of Conduct (p. 52 et seq.) • Introduction of a new goal to • 18.7% reduction in overall CO2 emissions versus onary environmental •G  roup Risk and Crisis Management reduce purchasing shipments the base year (p. 45) protection Guideline via air-freight (p. 42) • 22% reduction in purchasing and distribution logistics •C  limate Strategy (p. 18) • Establishment of a new CO2 emissions versus the base year (p. 45) •C  R Board meeting (p. 19) measurement procedure for • 13% reduction in locations and facilities CO2 emissions • T extile Strategy (p. 17) purchasing and distribution versus the base year (p. 46) •P  aper Strategy (p. 18) (p. 45) • 38% increase in the share of self-generated heat • Implementation of energyfrom regenerative energies (p. 46) Principle 8 Initiatives to efficiency measures (p. 46) • Three percentage-point increase in the share of promote greater envi• Launch of CO2 facility FSC-certified paper in terms of the overall volume of ronmental responsibility benchmarking at 20 buildings office paper purchased (p. 48) Principle 9 Diffusion of (p. 46) • 5.7% share of sustainable cotton in the overall environmentally friendly cotton order volume (p. 35) technologies • 6.8% increase in the share of FSC-certified articles in the overall Furniture and Home Accessories assortment (p. 36) Principle 10 Measures • Code of Conduct (p. 52 et seq.) • Standard completion by all • E-learning course passed by all employees on how to combat corruption • Global Compliance Management employees of an e-learning to handle gifts and other benefits System (p. 20) course on how to handle gifts • Group-wide IT Security Officer network established (p. 40) • Group Anti-Corruption Guideline and other benefits • Group Gifts Guideline • Implementation of the Group • Group Guideline Sustainability Data Protection Guideline (p. 40) in Procurement • Group Risk and Crisis Management Guideline • Group IT Security Guideline (p. 40) GRI Index This GRI Index refers to the corresponding sections of text in estimation this report fulfils the requirements for a GRI G3 our CR Report. All key indicators are provided. Where numberApplication Level A+. This declaration has been assessed and ing is not sequential, it means that we have not provided inforconfirmed by GRI (see p. 79). A comprehensive GRI Index mation on these additional indicators. In the Otto Group’s own can be accessed at: www.ottogroup.com/cr-report. ID G3 CORE INDICATORS REFERENCE PERFORMANCE 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation 2 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 16 – 17, 21, 28 – 30 2. Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation Cover 2.2 Core brands, products and/or services 4 – 5, 8 – 13 2.3 Organisational structure 4 – 5; AR FS 84 76 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 2.4 Headquarter location Hamburg, Germany 2.5 Countries in operation 4 – 5, 8 – 13; AR IS 11 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 6 2.7 Markets 4 – 5, 7 2.8 Scale of the organisation 4, 7, 32; AR FS 51 2.9 Changes regarding size, structure, or ownership C3; AR FS 85 et seq. 2.10 Prices 39, C7 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period C2 3.2 Date of most recent previous report C2 3.3 Reporting cycle C2 3.4 Contact point C6 3.5 Process for defining report content C2, 25, 27 3.6 Boundary of the report C2 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report C2, 36, 52, 69 3.8 Joint ventures, subsidiaries and outsourced operations C2, 5 3.9 Data measurement techniques 19, 34, 44, 52, 64 Effects of re-statement of information provided 3.10 34, 44 – 47, 67, 70 in earlier reports 3.11 Changes in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods 21, 34, 37, 44, 52, 65, 70 3.12 GRI Content Index 76 – 79 3.13 External assurance 80, C5 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation 19 et seq.; AR FS 154 et seq. 4.2 Indicate whether the chairperson is also managing director AR FS 154 et seq. 4.3 Independent members on the board Not material Mechanisms for shareholders and employees 4.4 65 to provide recommendations to the board Linkage between executive compensation and 4.5 AR FS 151 et seq. organisation’s performance 4.6 Processes to avoid conflicts of interest on the board 4.7 Expertise of board members on sustainability topics 19 Statements of mission, internal codes 4.8 6, 19 – 20 of conduct and principles Procedures for board governance on management 4.9 19 – 20 of sustainability performance Processes for evaluating the board’s 4.10 www.ottogroup.com/cr-report sustainability performance 4.11 Precautionary approach 19, 21, 34 4.12 External charters, principles or other initiatives C2, 24 4.13 Memberships of associations 24 4.14 Stakeholder groups 22 4.15 Stakeholder-group identification and selection 22 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 22 – 24, 65 4.17 Topics and concerns raised by stakeholders 24 – 27 5. Performance Indicators Economics – Disclosure on management approach 6, 16, 21, 28 – 30, 50, 72 6 – 7, www.ottogroup.com/cr-report; EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR FS 51, 88 et seq. EC2 Financial implications due to climate change www.ottogroup.com/cr-report www.ottogroup.com/cr-report; EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan AR FS 106 – 111 EC4 Financial government assistance www.ottogroup.com/cr-report Policy, practices and proportion of spending on EC6 54 locally-based suppliers EC7 Local hiring EC8 Infrastructure investments and services for public benefit 74 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 77 GRI Index Environment – Disclosure on management approach 14 – 15, 17 – 18, 20, 29, 33 – 34, 42 – 44, 47 – 48 EN1 Volume or weight of materials used 42, 47 – 48, 35 EN2 Recycled materials 48 EN3 Direct primary energy consumption 46 EN4 Indirect primary energy consumption 46 EN8 Total water withdrawal www.ottogroup.com/cr-report EN11 Land assets in or adjacent to protected areas www.ottogroup.com/cr-report EN12 Impacts on biodiversity www.ottogroup.com/cr-report EN16 Greenhouse gas emissions 44 – 46 EN17 Other greenhouse gas 44 – 46 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions EN21 Water discharge www.ottogroup.com/cr-report EN22 Waste by type and disposal method www.ottogroup.com/cr-report EN 23 Significant spills www.ottogroup.com/cr-report EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts 14 – 15, 34 – 37 EN27 Packaging materials www.ottogroup.com/cr-report EN28 Sanctions for non-compliance with environmental regulations 21 Working environment and conditions – Disclosure on management approach 30, 63 – 67, 69 – 70 LA1 Entire workforce by employment type, contract and region 64 – 65 LA2 Employee turnover 65 LA4 Employees with collective bargaining agreements 66 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes www.ottogroup.com/cr-report LA7 Occupational diseases, lost days and number of fatalities 70 LA8 Counselling and training on serious diseases 70, www.ottogroup.com/cr-report LA10 Training per employee 69; 7.5 hours per day 67, Online Key Figure Tool; LA13 Composition of governance bodies AR FS 154 et seq. LA14 Gender pay disparity www.ottogroup.com/cr-report Human rights – Disclosure on management approach 18, 20, 30, 50 – 51, 54, 65 – 67, 72 HR1 Investment agreements www.ottogroup.com/cr-report HR2 Supplier screening on human rights 56 – 57, www.ottogroup.com/cr-report HR4 Incidents of discrimination 21, 67 HR5 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 54, 57, 65 – 66 HR6 Child labor 54, 57, 74 HR7 Forced labor 54, 57 Society – Disclosure on management approach 20, 22, 28, 74 SO1 Impact of business activities on communities 74 SO2 Corruption risks 20, 54 SO3 Anti-corruption training www.ottogroup.com/cr-report SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 20 SO5 Lobbying 22 – 23 SO8 Sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations 21; AR FS 36 et seq. Product responsibility – Disclosure on management approach 20, 29, 33, 37 – 40 PR1 Health and safety impact of products on customers 38 PR3 Product information 37 – 38 Programmes for adherence to marketing communication laws, PR6 www.ottogroup.com/cr-report standards and voluntary codes PR9 Sanctions for non-compliance with product and service-related regulations 21; AR FS 36 et seq. AR = Annual Report FS = Financial Section IT = Image Section completely covered: partially covered: not reported: 78 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 79 ASSURANCE STATEMENT INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT • Energy consumption at locations and facilities. • Order value by risk market. To Otto (GmbH & Co. KG), Hamburg • Supplier performance based on order value. We have been engaged to perform a moderate assurance • Supplier performance based on supplier number. engagement 1 on the adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility • Distribution of violations of standards. Principles as well as on individual items of quantitative sustainability-performance information selected by Otto (GmbH & The key figures reviewed by us for financial years 2011/2012 Co. KG) and its subsidiaries (hereinafter ‘Otto Group’) for and 2012/13 are additionally labelled in the CR Report with the financial years 2011/2012 and 2012/2013 for inclusion a symbol . in its Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 (hereinafter ‘CR Report’).2 We conducted our assurance work in accordance with AA1000 Assurance Standard (AA1000AS) 2008 and additionally MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY observed the International Standard on Assurance Engagements Otto Group‘s management is responsible for (ISAE) 3000. • adherence to the Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness set forth in the AA1000 AccountAbility These standards require that we comply with professional Principles Standard (2008) (the ‘AA1000 AccountAbility requirements and plan and conduct the engagement, under Principles’) and consideration of materiality, to express our conclusions • the preparation of sustainability-performance information in with moderate assurance, the level of assurance requested by the CR Report in accordance with the criteria stated in the the Otto Group. We are independent in the meaning of Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.0 (pp. 7-17) of the section 3.2 of AA1000AS (2008). Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Based on our skills and experiences within non-financial This responsibility includes the design, implementation and assurance, CR management as well as social and environmental maintenance of systems and processes to ensure adherence to issues, we possess the required competencies to perform this the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles and to prepare the assurance engagement. CR Report 2013 using assumptions and estimates which are reasonable in the circumstances. In a moderate-assurance 3 engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are less extensive than in a high-assurance engageASSURANCE PROVIDER’S RESPONSIBILITY ment 4 and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a highOur responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our work assurance engagement. The procedures selected depend on the performed as to whether any matters have come to our attention assurance provider’s professional judgement. that cause us to believe that, in all material respects, • the systems and processes implemented by the Otto Group Assurance procedures were performed at the headquarters are not sufficient to fulfil the requirements of the AA1000 of Otto (GmbH & Co. KG), Hamburg and at the level of the AccountAbility Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and following reporting companies: baumarkt direkt GmbH & Responsiveness, or Co KG, Hermes Logistik Gruppe Deutschland GmbH, and • the selected quantitative sustainability-performance infor­ Otto GmbH & Co KG (OTTO Versand), Hamburg. mation in the CR Report 2013 has not been prepared in accordance with the above-mentioned criteria stated in the With respect to the adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.0 (pp. 7-17) Principles we performed the following procedures, amongst of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). others: • Inquiries of management. The Otto Group has selected the following quantitative • Obtain an understanding about the relevant systems sustainability-performance information from financial years and processes, and inspection of the corresponding 2011/2012 and 2012/2013: documentation. • Quantity of sustainable cotton. • Evidence-gathering procedures on the implementation and • Number of articles containing sustainable cotton. suitability of relevant systems and processes on a sample basis. • CO2 emissions of locations and facilities. 80 Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 AWARDS OTTO GROUP AWARDS IN THE REPORTING PERIOD > Corporate Health Award 2012 for the Otto Group’s health management > German CSR Prize 2012 in the category ‘Cultural Engagement as an Expression of Companies’ Social Responsibility’ for the Otto Group’s involvement in the youth music project ‘The Young ClassX’ > German Prize for Business Communication 2012 in the category ‘Best Internal Communication’ for its mission ‘The Power of Responsibility’ > Fair Company (since 2008), quality seal for fair working conditions for interns > Heinz Sielmann Prize (2011) for Dr Michael Otto, Chairman of the Otto Group Supervisory Board, and his outstanding work in the area of nature conservation and environmental protection > International TÜV Rhineland Global Compact Award (2011) for Dr Michael Otto, Chairman of the Otto Group Supervisory Board, and his extensive social and environmental engagement > Kulturmarken Award 2012 for the Otto Group’s youth music project ‘The Young ClassX’ > 2nd place in the ‘Working in Fashion 2012’ employers’ ranking study by the trade journal TextilWirtschaft > 1st place in the Trade/Clothing sector of the IÖW/future-ranking for its CR Report 2011 > Universum TOP 100 Employers 2012 based on a survey of students in Germany > Walter Scheel Award (2011) for Dr Michael Otto, Chairman of the Otto Group Supervisory Board, and his development-cooperation work SELECTION OF GROUP-COMPANY AWARDS IN THE REPORTING PERIOD baumarkt direkt > Family Seal awarded by the Hamburg Alliance for Families (initiative of the Hamburg Senate, Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Trade) Heine > Outstanding Training 2012 awarded by the Karlsruhe Chamber of Industry and Commerce Hermes > Top Employer 2013: Hermes is one of Germany’s top 118 employers. The prize was awarded by the Corporate Research Foundation > Career Promotion & Fair Trainee Programme: The quality seal is awarded to companies who commit to offering high-quality trainee programmes OTTO > Corporate Health Award 2012 for its integrated health management and the Health Index > Trainees 2012: Special recognition by the Chamber of Commerce for the Best Final Grade as an IT Officer in Hamburg and Best Final Grade as an IT Officer in Germany UNITO > Most Family Friendly Mail-Order Company in Austria 2012, awarded by the Austrian Retail Association Witt > Fair Company (since 2008), quality seal for fair working conditions for interns top NatioNaler > Top National Employer 2013 according to the FOCUS Employer Ranking in March 2013 arbeitgeber 2013 DeutschlanDs Beste arBeitgeBer im Vergleich With respect to the selected specified sustainability-perforFurthermore, nothing has come to our attention that causes us mance information of the CR Report 2013 we performed to believe that, in all material respects, the selected quantitative the following procedures, among others: sustainability-performance information of the Sustainability • Inquiries of employees responsible for the reporting of Report has not been prepared in accordance with the criteria of sustainability-performance information. the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.0 (pp. 7-17) of • Inspection of systems and procedures for gathering, calculatthe Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). ing and reporting sustainability-performance information. • Testing of controls implemented to ensure data quality. RECOMMENDATIONS • Analytical procedures on selected sustainability-performance Without limiting the conclusions of our engagement, we hereby information. offer the following recommendations to further develop stakeholder management, CR management and CR reporting: KEY FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS Findings in relation to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principle Recommendations on stakeholder management: of Inclusivity: • The scope of application of the procedural instruction relating • The identification, inclusion and active exchange with to stakeholder management should be expanded to include all internal and external stakeholders takes place at the level of material German and international Group companies. the Otto Group and in the reporting Group companies. • The stakeholder management measures are bindingly Recommendations on CR management and reporting: documented in a procedural instruction. • Systematically expanding CR management and CR reporting • The scope of application of the Stakeholder Management to include further material German and international Group System only includes the reporting companies. Group companies. companies beyond that are not formally involved in the • Further optimising data-gathering and consolidation processes Otto Group Stakeholder Management System. at Group-company level and the level of the Otto Group. • Formalising and documenting the internal controls to ensure Findings in relation to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principle data quality at Group-company level and the level of the of Materiality: Otto Group. • Internal documentation and management inquiry show that systematic procedures to determine the materiality of CR topics at Otto Group level have been established. Hamburg, 8 August 2013 • The Members of the CR Board which has been established in the reporting period were actively involved in the analysis PricewaterhouseCoopers and assessment of material CR topics for CR reporting. Aktiengesellschaft • Topics rated as being highly relevant in the Materiality Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Analysis are shown in order of priority in the current Otto Group Corporate Responsibility Report. Michael Werner ppa. Mark Fabisch Findings in relation to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principle of Responsiveness: • The reporting companies of the Otto Group have a systematic procedure to respond in a standardised way to sustainability topics that are important to stakeholders. • Beyond the reporting companies, the Otto Group companies do not have a systematic process to respond in standardised way to stakeholder enquiries. 1 Translation of the independent assurance report, authoritative in the German version. Based on our moderate assurance engagement, nothing has come 2 Our engagement applies to the German version of the CR report. to our attention that causes us to believe that, in all material 3 The moderate level of assurance in AA1000AS (2008) is consistent with respects, the systems and processes implemented by the Otto ‘limited assurance’ respectively in ISAE 3000. Group are not suitable to adhere to the AA1000 AccountAbility 4 The high level of assurance in AA1000AS (2008) is consistent with Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. ‘reasonable assurance’ respectively in ISAE 3000. IMPRINT PUBLISHER DISCLAIMER Otto (GmbH & Co KG) This Corporate Responsibility Report contains forwardDr Johannes Merck looking statements which are based on the opinions and Director of Corporate Responsibility estimations of the management. Although the manageWandsbeker Straße 3-7, ment assumes that the expectations expressed in these 22172 Hamburg, Germany forward-looking statements are realistic, it cannot guarPhone: + 49 (0)40 64 61-0 antee that these expectations will actually prove to be Fax: + 49 (0)40 64 61-85 71 correct. Assumptions entail risks and uncertainties which www.ottogroup.com may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Otto (GmbH & Co KG) ONLINE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 accepts no liability and offers no warranty against the www.ottogroup.com/cr-report possibility that this Corporate Responsibility Report may contain editorial errors or be otherwise incomplete. CONTACT Otto (GmbH & Co KG) has no plans to update the Andreas Streubig forward-looking statements or to provide any corrections Division Manager Environmental and Social Policy or supplements to this Corporate Responsibility Report, andreas.streubig@ottogroup.com nor does it undertake any obligation to do so. However, Otto (GmbH & Co KG) does reserve the right to update PROjECT MANAGEMENT this Corporate Responsibility Report at any time without Daniel Hußmann notice. In the event of discrepancies between the German daniel.hussmann@ottogroup.com and English versions of this Corporate Responsibility Report, the German version shall be final and definitive. CONCEPT AND TEXT akzente kommunikation und beratung gmbh, Munich PRINTED optimal media GmbH, Röbel/Müritz ART DIRECTION HGB Hamburger Geschäftsberichte GmbH & Co. KG, PAPER Hamburg Circle Offset Premium White – 100% recycled paper, awarded the EU Ecolabel. IMAGE CREDITS Page 2: Christian Bruch Page 31: getty images/Francois Dion Page 41: plainpicture/Elektrons 08 Page 51: Jean-Daniel Sudres/hemis/laif Page 61: plainpicture/OJO Page 71: plainpicture/Fancy Images Illustrations ‘Key Milestones’ and ‘Environmental Footprint’: fotolia The CO2 emissions generated to print this report have been compensated. CORPORAT E RESPONSI BI LI T Y REPORT 2013 Wandsbeker Straße 3-7 22172 Hamburg Germany Phone: + 49 (0)40 64 61-0 Fax: + 49 (0)40 64 61-85 71 Website: www.ottogroup.com
