The complete perspective. Sustainability Report 2012 Oesterreichische Kontrollbank Group The complete perspective. Sustainability Report 2012 Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG OeKB Business Services GmbH “Österreichischer Exportfonds” GmbH OeKB Versicherung AG With this Report, which serves as communication on progress, Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG expresses its commitment to the 10 Principles of UN Compact. Includes the Environmental Statement under Regulation (EC) No.1221/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (EMAS) for the aforementioned corporations. Includes the implementation plan for the “familyandcareer” audit under the 2002 Framework Directive on Implementation, as amended in 2004, issued by the Federal Ministry of Economy, Family and Youth. The office building at the Strauchgasse 1-3 location in Vienna has been certified according to the GreenBuilding Standard. This Report serves as report on the implementation of the catalogue of measures according to the GreenBuilding Partner Guidelines. The present Report complies with GRI G3 application level A+. The GRI-content index is available on the internet at www.oekb.at Sustainability Report 2012 Contents Foreword by the Board of Executive Directors / Management bodies 6 1 Showing responsibility – events and highlights 2012 8 1.1 ‘Not my business?’ Globally acting enterprises – business and responsibility 11 1.2 GreenBuilding and photo voltaics at the Vienna Strauchgasse location 12 1.3 Sustainably on the go – electromobility and carsharing 13 1.4 Sustainable investment – findings of the OeSFX performance study 14 1.5 Exclusion criteria and own portfolio 18 1.6 Awards 19 2 Bearing responsibility – OeKB Group introduces itself 20 2.1 Introduction of OeKB Group 23 2.2 Registered offices and locations 28 2.3 Shareholder structure 30 2.4 Shareholdings 31 2.5 Organizational structure 32 2.6 Accountability in terms of sustainability 34 3 Assuming responsibility 38 3.1 Governance 41 4 Acting with a sense of responsibility – sustainability in core business 52 4.1 Oesterreichische Kontrollbank Group 55 5 Coordinating responsibility 66 5.1 Stakeholder analysis 69 5.2 Dialogue and networking 70 6 Sharing responsibility 72 6.1 Employee key indicators and gender aspects at OeKB 75 6.2 Employee key indicators at OeKB Business Services GmbH, “Österreichischer Exportfonds” GmbH, OeKB Versicherung AG and Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG 77 6.3 “familyandcareer” audit 79 6.4 OeKB Academy 80 6.5 Health, safety and work-life balance 81 6.6 Sponsoring and employees’ social commitment 81 6.7 Ecological perspective 83 Sustainability Report 2012 7 Making responsibility measurable 96 7.1 Commercial development 99 8 Showing commitment – shaping the future 104 8.1 Communication on progress 107 8.2 Programme of ecology, sustainability, energy management and “familyandcareer” audit 116 9 Certificate 123 10 Imprint 127 11 Glossary of sustainable investment 129 For the sake of better readability, gender-neutral language has been waived in part. All designations of functions, offices and persons shall be interpreted in a gender-neutral manner. Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Foreword by the Supervisory Board The international economic environment in which OeKB is carrying on its core business in the export services segment has changed over the past decade. Questions concerning ecology, social environment and risk management are playing an ever-increasing part in business projects. The same is true for other OeKB business segments and Group affiliates. OeKB Group has always very well mastered these challenges in the interests of the Austrian government and of Austrian foreign trade and to the benefit of capital and energy market players, international investors and shareholders. This, not least, because the business policies of OeKB and OeKB Group companies, which are integrated in the OeKB sustainability management, show that, aware of their responsibility, these companies are actively and demonstrably rising to the occasion. Based on stakeholder confidence in such sustainable quality, OeKB Group is predestined to continue in future to bear many serious responsibilities in the interest of the overall economy. On this note, the Supervisory Board would like to thank all OeKB Group employees who, through their work, are strengthening stakeholder confidence in the respective Group companies and whose achievements are recorded in this Report. 5 Sustainability Report 2012 Foreword by the Board of Executive Directors / Management GRI 1.1, GRI 3.5 Ladies and Gentlemen, Economically difficult circumstances prevailing over the past few years have demonstrated to the entire financial sector and to Oesterreichische Kontrollbank Group (OeKB Group) how important it is, from an operational point of view as well as from the ecological and social perspectives, to apply long-term strategies and take sustainable measures. We are firmly convinced that OeKB Group companies’ sustained success can be ensured only if we combine these various dimensions in daily planning and action. Thus, we regard the efforts documented in this Report and our active membership in UN Global Compact, which we have been living since 2007, as sustainable investment in the future of OeKB Group and its stakeholders. Speaking of sustainable investment, it provides the contextual cohesion we apply in this Report. In doing so, our interpretation of the term is rather broad. It ranges from selecting securities for our own portfolio to calculating the OeSFX – OeKB Sustainability Fund Index; from investing in training and further education to taking health-promoting measures; from granting soft loans in selected countries to providing through the Austrian Development Bank (OeEB) financing for private-sector projects that deliver added value for development policy. In this context, we requested testimonies from OeKB Group stakeholders. You will find these at the beginning of each chapter of this Report. These stakeholders – including OeKB employees, owners, contracting authorities, advocacy groups and customers in the foreign trade and financial market sectors – vest their trust in our expertise and reliability. This is what characterizes our excellent reputation and contributes to the economic success of OeKB Group. 6 Sustainability Report 2012 You will read in this Report about our initiatives in the period under review; how we actually bear responsibility in business as a member of society that acts with awareness; how we protect resources and help our teams to balance family life and professional performance; how we pursue a dialogue, proactively live our resolutions and support our colleagues in their commitment. Moreover, you will read about the measures we take to make further progress in terms of our sustainability management. We thank all employees who, through their commitment and service, contribute to OeKB Group’s credibility. Moreover, we thank all stakeholders for their cooperation and constructively critical contribution. Johannes Attems Rudolf Scholten Karolina Offterdinger Helmut Altenburger Carl de Colle Elisabeth Strassmair Robert Anderl Thomas Spanel Michael Wancata Andrea Hagmann 7 Sustainability Report 2012 8 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing responsibility 1 Showing responsibility – events and highlights 2012 9 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing responsibility Sustainably enquired: among service providers for sustainable investors. Once you have opted for sustainable investment, you will look for data and information that indicate whether a particular investment meets your defined criteria, whetherit and promises to meet return expectations or to have the desired market impact. Data provider, Richard Lernbass, and specialized journalist, Max Demel, are members of the advisory committee to the OeKB Sustainability Fund Index (OeSFX) and pioneers of sustainable investing in Austria. What may sustainable investing imply? “Sustainability is on everyone’s lips and even the scientific community agrees: Sustainable investment is a global megatrend. However, what does sustainable investing actually mean to software-systems.at? We maintain that it could never be about foregoing an adequate return rate, taking inappropriate risks, much less knowingly accepting losses, for the sake of personal moral values governing our investment decision. Quite the contrary is true: Rather than exRichard Lernbass cluding one another, in fact, yield and ethics, security and values complement of Austrian financial data provider, one another in a holistic investment strategy that rests upon three strong pilsoftware-systems.at, promotes lars of economic, environmental and social concern. Such holistic investment transparency and sustainability in strategy assures investors that, rather than against these, their money, at last, the financial sector. is working for their innermost convictions.” “There should be a sustainable impact on economy and society. For example when, over the past 20 years, with their engagement in German wind farm and solar park funds, tens of thousands of private investors effectively increased the proportion of electricity generated from these renewable resources from zero to meanwhile approx. 15 %. Secondly, sustainable investments potentially offer sustained, high return rates: A long-term comparison (approx. ten years since Max Deml the spring of 2003) shows that, according to the NX-25 index that includes 25 is founder and editor-in-chief of different so-called ‘nature securities’ (Natur-Aktien) such as BWT AG, Geberit ÖKO-INVEST Information Service AG, INIT Innovation in Traffic Systems, Shimano Inc, Umweltbank AG and Whole Foods Market Inc, the performance of these securities exceeded that of the ‘conventional’ MSCI Global Equity Indices by 200 percentage points.” 10 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing responsibility 1.1 ‘Not my business?’ Globally acting enterprises – business and responsibility GRI FS 5, ‘Not my business?’ was the provocative title of an The new 2011 edition of the OECD Guidelines for 15, 16 > event dedicated to the recently amended OECD GuideMultinational Enterprises includes an entire chapter lines for Multinational Enterprises and Common Apdedicated to the human rights issue (Part I, Section IV) proaches. The new title, ‘OECD Recommendation of and is based on the ‘protect – respect – remedy’ conthe Council on Common Approaches for Officially Supcept developed by Special Representative of the UN ported Export Credits and Environmental and Social Secretary-General on the Issue of Human Rights and Due Diligence’, previews the fundamental changes. Transnational Corporations and Other Business EnterCorporations distinguish between these two docuprises, John Ruggie. The document includes the terms ments insofar as the Common Approaches address the ‘due diligence’ (Part I, Section II.A, 10 12) and ‘responmember countries of the OECD Export Credit Group, sible supply chain management’ (Part I, Section II.B, 2), whereas the OECD Guidelines refer to enterprises opwhich are frequently used in this context. It also proerating outside of the member countries. Under the vides clear and improved procedural guidance intendCommon Approaches, in future, officially supported ed to strengthen national contact points, i.e. offices guarantees shall increasingly take into consideration set up by adhering governments to promote and implethe social aspects of a particular project. On the other ment the Guidelines, increase performance potential hand, the amended OECD Guidelines for Multinational and promote functional equivalence. Enterprises may be interpreted as a checklist for comprehensively examining the complex impact of comFor the amendments to the Common Approaches (as mercial activity. amended in 2012), please see Section 4.1.4 ‘Environmental audit – Export Services’ of this Report. Further information is available at www.oecd-leitsaetze.at 11 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing responsibility 1.2 GreenBuilding and photo voltaics at the Vienna Strauchgasse location GRI EN 5, Upon completion of reconstruction and loft converfor the future, all relating to the GreenBuilding CertiEN 18 sion works at the Vienna Strauchgasse location, ficate. OeKB was awarded the GreenBuilding Partner Certificate for the location in April 2012. In the context of Measurements carried out prior to the reconstruction acceptance into this programme, OeKB committed at the Strauchgasse location indicated an energy initself to present an energy pass, energy savings and dex of 67 kWh/m²a for office rooms, while an energy the status quo as compared to the status prior to index of 42 kWh/m²a was achieved after completion the commencement of reconstruction works. This of reconstruction and loft conversion works. The commitment is met in the paragraphs below. actual heating energy consumption measured in 2012 at the Strauchgasse location was 41 kWh/m²a. The sections of this Report concerning the programme for ecology and sustainability, energy manFor details on heating and cooling energy consumpagement and the ‘familyandcareer’ audit provide an tion, please see Section 6.7 ‘Ecological perspective’ overview of current measures, and measures planned of this Report. Energy Pass for Non-residential Buildings Energy balance (for office rooms) prior to reconstruction works Energy balance (for office rooms) after completion of reconstruction works 12 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing responsibility kWh/m2a Energy indices Prior to reconstruction / per year 67,0 After reconstruction / per year (calculated value) 42,0 Actually measured heating energy at the Strauchgasse location 2011 58,5 Actually measured heating energy at the Strauchgasse location 2012 41,0 1.3 Sustainably on the go – electromobility and carsharing GRI EN 5, All over the world, private transport represents a major ■ Created the opportunity to combine train and EN 18 source of greenhouse gas emissions. Even though carsharing when attending customer meetings; corporations can control some of the underlying causes only to a limited extent (land use planning, the phe■ Continued the well-established bike service day, nomenon of commuting by car from the urban fringe to where employees take their bikes to OeKB to have the work place, gaps in the public transport system), them serviced and repaired on the same day at the OeKB implemented the measures indicated below: employees’ own cost and ready for pick-up by the owners in the evening. ■ Purchased an electric vehicle for the Internal Services Department to replace the previous vehiFurther information is available at cle, which was powered by a combustion engine. In the period under review, the electric vehicle www.carsharing.at/de/pub/footer/ueber_uns/ covered a distance of 1,000 kilometres troubleueber_zipcar_austria.htm (in German only) free, with a clearly reduced ecologic footprint; www.vie-mobility.at/wp/wp-content/uploads/ ■ Joined the e-mobility model region, which supEin-Rueckblick3.pdf (in German only) ports participating companies in purchasing electric vehicles, setting up relevant infrastructure (charging station) and sharing experience (see event concerning the E-mobility regions Vienna – Berlin at the Vienna Town Hall); 13 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing responsibility 1.4 Sustainable investment – findings of the OeSFX performance study GRI FS 8 Comparison OeKB Sustainability Fund Index (OeSFX) – MSCI* 1.200 1.100 1.000 900 800 30.12. 30.01. 29.02. 31.03. 30.04. 31.05. 30.06. 31.07. 31.08. 30.09. 31.10. 30.11. 31.12. 2011 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 MSCI World Equity Return (in Euro) OeSFX Source: OeKB Profitweb, Bloomberg * The management fee of approx. 1.5 % applicable to funds is not considered in the MSCI. Values as at 28/12/2012 (indexed): MSCI 1442.2 – OeSFX 1183.8 Information on the OeSFX is available at www.oesfx.at The OeKB Sustainability Fund Index (OeSFX) was the ■ VKI – Verein für Konsumenteninformation first product to close the gap between sustainability (association for consumer information); and core business at OeKB. For the past eight years, the OeSFX has been enabling investors and fund man■ IMC University of Applied Sciences, Krems; agers to compare, on a daily basis, the performance of a particular equity fund with that of the entire market ■ OeKO-INVEST Verlagsgesellschaft; of ecological and sustainable equity funds admitted to trade in Austria. Thus, OeKB is providing a free service ■ OeKB Financial Data Services; to the Austrian financial market. Current values are available on a daily basis via the OeKB Fund Data Portal ■ software-systems.at Finanzdatenservice GmbH. at www.profitweb.at; historic values are available as of 30 December 2004. The work of this advisory committee and the publication of information on the OeSFX are subject to examination The OeSFX was developed by an independent expert by governmentally accredited EMAS environmental advisory committee. As of 31 December 2012, this auditors on a regular basis. Thus, the OeSFX is the first committee includes experts from the institutions index to have evolved from an EMAS environmental indicated below: (sustainability) management system. 14 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing responsibility Comparison OeKB Sustainability Fund Index (OeSFX) – MSCI Freddie Mac foregoes Global stock markets Crisis threatens to spill over to buying the riskiest subpass a trough Spain and Italy; US downgrade prime mortgages Lehman Brothers file for Onset of the souvereign Chapter 11 bancruptcy debt crisis protection 1.800 1.600 1.400 1.200 1.000 800 600 12/04 06/05 12/05 06/06 12/06 06/07 12/07 06/08 12/08 06/09 12/09 06/10 12/10 06/11 12/11 06/12 12/12 MSCI World Equity Return (in Euro) OeSFX Source: OeKB Profitweb, Bloomberg Crisis scenarios that have been prevailing over the past 5 November 2009 – the day the Greek government few years are affecting indices as well. A study was drastically revised upward its data relating to Greece’s commissioned to determine the reasons for OeSFX public debt. outperformance, respectively underperformance, as compared to other indices. Summarized findings of Up until the onset of the sovereign debt crisis in Europe, that study are explained below. the OeSFX performance curve had been parallel to that of the MSCI World for a long time. From the end The study covers the period from the beginning of the of 2006 until the end of Q3/2007, the OeSFX even OeSFX (31 December 2004) up until 31 August 2011. performed significantly better than the MSCI World. It is divided into four sections with the most significant events being Lehman Brothers filing for Chapter 11 However, things changed at the end of 2009. These bankruptcy protection on 16 September 2008, global changes may be explained by virtue of country allocastock markets hitting a low on 9 March 2009 and tion, since the OeSFX has clearly less affinity to US the onset of the European sovereign debt crisis on markets than the MSCI World. 15 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing responsibility OeSFX Country Composition 01/2008 – 08/2011 100 % 90 % 80 % 70 % 60 % 50 % 40 % 30 % 20 % 10 % 0% 01/08 04/08 07/08 10/08 01/09 04/09 07/09 10/09 01/10 04/10 07/10 10/10 01/11 04/11 07/11 Others US Japan UK Eurozone Europe ex. Switzerland Canada Australia Asia ex. Japan Euro/UK/CH OeSFX Top 5: ~ 25 % US, ~ 22 % Eurozone, ~ 8 % UK, ~ 6 % Switzerland, ~ 6 % Rest of Europe MSCI World Country Composition 01/2006 – 06/2011 100 % 90 % 80 % 70 % 60 % 50 % 40 % 30 % 20 % 10 % 0% 12/06 06/07 12/07 06/08 12/08 06/09 12/09 06/10 12/10 06/11 US UK Japan Australia Switzerland Canada Others Eurozone MSCI World Top 5: ~ 50 % US, ~ 15 % Eurozone, ~ 10 % UK, ~ 10 % Japan, ~ 5 % Canada Moreover, the MSCI includes a nearly 20 % proportion of financial stocks while these are not among the OeSFX top 5. Rather, there is a very strong affinity to industrials. 16 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing responsibility OeSFX Sector Composition 01/2008 – 08/2011 100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % 20 % 0% 01/08 04/08 07/08 10/08 01/09 04/09 07/09 10/09 01/10 04/10 07/10 10/10 01/11 04/11 07/11 Others Consumer IT Materials Industrial Healthcare Financials Utilities/ Energy OeSFX Top 5: ~ 17 % Industrials, ~ 16 % Consumer goods, ~ 9 % IT, ~ 9 % Commodities, ~ 9 % Utilities and energy MSCI World Sector Composition 12/2006 – 06/2011 100 % 90 % 80 % 70 % 60 % 50 % 40 % 30 % 20 % 10 % 0% 12/06 06/07 12/07 06/08 12/08 06/09 12/09 06/10 12/10 06/11 Telecom. Cons. Staples Cons. Discr. IT Material Industrial Healthcare Financials Utilities Energy MSCI World Top 5: ~ 20 % Financial stocks, ~ 11.5 % Industrials, ~ 11 % IT, ~ 11 % Energy, ~ 10.5 % Consumer discretionary Literature: Dannenberg, Charlotte: Performance Analysis of the OeSFX Sustainability Fund Index, Vienna 2012 Apart from the findings of the study, it was argued within the advisory committee that comparatively poor OeSFX performance is due primarily to the strong decline in the market price of solar stocks, which represent a rather large proportion of the OeSFX. Further information is available at www.oesfx.at 17 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing responsibility 1.5 Exclusion criteria and own portfolio Sustainably enquired: concerning the OeKB own portfolio. When OeKB is investing, it does so according to clearly defined rules. Are there exclusion criteria in place for the OeKB own portfolio? “Sustainable investment within a company’s own portfolio reflects its efforts to consistently insert and implement its own values in all aspects of the enterprise. OeKB has defined its principles by virtue of exclusion criteria for its own portfolio and thus excludes investments in shares of arms manufacturers and conglomerates that largely provide arms technologies.” Maria Kucera is deputy head of the OeKB Bond Market Department and Notification Office Article 2 (2) of the General Business Conditions for As regards investments included in the Bank’s own Investment Guarantees provides that claims arising portfolio, a procedure is in place, which excludes from supplying goods, the export of which is governed the acquisition of shares in arms manufacturers and either by the Austrian Federal Act on Import, Export conglomerates that largely provide arms technologies. and Transit of Munitions or by the Austrian Act on Security Control (nuclear power), are excluded from In 2013, the Bank is planning to extend and specify coverage under the guarantees. the exclusion criteria for its own portfolio. This, with the objective to extend the existing procedure to Moreover, since business transactions in the arms exclude manufacturers that largely provide nuclear and nuclear power sectors are contrary to OeKB technology. values, these are excluded on the part of the Bank. 18 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing responsibility 1.6 Awards GRI 2.10 1.6.1 Austrian Sustainability Reporting Award (ASRA) Since the year 2000, the Austrian Chamber of CharThe jury was delighted to emphasize that the quality tered Accountants, along with the Austrian Institute of of reports that are prepared by companies, which have Certified Auditors (IWP) and other cooperation partbeen committed to sustainability for years, has meanners, have been presenting the Austrian Sustainability while reached a level so high that newcomers can Reporting Award (ASRA) for the best sustainability hardly match it at the first or second instance of enterreports of Austrian companies. At this year’s award ing the competition. Therefore, and for the sake of ceremony, keynote speaker, Elaine Cohen, explicitly fairness in the assessment, a special category will pointed out that transparency is a fundamental factor be created for newcomers next year. The necessary in terms of the confidence vested in a company and criteria will be drawn up in 2013. OeKB came in third that (sustainability) reporting represents an essential place in the large companies category. contribution in this respect. 1.6.2 eAward The eAward is an initiative of Report Publishers and key performance indicators of these clients. The Platform Digital Austria. It is presented every year to expert jury nominated this project in late 2012. The projects concerning an IT context, which provide supassessment particularly focused on projects that are port in redesigning business processes. In 2012, not merely economically feasible but sustainable as OeKB submitted its Bilanz Transfer System (balance well. For example, electronic balance sheet transfer sheet transfer system), which certified public acreduces environmental impact and costs through countants and certified management accountants savings on paper, printing of documentation and use upon instruction of their clients to send financial physical transport. The award was presented to three statement data to one or several banks and, in return, of the nominated projects in late January 2013. receive evaluations concerning the credit rating and 1.6.3 Austria’s Leading Companies Austria’s Leading Companies contest is held by sector and, at the same time, customer of OeKB in its Kreditschutzverband 1870 (Austria's leading creditor capacity as service provider in the areas of financial protection company), PriceWaterhouseCoopers and clearing and risk management, participated in this conthe Wirtschaftsblatt magazine. Austria’s leading compatest for the second time. Ranking on place nine, EXAA is nies are evaluated according to comprehensible facts among Austria’s Top Ten in the ‘solid small enterprises and key performance indicators. The Austrian EXAA category while, in the ‘sustainability’ sector, EXAA was energy exchange, an OeKB investment in the energy even placed among the five best companies (place 5). 19 Sustainability Report 2012 20 Sustainability Report 2012 Bearing responsibility 2 Bearing responsibility – OeKB Group introduces itself 21 Sustainability Report 2012 Bearing responsibility Sustainably enquired: with the OeKB Board of Executive Directors. Acting in a sustainable manner has always been one of the characteristics of OeKB – and this will remain a decisive factor in the future. What part does sustainable investment play at OeKB? A ‘genetic code’ has been characterizing OeKB from ever since: Serving the overall economy by performing a wide range of tasks with a comparatively small team. For instance, tasks which otherwise would require every bank in the country to independently operate the necessary infrastructure. Thus, OeKB has been proven over decades to be a reliable, centralized, efficient and non-competitive platform in the financial market and a reliable partner of Johannes Attems the Austrian government and foreign trade. Member of the executive board Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG At the same time, OeKB pursues its own success by contributing to the success of the Austrian economy. Along with economic responsibility, ecological and social responsibilities have been in place for a long time. Introducing a management system for sustainability has provided additional momentum: For example, clear exclusion criteria were defined for investments included in the OeKB own portfolio; products, such as the OeSFX sustainability index, were realized and, finally, the Austrian government assigned the responsibilities of the country’s official development bank to a 100 % subsidiary of OeKB. OeKB continuously invests in its proven business model, in new shareholdings, in developing new services and in the proven social quality of OeKB teams. In doing so, we are guided by the values set forth in our sustainability policy. We are certain that OeKB Group’s sustainable strategy will continue to ensure stakeholder confidence in the future. 22 Sustainability Report 2012 Bearing responsibility 2.1 Introduction of OeKB Group GRI 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.8, 3.6, 3.8 EC 8, FS 11 2.1.1 Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG 2.1.1.1 OeKB business segments and Today’s services include: responsibilities ■ Handling export guarantees of the Republic of The history of Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG Austria as its agent under the Austrian Export begins with the resolution adopted by the constituent Promotion Act 1981; shareholder meeting on 22 January 1946. The objective was to develop the banking business after 1945 ■ Export financing under the Austrian Export and subsequently perform the duties of the former Financing Promotion Act; Giround Cassenverein. From 1946 onward, OeKB has also been entrusted with placement of the first ■ Safe custody and administration of securities; federal treasury bonds. ■ Operating the energy market centre of excellence; OeKB had been acting as settlement agency of the Vienna Stock Exchange since 1948. In 1954, ■ Clearing and order routing to international stock OeKB was assigned the responsibilities of securities exchanges; validation. In 1965, the Austrian Central Securities Depository (Wertpapiersammelbank) was established ■ Providing financial data and key indicators; at OeKB. Its customers are capital market players, such as banks, issuers, investment companies and ■ Process and IT solutions for the investment fund pension funds. industry; ■ Providing access to the SWIFT network through the SWIFT Service Office; ■ Acting as auction agent for Austrian government bonds; ■ Consulting and clearing services for issuers. 23 Sustainability Report 2012 Bearing responsibility Since 1950, OeKB has been acting as the agent of The environmental and sustainability system and susthe Republic of Austria (represented by the Federal tainability reporting cover the entire OeKB Group, to Ministry of Finance) in the field of export guarantees. the exclusion of credit insurers, PRISMA KreditversicheThe Bank is responsible for examining guarantee rungs AG. Albeit not certified under EMAS, Central applications from a banking point of view according Counterparty Austria (CCP.A), nevertheless, is included to the Austrian Export Promotion Act 1981. It issues in the environmental key indicators. and administers the guarantees on behalf of the Republic of Austria. The Bank is also entrusted with the This Sustainability Report covers the calendar year protection of the guarantor's rights stipulated in the 2012. It will be revised and updated on an annual basis. guarantee contracts. The valid guarantee procedure The next detailed report will be published in 2016. is based on the provisions set forth in the Austrian Export Promotion Act 1981 and in the ordinance on the implementation thereof issued by the Federal 2.1.1.3 Scope of the Report – Minister of Finance. Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG Since OeKB Group companies are integrated to varying 2.1.1.2 Sustainability management at OeKB degrees in the OeKB sustainability management system, the respective system boundaries are indicated in Sustainable responsibility is defined as acting in awaredetail below and illustrated by a colour code. Green ness of environment and society. The basic principles boxes indicate Group companies that are fully integratunderlying the present OeKB sustainability manageed in a holistic manner in the management system, inment date back from 1999, when a strictly departmentcluding EMAS certification. In any case, this includes focused environmental management system was set determination of employee key indicators. However, up and implemented in the then responsible departfor organizational reasons, such as company size, for ment of facility management and concerted, targeted example, it is possible that a particular company is inmeasures were taken to reduce energy, water and tegrated in the reporting exclusively through environpaper consumption. This initial project quickly evolved mental key indicators. These companies are indicated into a Bank-wide environmental management system, by blue boxes. If all aspects are completely covered, which was first certified in 2001 according to the Eurothe particular company is indicated by both, green and pean EMAS regulation and the ISO 14001international blue boxes. standard. It took only one more step, which was to be anticipated, that the EMAS-certified company would ■ EMAS environmental management system, employee key begin to implement sustainable action and that step indicators and was made with the following consolidated report in ■ Determination of environmental key indicators 2004. This also marked the beginning of extending EMAS Certificate: Reg. no. AT-000406 the management system to other Group companies. Locations: Strauchgasse 3, Am Hof 4, Wallnerstraße 3, As of the period under review 2003, Global Reporting and Wipplingerstraße 34 Initiative (GRI) guidelines were observed in preparing the sustainability report and in 2006, the new guidelines (G3) were incorporated. In 2007, OeKB signed up to the voluntary global initiative, UN Global Compact, to promote sustainable development and commitment in terms of social responsibility. 24 Sustainability Report 2012 Bearing responsibility 2.1.2 Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG 2.1.2.1 Business segments and responsibilities The geographic focus rests on the Western Balkans of OeEB and Eastern Europe (non-EU countries), primarily the Black Sea region, the southern Caucasus region, Since 2008, Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG Central Asia, Central America and Sub-Sahara Africa. (OeEB) has been financing private-sector projects in developing countries and emerging markets, thus facilitating sustainable development. Quite within the 2.1.2.2 Integration in OeKB Group’s sustainability meaning of the objective set forth in its mission statemanagement system (SMS) ment: OeEB works to provide stimulus for sustainable economic growth in order to improve the living condiThe OeEB sustainability management is part of the tions of people in disadvantaged regions over the OeKB Group sustainability management system and long term directly integrated in terms of internal processes, such as, procurement, parts of corporate communication, The specific mandate of OeEB is set forth in the energy and facility management as well as the internal Austrian Export Promotion Act. It is the responsibility audit. The internal audit of the SMS is carried out annuof OeEB to contribute to developing (primarily) the ally according to the OeKB audit plan. Team meetings private sector in developing countries and emerging offer employees an opportunity to discuss daily issues, markets by applying long-term financing instruments. including sustainability issues, with OeEB Executive In order to cover its credit financing, OeEB applies for Board. a guarantee of the Austrian government for each credit financing transaction. 2.1.2.3 Scope of the Report – Moreover, OeEB has access to budget funds conOesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG trolled by the Federal Ministry of Finance, which may be used for investment projects and in the context of ■ EMAS environmental management system, employee key the ‘advisory programmes’ to improve these projects’ indicators and impact in terms of development policy. ■ Determination of environmental key indicators EMAS Certificate: Reg. no. AT-000406 Due to its strategic orientation, OeEB activities focus Location: Strauchgasse 3 on supporting the financial sector as the motor of the real economy. In doing so, the focus rests on the infrastructure sector and here, in particular, on the areas of renewable energy, energy efficiency, environment and climate. Moreover, OeEB finances projects in the manufacturing and industrial sectors even though, as a matter of principle, OeEB acts in an open, flexible and demand-oriented manner vis-à-vis all sectors. 25 Sustainability Report 2012 Bearing responsibility 2.1.3 OeKB Business Services GmbH 2.1.4 “Österreichischer Exportfonds“ GmbH 2.1.3.1 Business segments and responsibilities 2.1.4.1 Business segments and responsibilities of of OeKB Business Services GmbH “Österreichischer Exportfonds” GmbH OeKB Business Services GmbH (OeKB-BS) is a specialSince its incorporation, more than 60 years ago, ized software service provider owned by Oesterreichis“Österreichischer Exportfonds” GmbH (Exportfonds – che Kontrollbank AG. Its service portfolio includes cusexport fund) has been making an important contributomized software solutions that are developed for tion to Austrian foreign trade by providing low-interest individual customers and standard software for selectloans to small and medium-sized enterprises through a ed areas of application, which optimally integrate into streamlined and unbureaucratic procedure. The same any existing IT systems environment. OeKB-BS relies procedure applies to all applicants. With a uniform inon proven technologies, such as Java, Microsoft .NET terest rate, this system includes small and micro busiand SharePoint. nesses. Financing is provided for export transactions of Austrian small and medium-sized enterprises (SME). 2.1.3.2 Integration in the OeKB Group’s SMS 2.1.4.2 Integration in the OeKB Group’s SMS To OeKB-BS, sustainability represents a central challenge. Therefore, it invests in research projects that Within OeKB Group, sustainable action is a distinct focus on the context of ecological improvements. management approach with concrete objectives that Since sustainability should be applied internally as well, unites commercially successful action with social and the OeKB-BS Managing Board discusses this topic in ecologic responsibility and applies externally (cusemployee appraisal interviews; thanks to appropriate tomers) as well as internally (employees). Through protraining, the issue has become a matter of course viding information on the anti-corruption issue on its in daily business practice. Previously implemented website, the Exportfond raises awareness of the issue projects include a tool to calculate carbon-dioxide among its customers in order to increase sensitivity in emissions in the transport sector. this area as well. Through formulating concrete objectives and participating in the SMS of Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG, the Exportfonds will continue to 2.1.3.3 Scope of the Report – demonstrate its social responsibility to its stakeholders. OeKB Business Services ■ EMAS environmental management system, employee key 2.1.4.3 Scope of the Report – indicators and “Österreichischer Exportfonds” GmbH ■ Determination of environmental key indicators EMAS Certificate: Reg. no. AT-000406 ■ EMAS environmental management system, employee key (Certificate shared with OeKB Strauchgasse location) indicators and Location: Am Hof 4 ■ Determination of environmental key indicators EMAS Certificate: Reg. no. AT-000406 (Certificate shared with OeKB Strauchgasse Location) Location: Strauchgasse 3 26 Sustainability Report 2012 Bearing responsibility OeKB EH Beteiligungsund Management AG 2.1.5 OeKB Versicherung AG 2.1.6 PRISMA KreditversicherungsAktiengesellschaft Incorporated in 2004, OeKB Versicherung AG specializes in providing credit insurance to medium-sized PRISMA was established in 1989. Upon instruction of enterprises. It offers protection from bad debts for its customers, PRISMA verifies the credit ratings of goods and services in western industrialised countries these customers’ business partners and insures active or in Austria and, in particular, protects from losses in debts against the insolvency risk. Having its registered emerging markets. In doing so, OeKB Versicherung AG offices at the Himmelpfortgasse 29 location, PRISMA is distinguished by comprehensive insurance policies is presently not included in the OeKB Group’s sustainand specific expertise in complicated markets. ability management. 2.1.5.1 Integration in the OeKB Group SMS Scope of the Report – PRISMA Kreditversicherungs-Aktiengesellschaft Even though incorporating OeKB Versicherung AG as an independent subsidiary resulted in its formal excluNot included in the OeKB sustainability management sion from the OeKB EMAS certification, this did not, system or EMAS certification however, prevent OeKB Versicherung AG from particiLocation: Himmelpfortgasse 29 pating in the sustainable corporate culture at OeKB. Although the first year was dedicated to acquiring customers and establishing new structures, integration in the SMS of OeKB Group was a declared goal. However, being tied to OeKB in terms of operational ecology allowed OeKB Versicherung AG from day one to apply sustainable criteria in procurement. When business 2.1.7 CCP Austria Abwicklungsstelle für structures were established, the structure for internal Börsengeschäfte GmbH (CCP.A) sustainability management was set up simultaneously. The appointment of a contact person for sustainability The Central Counter Party Austria – CCP.A is responissues created the interlock with the OeKB sustainabilisible for clearing and risk management of securities ty management. and futures transactions at the Vienna Stock Exchange (Wiener Börse AG) and assumes, respectively manages, performance and default risks. 2.1.5.2 Scope of the Report – OeKB Versicherung AG Scope of the Report – ■ EMAS environmental management system, employee key CCP Austria Abwicklungsstelle für indicators and Börsengeschäfte GmbH ■ Determination of environmental key indicators (Certificate shared with OeKB Strauchgasse Location) ■ Employee key indicators and determination of environmental key indicators Location: Strauchgasse 3 27 Sustainability Report 2012 Bearing responsibility 2.2 Registered offices and locations GRI 2.4, 2.5, 2.8, OeKB has its registered offices in Vienna. Except for 1010 Vienna, Am Hof 4; EC 6, EC 7 minority shareholdings in Central and Eastern Europe, 1010 Vienna, Strauchgasse 3; the Group structure is based exclusively in Austria; 1010 Vienna, Wipplingerstraße 34; hence, OeKB maintains business relationships with 1010 Vienna, Wallnerstraße 3; nearly exclusively regional suppliers. The same is true 4020 Linz, Ziegeleistraße 74. for employee structure. The content of this Report arises from the procedures Certification of the management system pursuant to as set forth in the management manual, from requireEMAS and EN ISO 14001 refers to the OeKB organizaments pursuant to EMAS and GRI and from issues of tion as well as to parts of the Group and comprises all essential stakeholders interest. entrepreneurial activities performed at the locations indicated below: 2.2.1 Vienna location EmploAm Hof 4 m2 yees Registered offices of OeKB, thereof 4.297 82 OeKB Business Services 236 9 The vaults of the Austrian Central Securities Depository basement floors. Offices and conference rooms are (Wertpapiersammelbank), where the majority of Austrian located in leased office space on several floors of the securities are physically preserved, are located on two building. EmploStrauchgasse 3 m2 yees OeKB main location, 15.535 285 thereof Registered offices of OeKB Versicherung AG 811 30 Registered offices of “Österreichischer Exportfonds” GmbH 395 15 Registered offices of Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG 817 27 Registered offices of CCP Austria Abwicklungsstelle für Börsengeschäfte GmbH 85 6 Registered offices of OeKB Business Services GmbH 0 0 28 Sustainability Report 2012 Bearing responsibility The building at Strauchgasse 3 was constructed in In addition to shops and catering businesses, there is a the years 1851 through 1852. With 15.535 m² net hall on the ground floor, where events can be held for floor space (to the exclusion of basement and rented an audience of up to 180 persons, and a restaurant for business space), it is the OeKB Group’s largest locaemployees, which is operated by Eurest. tion. Having initially leased only parts of the building, OeKB has been proprietor of the entire building since Sealed floor space at the Strauchgasse location com1981. prises 3,001 m². EmploThe basement of the former stock exchange buildAddress m2 yees ing at Wipplingerstraße 34 houses the archives as well as the sports centre operated by the OeKB Wipplingerstraße 34 works council; the OeKB Kindergarten is located at Archives and OeKB sports centre 1.254 – Wallnerstraße 3. Wallnerstraße 3 Kindergarten 475 5 2.2.2 Linz location EmploThe Linz Branch Office of OeKB Versicherung AG is Ziegeleistraße 74 m2 yees located in leased office space. OeKB Versicherung AG 315 10 29 Sustainability Report 2012 Bearing responsibility 2.3 Shareholder structure GRI 2.6 Shareholders Number of shares Shares (%) Allocation of shares to the equity capital (as at 31 December 2012) CABET-Holding-GmbH, Vienna (UniCredit Bank Austria Group) 217.800 24,750 UniCredit Bank Austria AG, Vienna 142.032 16,140 Erste Bank der oesterreichischen Sparkassen AG, Vienna 113.432 12,890 Schoellerbank Aktiengesellschaft, Vienna 72.688 8,260 AVZ Finanz-Holding GmbH, Vienna 72.600 8,250 Raiffeisen Zentralbank Österreich Aktiengesellschaft, Vienna 71.456 8,120 BAWAG P.S.K. Bank für Arbeit und Wirtschaft und Österreichische Postsparkasse Aktiengesellschaft, Vienna 44.792 5,090 Raiffeisen OeKB Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH, Vienna 44.000 5,000 Oberbank AG, Linz 34.224 3,890 Bank für Tirol und Vorarlberg Aktiengesellschaft, Innsbruck 26.888 3,055 BKS Bank AG, Klagenfurt 26.888 3,055 Österreichische Volksbanken-Aktiengesellschaft, Vienna 13.200 1,500 880.000 100,000 30 Sustainability Report 2012 Bearing responsibility 2.4 Shareholdings GRI 2.3, 3.8 Shares (%) Shareholdings of Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG (as at 31 December 2012) Special banks Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG, Vienna 100,0000 “Österreichischer Exportfonds” GmbH, Vienna 70,0000 Credit insurance OeKB EH Beteiligungsund Management AG, Vienna 51,0000 Holds 100 % of the shares in: OeKB Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft, Vienna PRISMA Kreditversicherungs-Aktiengesellschaft, Vienna (Holds 100 % of the shares in PRISMA Risikoservice GmbH) OeKB Zentraleuropa Holding GmbH, Vienna 100,0000 Capital market CCP Austria Abwicklungsstelle für Börsengeschäfte GmbH, Vienna 50,0000 CEESEG Aktiengesellschaft (formerly Wiener Börse AG), Vienna 6,6046 Budapest Stock Exchange Ltd., Budapest 18,3500 Link-Up Capital Markets SL, Spain 5,1200 Energy market AGCS Gas Clearing and Settlement AG, Vienna 20,0000 APCS Power Clearing and Settlement AG, Vienna 17,0000 CISMO Clearing Integrated Services and Market Operations GmbH, Vienna 18,4999 ECRA Emission Certificate Registry Austria GmbH, Vienna 12,5000 EXAA Abwicklungsstelle für Energieprodukte AG, Vienna 8,0600 OeMAG Abwicklungsstelle für Ökostrom AG, Vienna 12,6000 Special software OeKB Business Services GmbH, Vienna 100,0000 Miscellaneous shareholdings Einlagensicherung der Banken und Bankiers Gesellschaft m.b.H., Vienna 0,1000 “Garage Am Hof” Gesellschaft m.b.H., Vienna 2,0000 Österreichische Wertpapierdaten Service GmbH 1,0000 1 As of 1 January 2013, the Environmental Agency Austria has assumed all responsibilities previously assigned to ECRA GmbH. Therefore, ECRA GmbH was dissolved as of 1 January 2013. 31 Sustainability Report 2012 Bearing responsibility 2.5 Organizational structure GRI 2.3 2.5.1 Organizational chart: Sustainability at OeKB Group Management system Executive Director Executive Director Johannes Attems Rudolf Scholten Sustainability 쩪 쩪 Sustainability and waste 쩪 쩪 Internal Audit 쩪 쩪 Banking and Business Information coordinators management officer Environmental auditor Controlling, Reporting and Payment Transactions OeKB Export Guarantees – Claims Management Versicherung AG Export Guarantees – International and Services “Österreichischer Sustainability team / 쩪 쩪 Export Guarantees – Project Business Exportfonds” Operation Informatics GmbH International Financing Internal Audit Oesterreichische Capital Market Services Entwicklungsbank AG Environmental representative Credit Department Export Services products Organization, Construction, OeKB 쩪 쩪 쩪 쩪 Sustainability team / Environmental Issues and Safety Business Services Products Human Resources GmbH 쩪 쩪 Project and Environmental Analyses Accounting Bond Market and Notification Office under the Capital Markets Act Risk Controlling Directors‘ offices Directors‘ offices – Corporate Communications Guarantees by aval 2.5.2 Organizational structure: SMS of OeKB Group Due to the inclusion of numerous Group companies, management officer. He keeps up communication the OeKB SMS has been subject to a process of sigwith the Sustainability coordinators of the various nificant, structural changes over the past few years. Group companies. In doing so, he is supported by The responsibility of implementing the environmental the management of the Organization, Construction, and sustainability management system rests upon the Environmental Issues and Safety Department and directors of the respective companies. The Sustainthe Environment/Sustainability Sub-department. ability officer of Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG The diagram below gives an overview of inter-company acts as OeKB Group’s Sustainability and waste cooperation in terms of sustainability. 32 Sustainability Report 2012 Bearing responsibility Organizational structure: SMS of OeKB Group Management Board Board of Executive Directors Due to the low number of employees Karolina Offterdinger Johannes Attems 쩪 OeKB Business Services GmbH is Helmut Altenburger Rudolf Scholten fully integrated in OeKB sustainability management. Departments OeKB OeKB Versicherung AG Departments 쩪 쩪 Organisation, construction, Sustainability coordinator 쩪 environmental issues and OeKB Versicherung AG safety. Department head Adina Siegl 쩪 Eveline Balogh 쩪 쩪 쩪 Subdepartment Environment/Sustainability Michael Sasse 쩪 Christine Steinwider 쩪 General Managers Executive Board Carl de Colle Environmental Representative Andrea Hagmann Elisabeth Strassmair Export Service Products Michael Wancata Exportfonds GmbH Internal Audit – OeEB Departments Environmental Auditor Departments 쩪 쩪 쩪 쩪 쩪 쩪 쩪 쩪 쩪 쩪 Sustainability coordinator Sustainability and waste Sustainability coordinator Exportfonds GmbH management officer OeKB Group OeEB Thomas Steinmetz 쩪 쩪 쩪 Michael Sasse 쩪 Kristin Duchâteau Sustainability team/Products Sustainability team/Operation Meetings take place at least once a year. Meetings take place on quarterly basis. Departments of all Group companies Departments of all Group companies may participate. may participate. Section 2.6 ‘Accountability in terms of sustainability’ includes detailed job descriptions of the various positions and coordination groups. 33 Sustainability Report 2012 Bearing responsibility 2.5.3 Materiality matrix Since the materiality aspect dominated the 2013 In summary, the findings of the assessment are indicaaudit, we carried out an in-house survey in preparation ted below: of the audit to determine the materiality of a range of topics. ■ Data protection in a narrow sense and correct, responsible conduct in a broad sense represent In addition to the internal perspective, the survey also the most essential standards of conduct in handcovered the external point of view. ling our services. ■ Other aspects recognized as being important were local and international networking, combating corruption, training and further training of employees or, in a broad sense, employee satisfaction, as well as sustainability in terms of OeKB recruiting. 2.6 Accountability in terms of sustainability GRI 4.10 2.6.1 Board of Executive Directors 2.6.2 Sustainability / Waste management officer The Board of Executive Directors is responsible for The Sustainability officer’s responsibilities include implementing the sustainability policy and further deplanning and coordinating the implementation of veloping agreed targets by virtue of the management sustainable objectives at the OeKB Group and adminreview. It approves financial means and human reistrative tasks, such as, updating the OeKB programme sources. The Board of Executive Directors, as the for ecology and sustainability and sustainability policy; supreme body, adopts resolutions on changes to maintaining all relevant documents relating to sustainthe operational, organizational structure, on training ability; calling meetings of the sustainability teams; measures and on the manner in which internal and documenting relevant activities and providing informaexternal communication is designed and executed. tion to the employees on a continuous basis. Moreover, it adopts resolutions on improvement Moreover, solutions shall be developed in cooperation measures and emergency response. Ultimately, with the sustainability teams in order to keep alive the responsibility in terms of sustainability rests upon feedback loop of continuous improvement. the Board of Executive Directors. The Waste management officer ensures compliance with statutory provisions governing waste separation and disposal. He determines and maintains data relating to waste management concept and environmental audit. 34 Sustainability Report 2012 Bearing responsibility 2.6.3 Safety and Health coordinator 2.6.6 Sustainability team / Products The Safety and Health coordinator ensures the Bank’s The Sustainability team / Products meets at least once compliance with legal provisions governing health and a year. It collaborates on interpreting the OeKB sussafety and keeps relevant documentation up-to-date. tainability policy and further developing the objectives of the OeKB programme for ecology and sustainability. The Safety and health coordinator‘s responsibilities inIts permanent responsibilities include the environmenclude, among others, calling, handling and documenttal audit along with the ensuing improvement process ing the meetings of the worker's protection commitas well as internal and external communication, infortees (Arbeitnehmerschutzausschüsse–ASA); training mation, training and brainstorming in terms of sustainand briefing Safety representatives, Fire prevention able aspects of product development. officers and their assistants as well as first responders; and disseminating information to employees throughout the Bank. 2.6.7 Sustainability team / Operations The Sustainability team / Operations provides stimulus 2.6.4 Sustainability coordinators for sustainable corporate practice. Its members meet on a quarterly basis to The Sustainability coordinators represent the interface between Group companies and the Group’s Sustain■ Suggest centralized measures to provide guidance ability/waste management officer. They enforce implefor targets defined in the employee appraisal intermentation of the sustainability strategy and policy at views; the relevant Group companies. In cooperation with the Group’s Sustainability/waste management officer, the ■ Select the contents of employee information Sustainability coordinators plan, monitor and actively provided on a regular basis; and implement sustainable development within their respective organizations. ■ Prepare the topics to be addressed at the annual employee forum. 2.6.5 Sustainability teams This team develops ideas for and approaches to improvements in the operational segment of OeKB. The Sustainability teams meet on a regular basis to Moreover, every year, after the environmental audit develop ideas for the continuous improvement process has been completed, the team evaluates the register and enforce implementation of these. The Sustainabiliof environmental aspects. ty teams independently determine communication and assign new responsibilities. In 2005, a separate team was set up for the “familyandcareer” project. 35 Sustainability Report 2012 Bearing responsibility 2.6.8 Environmental representative 2.6.12 Corporate Communications for Export Services products Handles external communication in the business The Environmental representative for Export Services segment and collaborates on preparing and updating products actively collaborates on product developthe sustainability report. ment in the Export Services segment. He is in charge of coordinating OeKB responsibilities as regards advising and supporting the guarantor, i.e. the Austrian 2.6.13 Human Resources government, on environmental agenda in international committees. He is operatively responsible for environPrepares the social section of the sustainability report mental project analyses. Since 2004, OeKB has been and determines the relevant key indicators. Continuincreasingly addressing questions concerning human ously strives to develop further the understanding of rights and social issues in the context of such consocial action within OeKB Group. In addition to regular sulting. personnel agenda, the Human Resources Department is responsible for occupational health and personnel development. 2.6.9 Internal Audit Department / Group Audits Handles the internal sustainability audits carried out 2.6.14 All Departments twice, annually, by environmental auditors. Actively collaborate with the teams for ecology and sustainability as well as in daily business practice, 2.6.10 Banking and Business Information develop and live responsible action in all segments and keep up internal communication. Collaborates on updating the law index and provides relevant information as well sources of information. 2.6.15 Subsidiaries 2.6.11 Organization, Construction, One Sustainability coordinator, each, has been apEnvironmental Issues and Safety pointed at OeKB Versicherung AG, “Österreichischer Exportfonds” GmbH, Oesterreichische EntwicklungsImplements changes in process organization; updates bank AG, respectively, and – since 2009 – at OeKB the service catalogue; collaborates on updating law Business Services GmbH, as well. index and internal sustainability audits, on implementing sustainable measures and determining key indicators; delegates the Sustainability and waste management officer and is responsible for safety. 36 Sustainability Report 2012 Bearing responsibility GRI 4.1 2.6.16 Corporate officers Delegate under the Labour Inspection Act Officers responsible for counteracting Eveline Balogh money laundering and terrorist financing Christine Dangl (Delegate under the Anti-money Laundering Act) Compliance officers Norbert Leitgeb Gottfried Stocker Waltraut Zeipelt-Leicher (deputy) Sustainability officer Michael Sasse Data protection officers Lech Ledóchowski Harald Sommer Waste management officers Michael Sasse Helmut Schafhauser Environmental officer Export Services products Werner Schmied 37 Sustainability Report 2012 38 Sustainability Report 2012 Assuming responsibility 3 Assuming responsibility 39 Sustainability Report 2012 Assuming responsibility Sustainably enquired: in terms of transparency. Representatives of the Austrian National Bank and a major provider of provision products agree that, to evaluate activities – and these include investments – it takes accepted, transparent criteria. How transparent can sustainable investment be? “By definition, any investment is deemed ‘sustainable’ from an economic perspective – as opposed to ‘consumption’, which describes ‘short-term’ consumption and represents more than half of the gross domestic product. Only a small proportion of the GDP is being invested. However, this definitely determines future growth. Nevertheless, since investment, whether in tangible assets or human capital, serves for producing consumer goods and services, Andreas Breitenfellner on the other hand, the sustainability debate ultimately addresses ‘consumpof the Austrian National Bank tion’. According to the definition by Brundtland (1987), sustainable consumption should not satisfy the present generation’s needs at the next generation’s expense. However, the ecological footprint clearly indicates that we have long crossed this boundary: Today, we would already need an additional half of a planet to satisfy human needs on a continuous basis. Thus, ‘sustainable investment’ appears ensured only, if documentary evidence could be provided that, first of all, a particular investment itself requires less exhaustible resources (e.g., sinks) and, secondly, it promotes resource-conserving consumption from a global perspective. This is a requirement, which common criteria of sustainable financial investments can hardly meet.” Alternatively, how intransparent is non-sustainable investment? Very much so, I should think. As previous experience and often ‘opaque’ product constructions have shown, performance acrobats shun transparency. When vital interests of customers and stakeholders are at stake, we cannot afford to avoid the transparency issue. Whether or not a particular investment is commercially, ecologically and socially sustainable, will be comprehendible and supportive Peter Eitzenberger only if content and selection processes are transparent. Sustainable investis CSR officer at ment incorporates transparent selection processes along ethical guidelines. VBV – Vorsorgekasse AG It also helps prevent corruption. It needs to be maximal, yet voluntary.” 40 Sustainability Report 2012 Assuming responsibility 3.1 Governance GRI 1.1, 4.8, SO 3, SO 5, FS 1 3.1.1 Sustainability policy The epitome of all responsibility is that of humans for their fellow humans. Hans Jonas Responsibility We provide many central services to the Austrian economy and to the Austrian government. We consider this a social duty, which we strive to fulfil to the joint benefit of the public and our Company. Trust We want to confirm and strengthen the trust that is put in us. Hence, in addition to all legal requirements, we observe social aspects, preserve environmental resources, and act in a manner, which ensures that human rights are protected. Dialogue We know that our success can only continue if we respect all stakeholders. Therefore, we explain our actions, seek the dialogue and take decisions according to the complete perspective. Awareness We know that sustainable solutions equally benefit employees, customers and suppliers. In joint projects, we seek to enhance sustainability in our core business, improve our environmental performance and increase acceptance of this approach. Life and work Work, leisure and family should properly complement and enhance one another. We constructively design an innovative work environment that strengthens our employees, hence our economic power. Investments and projects We invest time, money and commitment in projects that ensure our Company’s and our stakeholders’ success in the long term. 41 Sustainability Report 2012 Assuming responsibility 3.1.2 Human rights in corporate practice GRI HR 1, HR 6, Assuming responsibility means more than the mere International human rights film festival – HR 7, HR 9 existence of policies, guidelines, or regulations. Rather, ‘This human world’ it requires continued efforts to address deliberately the ecological, commercial and social impact of one’s This year marks the second time that OeKB is sponsorown business activities. ing the international human rights film festival, ‘This human world’ in Vienna. The festival was established OeKB is aware of its responsibility throughout the in 2008, on occasion of the 60th anniversary of the entire supply and value-added chains. Therefore, it Universal Declaration of Human Rights, with the objecstrives, within its sphere of influence, to promote tive of shedding light on important issues within society. human rights compliance to the highest possible This year’s range of topics included migration issues, degree. We encourage our partners to take their own life reality of socially oppressed persons and questionCSR-initiatives on a voluntary basis and embed these ing the ‘fortress Europe’. In the context of this sponsorin their respective companies. In the context of foreign ing, OeKB employees had the chance of winning free direct investment (FDI), we are calling for an appropritickets for selected performances. ate sense of responsibility. Even though Austrian exporters, in most cases, contribute only parts of the International human rights film festival – overall projects and thus can exercise only limited This human world influence, their projects and business activities should www.thishumanworld.at not contribute to local oppression or to a decline in human rights protection. Pursuant to the Common App Approaches 2012, evaluating the project-related human rights impact is part of the project evaluation UDHR Universal Declaration of Human Rights procedure required for guarantee applications (see itunes.apple.com/at/app/udhr-universalSection 4.1.4.1 ‘OECD Common Approaches 2012‘ declaration/id399670984?mt=8 of this Report). 42 Sustainability Report 2012 Assuming responsibility GRI HR 1, HR 6, HR 7, HR 9 3.1.2.1 Human rights and corporate practice in detail Article 1 All human beings are born free and equal in dignity ■ We demand and support respect and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood. Within OeKB, mutual appreciation is a major principle of working together and an essential contribution toward common success. We expect this respectful attitude from one another and support it in our relations with principals, customers, suppliers, NGOs, sponsorship partners and other stakeholders. In doing so, we strive for a culture of dialogue as well as open and constructive criticism. Article 2 Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms ■ We offer equal opportunities set forth in this Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, Taking into account various roles and individual strong national or social origin, property, birth or other status. Furthermore, points, our goal is to grant equal rights to all individuals no distinction shall be made on the basis of the political, jurisdictional who work at OeKB. Professional qualification and social or international status of the country or territory to which a person competence are the crucial criteria of our personnel decibelongs, whether it be independent, trust, non-self-governing or under sions. Employees who are in need of advice and support any other limitation of sovereignty. in personal issues receive these anonymously within the employee assistance programme (EAP). Article 7 All are equal before the law and are entitled without any discrimination to equal protection of the law. All are entitled to equal protection against any discrimination in violation of this Declaration and against any incitement to such discrimination. Article 3 Everyone has the right to life, liberty and ■ We look out for people security of person. By sponsoring and cooperation, we foster initiatives, that support the right to personal freedom. Article 4 No one shall be held in slavery or servitude; slavery ■ We buy fairly traded goods and monitor the export and the slave trade shall be prohibited in all their forms. supply chain To us, people's personal freedom is indefeasible. In that sense, we pay much attention to the working conditions prevailing in our supply chain. We thus make sure that products and services we buy have originated under demonstrably fair conditions. In the future, social aspects will be considered 43 Sustainability Report 2012 Assuming responsibility in OeKB's internal procurement of computers and other hardware. Striving towards the wellbeing of the people who work in the OeKB Group, our efforts extend far beyond strict industrial-safety requirements. Article 5 No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, ■ We want to contribute toward exporting high inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. standards and grand values Article 9 No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, Political arbitrariness prevails in many countries of the world. detention or exile. Nevertheless, commercial relationships can contribute toward supporting the local population and thus positively affect Article 13 1. Everyone has the right to freedom of movement the human rights conditions in these countries. Hence, we and residence within the borders of each state. pay particular attention to supporting the development by 2. Everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own, our activities. and to return to his country. Article 8 Everyone has the right to an effective remedy by ■ The right to an effective remedy is being observed the competent national tribunals for acts violating the fundamental rights granted him by the constitution or by law. Employees have access to legal advice not only via institutions, such as the workers chamber (Arbeiterkammer), Article 10 Everyone is entitled in full equality to a fair and but also through the employee assistance programme that public hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal, in the is operated by an external partner on behalf of OeKB. determination of his rights and obligations and of any criminal charge against him. Article 12 No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference ■ We trust and protect with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honour and reputation. Everyone has the right to the We trust in our employees to act with responsibility and protection of the law against such interference or attacks. enhance our employees' individual responsibility. The professional handling of confidential data and classified information is at the core of our business. Hence, data secrecy means more to us than just a legal requirement. Our shop agreement clearly defines the modest personal use of IT services and the handling of usage data. 44 Sustainability Report 2012 Assuming responsibility Article 20 1. Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful ■ We support democratic processes assembly and association. 2. No one may be compelled to belong to an association. Society and corporations benefit from people who want to actively shape their environment. The OeKB Group Article 21 1. Everyone has the right to take part in the government supports activities of the works council, employee initiatives of his country, directly or through freely chosen representatives. and the workers chamber elections and allows employees to 2. Everyone has the right of equal access to public service in his participate in voluntary aid activities in cases of catastrophe. country. 3. The will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of government; this will shall be expressed in periodic and genuine elections which shall be by universal and equal suffrage and shall be held by secret vote or by equivalent free voting procedures. Article 22 Everyone, as a member of society, has the right to ■ We support social security social security and is entitled to realization, through national effort and international co-operation and in accordance with the organization High social security and comprehensive quality of life are and resources of each State, of the economic, social and cultural strong points of Austria as a commercial location. The OeKB rights indispensable for his dignity and the free development of his Group supports initiatives that strengthen social solidarity personality. and assist people in need. In addition to pension plan contributions, OeKB offers its employees access to private health insurance. Article 23 1. Everyone has the right to work, to free choice of ■ We pay fair salaries employment, to just and favourable conditions of work and to protection against unemployment. 2. Everyone, without any discrimination, Employees of the OeKB Group are paid fair salaries that are in has the right to equal pay for equal work. 3. Everyone who works has line with the market and subject to function and performance, the right to just and favourable remuneration ensuring for himself and rather than gender. Fairness also applies in the area of procuhis family an existence worthy of human dignity, and supplemented, if rement, which demonstrably takes into consideration social necessary, by other means of social protection. 4. Everyone has the aspects and compliance in the supply chain with the right to right to form and to join trade unions for the protection of his interests. form and to join trade unions. Article 24 Everyone has the right to rest and leisure, including ■ We want well-rested employees reasonable limitation of working hours and periodic holidays with pay. Rest and recreation of employees keep our team's productive energy alive. The regulations governing working and vacation times were drafted in agreement with the works council and set forth in the shop agreements. By virtue of relevant programmes, we support participation in sports and health-promoting events Programme. 45 Sustainability Report 2012 Assuming responsibility 3.1.3 Climate policy GRI 18, Our climate policy is based on the principle that all Products GRI FS 1 business processes should consider climate change and that adequate measures targeting a sustainable ■ Carbon-dioxide emission calculator for logistics – climate policy, hence a reduction in carbon dioxide research project of Group company, OeKB emissions, should be taken on an individual basis as Business-Services GmbH; the relevant business process requires. ■ Investing in ECRA (Emission Certificate Registry Since the completion of reconstruction and loft Austria), the Austrian registry of carbon dioxide conversion works at the Strauchgasse location in certificates (up until 31 December 2012, since Vienna, the energy index for office rooms has been ECRA’s activities were terminated as of 1 January reduced from previously 67 kWh/m²a to presently 2013); 42 kWh/m²a. In the period under review, actually measured heating energy at the Strauchgasse location ■ Proposal to Austrian enterprises and plant operawas 41,00 kWh/m². tors to trade in carbon dioxide certificates on their behalf through the European Emission Trading Systems (EU TS) and support these in buying and Operational ecology selling EU allowances (EUA) and certified emission reductions (CER); ■ Calculating carbon-dioxide emissions according to the GEMIS database – values are validated by ■ Holding climate-neutral, external events at the experts; Reitersaal hall at the Strauchgasse location. ■ Obtaining electricity exclusively from certified In the period under review, three events were held in hydro-electric power generation; a climate-neutral manner. In cooperation with Climate Partner, these events were compensated by VERGold ■ Using waste heat from cooling units for heating Standard certificates issued for two wind farms in and water pre-heating; Changbin and Taichung (Taiwan). ■ Operating a photovoltaic plant at the Strauchgasse Further information is available at location (installed capacity: 30 kWp). Doha Climate Change Conference – November 2012 unfccc.int/2860.php Transport Link to climate-neutral events held at OeKB: www.oekb.at/de/unternehmen/Reitersaal/Seiten/ ■ Reducing car transport to an absolute minimum; klimaneutral.aspx (in German only) ■ Increasing opportunities for carsharing instead of App private cars; Information on UN Climate Change Conferences ■ Mobility (member of the Vienna model region – Negotiator e-mobility on demand); unfccc.int/files/inc/application/xhtml/iphoneapp.html ■ Concluding agreements with other companies in the vicinity to use video conference facilities; ■ Bicycle repair day. 46 Sustainability Report 2012 Assuming responsibility 3.1.4 Risk management GRI 1.2, Sustainability and risk management are related The key factor in measuring and controlling OeKB 4.11 issues in many ways. These have in common, for Group’s risks is the economic capital, which is deterexample, the long-term perspective and the quest mined according to the value at risk concept based to avoid undesirable, negative impact. Moreover, on a review period of one year, and compared to the OeKB deems both issues part of entrepreneurial available risk coverage by virtue of a risk bearing responsibility. capacity analysis. Thus, risk management and risk controlling are The risk categories taken into account in the ICAAP essential processes at OeKB, which are incorporated are credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk and operain the Bank’s business strategy to ensure its stability tional risks, in particular. In this context, risk is and profitability in the long term. In every instance, defined as the danger that the actual result will fall underwriting is calculated and in accordance with the short of the expected result (unexpected loss). Bank’s risk policy and strategy. The Board of Executive Directors bears risks consciously and in accorThe risk coverage calculation compares the economic dance with the Bank’s risk policy and risk strategy, capital to the risk coverage capital through a multiwhich are geared to ensure sustained, stable interest tier system, which takes into account various risk on equity capital based on handling commercial as hedging goals. The liquidity risk is controlled primarily well as operational risks in a cautious manner. by virtue of a defined survival period, which is determined through liquidity gap analyses under stress. Moreover, the Bank’s special position being authorized by the Austrian government and its capacity In 2012, further development of risk measurement of central provider of capital market services, in and risk controlling processes focused on improving combination with its related responsibility for the the limits system and credit risk controlling methods. Austrian national economy, set the standards for This included a complete overhaul of the rating and its risk policy. mapping system. Other focal points were preparing for CRR and CRD IV as well as modifying the reporting Implemented as a controlling instrument, the Internal system. For 2013, we expect these issues to remain Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) is an decisive. integral component of the management process. 3.1.5 Data protection Data protection means that personal data are protectAt OeKB, data protection applies to customer-related ed against any form of abuse. In Austria, data protecas well as to employee data. tion is a fundamental right that warrants the right to confidentiality of personal data. Moreover, there is a Business secrets and confidentiality in daily business right to disclosure of who is processing which data, are standardised primarily in the Austrian Export Prowhere these originate and what purpose these are motion Act 1981, the Banking Act and the Federal Act used for; likewise, the right to cancellation of data that Concerning the Protection of Personal Data. Hence, have been processed or stored without authorization. exporters are regularly made aware of information reThe intention is to avoid the often-cited ‘transparent lating to environmental issues that are communicated society’. among the other ECAs. However, except in cases of reinsurance applications, the exporter’s name and 47 Sustainability Report 2012 Assuming responsibility amounts involved, if any, are not disclosed during At OeKB, data protection is the responsibility of Data such exchange of information. Likewise, unless the protection officers. These are supported internally by a relevant export company expressly consents, that Data protection coordinator from each OeKB departcompany’s name shall not be disclosed in publicament whose major responsibilities are to report on intions of environmental information relating to pronovations and changes and to verify, twice annually, jects in the stage prior to assumption of liability the respective department’s status quo against data (Category A, in excess of EUR 10m) or in ex-post processing notifications that have been transmitted to publications of Category A and B projects after the data processing register. Notifications to the data assumption of liability. processing register include mainly information concerning the types and respective recipients of collected personal data. 3.1.6 Corporate Governance GRI 4.1, The Austrian Corporate Governance Codex is a guideFor details on the implementation of the Corporate 4.7, 4.10 line that provides listed Austrian corporations with a Governance Codex, see the Annual Report 2012, basis for responsible company management. Compliwhich describes in more detail the ance, albeit on a voluntary basis, is the prerequisite for admission to the Vienna Stock Exchange’s prime mar■ Collaboration of the Supervisory Board and the ket section. The Codex was published in 2002 with the Board of Executive Directors; active support of OeKB. It is revised and amended on an annual basis in light of national and international ■ Accountability and remuneration of the Board of developments. Executive Directors; Albeit not a listed company, OeKB nevertheless takes ■ Accountability and remuneration of the Superinto consideration the rules of management accountavisory Board as well as the collaboration of the bility set forth in the Austrian Corporate Governance committees of the Supervisory Board; and Codex, as amended from time to time, as far as these principles apply to the Bank. ■ Regulations concerning transparency and inspection. The complete, original text of the Codex is available at: www.corporate-governance.at 48 Sustainability Report 2012 Assuming responsibility 3.1.7 Code of Conduct GRI 4.8 In its capacity of central partner of the Austrian econThis requires clear, comprehendible, and binding rules omy, acting responsibly and sustainably, OeKB deems that set standards for conduct. The Code of Conduct integrity and confidence the most essential foundation conveys precisely these standards, based on which of its business relationships. OeKB resolves to move in various markets and under varying conditions. The Code of Conduct thus commuIt takes employees whose conduct is marked by nicates ethical rules and statutory requirements that openness, trust, respect and responsible interaction are helpful in this endeavour. OeKB is particularly with each other as well as with OeKB partners and committed to openness and transparency in commucustomers to meet the challenges arising from this nication among colleagues as well as with shareholdscenario. ers and other stakeholders. A company’s success is based, among others, on the The Code of Conduct expresses the standards, which reputation and confidence it enjoys among its stakeOeKB not only subjects itself to but also requires from holders. Thus, it is important to OeKB that contracting third parties. Hence, we forego business transactions entities, customers, proprietors, policy makers, colthat breach our Code of Conduct and encourage leagues and other stakeholders ever experience OeKB OeKB stakeholders to set up similar rules. acting in a reliable, lawful and diligent manner. The Code of Conduct was drawn up in 2012 and will be presented to the employees in 2013. 3.1.8 Anti-corruption and money laundering Money laundering GRI FS 15 Money-laundering is a processing of proceeds of In terms of historical linguistics, the term ‘money launcrime where criminals try to disguise their illegal dering’ is said to originate from the nineteen-twenties, origin. Once such process is successfully carried when organized crime in the US invested illicit funds in out (the proceeds are ‘laundered’), criminals can laundromats on a large scale. use these monies legitimately without revealing their original source. The elements constituting the offence of money launFinancial Intelligence Unit of the National Instant dering are set forth in Article 165 of the Austrian Penal Criminal Background Check System, London Code. The statutory offence set forth therein includes detaining, investing, transforming and exploiting assets or portions of assets that originate from a criminal offence or misdemeanour as well as disguising such origin of these. 49 Sustainability Report 2012 Assuming responsibility Terrorist financing OeKB guidelines After the attacks of 11 September 2001, the interOeKB areas of activity were examined in order to national community clearly intensified its efforts identify potentially sensitive areas. Detailed, standing to counteract terrorist financing. The elements instructions are in place for these areas. Amendments constituting the offence of terrorist financing are to statutory provisions are monitored on a continuous set forth in Article 278d of the Austrian Penal Code; basis and internal processes are modified if necesthese include providing assets with the intention of sary. Moreover, employees who are not involved in these being used for terrorism. In contrast to money any activities sensitive to money laundering receive laundering, financial means for terrorist financing instructions in terms of statutory provisions concernmay originate from lawful sources. ing money laundering. The Internal Audit Department monitors compliance with these on an annual basis. Banks OeKB directly cooperates with the money-laundering coordination office of the Austrian Banking AssociaFor the sake of preventing of money laundering and tion and the Federal Ministry of Finance. Moreover, terrorist financing, credit institutions and financial OeKB cooperates with national investigating authoriinstitutions are subject to specific duties of care and ties, as the case may be. obligations to report under Articles 39 et seq of the Austrian Banking Act. The centrepiece of these reguIt is noteworthy that all employees on executive level lations is the provision requiring that bank transac(department heads) are committed to observe and tions may be carried out only with identified cusimplement these statutory provisions in terms of tomers (know your customer principle), with Article human resources and operational processes and that 40 of that Act including detailed provisions for identithis is subject to a periodical evaluation process. The fying the customer. Article 41 of the Act governs the Anti money laundering officers provide information obligation to report and the course of action required and advice in this context. when there is reason to suspect money laundering. Suggestions on suspicions of transactions in breach of statutory money laundering provisions shall be reported to the two Anti money laundering officers presently appointed at OeKB. 50 Sustainability Report 2012 Assuming responsibility Anti-corruption GRI SO 3 Corruption is the abuse of entrusted power for private gain. Transparency International By virtue of the Recommendation on Bribery and OffiMoreover, the export promotion procedure provides for cially Supported Export Credits, OECD intends to a variety of strict sanctions in the event of corruption strengthen further the process of raising awareness on during foreign trade transactions. combating corruption. In this context, export companies are encouraged to implement internal manageFurthermore, anti-corruption is one of the principles of ment control systems to facilitate effective prevention UN Global Compact (UNGC), to which OeKB has subof instances of bribery. scribed in 2007 and the guidelines of which are being implemented in the course of sustainable development This recommendation calls for export credit insurance within the Group. In addition to collaboration with the agencies to take additional measures to prevent forAustrian chapter of Transparency International (TI), eign officials more effectively from being bribed in the OeKB is engaging in further activities regarding this context of export transactions. Such measures essenissue. “Österreichischer Exportfonds” GmbH dedicates tially consist of verifying whether the applicant is india large space on its website to anti-corruption. It procated in one of the exclusion lists of certain internavides comprehensive information on risks and potentional financial institutions (IFI), such as the World Bank tial, preventive measures. Likewise, OeKB Versicherung and the European Bank for Reconstruction and DevelopAG has comprehensively addressed the issue and ment; whether any relevant judgment has entered scrutinized its business processes in terms of the into force over the past five years; and whether any UNGC. Consequently, it has revised its General Terms litigation is pending. Discovery, during the application of Insurance by including a provision according to assessment procedure, of any implications of potential which, “...claims arising from agreements, where Ausbribery will trigger an intensified assessment procedure trian statutory anti-corruption provisions were violated to gather additional information, including information upon conclusion or execution of these, shall be exon commission payments. Such enhanced due dilicluded from coverage” (Section 3,2 General Terms of gence exercise scrutinizes internal control systems Insurance). and guidelines of the relevant company. In cooperation with the International Chamber of Likewise, customers under the export promotion proCommerce (ICC), two events were held in the past cedure are subject to such enhanced due diligence two years that focused on China and the Balkans, exercise in case of media reports on alleged instances respectively. The content of these events provided to of bribery. participating companies practical information in terms of dealing with attempts at corruption in order to enable these companies to develop preventive measures on an individual basis. 51 Sustainability Report 2012 52 Sustainability Report 2012 Acting with a sense of responsibility 4 Acting with a sense of responsibility – sustainability in core business 53 Sustainability Report 2012 Acting with a sense of responsibility Sustainably enquired: with the contracting authority – Federal Ministry of Finance. OeKB makes sure that the services provided to the foreign trade sector comply with national and international requirements in terms of sustainability. In doing so, its responsibilities are clearly defined. How clean can money be? “Living up to sustainability and responsible business practice are central challenges that face any enterprise. In a broad sense, sustainability does not mean merely investing in eco funds and nature shares. Rather, it means that an enterprise integrates social and ecological objectives in its economic activities at home and abroad. Environmental protection measures, creating and protecting jobs, quality – hence, a long useful life – of products and plants, Johann Kinast environmentally friendly production and compliance with social standards as is Head of Department III/8 – well as fair treatment of employees have become indispensable requirements Export promotion, export guaranfor sustainable business and investment. The sustainability policy for export tees and refinancing at the Austrian promotion published on the website of the Federal Ministry of Finance adeFederal Ministry of Finance quately reflects these aspects. According to this policy, which is governed by the Austrian Export Promotion Act, federal guarantees are issued to support soft loan projects and financing projects of OeEB in addition to commercial projects.” 54 Sustainability Report 2012 Acting with a sense of responsibility 4.1 Oesterreichische Kontrollbank Group GRI 1.2, 2.2, 4.1.1 Export Services FS 5; EC 8, EC 9, PR 1 4.1.1.1 Risk management for and financing 4.1.1.4 Cooperation with commercial banks of exports and foreign investments and the Chamber of Commerce Companies that export or invest abroad may obtain OeKB is largely owned by commercial banks. It is linked insurance from OeKB for non-marketable export risks. to these shareholders through an efficient cooperation Federal export guarantees – i.e., export guarantees system in order to advise on export guarantees and and draft guarantees – limit the risk exposure of comthrough its capacity of refinance provider for export panies that export or invest abroad. Authorized by the financing. Another financing partner that works with Austrian government to offer and process these export these banks to serve small and medium-sized enterprisand draft guarantees, OeKB thus acts as the official es is “Österreichischer Exportfonds” GmbH, an OeKB Austrian export credit agency (ECA). Federal export Group company in which OeKB holds a 70 % share, guarantees are available to any small or medium-sized while the Austrian Chamber of Commerce holds the enterprise whose insured business transactions have a remaining 30 % share. positive impact on the Austrian trade balance or otherwise are in the interest of Austria. 4.1.1.5 Proven partners of Export Services Guarantee applications are screened by OeKB and subsequently reviewed by an advisory committee set up Austrian export companies enjoy outstanding, worldwithin the Federal Ministry of Finance. The guarantor is wide support for their international activities through the Federal Minister of Finance. the Austrian Chamber of Commerce (WKO) and its foreign trade offices at home and abroad. WKO and OeKB closely work together in this respect. Their joint 4.1.1.2 Financing foreign operations shareholdings in “Österreichischer Exportfonds” GmbH emphasizes the intensity of this alliance. Moreover, OeKB raises funds by issuing bonds at attractive OeKB is a partner in the ongoing export promotion terms in international markets. Channelled through drive initiated by the Austrian Federal Ministry of Ecocommercial banks, such capital is used to fund exports nomics, Family and Youth. and investments abroad. OeKB enjoys very good issuer credit ratings (AAA/Aaa) that are based on the guaranteed backing of its debt by the full faith and credit of 4.1.1.6 International representation of interests the Austrian government. OeKB pays a fee to the Austrian government for this guarantee. OeKB is closely networking internationally with other export credit agencies by virtue of insurance treaties and through the Berne Union, the world’s leading 4.1.1.3 Guarantees form the basis of OeKB organization of export credit and investment insurers. financing through client’s own bank This enhances opportunities for Austrian companies in cooperation projects. Transactions eligible for funding through the OeKB export financing scheme need an export guarantee from the Austrian government, an appropriate guaran4.1.1.7 International debt rescheduling tee from a credit insurer, a guarantee from Austria Wirtschaftsservice Gesellschaft mbH (aws) or an apOccasionally, a debtor country is unable to meet its propriate guarantee from an international organization. payment obligations vis-à-vis the relevant creditor country. The so-called Paris Club renegotiates and 55 Sustainability Report 2012 Acting with a sense of responsibility reschedules federally guaranteed credits and claims 4.1.2.3 Auction agent for Austrian government arising from aid loans. OeKB advises the Austrian bonds government in this regard. Debts of the Austrian government are issued, in most cases, through an electronic auction process. Oester4.1.2 Capital Market Services reichische Kontrollbank AG acts as authorized auction agent for Austrian government bonds. Moreover, OeKB 4.1.2.1 Clearing and order routing to acts as paying agent. The Austrian government is the international stock exchanges major issuer on the Austrian bond market. Austrian government bonds are rated Aaa/AA+ and represent Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG’s order routing by far the most liquid issues on the market. In its caservice provides a platform for participating in the pacity of auction agent for Austrian government bonds, German financial market. This service facilitates a OeKB handles all auctions of Austrian government link-up for placing orders for securities transactions bonds. Since 1998, it has been carrying out these on all regional stock markets. auctions electronically via the OeKB auction system, ADAS (Austrian Direct Auction System). 4.1.2.2 Efficient securities settlement 4.1.2.4 Proven services for Austria’s energy market Since 1965, OeKB has been operating the CentralSecuritiesDepository.Austria – CSD.Austria Acting as central and independent agent, OeKB is re(Wertpapiersammelbank), which is responsible for sponsible for credit analysis, financial clearing and risk centralized securities custody. management on behalf of AGCS Gas Clearing and Settlement AG, APCS Power Clearing and Settlement AG, Energy Exchange Austria AG (EXAA), and Clean Electricity Settlement for Austria (Abwicklungstelle für Ökostrom AG – OeMAG). 4.1.3 Information Services 4.1.3.1 Information broking 4.1.3.3 OeKB CEE Business Climate Index Research orders are carried out on behalf of external The OeKB CEE Business Climate Index provides ecocustomers. Internal and external information pools as nomic indicators that enable customers to assess well as online media are utilised for this purpose and the current and future performance of companies and information is provided by virtue of analyses, studies, the economic environment in the relevant regions. and country or industry reports. The index applies the concept of business tendency surveys to foreign investors based in Austria in order to monitor their business situation and investment 4.1.3.2 Press review activities and to forecast short-term developments. The qualitative panel survey includes 19 Central and This service includes a customized daily overview Eastern European Countries. of current reports by Austrian and international media as well as a relevant, company-specific press archive. 56 Sustainability Report 2012 Acting with a sense of responsibility 4.1.4 Environmental audit – Export Services GRI EC 8,FS 2, In the context of handling export promotion on behalf Projects at existing companies require assessment, FS 3, SO 1 of the Austrian government, OeKB is also responsible even though these need not be assigned to any for examining transactions under export guarantee category. applications in terms of their impact on the environment and on society and, in particular, on the groups Reporting Category A and B projects to OECD after affected by the relevant transaction. This procedure is guarantees have been issued is obligatory. based on the policy underlying the export promotion procedure and the ‘Recommendation of the Council The assessment previously focused on a particular on Common Approaches for Officially Supported projects’ potential, ecological impact; with the amended Export Credits and Environmental and Social Due Common Approaches entering into force as of 1 January Diligence’. Assessment criteria that have been agreed 2013, social factors will be considered more diligently. on OECD level are intended to create equal conditions of competition for all OECD export credit agencies, The procedure governed by the Common Approaches hence facilitate equal treatment of exporting compais supplemented by a so-called ‘watchful eye procenies within the OECD countries. Significant support in dure’ that also applies to applications which, albeit this endeavour is provided through extensive obliganot subject to the OECD Common Approaches, nevertions to report to OECD on the assessed projects and theless, may carry environmental and social risks. discuss these among the practitioner groups. The subsequently published reports on business transactions Link to the OECD Environmental Guidelines (‘Common financed by OECD ECAs are made available to the Approaches’): general public. www.oekb.at/de/exportservice/transparenz-compliance/ The assessment procedure distinguishes between umwelt/seiten/oecd-umweltrichtlinien.aspx three project categories: Link to the Austrian environmental impact assessment Category A-projects require an environmental and procedure: social impact assessment report. These carry the www.oekb.at/de/exportservice/transparenz-compliance/ highest risk, hence require the most comprehensive umwelt/umweltpruefverfahren/seiten/default.aspx assessment. Link to projects of environmental categories A and B: The potential environmental impact of Category B www.oekb.at/de/exportservice/transparenz-compliance/ transactions has already been identified and requires projekte-der-umweltkategorien-a-b/seiten/default.aspx further information. Here too, sufficient documentation of environmental and social impact is required. The environmental and social impact of Category Cprojects is insignificant or non-existent. In general, these do not require any further analysis. 57 Sustainability Report 2012 Acting with a sense of responsibility 4.1.4.1 OECD Common Approaches 2012 GRI FS 2, On 28 June 2012, the OECD council of ministers ■ Non-project finance shall be required to comply FS 3; HR 1 adopted the amended OECD Recommendation of the either with all of the ten World Bank Safeguard Council on Common Approaches for Officially SupportPolicies, or with all of the eight IFC Performance ed Export Credits and Environmental and Social Due Standards. Diligence. ■ Limited or non-recourse project finance (project Thus, amendments to the environmental impact asfinancing) shall be required to comply with all of sessment procedure became necessary and entered the eight IFC Performance Standards. into force on 1 January 2013: ■ The amended environmental audit procedure shall ■ For the sake of coherency, the amended Common include the relevant project’s potential impact on Approaches reference international agreements human rights compliance. and regulations, such as the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the Guiding Principles ■ The ESIA shall include a calculation of the relevant on Business and Human Rights of the United operation’s expected green gas emissions, provided Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC), Interthat these are in excess of 25,000 tonnes per national Labour Standards of the International annum of carbon-dioxide equivalents. Labour Organization (ILO) and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. ■ Associated facilities that, albeit not part of the project itself, would not be constructed or extend■ According to the OECD definition, the term ‘envied in the absence of the relevant project, shall ronment’ previously included social aspects. In be included in the audit. Project screening and future, however, ECAs will have to consider the classification remain unaffected, while projects at impact on society even more seriously and examexisting operations shall henceforth be included. ine social aspects even more diligently. Accordingly, the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) ■ Projects for which no ESIA is required under the becomes the Environmental and Social Impact OECD Common Approaches shall continue to be Assessment (ESIA). In future, all Category A subject to an assessment according to the watchprojects will be subject to an ESIA. ful-eye principle. 58 Sustainability Report 2012 Acting with a sense of responsibility 4.1.4.2 Assessment statistics – projects subjected to environmental impact assessment Environmental impact assessment, separate, or in combination with other audits 2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Environmental impact assessments carried out per year, broken down by environmental category and sector Environmental impact assessments Category A 2 13 11 16 17 21 20 Category B 1 30 34 33 33 18 27 Category C – 6 6 20 24 12 9 Total 3 49 51 69 74 51 56 Sectors Power station, thermal – 2 4 3 1 1 2 Power station, hydro-electric 3 5 8 12 16 9 16 Other forms of renewable energy – – – 1 1 2 5 Refinery (oil, gas) – – – – – 1 2 Chemicals (synthetics) – 1 – 1 2 4 Paper & pulp – 13 4 7 17 5 13 Engineering – – – – 1 – Iron & steel – 15 23 24 15 12 5 Drinking water, waste water – 1 – 3 3 1 1 Traffic – – – 1 2 2 Tunnelling – – – – – – Energy transfer – – – – 1 1 Waste – 1 – – – – Construction materials – 3 4 5 1 1 1 Miscellaneous* – 3 4 6 6 6 9 Agriculture, timber – 2 1 – 2 2 1 Transport infrastructure – 3 3 6 6 4 1 Total 3 49 51 69 74 51 56 * Miscellaneous: construction machinery, training, telecommunications, medical-technical equipment and hospitals 59 Sustainability Report 2012 Acting with a sense of responsibility 4.1.4.3 Projects subject to the OeKB environmental audit and their social impact Projects subject to the OECD Common Approaches of EUR 10 million, for which federal guarantees with are characterized by a project volume in excess a term of more than two years have been issued. of EUR 10 million and a term of more than two These transactions were included in OECD reporting years. These projects usually concern exports of as well. competitive and proven plants or machinery. In fact, these are hardly ever complete plants or overDetailed information on the projects indicated below all projects. is available at www.oekb.at/de/exportservice/projekte/ The list below includes environmental Category A bundesgarantierte-projekte-ab-10-mio-euro/2012/ and B projects with a total contract value in excess SGOK pellet plant OAO Stoilensky GOK (SGOK), a Russian company, and Siemens VAI Metals Technologies GmbH concludEnvironmental relevance Category B ed an agreement concerning the supply of components Type of goods / project SGOK pellet plant for a pellet plant. The newly planned pellet plant is to Guarantee holder Siemens VAI Metals be constructed at the existing company premises. Technologies GmbH Due to many years of previous mining activities, the project is characterized by a relevant, historic environAssessment standards mental impact. applied Target country Russia Credit period 7 years Business volume / contract value 60 Sustainability Report 2012 Acting with a sense of responsibility Krakatau Steel – Slab Steel Plant 1 Siemens VAI Metals Technologies GmbH and the Indonesian PT Krakatau Steel (Persero) Tbk concludEnvironmental relevance Category B ed an agreement concerning the turn-key modernisaType of goods / project Krakatau Steel – tion of a steel plant. With more than 8,000 employSlab Steel Plant 1 ees, PT Krakatau Steel (Persero) Tbk presently is (modernising the Indonesia’s major steel producer. steel plant) Guarantee holder Siemens VAI Metals With Siemens VAI being technical and commercial Technologies GmbH consortium manager, the project objectives are to increase production capacity, improve product qualiAssessment standards ty, enhance plant availability, raise energy efficiency applied Indonesia and simultaneously reduce consumption of operating Target country 8 years supplies. The relevant steel plant is located in an inCredit period dustrial area close to Jakarta, where general emission Business volume / levels currently exceed internationally accepted contract value values for the sector. NZNP Biturox plant Novoshakhtinskiy Zavod Nefteproduktov (NZNP), a Russian enterprise, and Pörner Ingenieurgesellschaft Environmental relevance Category B m.b.H. concluded an agreement with a contract value Type of goods / project Constructing a bitumen of EUR 18.6 million concerning the construction of production and a bitumen production plant that applies the Biturox packaging plant / procedure. NZNP Biturox plant Guarantee holder Pörner IngenieurThe location selected for the new plant is the existing gesellschaft m.b.H. Novoshakthinsk refinery, whose main products are naphtha, raw diesel, gas oils and fuel oil. The new Assessment standards Biturox plant will process the entire petroleum residue applied generated at the refinery and fully meet the region’s Target country Russia demand in bitumen. Credit period 7 years Business volume / EUR 18,6 Mio. contract value 61 Sustainability Report 2012 Acting with a sense of responsibility Integrated Steel Mill Bahru Stainless Steel Environmental relevance Category A Environmental relevance Category B Type of goods / project Integrated Steel Mill Type of goods / project Annealing and pickling Guarantee holder lines / Bahru Stainless Steel Guarantee holder Andritz AG Assessment standards Assessment standards applied applied Target country Korea Target country Malaysia Credit period Credit period 8.5 years Business volume / Business volume / contract value contract value Push pickler and mixed-acid regeneration plant Having previously supplied annealing and pickling lines and acid regeneration plants to LISCO Lianzhong Environmental relevance Category B Stainless Steel Corporation in the initial project phase, Type of goods / project Push pickler and mixedAndritz AG concluded a follow-up contract concerning acid regeneration plant the construction of a push pickler for stainless steel Guarantee holder Andritz AG and a mixed-acid regeneration plant. Assessment standards The plants will be set up at the facilities of the existing applied stainless steel plant, where these will serve to suppleTarget country China ment and optimize its production processes. Credit period 8 years Business volume / contract value 62 Sustainability Report 2012 Acting with a sense of responsibility 4.1.5 Soft loans GRI FS 7, Definition: FS 8 Projects that benefit from Austrian soft loan to selected countries through pre-mixed credits that terms and conditions should foster economic provide for grace periods, long maturities and low ingrowth and consequently contribute to the terest rates. This is possible only through subsidy paysustainable development in the recipient country. ments. Federal funds so appropriated are reckoned Source: OeKB website under the Austrian official development assistance. Investing in infrastructure and education as sustainThe basic characteristic of a soft loan project is its able investment? Indeed, the content of the somefinancial non-viability as defined by the OECD arrangewhat awkward term ‘tied concessional financing’ (soft ment where the cash flow must be insufficient to loan) fits the concept of sustainability. It hardly fits cover running costs and credit payments over a comthe definition of investment, however. This, provided mercial repayment period. that one adheres to the conventional definition of investment, hence expects a monetary return on the Consequently, health, education, water, waste water, invested capital. municipal waste disposal, disaster control and public transport sectors, in particular, are eligible for soft The reason being that soft loans include a concesloan projects. All of these are affiliated with the pubsional element and serve to finance Austrian exports lic sector. Soft Loans by sectors 2012 in % (percentages rounded) 7% Miscellaneous 8% Transport 9% Fire prevention Health 49 % 11 % Drinking water and waste water 16 % Education 63 Sustainability Report 2012 Acting with a sense of responsibility Soft loans by region 2012 in % (percentages rounded) 3% Sub-Sahara 4% Middleand South America 4% West Balkans 5% Middle East / North Africa Asia 69 % 6% Black Sea region 9% Africa, miscellaneous In addition to the above mentioned financial non-viabiinfrastructure, drinking water and waste water, educality criterion, however, soft loans must meet a range of tion and medical sectors are classic examples of soft further criteria: loan financing. Such projects include comprehensive employee training. In general, strict requirements and ■ Soft loan eligibility of the customer country due accompanying monitoring ensure sustainable utilisation. to a low, annual per-capita income (currently not exceeding a maximum of USD 4,035); The advantages for Austrian enterprises include support in developing new sales markets in developing countries ■ Soft loan financing must be characterized by a and emerging economies and strengthening of these concessionality level of 35 %. enterprises’ competitive position through the opportunity of low-cost financing. Implementation of such refer■ Under the UN categorisation system, soft loan ence projects potentially leads to subsequent projects financing of projects in least developed countries at commercial conditions and fortifies these enterprises’ (LDC) must be characterized by a minimum conmarket positions in the relevant countries. cessionality level of 50 %. Links: Moreover, as regards soft loan recipient countries subject to the sustainable lending initiative, the conSustainable Lending Initiative cessionality level must comply with the requirements http://search.oecd.org/officialdocuments/ prescribed by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). displaydocumentpdf/ ?doclanguage=en&cote=tad/ ecg(2008)1 Implementation OeKB soft loans www.oekb.at/de/exportservice/finanzieren/ The population of the recipient country benefits from soft-loans/seiten/default.aspx these projects insofar as the purpose of a soft loan includes, among others, contributing to economic UN classification least developed countries growth and sustainable development. Projects in the http://www.un.org/en/development/desa/policy/cdp/ ldc/ldc_criteria.shtml 64 Sustainability Report 2012 Acting with a sense of responsibility 4.1.6 Energy efficiency projects beyond granting credits, to accumulate savings and obtain insurance, it sustainably contributes to developGRI FS 8 In its capacity of official development bank of the ment in the financial sector. Austrian government, OeEB is an important pillar of Austrian development cooperation: It finances privateIn its capacity of development bank, OeEB provides sector investment projects of a commercially sustainfunds for banks and investment funds that, in turn, able nature that are useful in terms of development are feeding microfinance institutions in the relevant policy. In doing so, sustainable growth is a central countries. In the past year, OeEB further increased its concern. Building up the private sector in developing shares in the European Fund for Southeast Europe countries and emerging markets is a fundamental pillar (EFSE); hence, it is the fifth-largest investor. This fund in the fight against poverty. In this context, however, provides funds for granting small loans through finanresources must be used conservatively and a long-term cial institutions in Southern and Eastern Europe, hence perspective must be targeted. Two approaches are facilitates the creation and development of small enteressential to OeEB: energy and microfinance. prises and improves the income scenario in the region. For instance, it did so for three ambitious ladies, advertising experts, in the Georgian Republic: Three years Renewable energy and energy efficiency ago, with a small loan, they established their own agency, purchased a printing machine for stickers and have More than two billion people in developing countries since been producing advertisement materials ranging have no access to modern energy sources. Such from coffee mugs to T-shirts. Today, the agency employs modern energy, however, forms the basis of economic 18 people. development. Therefore, OeEB finances projects concerning the use of renewable energy sources, in particIt is essential for the success of small loans that these ular. Relevant examples include a geothermal power are granted in a responsible manner. Thus, OeEB is plant in Nicaragua and a hydro-electric power plant in committed to the European Development Financial Honduras (see www.oe-eb.at). Institutions (EDFI) Principles for Responsible Finance, i.e. the guidelines of European development banks. In any case, there is a huge savings potential in many OeEB shares its expertise through the EFSE Developemerging economies as well. Providing funds to finance ment Facility, which ensures that small loans are grantenergy-efficiency measures helps to realize such poed in a useful manner in terms of development policy. tential. OeEB, along with the German Kreditanstalt für In order to enhance the standard of knowledge in local Wiederaufbau (KfW) banking group, provided a credit financial institutions, training measures are carried out line for the Turkish S, ekerbank with the intention of with funds from so-called advisory projects. enhancing energy efficiency. With OeEB support, the Turkish bank’s employees received additional training This, for instance, in the context of investing OeEB to ensure that financing is used in a target-oriented federal funds in a microfinance and small enterprise manner. bank fund (Shore Cap II) for Sub-Saharan Africa and Asia in 2012. The accompanying advisory programmes project prescribes, among others, training and peer 4.1.7 Microfinance learning forums through a specific network, which is characterized primarily by a transregional exchange of GRI FS 7, Since its incorporation in 2008, OeEB has been backexperience. African and Asian pioneer institutions are FS 13, FS 14 ing the use of microfinance as a means to improve learning from each other’s experience and potentially access to financing in developing countries. Of course, develop good practice models. this instrument is no longer deemed a cure-all for poverty. If microfinance is deemed an opportunity, 65 Sustainability Report 2012 66 Sustainability Report 2012 Coordinating responsibility 5 Coordinating responsibility 67 Sustainability Report 2012 Coordinating responsibility Sustainably enquired: with professionals in the standards and certification sector. Sustainable decisions should be based on comprehendible and transparent criteria. Relevant figures, data and facts are in demand. Who verifies compliance of sustainable investment with sustainable criteria? “Whoever wishes to invest in a sustainable manner needs two things: transparency and trust. Economic management in accordance with ethical values is not subject to state control; thus, the responsible investor must rely exclusively on indices, ratings and information provided by the relevant enterprise. Due to a lack of transparency and the inclusion of morally and ecologically questionable sectors, sustainability indices and ratings have been criticized repeatedly. Peter Ertl This, also because company information frequently flows in unchecked. Thus, is board member of external verification of such information – usually provided through sustainability KPMG Austria AG reports – is becoming increasingly important for investors. Auditing methods serve to verify correctness as to content and completeness of the selection of topics, thus enabling the investor to judge, based on reliable data, whether or not the relevant enterprise complies with the ethical values of his or her investment strategy.” Sustainable investment as a specific challenge to the corporate governance system “Criteria of sustainable investment are appropriately derived from standards, guidelines, or even individually, from stakeholder expectations. Controlling investments taking into account sustainability aspects and verifying previous decisions is possible only if a sustainability strategy is in place and key indicators and measures to implement these have been defined. Brigitte Frey Corporate governance structures are borne by boards of directors, advisory is partner at Ernst & Young, boards and auditors. Each of these organs contributes to monitoring, superviClimate Change and sion and control, respectively. In order to extend such shared responsibilities Sustainability Service to include sustainability aspects, sustainability criteria must be implemented first in the enterprise’s business processes and controlling instruments.” 68 Sustainability Report 2012 Coordinating responsibility 5.1 Stakeholder analysis GRI 4.6, Transparent communication and an open dialogue are Section 1 ‘Showing responsibility – events and high4.14-4.17, key factors for timely detection of target conflicts lights 2012’ of this Report. In the context of an acaSO 1, FS 5 among the interests of various stakeholder groups. In demic cooperation, a master thesis concerning OeKB discussing such target conflicts, OeKB strives to restakeholder relationships is to be contracted in the solve these or, at least, clarify the respective positions. coming years with the objective of preparing a new, Examples for such debating process are included in comprehensive stakeholder analysis. Governmental and Economy and politics regulatory control authorities Parliament Austrian Financial Market Authority Federal Chancellery Oesterreichische Nationalbank Federal Ministry of Economics, State Commissioners Family and Youth Federal Ministryof Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Federation of Austrian Industry Federal Ministry for European Federal Ministry of Finance and International Issues Environmental Agency Austria Chamber of Commerce Austrian Development Agency (ADA) European Development Finance Institutions (EDFI) Trade Unions and International Financial Instititutions (IFI) Chamber of Labour European Union OECD Civil society and NGOs OeKB-related stakeholders UN UN Global Compact Press and media Customers World Bank ECA Watch Austria Employees Transparency International Proprietors Austrian Society for Investors Environment and Technology Group companies respACT austria Works council International Networks Reparaturund Service-Zentrum Consultants R.U.S.Z Suppliers Berne Union Future generations International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) International Finance Corporation – IFC Scientific community Paris Club Students European Bank for Reconstruction Local environment and Development (EBRD) 69 Sustainability Report 2012 Coordinating responsibility 5.2 Dialogue and networking GRI 4.12, 4.13, 4.17, SO 1, Objectives and purpose Membership / FS 1 Participating since ÖGUT Established after successful protests against the construction of the 1985 Danube power station at Hainburg, Austria, in order to improve communication between economy and ecology. OeKB is a founding member of the society and a member of the ‘benchmarking for financial service providers’ working group. Further information is available at www.oegut.at EMAS Commitment to continuous improvement and further development of 2001 and ISO14001 the management system; environmental statement including certification at three years intervals. Further information is available at www.emas.gv.at Global Reporting International reporting standards for sustainability reports; companies 2003 Initiative can have their compliance examined by the sponsoring organization (NGO in cooperation with UNEP). Reports have been prepared in compliance with application level A+ since the period under review 2006. Further information is available at www.globalreporting.org “familyandcareer” Initiative of the Austrian government with the objective to increase 2005 audit the compatibility of family and career; awarded the basic certificate in 2006 and the full certificate in 2009. The relevant implementation plan is incorporated in the sustainability programme. Further information is available at www.familieundberuf.at respACT Leading platform of companies for corporate social responsibility 2005 (CSR) and sustainable development in Austria. Further information is available at www.respact.at Global Compact The ‘world-wide pact’ originated from a UN initiative of Kofi Annan 2007 (at the 1999 World Economic Forum at Davos, Switzerland) to alleviate the social and environmental impact of globalisation. Obligation to report on a regular basis. The GRI guideline forms the basis of reporting. Further information is available at www.unglobalcompact.org und www.unglobalcompact.at (in German only) 70 Sustainability Report 2012 Coordinating responsibility GRI 4.12, 4.13, 4.17, SO 1, Objectives and purpose Membership / FS 1 Participating since Transparency Established in 1993, the association is striving to increase the public’s 2008 International sensitivity to corruption through cooperation with various entities. The TI Austrian Chapter was established in 2005. Further information is available at www.ti-austria.at (in German only) R.U.S.Z The Reparatur-und-Service-Zentrum – R.U.S.Z (repair and service centre) 2010 Verein zur Förderung was founded in 1998. Its goal is to re-integrate into the labour market der Sozialwirtschaft persons who have been unemployed for a long time through strategic training and further training in maintenance and repair of electronic devices and thus additionally set an example in contrast to the throw away society. Besides being a member of the Association to Promote Social Economics (Verein zur Förderung der Sozialwirtschaft), OeKB also participates in the expert council of R.U.S.Z. Further information is available at www.rusz.at (in German only) GreenBuilding Initiated in 2005, the GreenBuilding Programme is a voluntary initiative 2012 Programme supported by the European Council to reduce the energy consumption in service buildings. Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG, with its building at Strauchgasse 1-3 in Vienna, has been a partner of the GreenBuilding Programme since April 2012. Further information is available at http://re.jrc.ec.europa.eu/energyefficiency/greenbuilding/ index.htm e-mobility on demand – The Vienna model region is an initiative to promote e-mobility and 2012 Vienna model region sustainable energy supply. OeKB Charity Club In December 2012, the Verein OeKB Karitativ (OeKB Charity Club) 2012 was established under the auspices of the OeKB Board of Executive Directors in order to ensure that OeKB’s engagement over decades in organizing and carrying out the Charitable Christmas Market at the Freyung square in Vienna will continue in future. 71 Sustainability Report 2012 72 Sustainability Report 2012 Sharing responsibility 6 Sharing responsibility 73 Sustainability Report 2012 Sharing responsibility Sustainably enquired: with human resources management. Investing in your team’s motivation and loyalty provides specific benefits – on a sustainable basis. What is the impact of sustainable investment? “Sustainable investment is based on a long-term, social tenor which, rather than aiming at maximum profits, leads to improved social circumstances or better environmental conditions. From this angle, investing in employee training certainly has a sustainable element. From an economic point of view, the spending pays off when such training measures contribute toward less fluctuation and training costs are compared to costs incurred by recruiting Martina Ganzera-Veraszto and initial training. Moreover, further training is a sign of appreciation, since is deputy head of the OeKB Group technical seminars are offered along with personality training. The achieved Human Resources Department impact is reflected in motivated employees, a low fluctuation rate and a positive work environment.” 74 Sustainability Report 2012 Sharing responsibility 6.1 Employee key indicators and gender aspects at OeKB GRI 2.8, 3.9, LA 1, LA 2, LA 10, LA 13 As at As at As at As at As at 31/12/2008 31/12/2009 31/12/2010 31/12/2011 31/12/2012 Employees Number % Number % Number % Number % Number % Employees Total* 379 100 401 100 396 100 393 100 395 100 Part-time 83 21.89 83 20.69 86 21.72 86 21.88 91 23.04 Converted to full-time employment 350 – 375 – 368 – 366.4 – 368 – Age 42.42 – 42.35 – 42.97 – 43.22 – 43.54 – Years of service 16.49 – 14.91 – 15.54 – 15.71 – 16.04 – Ratio of female employees Total – 56.20 – 55.36 – 56.06 – 56.99 – 55.95 Executive level (Prokura) – 31.48 – 30.36 – 30.36 – 32.14 – 32.14 Fluctuation rate** Excluding retirements – 2.97 – 0.77 – 1.51 – 4.06 – 1.79 Including retirements 2.72 5.59 2.31 Investments in training and further training EUR per employee 1,711.00 – 1,465.00 – 1,536.00 – 1,222.00 – 1,188.00 – Hours per employee 41 – 45 – 41 – 43 – 41 – Total training hours 15,840 – 18,067 – 16,157 – 16,790 – 16,658 – * Including employees posted to OeEB, OeKB Versicherung, “Östereichischer Exportfonds” and CCP.A. ** The fluctuation rate is calculated by the number of terminations x 100 and divided by the average number of employees. Due to the low fluctuation rate, it is not useful to indicate gender and age structures separately. 75 Sustainability Report 2012 Sharing responsibility Years of service 2007–2012 OeKB Up to 5 150 5 to 10 10 to 20 100 20 to 30 More than 30 years 50 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Years of age 2007–2012 OeKB Under 30 180 30 to 40 160 140 40 to 50 120 50 to 60 100 Over 60 80 60 40 20 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Age structure of OeKB employees on executive level including Board members 2012 Number Male 50 40 38 Female 30 20 18 15 15 8 9 10 6 2 0 0 0 1 0 Under 30 30–40 40–50 50–60 Over 60 Total 76 Sustainability Report 2012 Sharing responsibility 6.2 Employee key indicators at OeKB Business Services GmbH, “Österreichischer Exportfonds” GmbH, OeKB Versicherung AG and Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG GRI 2.8, 3.6, 3.8, LA 13 As at 31/12/2012, OeKB Business “Österreichischer OeKB Oesterreichische Including delegated Services GmbH Exportfonds” Versicherung EntwicklungsOeKB employees GmbH AG bank AG Total number of employees 9 14 40 27 Thereof part-time employees 3 0 10 2 Converted to full-time employment 7.56 0 37.30 26,30 Ratio of female employees Total 33.33 % 85.71 % 72.50 % 62.96 % Executive level (Prokura) 0 50 % 71,43 % 50 % GRI 4.8, LA 4 Our payroll policy strictly adheres to the principle on professional qualification. The traditionally high ratio of gender equality. The initial salaries of holders of of female employees was 55.95 % on 31 December academic degrees correspond to the market level. 2012. These are published on the intranet, hence transparent for all employees. Payment is according to the However, the high ratio of female executives (2012: collective bargaining agreement for banks, insurances 32.14 %) is particularly noteworthy. The high ratio and IT. Individual career moves are independent of of female members of the Group’s executive boards gender. is remarkable as well. For example, one of the mandates of the Board of Executive Directors, each, LA 14 Equal pay for equal work is a matter of course. Assessof OeKB Versicherung AG, Österreichischer Exportment of employees is based exclusively on personal fonds GmbH and OeKB Entwicklungsbank AG is skills and professional qualification. Similarly, hiring, assigned to a female Executive Director. promotions and salary increases are based exclusively 77 Sustainability Report 2012 Sharing responsibility Ratio of female employees (total and on executive level) OeKB 2008–2012 (%) Total ratio of female employees 70 % Ratio of female employees 60 % 56.20 56.06 56.99 55.36 55.95 on executive level 50 % 40 % 31.48 30.36 30.36 32,14 32.14 30 % 20 % 10 % 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Ratio of female employees (total and on executive level) OeKB Group, incl. posted employees As at 31/12/2012 Total ratio of female employees 100 % 85.71 Ratio of female employees 80 % 72.50 71.43 on executive level 62.96 60 % 50.00 50.00 40 % 33.33 20 % 0 OeKB Business “Österreichischer OeKB Oesterreichische Services GmbH Exportfonds” Versicherung EntwicklungsGmbH AG bank AG 78 Sustainability Report 2012 Sharing responsibility 6.3 “familyandcareer” audit GRI 4.12 In a ceremonial act on 21 November 2012, Federal ■ Flexible working-time schemes with flexi-time Minister, Reinhold Mitterlehner, once again awarded without core hours; OeKB the “familyandcareer” certificate. Ever since the year 2005, OeKB has been subjecting itself annually ■ Teleworking; to an external audit concerning the issue of family and career balance. ■ Sabbatical scheme; This, because it is in line with OeKB’s long-standing ■ Employee assistance programme; corporate culture to consider family needs in job design. On the one hand, this audit underlines OeKB’s ■ Information concept for employees on maternity family-friendly approach while, on the other hand, leave or extended leave; employees working in the project groups are involved in the audit process and thus support OeKB in the ■ Corporate kindergarten (see below); continuous and target-oriented further development of the work environment at OeKB. ■ Holiday camp for school children (‘forest week’, see below); The audit facilitates a structured dialogue, which has already led to a range of concrete measures that, in ■ Opportunity to have lunch with relatives at the turn, have achieved an even better balance of work restaurant for employees and take-away menus and life, career and family: for the family at home. 6.3.1 Corporate kindergarten and holiday camp for school children (‘forest week’) Providing the best possible support for an optimal of the care providers being an English native speaker, work-life balance is a long-standing tradition at OeKB. English is offered as a second language. The corporate kindergarten was established in 1993 and is a decisive factor in terms of the high ratio of In order to help the parents of school children to female employees (2012: 55.95 %). The kindergarten cover the long summer break, OeKB has been offeris open throughout the year and offers all-day or parting a so-called ‘forest week’ for the past two years: time childcare. It is operating two groups: Children Spending a week in the forest with forest educators, aged 2 to 3 are cared for in the mouse group, while the children learn about nature. children aged 3 to 6 belong to the bears group. One 79 Sustainability Report 2012 Sharing responsibility 6.3.2 Innovative working-time schemes The ratio of part-time employees remained constant at 23 % over the period under review. This emphasizes OeKB employees 2012 that, in its capacity of employer, OeKB takes into consideration its employees’ family and other personal obligations. Employees have been opting for various Total Employees: 395 part-time work schemes for many years. Full-time: Part-time: A shop agreement concerning teleworking for OeKB 304 91 77 % 23 % employees has been in place since 2009 as one of the measures taken in the context of the “familyandcareer” audit (see above). As at 31 December 2012, 15 employees had concluded a teleworking agreement and are spending an average of one, or two working days per week at their relevant external workplaces. In 2012, one employee took the opportunity to conclude a sabbatical agreement with her employer. 6.4 OeKB Academy GRI LA 11, OeKB's employees are its most important asset. Their These funds were spent on subject-specific further LA 12 profound professional qualifications form the basis training, executive training, personal skills and lanof OeKB’s successful business activities. The OeKB guage training. In total, 16,658 hours of training were Academy and the OeKB human resource development provided by external trainers, i.e. 41 hours per employee. tool, the Assistants Academy, offer a wide range of inAll data concerning training and further education refer house seminars to all of the Bank’s employees. In the exclusively to OeKB employees, including those posted context of the employee appraisal system, individual to subsidiaries. and Group targets for the following year and necessary training measures are determined and examined on The offered strategic career planning, the sustainaan annual basis. bility-oriented personnel policy, and the continuous optimization of quality standards by virtue of compreIn 2012, a budget of approx. EUR 469,367 was spent hensive further training measures make OeKB a very on improving employees’ professional qualifications. attractive employer on the Austrian job market. 80 Sustainability Report 2012 Sharing responsibility 6.5 Health, safety and work-life balance GRI LA 8 In 2012, as in previous years, OeKB provided compreduring their spare time. Team-sports events, such hensive, internal employee protection far beyond as table tennis, soccer, beach volleyball, tennis or statutory requirements. In addition to various vaccisquash, are organized on a regular basis to enhance nation drives, extended health check-ups were team spirit. Moreover, our annual ski championships conducted in cooperation with Health Consult Gesellare well appreciated by our employees. In addition, schaft für Vorsorgemedizin GmbH. At the end of the we organize regular aerobics and spinal gymnastics day, sharing leisure activities enables and encourages classes as well as Yoga training for those who are employees to pursue common objectives in corporate interested. Besides enhancing physical fitness and life. That is why we organize sports and cultural events general health, these sports activities also help to on a regular basis for our employees to participate in increase stamina, motivation and fun at work. 6.6 Sponsoring and employees’ social commitment GRI PR 6 6.6.1 Sponsoring policy GRI 4.8 Bearing responsibility in a sustainable manner Many of the services provided by OeKB are relevant ■ Our partners’ specific return services, such as to the overall economy in terms of their nature and displaying the OeKB logo, are set forth in writing dimension. Consequently, OeKB bears a specific and verified for each sponsoring activity. responsibility, which is reflected in the context of its sponsoring activities as well. Through financial means ■ Sponsoring should promote employees motivation or donations in kind, we sponsor individuals, organizaand identification with OeKB. tions and social issues, thus emphasizing the fact that we are indeed bearing such responsibility. ■ The Board of Executive Directors decides on sponsoring activities. In specific cases, it invites Principles underlying our sponsoring activities: employees to participate in the prioritization process. ■ All OeKB sponsoring activities should help us to achieve our communication targets. Topical issues of OeKB sponsoring are: ■ As regards our sponsoring activities, projects Disaster relief and social projects; involving sustainable long-term cooperation take Sustainability and globalisation; precedence over individual activities. Education, science, communication. ■ The relevant financial contribution, or the scope of a donation in kind, is geared to the specific image benefit OeKB may gain through such sponsoring cooperation. 81 Sustainability Report 2012 Sharing responsibility 6.6.2 Teamwerkstatt (team workshop) 6.6.3 Charitable Christmas Market – OeKB Charity Club In addition to proven corporate volunteering projects, such as helping with the Charitable Christmas Market This year marked the 28th time that the Charitable and cooking at the ‘Crypt’, some OeKB Group employChristmas Market took place at the Freyung square ees participated in the Teamwerkstatt project for the in Vienna. In December 2012, the OeKB Charity Club, first time in 2012. which will be responsible for hosting the Christmas Market in future, was set up under the auspices of These Teamwerkstatt projects combine skilled crafts the two OeKB Executive Directors to ensure that the with teamwork with the aim to shift individuals from Christmas Market will continue in its usual quality. their work environment into a practice-oriented, According to previous tradition, UniCredit Bank creative and casual environment, thus giving them an Austria AG once again sponsored the insurance. opportunity, through sharing the experience, to internalize the potential of making a difference within their The objective of the Christmas Market is to give own company in the future. Besides strengthening the charitable organizations the opportunity to present group, such experience of sharing efforts in creating a their work to the general public and inform about durable, sustainable product strengthens the individual their concerns. In this context, participating organizaas well. The changed context helps to dilute group tions may offer, against a voluntary donation, craft dynamics and hierarchies that exist in any enterprise, items, cookies or Christmas decorations. All revenues or even bring to life new dynamics. so generated benefit these organizations. In proven manner, OeKB Group employees sold fruit punch at On Saturday, 7 July 2012, nine employees worked the OeKB Charity Club’s fruit-punch booth, thus together at the Kiwozi – Kinderund Jugendwohndonating their spare time in the context of corporate gemeinschaft Zirkelweg (assisted living community volunteering. Last year, moreover, Federal Ministers, for children and youths) in Schwechat. Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek and Rudolf Hundstorfer, were won over to sell fruit-punch and serve the good The Kiwozi assisted living community for children and cause on behalf of White Ribbon Austria and the youths was set up in 1982 by a few committed social Austrian National Committee for UN Women. workers and social pedagogues with the intention of Revenues generated at the fruit-punch booth were providing a family-like home for young people who, for shared among participating organizations. various reasons, are unable to stay at home with their natural families. The Kiwozi team supports and proFurther information and a list of all organizations motes young people in a manner that, at the end of represented at the 2012 Christmas Market are the day, will enable them to take on their roles in society available at in an independent and autonomous manner. http://weihnachtsmarkt.oekb.at (in German only) The ambitious target was to refurbish one room completely in one day. Under expert instructions, the volunteers laid laminate flooring, painted the walls, sanded and varnished doors and window frames. At the end of that day, young resident, Sebastian, moved into his long-desired, cosy room. Further information is available at www.teamwerkstatt.at/index.php?id=4 (in German only) www.freiwilligenweb.at/index.php?id=CH1045 (in German only) 82 Sustainability Report 2012 Sharing responsibility 6.6.4 Cooking at the crypt Pleasure in cooking, combined with a social concern, hot food, a place to sleep, clean clothes and facilities characterize the ‘Cooking at the crypt’ initiative. The to take a shower and wash their clothes. In addition cooking groups provide their own ingredients, stir the to such basic needs, doctors and care workers, social pots on location in the Crypt’s well equipped kitchen, workers and therapists are on duty at the Crypt on a share the food and thus, provide active, culinary supregular basis. Thus, the Crypt team strives to help their port to the Crypt. clients to get a foothold once again in society. For more than 25 years, Caritas has been operating In 2012, as in previous years, OeKB Group employees the Crypt as a safe haven for people, who live in the had an opportunity to take on a social commitment streets. For 365 days a year, round the clock, the outside of their working time. The ‘Cooking at the Crypt provides shelter and, above all, human kindness Crypt’ initiative, which had been successful in 2010 to the homeless. People who have no home can get and 2011, took place again on 29 November 2012. 6.7 Ecological perspective GRI 3.6, 3.9, 6.7.1 Operational ecology and input-output 6.7.2 Energy EN 1 analysis In addition to well-trained, motivated employees, it GRI EN 4, EN 5, Handling resources with care is an essential aspect of takes further resources to successfully manage a EN 7 > > any enterprise’s sustainable responsibility. Aware of service business and safely ensure its day-to-day opersuch responsibility, Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG ations. Energy is one of these essential resources. has been keeping detailed records since 2001 and Selective use of heating energy in winter and cooling has set up a comprehensive, internal body of rules and energy in summer ensures that employees work in a regulations in order to reduce resource consumption comfortable, health promoting and performance enin a holistic manner and identify trends and develophancing room climate. It would be impossible to operments at an early stage. In the period under review, ate IT equipment, from data processing centre to comoperational ecology focused on the reconstruction puter work stations, in the absence of electric power. and loft conversion works at the Strauchgasse 1-3 Similarly, it would be impossible to settle a financial location and on reviewing carbon dioxide emission service provider’s daily transactions in the absence of factors. Due to improved insulation, heating energy modern IT infrastructure. consumption was clearly reduced without substantially increasing electric power requirements for the newly Such business significance is reflected also in the installed ventilation system. This is reflected in emisevaluation of ecological aspects in terms of energy sions as well. consumption. Over the period under review 2012, electric power consumption increased by 2.1 %. Such GRI EN 28 Over the period under review 2012, breaches of increase may be explained by the final works on the environmental law, of any kind, that would have loft conversion and ventilation of the new loft and by resulted in criminal or administrative legal action did cooling energy requirements due to last year’s very not occur. hot summer. 83 Sustainability Report 2012 Sharing responsibility Input Output Input Output Input Output Input Output 2000 2000 2010 2010 2011 2011 2012 2012 Emissions, sorted by Scopes 1, 2 and 3 kWh CO2 kWh CO2 kWh CO2 kWh CO2 emissions (t) emissions (t) emissions (t) emissions (t) Scope 1 (passenger car) – 7.410 – 7.823 – 7.576 – 4.750 Scope 1, total – 7.410 – 7.823 – 7.576 – 4.750 Scope 2 (electric power, district heat) Electric power (Main locations Strauchgasse / Am Hof) 3,791,960 672.31 2,852,215 71.31 2,882,997 72.07 2,943,589 0 Thereof, Strauchgasse location 2,970,060 526.59 2,358,245 58.96 2,402,997 60.07 2,460,749 0 Thereof, Am Hof location 821,900 145.72 493,970 12.35 480,000 12.00 482,840 0 Linz – – 9,207 1.63 9,794 1.74 9,115 1.82 Wallnerstr., Wipplingerstr. – – 52,096 1.31 50,060 1.25 48,837 0 Data processing centre – – 297,745 52.79 310,961 55.13 303,978 60.18 Vienna 21 District heat 1,856,203 243.16 1,215,782 159.27 1,129,459 147.96 931,579 18.63 (Vienna location, only) Thereof, Strauchgasse 1,496,750 196.07 940,996 123.27 862,525 112.99 636,984 12.73 location Thereof, Am Hof location 359,453 47.09 274,786 36.00 266,934 34.97 294,595 5.89 Waste heat data processing centre Strauchgasse – – 216,441 – 123,218 – 215,080 -Natural gas (Vienna, 64,914 16.03 0 0 0 0 0 0 Strauchgasse, only) CO2-emissions Scope 2, total – 1.140.93 – 286.30 – 278.15 – 99.25 Scope 3 (aircraft, railway) Aircraft – – – 309.02 – 270.72 – 23.43* Railway – 0.04 – 0.12 – 0.14 – 0.33 Scope 3, total – – – 309.14 – 270.86 – 23.76 * 1,319,009 aircraft kilometres, less 389,432 compensated kilometres of OeEB, equals a total of 929,577 km as calculation basis. 84 Sustainability Report 2012 Sharing responsibility Classification by separate scopes (i.e., defined segagreement was concluded with municipal electricity ments) is according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. provider, Wien Energie, under which electricity is proviAccordingly, Scope 1 includes all direct emissions from ded exclusively (and demonstrably, by virtue of a KPMG combustion in in-house plants; i.e., in the case at hand, audit) from hydro-electric power generation. The leased concerning OeKB Group, combustion engines of paspremises at the Linz location and at the default data senger cars. Scope 2 includes indirect emissions from processing centre (Ausfallsrechenzentrum) use the orconsumption of purchased energy, and Scope 3 includes dinary power mix. This is reflected in significantly higher other indirect emissions from upstream processes emissions to air. Conversion factors were updated (source: http://www.ghgprotocol.org/calculation-tools/ in 2012. Values concerning previous years were not faq). Concerning Vienna locations, Am Hof and corrected. The new carbon-dioxide conversion factors Strauchgasse, Wallnerstraße and Wipplingerstraße, an are included in the chart on page 94. 2000 2010 2011 2012 Reference value average (342 empl.) (460 empl.) (451 empl.) (459 empl.) (national)* Electric power / renewable (kWh for Strauchgasse/Am Hof locations) 3,791,960 2,852,215 2,882,997 2,943,589 1,347,165 – 4,200,768 Per employee 11,088 6,200 6,392 6,413 2,935 – 9,152 Per m2 (2007: 18,520; as of 2010: 18,780; 2012: 19,842) 227 152 154 148 68 – 212 Per working day (250) 15,168 11,409 11,532 11,774 5,389 – 16,803 Heating energy (district heat) (kWh for Strauchgasse/Am Hof locations) 1,856,203 1,215,782 1,129,459 931,579 1,031,784 – 3,730,296 Per employee 5,427 2,643 2,504 2,030 2,248 – 8,127 Per m2 (2007: 18,520; as of 2010: 18,780; 2012: 19,842) 111 65 60 47 52 – 188 Per working day (250) 7,425 4,863 4,518 3,726 4,127 – 14,921 Cooling energy (kWh) – primary energy included in electric power (Strauchgasse location) 1,587,586 1,684,704 – Per employee 3,520 3,670 – Per m2 (2007: 18,520; as of 2010: 18,780; 2012: 19,842) 85 85 – Per working day (250) 6,350 6,739 – * Source: ‘Benchmarking für Finanzdienstleister’ (benchmarking for financial service providers) – guideline for operational ecology and social key indicators issued by ÖGUT Österreichische Gesellschaft für Umwelt und Technik (Austrian association for environment and technology), working group ‘Geldund Versicherungswirtschaft’ (money and insurance industry), base data 2008. Benchmarks for overall electric power consumption, values per m² and per working day, are extrapolated based on reference values per employee. Benchmarks for heating energy requirements are extrapolated based on consumption per m². 85 Sustainability Report 2012 Sharing responsibility Can the weather impact on heating energy requirements be controlled? Comparing weather conditions prevailing in 2011 with at the Strauchgasse location were reduced from those of 2012, there is hardly any difference in the 862,525 kWh to 636,984 kWh, which corresponds to total numbers of heating degree days. According to a reduction of approx. 26.15 % over the entire year. information provided by ZAMG Zentralanstalt für Meteorologie und Geodynamik (Austrian central office Such positive changes are emphasized even if months of meteorology and geo dynamics), the number of with significant variations are taken into account. A heating degree days was 2,584.5 in 2011. In the pericomparison of February 2011 with February 2012 indiod under review, the number was 2,585, exceeding cates that the number of heating degree days increased that of the previous year by only 0.5 days. Due to such from 494.3 in 2011 to 608.7 in 2012, i.e. plus 23.14 %. small variation, these two years can be compared Despite such increase of 114.4 heating degree days, without any substantial restriction. Hence, conservaenergy consumption in February 2012 rose by only tion in terms of heating energy requirements, which 4,633 kWh compared to the previous year 2011, i.e. was achieved through reconstruction and loft converplus 3.12 %. This indicates that building construction sion works, is all the more impressive. Despite similar measures were effective and caused a reduction in weather conditions, heating energy requirements heating energy requirements. Changes in heating energy requirements illustrated by the example of February 2011/2012 at the Strauchgasse location Excess consumption compared to Rise in heating degree days compared February 2011: 4,633 kWh (+3.12 %) to February 2011: 114.4 HDD (+23.15 %) Heating energy requirements in February 2012: Heating degree days in February 2012: 153,250 kWh in total 608.7 in total 86 Sustainability Report 2012 Sharing responsibility Looking at the year 2008, prior to commencement of construction works, compared to the year 2012, after construction works were completed, the reduction in heating energy requirements amounts to 96,587 kWh (less 13.17 %). Heating degree days – comparison 2011-2012 Heating degree days 2011 700 Heating degree days 2012 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Changes in electric power consumption per employee (kWh per employee) 7,000 6,800 6,670 6,600 6,409 6,392 6,413 6,400 6,200 6,200 6,000 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 87 Sustainability Report 2012 Sharing responsibility 6.7.3 Water GRI EN 8, As a result of the completed loft conversion at the In 2012, as in previous years, it was impossible to EN 21 Strauchgasse location and the ensuing filling and obtain process water from the municipal water grid. cleaning of laid piping, and as a result of a defective Hence, as in previous years, process water piping, magnetic valve at the grease trap at the restaurant which had been laid on occasion of various reconfor employees in June 2012, water consumption instruction works, remain unused. At present, no creased by 5.37 %. In addition to these two incidents, change in the supply of companies with process new adiabatic cooling units are being used as of this water is pending, which is why a qualitative reduction period under review, which may also lead to a slight in drinking water consumption remains unlikely in increase in water consumption. In this context, it the near future. In the coming years, we will, thereshould be noted however that adiabatic cooling led fore, seek further options and take further measures to a reduction in cooling energy requirements that, to achieve at least a further, quantitative reduction in turn, stifled the increase in electric power requirein water consumption. ments. In absolute figures, the increase in water consumption amounted to 531 litres per employee. 2000 2010 2011 2012 Reference value average (342 empl.) (460 empl.) (451 empl.) (459 empl.) (national)* Water consumption (lutes) 9,956,000 7,127,000 6,783,000 7,147,000 3,098,250 – 12,966,750 Per employee 29,111 15,493 15,040 15,571 6,750 – 28,250 Per employee / day 116 62 60 62 27 – 113 Per m2 (2007: 18,520; as of 2010: 18,780; 2012: 19,842) 597 379 361 360 156 – 654 Per working day (250) 39,824 28,508 27,132 28,588 12,393 – 51,867 * Source: ‘Benchmarking für Finanzdienstleister’ (benchmarking for financial service providers) – guideline for operational ecology and social key indicators issued by ÖGUT Österreichische Gesellschaft für Umwelt und Technik (Austrian association for environment and technology), working group ‘Geldund Versicherungswirtschaft’ (money and insurance industry), base data 2008. Benchmarks for overall consumption and for consumption per employee, per m² and per working day are extrapolated based on average consumption per employee/day. 88 Sustainability Report 2012 Sharing responsibility 6.7.4 Waste GRI EN 22, Notwithstanding construction waste, there were no The represented waste key indicators refer exclusively EN 30 dramatic changes in waste production as compared to the Strauchgasse location, since OeKB Group comto the previous year. Overall, the total waste amount panies are merely tenants at other locations, hence slightly decreased. Hence, it is safe to say that the unable to determine exact figures. Nevertheless, the waste amount remained on a constant level. The total Am Hof location as well as the areas leased to tenants of waste disposal costs amounted to EUR 45,657.06 at the Strauchgasse location are incorporated in OeKB in 2012. Due to completion of the loft conversion at waste management. Over the period under review the Strauchgasse location, a significant reduction in 2012, breaches of environmental law, of any kind, construction waste was achieved as a result of conthat would have resulted in criminal or administrative struction works having been completed. legal action did not occur. 2000 2010 2011 2012 Reference value average (267 empl.) (363 empl.) (360 empl.) (368 empl.) (national)* Waste – Strauchgasse building (kg) 143,208 132,938 120,493 113,552 Per employee 536 366 335 309 Per m2 (2007: 14,802; 2008: 14,757; as of 2009: 14,738; as of 2012: 15,535) 10.52 9.02 8.18 7.31 Per working day (250) 573 532 482 454 Paper and cardboard 18.36 % 48.74 % 50.02 % 49.44 % Metal 0.34 % 0.49 % 0.40 % 0.52 % Glass 1.27 % 2.82 % 2.87 % 3.21 % Grease trap contents 14.25 % 12.25 % 13.08 % 12.28 % Electronic scrap 0.50 % 7.44 % 2.99 % 1.45 % Domestic-type commercial waste 62.85 % 25.25 % 27.11 % 28.08 % Plastic waste 0.87 % 3.02 % 3.21 % 4.00 % Colour residues 0.56 % 0.10 % 0.22 % 0.13 % Accumulators and batteries 0.54 % 0.05 % 0.08 % 0.88 % Fluorescent lamps 0.09 % 0.09 % 0.02 % 0.02 % Fixer 0.38 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.00 % Separation ratio ** 73 % 28 % 31 % 32 % * Reference values refer to the proportion of domestic-type commercial waste, hence, higher percentages are unfavourable. ** The separation ratio is the proportion of domestic-type commercial waste compared to the entire waste volume, to the exclusion of grease trap contents. 89 Sustainability Report 2012 Sharing responsibility 2000 2010 2011 2012 Reference value average (267 empl.) (363 empl.) (360 empl.) (368 empl.) (national)* Waste (output) – Vienna location Strauchgasse building (kg) Non-hazardous waste Domestic-type commercial waste 90,000 34,900 32,670 31,890 9,200 – 46,000 Paper 26,288 64,799 60,269 56,122 21,344 – 82,432 Glass 1,824 3,744 3,456 3,648 Plastic waste 1,248 4,014 3,872 4,545 Scrap metal and metal scrap 480 650 480 590 Grease trap contents 20,410 16,280 15,760 13,940 Electronic scrap 715 9,885 3,607 1,647 Hazardous waste Developer, fixer 540 – – – Colour residues 800 132 264 145 Accumulators, batteries 774 73 91 1,000** Fluorescent lamps 129 121 24 25 Construction waste loft conversion Debris – 59,571 1,058,000 11,910 Construction and demolition timber – 35,400 592,460 0 Demolition rubble and debris – 513,300 0 0 Construction site waste – 76,800 42,000 115,540 Asbestos cement – 0 34,820 0 Demolition concrete – 24,820 0 0 Iron and steel waste, contaminated – 6,720 0 1,320 Domestic-type commercial waste – 1,660 0 0 * Source: ‘Benchmarking für Finanzdienstleister’ (benchmarking for financial service providers) – guideline for operational ecology and social key indicators issued by ÖGUT Österreichische Gesellschaft für Umwelt und Technik (Austrian association for environment and technology), working group ‘Geldund Versicherungswirtschaft’ (money and insurance industry), base data 2008. ** The previously existing emergency power supply was discontinued. 90 Sustainability Report 2012 Sharing responsibility 6.7.4.1 Findings of the residual waste analysis The first new residual waste analysis in more than However, these generally positive findings after more ten years was prepared in the period under review. than 10 years of environmental and waste manageThe findings of this new analysis illustrate progress ment are overshadowed by a significant increase in made in terms of waste separation. For instance, the biogenic waste and table scraps, with a weight ratio proportion of waste paper in residual waste decreased plus of 41 %. It is suspected that this is due to bad to 7 %. waste separation habits of several tenant businesses at the Strauchgasse location. Consequently, the proSimilarly, the new analysis produced positive findings portion of misthrows from this fraction should be sigin terms of reusable materials, such as cardboard nificantly reduced over the coming years in order to packaging and plastic. improve further the otherwise encouraging separation quota. Findings of the residual waste analysis (excerpt) Weight percentage 50 residual waste 2001 40 Weight percentage 30 residual waste 2012 20 10 0 Waste paper Cardboard Plastic Bio/Food waste 6.7.5 Paper GRI EN 2 The cyclical rise and decline in paper consumption reduction in consumption by 66 sheets per person. of previous years continued in the period under At 99.52 %, the proportion of recycling paper review in terms of absolute consumption. However, remained nearly constant. compared to the previous year, there was a slight 91 Sustainability Report 2012 Sharing responsibility 2000 2010 2011 2012 Reference value average (342 empl.) (467 empl.)* (457 empl.)* (464 empl.)* (national)** Copy paper (A4 sheets) 3,540,157 4,046,500 3,338,500 3,359,000 3,364,000 – 5,220,000 Per employee 10,351 8,665 7,305 7,239 7,250 – 11,250 Recycling paper 4.40 % 88.70 % 99.66 % 99.52 % – White paper (TCF) 95.60 % 11.30 % 0.34 % 0.48 % – * Excluding the Linz location, where paper is procured separately. ** Source: ‘Benchmarking für Finanzdienstleister’ (benchmarking for financial service providers) – guideline for operational ecology and social key indicators issued by ÖGUT Österreichische Gesellschaft für Umwelt und Technik (Austrian association for environment and technology), working group ‘Geldund Versicherungswirtschaft’ (money and insurance industry), base data 2008. Benchmarks for total consumption are extrapolated based on consumption per employee. 6.7.6 Business travel and sustainable mobility GRI EN 18, Over the past few years, business travel has become agreement, we achieve cost and are able to present EN 29, EC 4 the key factor of OeKB Group’s carbon-dioxide balance. carsharing as an environmentally sustainable, alternaParticularly noteworthy is the large proportion of air tive means of transport. travel in business travel, which was reduced however by 5 % this year. Since air travel can be controlled only Emission from air travel relating to the Austrian Develto a limited extent, measures taken in the period unopment Bank’s (OeEB) business operations enjoy der review increasingly concerned individual transport. special status. Since detailed evaluations are available concerning OeEB employees’ travelling which, The OeKB Dispatch Department has been using an with the majority of projects being located in nonelectric vehicle of the Citroën brand since May 2012. European countries, is mostly by air, these are referred Replacing the previous diesel passenger car, this to in calculating carbon-dioxide equivalents / traffic. electric vehicle contributes significantly towards In line with a sustainability objective set in 2011, reducing carbon-dioxide and fine particles emissions. OeEB carbon-dioxide emissions from business travel Purchasing the electric vehicle was possible because are compensated through a reforestation project in OeKB joined the Vienna e-mobility model region. The Ethiopia that is operated by the University of Natural charging station for the electric vehicle, which is Resources and Life Sciences, Vienna. Hence, emispowered exclusively by renewable energy, is located sions from OeEB air travel are not reckoned in calcuat the parking garage on Freyung square. This marks lating OeKB carbon-dioxide emissions from air travel. the first time that a (nearly) carbon-dioxide neutral means of transport is available for transport in VienFurther information is available at na. Last year, moreover, OeKB concluded a cooperation agreement with a carsharing provider. Under this www.boku.ac.at/co2-klimaschutzprojekt.html 92 Sustainability Report 2012 Sharing responsibility 2000 2010 2011 2012 Changes Reference (325 empl.) (478 empl.) (468 empl.) (474 empl.) compared to value National previous year average* Business travel (km) 1,038,017 1,667,405 1,441,436 1,391,513 -49,923 2,080,860 Per employee 2,867 3,488 3,080 2,936 -144 4,390 Railway 1.36 % 2.44 % 0.90 % 2.73 % +1.83 % – Aircraft 94.86 % 95.04 % 96.32 % 94.79 % -1.53 % – Passenger car 3.78 % 2.52 % 2.78 % 2.48 % -0.30 % – Per working day (250) 4,152 6,670 5,776 5,566 -210 km 8,323 Carbon-dioxide emissions from traffic (kg) 202,270 317,088 278,436 187,180 -91,256 – Per employee 559 663 595 395 -200 kg – Per working day (250) 809 1,268 1,114 749 -365 kg – * Source: ‘Benchmarking für Finanzdienstleister’ (benchmarking for financial service providers) – guideline for operational ecology and social key indicators issued by ÖGUT Österreichische Gesellschaft für Umwelt und Technik (Austrian association for environment and technology), working group ‘Geldund Versicherungswirtschaft’ (money and insurance industry), base data 2008. 6.7.7 Carbon-dioxide emissions GRI EN 16 Changes by energy source (carbon-dioxide emissions – ‘000 t) 1,400 Traffic 1,200 Natural gas 1,000 District heat 800 Electric power 600 400 200 0 2000 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 93 Sustainability Report 2012 Sharing responsibility CarbonSources dioxide (kg) Conversion chart to determine carbon-dioxide emissions 1 km railway (electric) / person* 1 km railway (electric) / person 0,0087 Environmental Agency Austria 2012 1 km aircraft / person, national 0,0406 Environmental Agency Austria 2012 1 km aircraft / person, international 0,0252 Environmental Agency Austria 2012 1 km passenger car / vehicle 0,1558 Environmental Agency Austria 2012 1 kWh electric power 0,1999 Linz Strombetrieb GmbH & Co KG 1 kWh hydro-electric power 0,0000 Wien Energie Vertrieb GmbH & Co KG 1 kWh district heat 0,0200 2012 Act Amending the Viennese Construction Ordinance (technical amendment); energy pass, Vienna Municipal Department MA 37 * All conversion factors indicated above have been revised on occasion of the EMAS audit of the period under review. 6.7.8 Procurement On principle, replacements and new purchases of Environment and Water Management. Provided that a items, including office furniture, office supplies and product is registered in this website’s database, it is IT equipment, are selected by the department where deemed sustainable, in any case. If the desired product such items are needed through a pre-selection process. is not indicated on the website, the internal procurement The Sustainability officer subsequently verifies that criteria for office supplies shall apply. the products pre-selected by the Procurement officer comply with sustainability criteria from the criteria In addition to measurable criteria (such as electric power catalogue. consumption, proportion of recyclable components, etc.), procurement takes into consideration certificates The criteria catalogue, ‘Sustainable procurement at and (product) quality seals for all product groups. The OeKB’, includes a convolute of principles in terms of susSustainability officer evaluates and prioritizes individual tainability to be observed in the procurement procedure. quality seals based on his experience and expertise. In These principles are based on a foundation of general, this context, the relevant manufacturer’s commitment basic rules of universal applicability. Superimposed upon to sustainability is evaluated based on its environmental, these basic rules are more elaborate, detailed rules CSR and sustainability reporting practice. After the concerning the office supplies, IT hardware, employee Sustainability officer has investigated the products catering, construction, merchandising and energy proand manufacturers of these, he provides such feedcurement sectors. Sustainable handling of OeKB proback to the Procurement officer who subsequently curement is based on these superimposed pillars and selects one of the eligible products based on his own on the basic principles of the criteria catalogue. evaluation and the Sustainability officer’s expertise. Concerning procurement of office supplies, in particuOeKB does not procure any products containing PVC lar, reference is made to the www.bueroeinkauf.at and prefers renewable, recyclable, repairable, regional (office procurement) platform maintained by the products and suppliers that address social issues as Austrian Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, defined in the UN Global Compact. 94 Sustainability Report 2012 Sharing responsibility 6.7.9 Miscellaneous key indicators It takes more than just the total of all material input With OeKB having its traditional roots in Austria and flows, for all processes within an enterprise to be its registered offices in Vienna, coffee plays a signirunning friction-free. The employees of an enterprise ficant part in day-to-day business life. Therefore, we are the most important factor in achieving corporate determinate key figures for coffee and other, similar targets and handling all operational responsibilities. areas. 2011 2012 Changes (457 empl.) (457 empl.) 2011–2012 Coffee (kg) 992 997 +5 Per employee 2.17 2.15 -0.02 Per working day (250) 3.97 3.99 +0.02 Proportion of Fair-Trade coffee 48.11 % 61.28 % +13.17 % Mineral water (litres) 24,210 24,109 -101 Per employee 52.98 51.96 -1.02 Per working day (250) 96.84 96.44 -0.40 Milk (litres) 5,295 5,761 +466 Per employee 11.59 12.39 +0.8 Per working day (250) 21.18 23.04 +1.86 Proportion of certified organic milk 68.94 % 76.13 % +7.19 % 95 Sustainability Report 2012 96 Sustainability Report 2012 Making responsibility measurable 7 Making responsibility measurable 97 Sustainability Report 2012 Making responsibility measurable Sustainably enquired: on the subject of economy and development OeEB: Combining Business and Development on a Sustainable Level Are sustainable investments profitable? “OeEB finances private-sector investment projects and evaluates these in terms of economic sustainability and usefulness for development-policy – these factors determine the sustainability of a particular project. At the same time, we were able to secure jobs, promote enterprises and, in particular, contribute to improving energy supply in developing countries. Figures demonstrating these effects (development-policy usefulness / profitability) are pubKristin Duchâteau, lished annually in our Development Report, which is available at the OeEB Head of Department Advisory website. In the first five years, none of the OeEB projects defaulted (economic Programmes at Oesterreichische profitability). Therefore, these projects sustainably contribute to improving Entwicklungsbank AG local living conditions.” 98 Sustainability Report 2012 Making responsibility measurable 7.1 Commercial development GRI 2.8, 3.9, EC 1 7.1.1 Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG EUR ‘000 2010 2011 2012 Commercial development – Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG Core capital 342,390 367,847 397,447 Eligible equity capital 459,237 490,459 521,212 Required equity capital 49,844 55,181 59,805 Operating result 79,313 78,433 78,798 Group net income 71,983 50,167 82,433 Balance sheet total 35,802,286 37,978,215 32,767,934 Dividends payable 20,020 20,020 30,008 EUR per share 22.75 22.75 34.10 Number of shares 880,000 880,000 880,000 Yield per share 81.80 57.01 93.67 Return on Equity (net income / cc) 21.02 % 13.64 % 20.74 % Cost/income ratio 50.24 % 50.45 % 51.12 % EUR ‘000 2010 2011 2012 Cost breakdown Operating expenditure 22,568 22,397 22,579 Personnel cost 53,315 53,421 55,290 Salaries 35,953 36,291 36,745 Social benefits 7,620 8,239 7,778 Cost of pension scheme and social security contributions 9,742 8,891 10,767 Taxes 20,699 14,709 23,879 99 Sustainability Report 2012 Making responsibility measurable 7.1.2 OeKB Versicherung AG EUR ‘000 2010 2011 2012 Commercial development – OeKB Versicherung AG Premiums earned 23,701 24,669 22,027 Claims ratio (effective claims: premiums earned) 36.20 % 44.82 % 36.01 % Equity 35,285 36,950 37,856 Balance sheet total 54,928 57,173 56,579 Return on ordinary activities 2,244 3,818 3,466 Profit for the year 1,829 2,864 2,607 ROE 5.24 % 7.93 % 6.97 % Employees 41 42 40 EUR ‘000 2010 2011 2012 Cost breakdown Operating expenditure 2,136 2,345 2,313 Personnel cost 3,242 3,303 3,647 Salaries 2,461 2,473 2,678 Social benefits 43 40 54 Cost of pension scheme and social security contributions 738 790 915 Taxes 415 954 859 For a detailed report on the commercial development of OeKB Versicherung AG, please refer to its Annual Report 2012. 100 Sustainability Report 2012 Making responsibility measurable 7.1.3 „Österreichischer Exportfonds“ GmbH EUR ‘000 2010 2011 2012 Commercial development – “Österreichischer Exportfonds” GmbH Credits outstanding 793,011 823,867 1,038,519 Equity 12,581 12,701 13,203 Balance sheet total 792,718 827,590 1,037,860 Return on ordinary activities 642 689 772 Net income 465 465 465 Employees 14 13 14 EUR ‘000 2010 2011 2012 Cost breakdown Operating expenditure 394 439 460 Personnel cost 1,495 1,590 1,311 Salaries 1,121 1,177 1,120 Social benefits 217 228 199 Cost of pension scheme and social security contributions 157 185 -8 Taxes 177 224 307 101 Sustainability Report 2012 Making responsibility measurable 7.1.4 OeKB Business Services GmbH EUR ‘000 2010 2011 2012 Commercial development – OeKB Business Services GmbH Sales revenue* 1,270 1,348 2,537 Equity 2,121 2,195 2,247 Balance sheet total 2,407 2,377 2,560 Return on ordinary activities 97 89 70 Net income 73 74 52 Employees, average 9 10 9 EUR ‘000 2010 2011 2012 Cost breakdown Purchases* 220 456 1,599 Personnel cost 577 600 678 Thereof, salaries 443 456 510 Miscellaneous operating costs 385 293 241 Taxes 24 15 17 * Purchases and sales revenue vary subject to sales of hard/software and carbon dioxide emission certificates. 102 Sustainability Report 2012 Making responsibility measurable 7.1.5 Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG EUR ‘000 2010 2011 2012 7.1.5 Commercial development – Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG Core capital 5,890 6,464 7,136 Eligible equity capital 6,276 7,507 8,835 Required equity capital (Article 22 of the Austrian Banking Act) 501 680 820 Operating result 1,581 1,991 2,104 Group net income 782 849 902 Annual profit 280 274 230 EUR ‘000 2010 2011 2012 Cost breakdown Operating expenditure 883 1,084 1,677 Personnel cost 1,789 2,384 2,622 Salaries 1,462 1,921 2,081 Social benefits 284 407 434 Cost of pension scheme and social security contributions 43 56 107 Taxes 373 502 529 103 Sustainability Report 2012 104 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing commitment – shaping the future 8 Showing commitment – shaping the future 105 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing commitment – shaping the future Sustainably enquired: with the Sustainability Officer. Declarations of intent are not enough to make a sustainable enterprise, but sustainability as an end in itself is always too much. How far can sustainability management reach? “Rephrased, the question should be, ‘If at all, to what extent is it possible to manage sustainability?’ In terms of operational ecology, it is certainly possible. But how do you manage social responsibility? Bearing responsibility means accepting obligations. Generally, this happens only if it appears to make sense in one way or another. Perhaps this, nevertheless, is the right approach to divert the concept of soundness from an ego-centric perspective to an overriding Michael Sasse perspective of community – whatever it may take to do so. That’s as far as is Sustainability Officer at sustainability management should go; and never lose sight of that principle, OeKB Group since it is the only way to prevent you from going too far.” 106 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing commitment – shaping the future 8.1 Communication on progress GRI EN 18, In the sections below, we explain achievements FS 7 of our objectives for the past year. Objective Measure Communication on progress Objectives of the departments Enhance project monitoring Evaluation and follow-up, based on The monitoring criteria included in a study available evaluation studies, of criteria prepared by ETA Environmental Management / to develop project monitoring (e.g., ARBOS were successfully applied, once again, ‘Evaluation of Export Promotion in on occasion of evaluating projects in China in May Austria. Ecological, Social and Eco2012. nomic Impact in Target Countries’, by ETA Environmental Management / ARBOS, January 2010) Performance of ethic investAssign a master thesis that analyses A master thesis was assigned, completed in ment funds in practice the performance of MSCI and OeSFX spring 2012 and subsequently presented. One prior and subsequent to the financial copy is available for review at the Organization, crisis and explains relevant underConstruction, Environmental Issues and Safety lying facts. Department. A summary of the findings is included in Section 1.4 ‘Sustainable investment – findings of the OeSFX performance study’ of this Report. Promote mutual understanOeKB Organization, Construction, There were no activities in this context in ding of sustainability betEnvironmental Issues and Safety the period under review. ween OeKB and its custoDepartment to summarize the sustaimers nable activities of major OeKB customers in order to prepare for and support customer visits of the Project and Environmental Analyses Department. Events with OeKB coordinators and OeKB, along with respACT, held an event on sustainability managers of major 27 November 2012 concerning ‘International OeKB customers. guiding principles – Not my business? Globally acting enterprises – business and responsibility’; participants were OeKB customers (division heads and sustainability officers) 107 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing commitment – shaping the future Objective Measure Communication on progress Ethic investment included in Assess potential ways to transpose Existing exclusion criteria were transposed to the Bank’s own portfolio existing exclusion criteria to the the entire special fund. entire special fund. Consultancy services proviParticipate in the revision and On 28 June 2012, the OECD adopted the amended to the Federal Ministry implementation of the OECD – ded Common Approaches (OECD Recommen of Finance Recommendation on Environment dation of the Council on Common Approaches and Officially Supported Export for Officially Supported Export Credits and Credits Environmental and Social Due Diligence). http://www.oecd.org/tad/exportcredits/ commonapproaches.htm Cooperate with the Ludwig Boltzmann This successful cooperation will continue in Institute of Human Rights concerning 2013. the handling within OECD committees prior to and during the revision procedure. 108 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing commitment – shaping the future Objective Measure Communication on progress Information and communication Clarify various policies and Develop a code of conduct for the Work on the Code of Conduct (CoC) regulations and offer relevant OeKB. commenced in early 2012. See Section trainings at OeKB 3.1.7 ‘Code of Conduct’. Promote fair competition Hold customer training events in In cooperation with the ICC, OeKB held two through anti-corruption cooperation with the International events in 2012, one in spring and the other in Chamber of Commerce (ICC) on autumn, that focused on the Balkans and how to react to corruption. China, respectively. Illustrate how employees Communicate sustainable targets Since the assessment of targets agreed in proactively influence the agreed in employee appraisal employee appraisal interviews 2011/2012 Company’s sustainability meetings and illustrate ideas that indicated no extraordinary targets, critical management emerge as a result thereof. comments or suggestions, aside from the long known measures of conserving electric power, switching off lights and double-page printing, this objective was postponed and carried forward until 06/2013 in order to assess employee appraisal interviews 2012/2013. Change the manner of Assess potential options to publish Since 2011, the Sustainability Report, as external communication on future sustainability reports exclusiwell as the OeKB Annual Report, have been sustainable issues vely in digital form and include these published exclusively in digital form. The in a concept. Sustainability Report is available for download at the OeKB website: www.oekb.at Raise awareness in terms Carry out a social project where On a Saturday, in July 2012, the room of a of social differences within employees donate labour. youth at the Kiwozi – Kinderund Jugendsociety wohngemeinschaft Zirkelweg (assisted living community for children and youths) in Schwechat was refurbished in cooperation with Teamwerkstatt (team workshop). Nine employees participated. 109 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing commitment – shaping the future Objective Measure Communication on progress Specify stakeholder Assign a master thesis on an OeKBAfter several attempts at other institutions of expectations related topic; fine-tune the existing learning, the most suitable degree programme stakeholder analysis by discussing for a master thesis concerning this issue was relevant expectations with specific identified at the IMC University of Applied stakeholders. Sciences, Krems. The OeKB Sustainability team has established contact with the head of the Environmental and sustainability management degree programme at IMC Krems, who will approach OeKB at the beginning of the summer term 2013 to clarify the details of this cooperation. Although a thorough investigation had not been carried out for the existing stakeholder analysis, nevertheless, on occasion of the reputation analysis, stakeholders (i.e. employees, Export Services customer relations personnel, customers of Capital Market Services and Information Services) were interviewed and promoters of OeKB reputation identified among these. The findings will be incorporated in the brand development process, at the end of which there will be measures to optimize stakeholder communication. On occasion of preparing the OeKB Group Sustainability Report 2012, we contacted stakeholder representatives and asked these for statements concerning ‘sustainable investment’. These statements, which include some expectations, mark the beginning of each section of the Report. Promote sustainable Promote the OeSFX. Inserts in various publications; extending investments the OeSFX advisory committee in terms of implementation into practice; sustainable investment as leitmotif of OeKB Group’s Sustainability Report 2012. 110 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing commitment – shaping the future Objective Measure Communication on progress Social responsibility including measures under the “familyandcareer” audit Enhance the daily work-life Introduce take-away lunch to be As of 1 January 2012, employees may opt balance carried home from the EUREST to take home lunch or dinner. company restaurant. Continue to enhance the Repeat “familyandcareer” audit. The re-audit was carried out on 31 May 2012. work-life balance within the Company Objective Measure Communication on progress Operational ecology Loft conversion observing Realize innovative approaches Ecological criteria were given priority in ecologic criteria at the when selecting materials and selecting construction materials for the loft Strauchgasse location HVAC concepts. conversion. These were evaluated through an indoor air analysis. Waste heat generated by the server rooms is used for room heating. Improved insulation allowed a clear reduction in heating energy. The photovoltaic unit installed on the roof at the Strauchgasse location represents a further step towards renewable energy forms. Raise awareness in terms Amend invitations to bid that are The Fair IT project ended in June 2012. In of Fair IT sent to IT companies by including a future, IT hardware suppliers will be asked clause that provides for information to include in their bids information concerrequirements concerning certificaning supply chain management. The intention tion of production sites, supply is to raise awareness on the part of manuchain management and conduct in facturers. case of deviations. 111 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing commitment – shaping the future Objective Measure Communication on progress Standardise ecologic Cooperate with ÖkoKauf (eco-buy) / Discussions were held with ÖkoKauf (eco-buy) procurement city of Vienna and other banks. as well as with the Austrian Ministry of Life. The OeKB procurement guidelines reference the ‘clever einkaufen’ (clever shopping) website maintained by the Ministry and a future cooperation in terms of product selection is being contemplated. Sustainable traffic Purchase an electric vehicle. An electric vehicle of the Citroën Berlingo management brand was purchased in May 2012. OeKB is a member of the Vienna e-mobility model region, which is an initiative of the cities of Vienna and Berlin. This provided appropriate promotion for the vehicle purchase. Ecologic construction Obtain the GreenBuilding certificate On 24 April 2012, OeKB was certified as a for the building at the Strauchgasse partner of the European GreenBuilding pro1-3 location. gramme for the reconstruction and loft conversion works at the Strauchgasse 1-3 location. Further information is included in Section 1.2 ‘GreenBuilding and photo voltaics at the Vienna Strauchgasse location’ of this Report. Evaluate present waste Prepare a new residual waste The residual waste analysis was carried out by accumulation analysis. Optimist GmbH, Vösendorf, on 11 June 2012. The report is available for review at the Organization, Construction, Environmental Issues and Safety Department. The findings are included in Section 6.7.4.1 ‘Findings of the residual waste analysis’ of this Report. Update conversion factors Agree values anew with the Federal Since the Environmental Agency Austria's for carbon dioxide calculation Ministry of the Environment. complex calculation method (direct and indirect emissions in Scopes 1 and 3, i.e. distinguishing between carbon dioxide emissions and equivalents), in the present form, would affect the Report’s readability, a simplified presentation should be used in future. 112 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing commitment – shaping the future Objective Measure Communication on progress Make suppliers aware of Revise the manual of sustainable The OeKB Guidelines of sustainable procureenvironmental and human procurement. ment were revised in terms of the criteria for rights criteria IT and office supplies and are available for review at the Organization, Construction, Environmental Issues and Safety Department; in the first semester of 2013, these Guidelines will be amended to include criteria on construction materials. Train procurement personnel in On occasion of the Fair IT project, implementerms of human rights aspects. tation measures concerning supply chain management were discussed with other participants in the working group of the UN Global Compact Austrian Network. Assess Fair-IT criteria Incorporate assessment of human In April 2012, the Fair-IT project was presentrights criteria into IT hardware ed at the UN Global Compact conference on procurement. ‘The Green Economy’ held in Arnheim, The Netherlands. The objective was to team up, internationally, with the UN Global Compact Network, discuss further steps and, finally, to hand over the initiative to the UN Global Compact Network. OeKB had made great efforts to turn the Fair-IT project into an international procurement initiative. This, with the intention of potentially setting up a Fair-IT foundation. Unfortunately, there was little feedback, internationally. Therefore, after two years of hard work, it was decided in June 2012, to discontinue the project on the part of OeKB. OeKB is not irrevocably abandoning the issue; rather, it continues to support the Fair-IT initiative and will be more than pleased to contribute, on national and international levels, experience gathered during the project, provided that such an opportunity should arise. 113 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing commitment – shaping the future Objective Measure Communication on progress Objectives of OeKB Versicherung AG Responsible use of resources Give priority to re-usable, refillable As regards orders for office supplies, used and recycled products in terms of ring binders are put to use again, recycling veroffice supplies; where the internal sions of post-it and writing tabs are preferred, procurement system offers alternatirefills are offered instead of new ball-point ves, these should be used up to pens, and highlighters are refilled from tubes. nearly 100 %. Purchasing of new ball-point pens was reduced to a minimum. Reduce paper consumption Publish the Annual Report of OeKB The Annual Report was published exclusively Versicherung AG exclusively in an in electronic form and is available for download electronic manner as of the business at the website of OeKB Versicherung GmbH: year 2011 http://www.oekbversicherung.at/ 114 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing commitment – shaping the future Objective Measure Communication on progress Objectives of “Österreichischer Exportfonds” GmbH Analyze the product range Analyze and illustrate the duration Carried forward to 2013. from the angle of economic of relationships with individual sustainability customers. Enhance the work-life Support implementation of the In the quarterly meetings, reference is balance programme agreed in 2011 with made to this offer on a regular basis. consentiv Employee Assistance Services GmbH through intense information work. Optimize the process of Question the usefulness of monthly Print-out was reduced by 61% through preparing monthly reports in print-outs and discuss alternative double-page printing and using particular terms of utilised resources approaches. prints several times. Objective Measure Communication on progress Objectives of OeKB Business Services GmbH Conservative use Implement the OeKB-BS Publication OeKB purchased and licensed the Publication of resources Manager publishing software throughManager software. out the OeKB Group in order to reduce consumption of resources. Provide substantial support Initiate an event in cooperation with Carried forward by Caritas to Q1/2013. and effective publicity for the OeKB. Caritas ‘food + orientation’ project (Lebensmittel + Orientierung; LE+O) Promote employees’ health Provide motivation to organize interInternal meetings are preceded by a nal meetings in a health-promoting workout training, which is appropriately manner. recorded in the minutes. 115 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing commitment – shaping the future 8.2 Programme of ecology, sustainability, energy management and “familyandcareer” audit GRI EN 18, EN 26, HR 2, HR 3 Objective Measure Responsible By Objectives of the departments Field trial and enhanced Cooperate with the Ludwig Boltzmann Project and Environmental 12/2013 implementation of the Institute of Human Rights concerning Analyses amended Recommendation the practical implementation of the of the Council on Common assessment of projects’ potential Approaches for Officially impact in human rights compliance. Supported Export Credits and Environmental and Social Due Diligence Extend and specify exclusion Assess the practicability of negative Bond Market 12/2013 criteria for the OeKB own lists or positive screenings in collaboportfolio ration with fund management and other providers. Expand the market for the Evaluate an extension of the OeSFX Capital Market Services 12/2013 OeSFX to the German-speaking region. 116 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing commitment – shaping the future Objective Measure Responsible By Information and communication Assess and point out Set up a platform where employees Organization, Construction, 06/2013 sustainable alternatives to can share their personal experience Environmental Issues and conventional life styles with sustainable procurement. Safety / Sustainability Illustrate how employees Communicate sustainable targets Organization, Construction, 06/2013 proactively impact sustainagreed in employee appraisal Environmental Issues and ability management interviews and illustrate ensuing Safety / Sustainability reflections. Involve youths as stakeReserve a section of the auditorium Organization, Construction, 12/2013 holders at sustainable events for the ‘pupils Environmental Issues and shape changes’ initiative; invite Safety /Sustainability youths to the podium. External communication Revise the sustainability-related Corporate Communications / 12/2013 OeKB web presentation. Organization, Construction, Environmental Issues and Safety Design the Sustainability Report 2013 Corporate Communications / 06/2014 in an interactive form. Organization, Construction, Environmental Issues and Safety Networking and raising Hosting the UNGC General Meeting at OeKB, all departments 06/2013 awareness on sustainability OeKB premises in Q1/2013. issues Host events concerning sustainable OeKB, all departments 12/2013 investment at OeKB premises in autumn 2013. Specify stakeholder expectaAssign a master thesis with reference Organization, Construction, 06/2014 tions to OeKB; fine-tune the existing stakeEnvironmental Issues and holder analysis through discussing Safety / Sustainability; relevant expectations with individual departments stakeholders 117 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing commitment – shaping the future Objective Measure Responsible By Cooperation on academic Cooperate with INEX International OeKB, all departments 06/2013 level Network for Educational Exchange in terms of an inter-university lecture series. Placing to Diplomatic Academy 12/2013 Vienna a thesis entitled “Impacts on economic company development of regulations governing CSR (statutory/voluntary), comparing GRI/G4, OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and UN Global Compact”. Facilitate feedback of Set up an external complaints OeKB, all departments 06/2014 external stakeholders mechanism. Topical support EU Inform employees on a continuous Organization, Construction, 12/2013 basis on the European Year of Environmental Issues and Safety; Citizens 2013. Corporate Communications Practical implementation Host events concerning the anti-corOrganization, Construction, 12/2013 of the UN Global Compact ruption issue in cooperation with the Environmental Issues and Anti-corruption Principle International Chamber of Commerce Safety; (ICC) and respACT. Raise awareness on regulaImplementation and roll-out of the OeKB, all departments 12/2013 tions and values at OeKB Code of Conduct. 118 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing commitment – shaping the future Objective Measure Responsible By Social responsibility including measures of the “familyandcareer” audit Generations management Project 55+: Organization, Construction, 06/2013 Promote intergenerational exchange Environmental Issues and in daily working life. Safety / Sustainability Human Resources Strengthen the establishSurvey among the 50 ‘most junior’ Organization, Construction, 12/2013 ment of social responsibility employees concerning their values. Environmental Issues and at OeKB Safety / Sustainability; Human Resources; Works Council Objective Measure Responsible By Operational ecology Reduce absolute district Loft extension, utilising waste heat Organization, Construction, 12/2013 heat at the Strauchgasse and additional energy-optimizing Environmental Issues and location by 5 % (802,451 kWh measures. Safety / Construction as at 31 December 2009) Create transparency in terms Evaluate the consequences of sustaiOrganization, Construction, 06/2013 of cost and benefit of sustainability management in terms of mateEnvironmental Issues and nability-relevant decisions rial costs or material cost savings. Safety / Sustainability New internal procurement Revaluate the environmental International Financing 06/2013 criteria ranking. Supplement Procurement Guidelines Organization, Construction, 12/2013 with a section concerning building Environmental Issues and construction. Safety /Sustainability Review of OeKB's conditions of Organization, Construction, 12/2013 purchase Environmental Issues and Safety /Sustainability 119 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing commitment – shaping the future Objective Measure Responsible By Sustainable mobility Assess the option of purchasing Human Resources 06/2013 company bicycles. Reduce electric power and Optimize operating hours and Organization, Construction, 12/2013 district heat consumption at regulations. Environmental Issues and the Am Hof location by 3 % Safety / Construction (base data 2012: electric power: 451,480 kWh; district heat: 294,495 kWh) Objective Measure Responsible By Objectives of OeKB Versicherung AG Assess ways of incorporating Since such investigation, in fact, OeKB Versicherung AG / 06/2013 the corruption issue in credit needs to be conducted on location, Underwriting Department checks OeKB is seeking to cooperate with the foreign trade offices of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. Implement Solvency II Redesign the controlling system in OeKB Versicherung AG / 12/2015 light of risk aspects. Management Board 120 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing commitment – shaping the future Objective Measure Responsible By Objectives of “Österreichischer Exportfonds” GmbH Analyze the product range Analyze and illustrate the duration Exportfonds / 12/2013 from the angle of economic of relationships with individual Sustainability coordinator sustainability customers Enhance the work-life Implement the ‘Vital4Brain’ Exportfonds / 06/2013 balance programme. Sustainability coordinator Cross-generational knowIdentify, analyze and implement potenExportfonds / 12/2016 ledge management tial options of knowledge transfer. Sustainability coordinator Objective Measure Responsible By Objectives of OeKB Business Services GmbH Provide substantial support Provide content-related support Sustainability coordinator 06/2013 and effective publicity for through know-how transfer. OeKB-BS the Caritas ‘food + orientation’ project (Lebensmittel + Initiate an event to be held in Sustainability coordinator 06/2013 Orientierung; LE+O) cooperation with OeKB at the OeKB-BS Reitersaal hall. Sustainable mobility Process and make available via an Sustainability coordinator 12/2013 internal web portal information OeKB-BS concerning the use of Citybike and carsharing opportunities in Vienna. Reducing hardware employed Developing cloud-solutions and Sustainability coordinator 12/2013 in information technology and evaluating application scenarios OeKB-BS simultaneously increasing using Microsoft technology. energy efficiency through innovative software solutions. 121 Sustainability Report 2012 Showing commitment – shaping the future Objective Measure Responsible By Objectives of Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG Create a common self-image Execute a training process on OeEB 06/2013 and management style executive level. among the OeEB management team Identify further opportunities Assess opportunities to cooperate OeEB 06/2014 for OeEB to get involved in with an Austrian environmental sustainable issues organization. 122 Sustainability Report 2012 Certificate and validation 9 Certificate and validation Ernst & Young Independent Assurance Report GRI 3.13 Limited assurance over disclosures and data in the Sustainability Report 2012 of Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG Attention: This letter has been translated from German to English for referencing purposes only. Please refer to the officially legally binding version as written and signed in German. Only the German version is the legally binding version. Engagement We were requested to perform a limited assurance engagement related to disclosures and data in the Sustainability Report 2012 (hereafter “Report”) of Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG. The assurance engagement includes the following organisations of the OeKB Group: OeKB – Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG, “Österreichischer Exportfonds” GmbH, OeKB Business Services GmbH, OeEB – Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG and OeKB Versicherung AG. We performed an Application Level Check according to GRI (“GRI Third Party Application Level Check”), to confirm the declared Application Level in the report of Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG. Our procedures have been designed to obtain a limited level of assurance on which to base our conclusions. The extent of evidence gathering procedures performed is less than for that of a reasonable assurance engagement (such as a financial audit) and therefore a lower level of assurance is provided. The “General Conditions of Contract for the Public Accounting Professions”1, are binding for this engagement. According to that, our liability is limited and an accountant is only liable for violating intentionally or by gross negligence the contractual duties and obligations entered into. In cases of gross negligence the maximum liability towards Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG and any third party together is EUR 726,730 in the aggregate. Limitations to our Review ■ We did not test data derived from external surveys, we only verified that relevant disclosures and data are correctly quoted in the Report. ■ We did not perform any assurance procedures on data, which was subject of the annual financial audit. We merely checked that data was presented in accordance with the GRI Guidelines. 1 Version of February 21th 2011 (AAB 2011) issued by the Chamber of Public Accountants and Tax Advisors, section 8 http://www.kwt.or.at/de/PortalData/2/Resources/downloads/downloadcenter/AAB_2011_englische_Fassung.pdf 123 Sustainability Report 2012 Certificate and validation Criteria The information included in the Report was based on the following criteria applicable in the year 2012 (“The Criteria”): ■ External sustainability reporting guidelines elaborated by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)2, Version 3.0, application level A+, and the guidance “GRI Guidelines and the UNGC Communication on Progress” 3 We assessed the information in the Report against these criteria. We believe that these criteria are suitable for our assurance engagement. Management responsibilities Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG’s management is responsible for the preparation of the Report and the information therein in accordance with the criteria mentioned above. This responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining internal control. Those are relevant to the preparation of the Report to eliminate material misstatements. Our responsibilities It is our responsibility to express a conclusion on the information included in the Report on the basis of the limited assurance engagement. Our assurance engagement has been planned and performed in accordance with the International Federation of Accountants ISAE30004 and the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, issued by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), which includes requirements in relation to our independence. What we did to form our conclusion We have performed all the procedures deemed necessary to obtain the evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions. The assurance engagement was conducted at the Clients head quarter in Vienna. Our main procedures were: ■ Obtaining insight into the industry sector and the characteristics of the organisation; ■ Interviewing a selection of group and functional senior managers and executives to understand key expectations and identify systems, process and internal controls processes to support them. 2 https://www.globalreporting.org/resourcelibrary/G3.1-Guidelines-Incl-Technical-Protocol.pdf 3 https://www.globalreporting.org/information/news-and-press-center/Pages/Making-the-connection-UN-Global-Compact-Spainupdates-software-to-reference-GRI-Guidelines-.aspx 4 International Federation of Accountants’ International Standard for Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE3000) 124 Sustainability Report 2012 Certificate and validation ■ Reviewing Group level, Board and Executive documents to assess awareness and priority and to understand how progress is tracked. ■ Examining risk management and governance processes related to sustainability and critical evaluation of the representation in the report; ■ Performing analytical procedures at Group level; ■ Reviewing data samples and processes to test whether they had been collected, consolidated and reported appropriately at Group level. This included reviewing data samples and conversion factors relating to CO2 emissions to test whether the data had been reported in an accurate, reliable and complete manner. ■ Reviewing the coverage of material issues against the key issues raised in the stakeholder dialogues, areas of performance covered in external media reports and the environmental and social reports of Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG’s peers; ■ Challenging statements and claims in the Report against our worksteps and the GRI principles ■ Reviewing whether Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG’s reporting has applied the GRI G3 Guidelines to a level consistent with the A+ application level. ■ Assessing completeness of the GRI Indicators according to the guidance document “The GRI Guidelines and the UNGC Communication on Progress”. Our Conclusion Based on the scope of our review nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the disclosures and data in the Report were not prepared in accordance with the criteria identified above. Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG’s sustainability reporting does not meet the GRI A+ application level. Vienna, February 5th 2013 ERNST & YOUNG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft m.b.H. Brigitte Frey ppa. Christine Jasch  125 Sustainability Report 2012 Certificate and validation Environmental verifier’s declaration on verification and validation activities Ernst & Young Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft m.b.H. declares to have verified whether the organization of the OeKB-Group including OeKB – Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG (Reg. No. AT-000406), “Österreichischer Exportfonds” GmbH, OeKB Business Services GmbH, OeEB – Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG and OeKB Versicherungs AG (Reg. No. AT-000526) as stated in the Sustainability Report 2012, meet all requirements of Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on the voluntary participation by organizations in a Community eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS). By signing this declaration, we declare that: ■ the verification and validation has been carried out in full compliance with the requirements of Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009, ■ the outcome of the verification and validation confirms that there is no evidence of non-compliance with applicable legal requirements relating to the environment, ■ the data and information of the environmental statement (as integrated part of the Sustainability Report) reflect a reliable, credible and correct image of all the activities, within the scope mentioned in the environmental statement. The next comprehensive Sustainability Report including the environmental statement is due in 2016, based on the data of 2015. An updated environmental statement is pubished every year. Vienna, February 5th 2013 Mag. Brigitte Frey Mag. Dr. Christine Jasch Ernst & Young Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft m.b.H. 1220 Vienna, Wagramer Strasse 19, IZD Tower EY registration number: AT-V-0025 Certificate Registration number: 01/2012 Date of validation: February 5th 2013 This certificate is valid till: February 5th 2014 126 Sustainability Report 2012 Imprint 10 Imprint GRI 3.1–3.4 This Report covers the calendar year 2012. Unless otherwise Oesterreichische Kontrollbank Aktiengesellschaft stated, all of the underlying figures in this Report refer Am Hof 4 and Strauchgasse 3, to 2012. The Report will be updated on an annual basis. P.O.B. 70, 1011 Vienna, Austria A detailed report will be published every third year. Phone: +43 1 531 27-0 or extension This Sustainability Report is also published in German OeKB on the internet: www.oekb.at (Nachhaltigkeitsbericht). The German and English versions Sort code 10000, Registered offices: 1010 Wien, Am Hof 4 of this Report are also available on the internet. Companies register: FN 85749b, Vienna Commercial Court VAT No.: ATU 15350402, DVR: 0052019 Proprietor and publisher: Oesterreichische Kontrollbank Aktiengesellschaft Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG 1011 Vienna, Strauchgasse 3 Editors: Phone: +43 1 533 12 00-0 Oesterreichische Kontrollbank Aktiengesellschaft OeKB Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft Registered offices: 1011 Vienna “Österreichischer Exportfonds” GmbH Companies register: FN 304601v, Vienna Commercial Court OeKB Business Services GmbH VAT No.: ATU 63944539, DVR: 0840084 Published in: Vienna OeKB Versicherung AG 1010 Vienna, Strauchgasse 3 Editorial: Phone: +43 1 531 27-2664 OeKB, Organization, Construction, Environmental Issues and Safety / Eveline Balogh and Michael Sasse Linz location: 4020 Linz, Ziegeleistraße 74 Layout & Graphics: Phone: +43 732 666 396 Gerald Schuba Corporate Communications+, Peter Chalupnik Registered offices: 1010 Vienna Companies register: FN 86022d, Vienna Commercial Court English translation by Nora G. Morrison VAT No.: ATU 59055649, DVR: 0840084 The publishing companies on the internet: “Österreichischer Exportfonds“ GmbH 1010 Vienna, Strauchgasse 3 www.oekb.at Phone: +43 1 712 61 51-0 www.oe-eb.at www.oekbversicherung.at Registered offices: 1014 Vienna www.exportfonds.at (in German only) Companies register: FN 94333a, Vienna Commercial Court www.oekb-bs.at (in German only) VAT No.: ATU 15350607, DVR: 0043419 OeKB Business Services GmbH 1010 Vienna, Am Hof 4 Phone: +43 1 531 27-2800 Registered offices: 1010 Vienna Companies register: FN 127828h, Vienna Commercial Court VAT No.: ATU 15502007, DVR: 0840106 127 Sustainability Report 2012 128 Sustainability Report 2012 Glossary of sustainable investment 11 Glossary of sustainable investment Glossary GRI 3.5, Best in Class Exclusion Criteria FS 16 The Best-in-Class approach is an investment strategy Defining (fund-) specific Exclusion Criteria serves to that focuses on investing in companies that previously exclude entire sectors, products or production processes performed better than their peers in terms of environfrom a particular fund. For example, many ethical and mental, social and corporate governance issues in a ecological funds are operating with Exclusion Criteria. particular sector. In order to be admitted to Best-inClass investment funds, such companies are required Fund to re-qualify every year. A fund constitutes special assets represented by securities that are selected according to the risk spreading Crowdfunding principle. It is divided in equal shares represented by Crowdfunding is a form of financing for social or artistic securities, co-owned by the shareholders and managed projects. The capital providers are a number of individuby a capital investment agency als, usually internet users, since calls for Crowdfunding are mostly made through the World Wide Web. In AusImpact Investment tria, the respekt.net platform (www.respekt.net) has In addition to a financial return, an Impact Investment been active since October 2010. Up until 1 January aims to achieve a positive impact on society. 2012, the total of donations collected for projects amounted to EUR 202,134. Achieving a return is not Index a priority. An Index is a statistical key indicator that illustrates changes as compared to an earlier date (prices and Crowdinvesting cyclical trends). A stock index is a price or performIn contrast to Crowdfunding, Crowdinvesting aims at ance index that reflects the average price change achieving a return. Young companies seek seed funding of selected stocks, of a country, an entire region or – usually on the internet – in the start-up phase. In respecific sectors. The starting point is the price level turn, financiers either have a claim to future profits, or as at a specific date. benefit from the proceeds of the later sale or IPO of the company. PRI Principles for Responsible Investment The ‘Principles for Responsible Investment’ (PRI) initiaEthical Fund tive is a network of international investors striving to An Ethical Fund (also known as ethical-ecological fund implement six principles for responsible investment. or, in short, sustainability fund) applies an investment These principles observe the fact that ecological, social strategy that is geared not only to achieving the highest and corporate governance issues (ESG) affect the perpossible return but, rather, to taking into account ethiformance of investment portfolios. Hence, investors cal aspects as well. Such funds comply with the princishould take these into consideration accordingly. ples of ethical investing, i.e. socially responsible investThis initiative is supported by the United Nations. ing, and invest exclusively in enterprises that operate in a sustainable manner. Sin Stock Sin Stocks are shares in enterprises that produce Ethical Investment / goods or deliver services, which the investor deems Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) unethical. Common examples are shares in companies A financial investment that, in addition to financial that engage in the production or procurement of objectives, such as yield, security and availability, tobacco, alcohol, pornography, arms or gambling. observes moral values as well as environmental and social aspects. The investment decision integrates personal moral values and social concerns. 129 Sustainability Report 2012 Glossary of sustainable investment Social Impact Bond (SIB) Soft Loan Social Impact Bonds are used to finance social projects. Soft Loans (Scope II credits) include a concessional Investors invest money in a social project and hope element and serve to finance Austrian exports to that the investment will yield a return in the long term. selected countries. This, through pre-mixed credits If the project is successful, the government pays a that provide for grace periods, long maturities and yield, because the government saves a lot of money low interest rates, which is possible only through through such social bonds as there is no need for subsidy payments. direct project financing on the part of the government. By way of crime prevention, the government is able to avoid having to pay for the consequences. 1011 Vienna, Strauchgasse 3 Tel. +43 1 531 27-0 Fax +43 1 531 27-5262 sustainability@oekb.at www.oekb.at Oesterreichische Kontrollbank Group
