COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012-2013 Fung Group Communication on Progress 2 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT The Fung Group of companies (hereafter the “Group”), is pleased to publish its Communication on Progress for the year 2012-2013. This report outlines the steps that we have taken to promote the UN Global Compact principles within our Group, as well as throughout our supply chains and amongst our stakeholders. Since their founding, our Group companies have always sought to operate and improve their performance in line with the principles of the Compact. We believe that a sustainable business is one that provides useful goods and services, creates jobs, uses resources efficiently, cares for the environment, and operates with a high degree of transparency and integrity. Over the long term, such a business will make major contributions to the social and economic well-being of the communities in which it operates and in doing so, resonate strongly with the UNGC principles. Today, we remain as committed as ever to the Compact and seek to promote the principles wherever we operate. In an increasingly complex world and with the ever-present challenge of sustainable inclusive development, the Compact serves as innovative platform for collective action and engagement between business, government, and civil society. In laying out our actions and efforts to continue to improve our performance under the UNGC framework, we share our experiences and invite others to join us in partnership. Yours sincerely, Victor K. Fung Group Chairman Fung Group Communication on Progress 3 FUNG GROUP OF COMPANIES Who We Are and Our Approach to Sustainability WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH to SUSTAINABILTY The Fung Group is a multinational group headquartered Our operating companies share a common set of values in Hong Kong whose companies are engaged and approach to sustainability, which reflect the belief in sourcing, distribution and logistics, and retailing that our companies should contribute positively to the of consumer products. economic and social development of the communities in which we operate, while conserving and protecting This report covers primarily the listed entities of the Group: the environment. Li & Fung Limited, Convenience Retail Asia Limited and Trinity Limited. Each of our primary operating companies has a corporate sustainability task force comprised of managers across key functions and geographies to set The Group’s Trading, Distribution, and Logistics businesses strategies, coordinate actions, and drive the sustainability are operated by Li & Fung Limited, which designs, agenda forward. These task forces are typically headed develops and sources consumer products for retailers by a senior executive responsible for sustainability, who and brands worldwide. It also operates an extensive reports directly to the CEO, who is then accountable distribution and logistics network serving major brands to the Board of Directors. For Li & Fung Limited, this in Asia and beyond. Through these three interconnected process is reinforced by the additional governance business networks, Li & Fung Limited offers a spectrum structure of a Risk Management and Sustainability of services that covers the entire supply chain from Committee within the Board of Directors. end-to-end. At the Group level, we operate an additional The Group’s retailing businesses are held by Fung sustainability task force which convenes the heads of Retailing Limited, which principally comprises two publicly the respective sustainability task forces in each of the listed entities: convenience stores and bakeries through operating companies, plus other key functions such Convenience Retail Asia Limited and high-end menswear as communications, IT, properties and philanthropy, through Trinity Limited. to coordinate actions and strategies and facilitate the sharing of best practices and resources. In sum, the Fung Group employs approximately 43,000 men and women across 40 economies worldwide, with In this report, we aim to highlight our policies and total revenue of more US$21 billion in 2012. progress over the past year on actions to carry out the UNGC principles, and invite anyone with further interest to explore the public disclosures and websites of our respective group companies. These may all be accessed through our Group website: www.funggroup.com Fung Group Communication on Progress 4 THE TEN UNGC PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 5: the effective PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses abolition of child labour; and development and diffusion should support and respect of environmentally friendly the protection of internationally PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination technologies. proclaimed human rights; and of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 2: make sure that PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses they are not complicit in ENVIRONMENT should work against human rights abuses. PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses corruption in all its forms, should support a including extortion and LABOUR precautionary approach to bribery. PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses environmental challenges; should uphold the freedom of association and the effective PRINCIPLE 8: undertake recognition of the right to initiatives to promote greater collective bargaining; environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Fung Group Communication on Progress 5 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and PRINCIPLE 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ACTIONS to PROMOTE THE PRINCIPLES We recognize that our responsibility to respect The Fung Group is committed to upholding human human rights extends to relations with key stakeholders. rights in our own operations and externally in our Therefore, Li & Fung Limited and Trinity Limited each supply chains and relations with key stakeholder have in place a Code of Conduct for Suppliers, which groups. Each of our group companies has in place makes clear the standards to which we expect our a Code of Conduct and Business Ethics which covers business partners to adhere, and requires suppliers human rights. New employees are briefed on the to respect and uphold local legal and internationally code and must agree to abide by it before starting proclaimed human rights. It contains ten principles employment. The code is published on employee including three that cover freedom of association intranets and in handbooks. and recognition of the right to collective bargaining, voluntary labor, and working age. Any supplier trading Employees are encouraged to report any violations with our companies must indicate acceptance of the under a written policy to their manager, or as an Code and remains contractually bound by it during alternative, directly and confidentially to the Group the course of their business with us. Chief Compliance Officer. Compliance with the code is assessed by processes Group companies operate in over 40 economies and checks within each respective company. worldwide, including many developing countries In the case of Li & Fung Limited, due to the scale and countries where the rule of law may not be strong. and nature of its business, a trained, in-house supplier In doing business, we are conscious of our dual auditing team conducts announced and unannounced obligation to comply with local legislation as well audits and works with approved third-party auditors as to respect and follow international norms of to ensure compliance to the code. Li & Fung Limited behavior with regard to human rights. Therefore, holds training seminars, workshops and sessions Li & Fung Limited, for example, bases its human rights in order to ensure understanding of the principles commitments and policy on the International Labor contained in the code and the benefits of sustainable Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles compliance. Where violations occur, our compliance and Rights at Work; and supports the UN Declaration teams work with the supplier concerned to address of Human Rights as a necessary foundation for social and correct the problem. development and economic progress. This is outlined on the company’s public website at http://www.lifung.com/eng/csr/csr7.php. Fung Group Communication on Progress 6 With increasing knowledge about the interface This information enables employees to follow-up, between human rights and business operations and identify opportunities for improvement as needed, rising expectations from consumers and stakeholders and support suppliers with training, education and worldwide, Li & Fung Limited launched an updated tools to build management systems that support Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Supplier ongoing compliance. Suppliers identified as having Compliance Manual in 2012. These documents compliance issues will have access to capacityprovide a transparent framework for improving working building resources and be required to resolve conditions and environmental performance, and the issue(s) to continue business. Launch of the ultimately give more sustainable sourcing options. revamped code and standards was accompanied by an orientation and training program on human rights The Code requires compliance with local and and labour issues for all Li & Fung Limited employees international regulations, including the International along with many suppliers and business partners. Labor Organization’s core conventions. Key revisions include expanded ethical conduct requirements, Li & Fung Limited and Trinity reinforce their commitment enhanced disclosure of suppliers’ performance to human rights both publicly, as well as internally information and the issue of human trafficking, through employee education and training on their in support of the California Transparency in Supply Code of Conduct and Business Ethics. This effort Chains Act. will continue with specific initiatives to enhance the company’s sustainability programs and its The Supplier Compliance Manual outlines how to meet management of risks. the Code and is the first step in building competency for sustainable compliance. In parallel, a new assessment tool for suppliers was launched to PROGRESS AND OUTCOMES identify gaps in meeting Code requirements. During 2012, Li & Fung Limited conducted audits to assess compliance of third-party suppliers with the Code of Conduct for Suppliers, and audits for Trinity Limited’s production suppliers were also conducted by Li & Fung Limited’s global compliance team. To further sustainability in the supply chain, Li & Fung Limited has developed tools and programs and engaged with its partners to improve working conditions. Over the course of 2012, it focused on enhancing its compliance tools to support its suppliers to improve their social and environmental sustainability. Lastly during 2012, the Group organized over 400 trainings sessions, workshops or seminars targeting third-party suppliers and business partners. Fung Group Communication on Progress 7 LABOUR STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; PRINCIPLE 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ACTIONS to PROMOTE THE PRINCIPLES the Code under a written policy to their direct manager The Group supports and actively promotes the four UNGC or directly and confidentially to the Group Chief labour principles internally in our own operations and Compliance Officer. externally with our business partners and stakeholders. Externally, we recognize our responsibility to promote Internally, each of our Group companies has in place a the UNGC labour principles throughout our supply chain Code of Conduct and Business Ethics which binds all and relations with key stakeholders. As such, Li & Fung employees to upholding these principles in our operations, Limited and Trinity Limited each have in place a Code of for instance, in recruitment, training, review and Conduct for Suppliers that binds their suppliers to uphold promotion, and remuneration. On top of these principles, the UNGC labour principles. Any supplier trading with our we strive to create a workplace and working environment Group must accept the Code and remains contractually known for diversity, respect, and equal opportunity. bound by it during the course of their business with us. Each new employee is briefed on the Code and must agree Compliance with the code is assessed by a series of to abide by it before starting work. The code is published processes and checks by each respective company. on employee intranets and in employment handbooks. In the case of Li & Fung Limited, due to the scale and Staff are given training and provided resources to allow nature of its business, a trained, in-house auditing team them to continuously upgrade their knowledge and conducts announced and unannounced audits and practices for carrying out these principles in their work. works with approved third-party auditors to ensure compliance to the code. In addition, Li & Fung Limited With regard to Principles on collective bargaining and holds routine training seminars, workshops and sessions freedom of association, the Group follows the employment in order to ensure understanding of the principles in the regulations or labour codes of the jurisdictions in which code and of the benefits of compliance. it operates. For example, Li & Fung Limited’s Code of Conduct and Business Ethics section 12 “Human and Labor The Group recognizes that compliance with the Code of Rights, And Fair and Equal Treatment” references the UN Conduct for Suppliers is necessary but is only the first step Global Compact principles, the UN Declaration of Human in a process of building sustainable compliance. Compliance Rights and the ILO’s core conventions. The other group backed by audits must be tied to capacity building and companies will progressively adopt similar approaches. training to ensure that suppliers have the tools and incentive to raise their performance and sustainability attributes of Employees are encouraged to report any violations of their products, while improving working conditions. Fung Group Communication on Progress 8 PROGRESS AND OUTCOMES The Fung Group’s commitment to being a responsible and sustainable business extends to how it manages its supply chains in over 40 economies around the world. For example, Li & Fung Limited’s global vendor compliance team regularly monitors compliance with its, and Trinity Limited’s, suppliers to meet its Code of Conduct for Suppliers, as well as industry-and-customerspecific audit standards, protocols and methodologies. The Fung Group seeks opportunities and manages risks in the supply chains that produce products for major global retailers and brands. Therefore in 2012 Li & Fung Limited launched an updated Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Supplier Compliance Manual and then held over 375 training sessions for over 5,000 suppliers and close to 4,000 colleagues. To support the rollout of the updated Code of Conduct, • As You Sow – engaging with our suppliers to not Li & Fung Limited also developed standard operating knowingly source cotton from Uzbekistan where procedures and a variety of resources to screen, monitor, forced and child labor is a significant concern. audit and assess the performance of its suppliers. Guidance materials and practical tools were also • International Labor Organization’s Better Work program developed for suppliers to comply with requirements – supporting factories in Cambodia, Haiti, Indonesia, and to improve their operational performance. These Jordan and Vietnam to improve labor conditions. resources, which are outlined below and are translated • Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) – with the in local languages, cover issues and risks associated sponsorship of Fung (1906) Foundation, supporting with business operations and labor, health and safety, the HERproject in 12 factories in Bangladesh, China, environmental and security practices. India, Indonesia, and Pakistan. The project empowers • The Sustainability Resource Center website for women with the knowledge and skills to improve their suppliers to access training schedules and diverse health, living conditions and livelihoods. resources to assist them to improve performance. Further recognizing the importance of learning in both our • Supplier Compliance Manual that outlines how to own organization and in our supply chains, in 2012 the meet our Code of Conduct for Suppliers. Fung Group founded the Fung Academy to develop and deliver best-in-class learning and development programs • Major Issues Tutorial and Zero Tolerance Issues focusing on leadership training and sustainability. Tutorial that provide detailed guidance on how to In 2012, over 700 senior level managers received training address issues and what is required to demonstrate on the subject of supply chain sustainability. Moreover, compliance with LF Standards. under the Academy’s Sustainability pillar, an innovative • Comprehensive Occupational Safety & Health Toolkit series of tools and programs focusing on health and to help suppliers to adopt safe and healthy systems safety, energy and water, and lean manufacturing were and practices in their workplaces. being developed. These programs are expected to equip and empower suppliers to manage their own • Digital Learning Units for Managers and Workers, improvement and compliance. which are a series of short, user-friendly practical videos developed with the support of the Fung While we have made progress in integrating labor Academy. The first in the series, on fire safety, standards in our own operations and our supply chain, was launched in late 2012. Other topics such as we recognize the journey is long and the challenge working hours, chemical management, and lean bigger that we alone can address. Occurrences such as manufacturing will be added. the tragic fire at Tazreen garment factory in Bangladesh As highlighted below, in 2012 the Group companies in November 2012 bring to the forefront the need to raise expanded their involvement in several key industry standards across the industry, with workplace safety initiatives that bring customers, peers and industry placed above all other considerations. We will continue associations together to work collectively to set standards to collaborate with government, industry, and civil society and effect change, and they collaborated with their so as to improve standards and working conditions. customers and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) In addition, we will continue to source from suppliers to implement focused programs that address the committed to improving their workplace standards and particular challenges of the industry and the specific performance, and to providing focused resources to countries in which they operate. support continual improvement throughout the supply chain. Fung Group Communication on Progress 9 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges: PRINCIPLE 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ACTIONS to PROMOTE THE PRINCIPLES We endeavor to increasingly build and operate green Our companies have always endeavored to operate offices and facilities, and to achieve recognized industry responsibly with regard to the environment by protecting standards in these areas, including: the environment and using natural resources efficiently. • Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design In recent years, those priorities have taken on added (LEED) or Building Research Establishment importance and are now a fundamental area for risk Environmental Method (BREEAM) certification for management and meeting the rising expectations of buildings and offices; certifications achieved for our customers, investors, and the public. office and distribution center facilities to date. Therefore, we continually look for opportunities to • The Wastewi$e scheme run by the Hong Kong be more efficient in our operations, and to use more Environmental Protection Department; environmentally-responsible materials, equipment, • In the United States, the Environmental Protection building materials and services. We strongly believe Agency’s Climate Leaders program. that such actions are not only environmentally sound, but also financially responsible. Lastly, in view of concerns of natural resource scarcity and environmental stewardship, Li & Fung As a baseline, our Code of Conduct and Business Ethics Limited has developed and implemented Green includes the requirement for all employees to protect the Meeting Guidelines designed for internal and environment in line with the precautionary principle in our external company meetings. operations and supply chain. This message is reiterated and reinforced through a number of means including Notwithstanding our efforts to improve the internal meetings, training, promotion through the staff environmental sustainability of our own operations, intranet, employee outings, and Group promotion of we are very well aware that upgrades in the sustainability activities such as Earth Hour. of our supply chain partners can produce significant, positive impacts. These front-line operations may In our own operations: be impacted from supply chain disruptions arising We measure our energy consumption, greenhouse from climate change, resource scarcity and extreme gas emissions, water consumption, and certain waste weather events. Thus, we endeavor to enhance our streams throughout our own facilities and offices, and suppliers’ understanding of key environmental issues make targeted annual intensity reductions across all of and their capacity to improve efficiency and manage these areas. through disruptions. Fung Group Communication on Progress 10 We expect our suppliers to abide by local PROGRESS AND OUTCOMES environmental legislation, and where relevant we require As outlined above, the Group has initiated diverse that they avoid the use of ozone-depleting chemicals streams of action in view of our commitment and certain toxic materials in production processes and to implement the principles on the environment. the trade in endangered species. We also encourage Some of our progress indicators are outlined below. and provide technical support to suppliers on energy and water efficiency, greenhouse gas reductions, Since Li & Fung Limited conducted an Investment sustainable building, lean manufacturing, health and Grade Audit (IGA) of its headquarters in Hong Kong safety and human resource management, both directly in 2010, the company has been implementing best and through recognized industry programs. Lastly, practices in our global offices throughout 2011 we also facilitate the sharing of best practices across and 2012. our supplier network, both directly through our own programs and through industry groups. In 2012, Li & Fung Limited recorded a total global electricity consumption of 48,671,935 kWh compared In keeping with our role as a responsible employer and with 45,405,947 kWh in 2011, and our Scope 1 and corporate citizen, we have also introduced programs to 2 greenhouse gas emissions were 34,795 tons of CO2 raise and encourage greater environmental awareness equivalent, compared with 32,120 tons of the same unit amongst employees and the community at large. the previous year. This information has been reported For example, community clean-ups and tree-planting to the Carbon Disclosure Project. As the company’s activities are regularly organized by our offices. operations have expanded, its consumption and emissions have increased. However, the intensity of its energy consumption decreased 19% by area (m2) and carbon emissions have decreased 23% by area (m2) in 2012. Trinity Limited and Convenience Retail Asia also reduced their electricity and Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions in absolute terms. Fung Group Communication on Progress 11 In addition, throughout our global offices, stores and In 2012, Li & Fung Limited global and Trinity Limited’s facilities, the Group has proactively taken the following Hong Kong offices consumed a total of 141,117 reams measures to increase energy efficiency: of A4 paper, which constitutes a 9% decrease over the previous year. Our paper reduction campaign remains • Adopting an enterprise-wide environmental an ongoing initiative throughout the Group, supported management and accounting software system; by progressive migration of paper processes to electronic • Progressively retrofitting T-8 and halogen lighting and online platforms. In addition, Li & Fung Limited’s with energy-efficient LED, T-5 and CFL alternatives LF Fashion and Trinity Limited once again earned and maintaining appropriate lux levels; WasteWi$e labels under the Hong Kong Environmental Protection Department scheme. • Optimizing performance and energy-efficient retrofits of chillers; Convenience Retail Asia Limited continued to • Turning off lights, computers, monitors and printers emphasize the “4Rs” – Reduce, Reuse, Recycle and when not in use; Refrain – throughout its store operations and customer communications. Internal communication platforms • Implementing an automatic computer and lighting included a “Green Day” every Tuesday, featuring shutdown policy outside of working hours; educational email messages nurturing eco-awareness • Installing energy-efficient servers, photocopiers, and promoting useful tips for environmental conservation. printers and other equipment; A biannual sustainability workshop was also introduced to provide a platform for sharing and interaction about • Maintaining office and server room temperatures topics related to the management of natural resources at levels meet operational requirements but minimize as well as environmental disaster alerts and information energy use; on global warming. • Installing of recycling bins for paper, bottles and cans, and contracting with relevant waste handlers for recycling; • Using renewable energy where feasible, for instance, in Istanbul where photovoltaic panels generate a portion of our Istanbul office’s electricity; • Implementing our Green Meeting Guidelines to reduce energy use, consumption and wastage during internal and external meetings, and increasing our use of video conferencing to reduce the need for business travel; and • Progressively converting our vehicle fleet to Euro IV standard or better, and abiding by fuel efficiency guidelines in vehicle procurement; Fung Group Communication on Progress 12 With regards to sustainable offices and buildings, To promote the Environmental Principles in our we continued to implement our own Sustainable supply chains and relations with stakeholders, Group Design, Construction and Renovation Guidelines for companies were active in a number of non-governmental New Construction, Major Renovation and Commercial organizations, industry associations, foundations, Interiors. These user-friendly guidelines support our and academic organizations in 2012, including: offices and facilities around the world to adopt LEED • Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) and the elements whenever feasible. This guidance was also Fung Academy organized a Water Summit to raise shared with our suppliers. awareness of water scarcity in China and to share best practices for improving water efficiency; The Group now has more 468,800 sq ft of office space certified to LEED or BREEM. Furthermore in 2012-2013, • Global Social Compliance Programme – to improve the following offices were certified: working conditions and environmental practices in the global supply chain; • Approx 150,000 sq ft in our New York office certified LEED (50,000 sq fit Gold, 100,000 sq ft Platinum) • Sustainable Apparel Coalition – to contribute to the and; development of its Apparel and Footwear Index tools, in order to measure and manage the environmental • Approx 18,840 sq ft in our Beijing office certified impact of products in our supply chain; LEED Silver. • Sustainable Fashion Business Consortium—to Furthermore, in an effort to switch to more increase sustainable practices across the supply chain; environmentally-responsible technology, our Convenience • Friends of the Earth and The Worldwide Fund for Retail Asia Limited’ Saint Honore Factory in Shenzhen, Nature (WWF) – to promote environmental awareness China successfully switched from heavy oil to natural gas amongst our employees; in an effort to save energy and reduce carbon emissions, setting the benchmark for the industry in Shenzhen. • Business Environment Council of Hong Kong and Environmental Sustainability Committee of the Hong Lastly, distribution centers in Li & Fung Limited’s Kong General Chamber of Commerce – to raise Logistics network, have implemented measures to awareness of environmental issues in Hong Kong as reduce their environmental footprint over the years. well as share best practices amongst companies; and In 2012, our Rui Fang distribution center was certified • Green Economy Task Force and Energy and by the Taiwan Green Building (EEWH system) as Environment Commission of the Paris-based a Silver Class Green Building, the first of its kind in International Chamber of Commerce – to provide Taiwan. Key features of this project include: maximized business input on environmental issues to global use of natural lighting and energy-efficient T-5s; policy and multilateral groups. installation of high-efficiency induction lighting in loading bays; rainwater collection to reduce consumption of Finally, the Group also applied its customers’ municipal water; and use of environmentally-responsible environmental purchasing policies with respect to materials in the construction of the facility. environmentally-responsible materials, packaging waste minimization and product stewardship. For example, The Group actively promotes environmental Trinity Limited is using recyclable packaging, as well as awareness amongst employees through our FSC-certified packaging within its Cerrutti retail store internal intranet site, formal training, a sustainability outlets, Li & Fung Limited sources and develops apparel speaker series and informal engagement activities. products made from organic cotton and FSC-certified These activities engage our colleagues and foster timber, and Convenience Retail Asia Limited’s bakery a culture of environmental conservation and shops use bio-degradable materials as part of their protection to help the Group achieve its goals packaging for their festive moon cake products. and objectives. Fung Group Communication on Progress 13 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ACTIONS to PROMOTE THE PRINCIPLES compliance and support the Code. We recognize that corruption and bribery are serious threats to the integrity of markets and the rule of law, Our Guidelines on Whistleblowing/Reporting of Concerns and undermine fair competition. We thus support a strict enable staff to report actual or potential bribery activities anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy as part of our to their direct line manager or directly and confidentially to employee Code of Conduct and Business Ethics, in line the Group Chief Compliance Officer. Upon receipt of any with our continuous effort to operate according to the concerns or reports under these Guidelines, executive highest principles of accountability, transparency and good management and Corporate Compliance Group will governance. This policy was upgraded in 2012 to account undertake an investigation. Furthermore, our Group for new issues and to provide further clarity to employees. Chief Compliance Officer reports any concerns raised under these Guidelines, which have significant impact Each Group company’s Code contains strict guidelines on the Group’s business, to the operating company’s on corruption, bribery, gift-giving, gratuities, kick-backs audit committees on a semi-annual basis. The Corporate and other favors, and all employees must sign and abide Compliance Group of each operating company audits by the Code. Section 4 of the Code of Conduct and compliance performance and reports any material Business Ethics emphasizes the prohibition of bribery non-compliance to the respective operating company and corruption practices by all staff in the countries board via their individual audit committee. where the group operates. Our policies and guidelines on anti-corruption are covered by our Anti-Bribery Policy Compliance training for newly joined and existing staff, and Guidelines on Gifts, Entertainment and Hospitality and internal audits by the Group Compliance team, sections within the Code. The Guidelines on Gifts, are conducted on a periodic basis to reinforce staff Entertainment and Hospitality was upgraded in 2012 conformance and an ethical culture within the group. and is also a separate policy document. In 2012, Trinity Limited adopted the Hong Kong ICAC Corruption Prevention self-education materials as part Responsibilities are clearly defined in our Code of of its education and awareness efforts on the prevention Conduct and Business Ethics, Anti-Bribery Policy, of corruption. Li & Fung Limited launched “The Ethical Guidelines on Gifts, Entertainment and Hospitality, and Zone”, an internal platform for sharing practical examples Guidelines on Whistleblowing/Reporting of Concerns. and solutions on how to respond to potential ethical All staff are expected to adhere to anti-bribery and dilemmas. New employees are also advised of the anti-corruption practices. Executive management requirements of the Code during orientation and provided and our Corporate Compliance division jointly monitor with their own copy. Fung Group Communication on Progress 14 The vast majority of the Group employees continue Our group companies have been recognized for their to demonstrate integrity and good ethical behavior achievements in ESG issues. A few examples of such across all operations in 40 economies. One exception recognition include the following: arose, in which a Li & Fung employee was found Li & Fung Limited guilty of an offense under the Prevention of Bribery • Hong Kong Corporate Governance Excellence Ordinance in Hong Kong. Her employment was Awards 2012, by The Chamber of Hong Kong terminated and employees were reminded of their Limited Companies obligation to always abide by the Code of Conduct and Business Ethics. • The Asset Corporate Platinum Award 2012, for all around excellence in financial performance, management acumen, corporate governance, social responsibility, environmental responsibility and investor relations, by the Asset Magazine • Asia’s Icon on Corporate Governance 2013, by Corporate Governance Asia Journal Convenience Retail Asia Limited • Asia’s Most Promising Company on Corporate Governance 2013, by Corporate Governance Asia Journal Lastly, and in recognition of achievements in all areas reflected in the Ten UNGC Principles and based on a rigorous third-party ESG analysis, Li & Fung Limited was again included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Asia Pacific Index and FTSE4Good Index Series, while both Trinity Limited and Li & Fung Limited were included in the Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability Index Series of the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong. Fung Group Communication on Progress 15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012-2013 Fung Group
