UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 1 2 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S MESSAGE Communication on Progress Year: 2013 Statement of Continued Support of the UN Global Compact We are pleased to confirm that Mabati Rolling Mills Limited supports the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in respect to Human Rights, Labor Rights, the Environment and Anti-Corruption. This Communication is our expression of intent to continue supporting and advance these principles within our sphere of influence. We commit to making the Global Compact and its principles part of our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of MRM and undertake to make a clear statement to our Employees, Partners, Clients and to the Public of this commitment. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our effort to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress annually according to the Global Compact COP policy. Sincerely, ………………………………….. ………………………………… BUSINESS HEAD COILS BUSINESS HEAD ROOFING Dated: 26th August, 2013 Company name: MABATI ROLLING MILLS LTD Sector: INDUSTRIAL METALS AND MINING Number of employees: 915 UN Global Compact signatory since: 2006 Contact person: Salim Bakari Address: 271 – 00204 Athi River Email : info@mabati.com Phone: +254 6427000 3 Brief description of nature of business We are a manufacturing company specialized in building and roofing solutions that include Sheet products and steel system building structures. Scope of this COP This COP is a report for the period between September, 2012 and September, 2013 and covers all the ten principles of the Global Compact. It extends to all employees, management, and suppliers and is intended to be communicated to the stockholders, staff and the general public. 4 COP 2013 – CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Preamble Mabati Rolling Mills Limited (MRM) evolved as a corporate entity in 1961. Since then a policy to plough back to the local communities through a community inclusive process was put in place. MRM, then, had foreseen and adopted what the UN Convention years later adopted as their Agenda on Sustainable development – The Rio Declaration of June 1992, the first Principle being: “Human beings are at the centre of concerns for sustainable development. They are entitled to a healthy and productive life in harmony with nature.” This Principle resonates with MRM’s initial CSR policy. By the time the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) were articulated internationally, MRM was already translating the same goals, not only in the locale of its plants, but far and beyond, bringing hope and dignity to thousands of Kenyans. MRM CSR roadmap is now aligned to the MDGs with its main noble task being “to ensure that every man, woman and child has a decent roof over their head.” This is through our commitment to manufacturing of high quality and affordable roofing solutions. In the period under review, we have witnessed a rise in expectations from our stakeholders which gradually affected our way of doing business. We have recognized this as a business opportunity and transformed ourselves in a way that ultimately responded to business needs and expectations, by endeavoring to implement programs that suit economic, social and environmental perspectives. Mabati Rolling Mills has taken deliberate steps in instigating environmental and social concerns, as reported elsewhere in this document, though needless to mention, through an uncertain political environment following run-up and post Kenya national 2013 General Election. As is customary, in 2012-2013 we participated, using a percentage of our pre-tax profits, to contribute to various social projects focused on stimulating environmental awareness, preserving nature, and assuring that the component of acceptable standardized shelter is achieved; we pushed forward to reduce our energy consumption and carbon footprint by reengineering our processes and committing in writing to remove inefficiencies, among other activities and commitments. The core themes that MRM focuses on, and hence our reporting for the reviewed period, are appended:5 1. Shelter: Commitment: MRM will engage in activities that provide access to people seeking shelter and in particular roofing. These will be shared at low cost in cases of disaster or where the need is great. We will seek to develop products of the highest standards. Projects undertaken during the reviewed period:a) Low Cost Housing: MRM collaborated with its associate companies to provide low cost housing units for sale. The sample house is located at its Athi River offices for viewing. This is one way addressing the aspect of shelter for all b) Empowering local artisans through specialized training Activity and outcome: Safal Mitek, a subsidiary of Safal Group, together with MRM trained more than 20 (Fundis) artisans to acquaint them with new technology involved in construction of trusses and other related products. Mr. Stewart Murray (bottom left) of Mitek South Africa was at hand to certify the artisans with certification. Artisans rewarded for exemplary assignments, on the photo below. 6 Other Shelter-related activities: Mabati Rolling Mills, staged a number of activities during the year to raise awareness as well as educate the public on aspects of roofing and housing, among other topics, hence addressing the aspect of shelter. Ultimately, the outcome has been, a well-informed public who are able to make better choices. MRM collaborated with PKF and donated iron sheets worth Kshs 120,000 to rehabilitate a school in Machakos County, Kenya. 7 2 Health & Sports: Commitment: MRM’s goal is to render quality health to its staff and the communities where the company operates including its market places. In pursuing this quality objective of attaining physical and mental health for all, we will ensure that there is access to the appropriate facilities. Projects:The number of patients who visited our medical centre increased since establishment of the new centre. YEAR MALE FEMALE CHILDREN TOTAL REMARKS 2012 General sicknesses 6,449 8,785 3,619 18,853 Bomu HIV/AIDS 2,441 9,011 2,498 13,950 Sub Total 32,803 2011 General sicknesses 7,629 7,956 2,617 18,202 2010 General sicknesses 9,105 7,434 4,295 20,834 2009 General sicknesses 8,892 7,855 5,419 22,166 Total patient visits in last four years 94,005 8 FIVE MOST COMMON DISEASES TREATED DISEASES 2012 2011 2010 2009 REMARKS MALARIA 8,231 Has reduced over the years 1,700 3,566 7,514 URTI 7,776 Has remained constant 6,938 4,809 6,517 SKIN 2,174 Has remained constant CONDITIONS 1,633 1,440 2,358 DIARRHOEA 2,206 Has remained constant 1,284 1,181 1,618 U.T.I. 926 Has increased 1,420 825 762 EYE INFECTIONS 167 22 100 ALL OTHERS 6,416 4,737 4,292 DIABETES 147 HYPERTENSION 741 HIV/AIDS From 2012 onwards by BOMU 13,950 a) Collaboration A collaboration agreement with Bomu Clinic of Mkomani Clinic Society to take care of HIV/AIDS patients at MRM’s Mabati Medical Centre (MMC) was reviewed and extended for one year. MRM houses the Bomu Clinic at its MMC Premises at Mariakani. b) Sponsorships In 2012 we sponsored 3 medical camps. 1) MRM co-sponsored the Lions Club of Mombasa Bahari carried out Mega Operative Medical Camp at the Malindi District Hospital from 7th to 11th March 2012. The following was achieved: No. of patients screened 1200 Major operations done 92 Dr. Anil Tibrewala, Consultant Plastic & Reconstructive Surgeon from Mumbai, India carried our 48 operations. These included children with cleft lips & cleft palates, Patients with extensive burns & post burn contractures, post traumatic deformities & large growths on various aspects of the body. 9 Dr. Hatim Yusufali, Consultant eye surgeon from Nairobi screened around 300 patients and carried out 16 cataract surgeries. Dr. Mala Nyun, Consultant Obstetrician & gynecologist carried out 5 hysterectomies & 2 caesarian sections. Around 300 ladies from all walks of life gathered at the Cleopatra Cinema Hall to learn about breast cancer. 85 of them came to Tawfiq Hospital for a free breast examination. Those who needed further advice were referred to Mombasa for extensive investigations. 2) Mega Eye Camp was held at our Medical centre on 28th & 29th April 2012. It was carried out by Lions Club of Mombasa Pwani. Following was achieved: No. of Patients Screened 678 Cataract Operations 20 IOLs 20 No. of Reading glasses dispensed 84 One patient was a child named Master Mungumi Robert aged 6years old. He was operated under general anesthesia. He had bilateral cataract in both eyes. 3) The 3rd medical camp was held at our centre on 2nd September 2012. It was carried out by Lions club of Mombasa Pwani. Following was achieved: No. of patients screened 1311 (This was the highest number for a one day medical camp) 427 eye patients were screened. 23 were found with cataracts. 20 were operated for cataract by Dr. Gokhale. A set of young twins were also found to have cataract and were operated. 10 183 dental patients were screened and 83 tooth extractions were done. 73 ENT patients were screened and treated. 91 patients were screened for diabetes and blood sugar. 628 general patients were screened and given treatment. The most common ailments found were Upper Respiratory tract Infections, Anaemia, Skin infections, malnutrition in children, etc. We have participated in the District Health Stakeholders Forum meetings and sponsored one of these meetings at our Mabati Medical Centre. a) Dissemination of HIV information and First Aid training At Athi River and Mariakani, MRM carried a number of activities pegged on dissemination of information on HIV, including First Aid training, as documented by the appended photographs. The Company also participated in the World AIDS day in both Athi River and Mariakani, as seen being flagged off, at Athi River. 11 Other significant related activities included: A SEMINAR ON DRUG & SUBSTANCE ABUSE CONDUCTED BY CICADA, at Mariakani NIC BANK Donated Kshs 400,000/= TO THE CLINIC AND THE MTTI INSTITUTE. UNDER SPORTS ACTIVITIES: b) Gym facilities at Mariakani and Athi River 12 Outcome: Employees at Mariakani and Athi River continue to enjoy free access to the Company’s sports and gym facilities and are able to exercise at their convenience. Regular exercising is one solution to enhancing wellness to the staff hence minimizing lifestyle diseases like diabetes, high blood pressure, among others. This runs under the wellness program. c) Olympic Team Support After participation and feting of the Kenyan Olympians, MRM kept its promise of rewarding the Olympians. The following were the awards, in kind, which MRM offered to the Team (NB: Athletes who did not win medals were also given certain concessions as appended below): MRM committed to recognize hard work and contribution through the following awards:  A Gold medalist awarded a gift of free roofing sheets worth Kshs 250,000.  A Silver medalist – awarded a gift voucher of free roofing sheets worth Kshs 150,000  A Bronze medalist awarded a gift voucher of free roofing sheets worth 100,000. In addition, MRM Board specially recognized the world record breakers during the Olympic events that included David Rudisha, Abraham Tarbei, and Samuel Mushai by giving them an additional voucher for roofing worth Kshs. 100,000.00. Also, Mary Nakhumicha Zakayo who received the Whang Youn Dai Achievement Award, she too will tonight receive a voucher for roofing worth Khs. 100,000. Outcome: The participating sportsmen and women who represented the country felt more motivated and the sporting fraternity, indeed, felt recognized by agencies/institutions outside the government. 3 Education & Innovation: Commitment: MRM will train its employees to build a spirit of innovation in their thinking and help them to discover a more creative and fulfilling career path. MRM will continue to invest in Mabati Technical Training Institute helping it build a sustainable resource base. Projects:Majority of our students come from poor families. 13 In the annual government DIT exams our institute has got a pass result of 95% and above. In the December 2012 exams 97% of our students passed. The breakdown of the student intake for 2012 was as follows: Trade No. of Male Female Form 4 Class Single Orphan Students 8 Parent Computer 3 month 204 45 58 course Computer 1 month 26 course Accounts 19 6 13 19 0 3 Total A 249 51 71 19 0 3 0 Auto electrical 11 11 7 4 2 9 Electrical fitter 18 18 16 2 4 1 Tailoring 13 13 1 12 5 Welders 18 17 1 11 7 3 3 Turners 16 16 16 5 Cabinet making 7 7 0 1 6 5 0 Total B 2nd Years 83 69 14 52 31 24 13 Motor mechanic 21 21 14 7 3 1 Electrical wireman 22 19 3 19 3 3 3 Dressmaking 16 5 11 3 13 3 1 General fitters 39 36 3 33 6 16 5 Carpentry joinery 8 8 0 1 7 3 1 st Total C – 1 Years 106 89 14 70 36 28 11 Grand Total 438 209 99 141 67 52 24 Around 80% of our graduates are gainfully employed each year. Statistics are appended: 14 90 80 70 60 No of students 50 Graduated 40 Em ployed 30 20 10 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Year a) Mabati Technical Training Institute: The institute imparts employable skills to the poor and needy youth of Mariakani and the surrounding area. MRM grants Kshs 6 million towards the operational costs of this project. Outcome: Youth Empowerment through Education. The project benefits around 500 poor and needy students every year. Of the 90 technical students who graduate 80% of them are gainfully employed within three to six month upon receiving the DIT certificate. Thus MRM contributes in reducing poverty in the area. Around 300 to 350 students acquire basic computer skills annually which give them an edge in acquiring jobs, as computer knowledge is a must in today’s job market. Appropriate courses currently offered at MTTI: Technical Trades • Technical Trades offered are as per the Ministry of Science and Technology Curriculum • Students sit for the Directorate of Industrial Training (DIT) Exams Computer Courses (Internal Certification) • Beginners course 15 • Microsoft office Packages Basics in Accounting Packages • Accountant Technician Certificate Exams • Kenya Accountants and Secretaries National Examinations Board (KASNEB) Testimony: Sponsors’ delight: The significance of the social investments, i.e Medical Centre and MTTI, continue to elicit support from various sponsors, as documented by the sample photos appended:  24th June 2013: Wilbert .P of Quaker Chemicals, Netherlands visited the institute and was impressed with good done to the youths and was proud to be a partner.  On 29th May Mr. Nayan Shah visited the institute and was impressed and promised to support the noble work.  3rd May we had a visit from Glad’s House led by Mr. Cliff Ferguson., and noted they were impressed  Among others. Testimony: A beneficiary of the MTTI programmes   Peter Ondiek (2007-2008) Course: General Fitting   “I was hired by MRM. The institute changed my life. It taught me to be always focused and made me a professional”. b) Donations/Assistance to Educational Institutions: MRM participated in a big way in support of a number of education initiatives, both at Mariakani and Athi River. Appended is a documentation of some of the activities that the Company supported, materially, morally and financially: 16 MRM and Safal Mitek Team led by Business Head, Mr. Santosh Shridharan, that participated in a Charity walk for Starehe Girls hand over a donation of Kshs 150,000, to the Principal of the school. MRM Corporate Affairs Manager, Salim Bakari, hands over lapdesks to a school in Kiambu County, and below, together with Human Resource manager, Gertrude Obinchu, deliver a cheque to Chairman of LIWA Expo for innovations by University students. The Expo was attended by Company Chairman, Dr. manu Chandaria 17 Photos: Before and after (PKF collaboration with MRM detail on this photo explained under Shelter) 4 Energy & Environment: Commitment:  MRM will work at reducing pollution in all its forms, in particular, energy consumption and CO2 emissions, ensuring good resource and waste management practice & maintaining tight controls over recycling and noise.  MRM shall be applying the regulatory standard certification bringing environmental management system conformity & complying with legal requirements. MRM will also work to increase Kenya’s forest cover. Projects: a) Town Cleaning activities MRM Employees have participated in cleaning activities at Mariakani, Mlolongo and Matuu, as a support to effort s to achieve environmental cleanliness. Outcome: From the exercises, which collaborated other agencies, more synergy has been achieved with the respective communities having been well informed and aware of dangers of not maintain their environment. 18 b) MRM participated in tree planting activities MRM participates through collaboration and out-rightly engages in outreach programmes that involve tree planting, in both Mariakani and Athi River. On Quarterly basis, MRM collaborates with KAM in tree planting exercise at Nairobi national park. Also, planted trees at PK Primary school , Kiambu County after donating lapdesks to the school. MRM’s donation of Kshs 100,000 to KPLC’s kitty for environment, is presented by Corporate Affairs (top left), who also presented another donation of Kshs 150,000 towards Wheelbarrow competition to mop up funds for environmental conservation 19 COP 2013 – ENVIRONMENT Commitment: MRM is committed to take proactive approach to environmental issues with reference to International standards, government law in Kenya and Kenya’s National Environmental Management Authority (NEMA). MRM’s CSR policy recognizes environment conservational and sustenance as critical activity areas. Our processes involve application of safe environmental practices and Kaizen principles to ensure that elements of:  Waste management,  Safe disposal,  Clean environment, and  Continual improvements in business practices, MRM is certified in ISO 14001 – 2008 for environmental management systems, which has been renewed from 2013 to 2015. 1. Activities impacting on Environment Activities implemented in 2012 include:  Substitution for wood trusses with steel trusses Safal Mitek.  ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems sustenance  Annual Environmental audits and licensing by NEMA Kenya.  Participation in Community Clean-up activities( at Mazeras)  Environmental Awareness Campaigns  Replacement of high energy mercury bulbs with energy saving lamps and solar system  Use of translucent sheets to eliminate electricity usage during the day  Participation in Energy Management awards  Employee energy saving awareness campaigns  Energy audits held every 2 years – last one was in 2011 Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes from the above activities:  Re use of scum for water pre heating  Clean Environment  Energy saving campaigns among employees and at corporate level  No fines or penalties for non-compliances  Recycling of water & hence reducing demand on water(environmental protection)  Raising environment protection awareness in the organization and also to the neighbors. 20  Monitoring on energy usage with a view to taking corrective measures  Reduced environmental pollution  Good relations with surrounding community and government agencies  MRM Was been recognized by NEMA, for being most compliant company with the set regulations for year 2012 2. Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) projects Highlights of the projects:  Upgrading of our treatment plants Establishment of Lawns nurseries and construction made by recycled water  Put up an effective red oxide disposal mechanism  Upgrade of the 6 hi mill, to improve performance Activities planned for 2013: 1. Nurseries for seed distribution to the community 2. Installation of additional solar water system 3. Integration of Environmental, Kaizen, Quality and Health and Safety dockets into ERP/Sap for corporate policy 4. Risk Management policy & Strategy follow up 5. Training: external & internal on environmental issues to raise awareness. 6. Upgrading of Fire Hydrant Systems-(for firefighting preparedness). MRM Certification Components:  ISO 9001:2008 certified on Quality Management System (QMS)  ISO 14001 certified on Environmental aspects  OSHA 18001 certification 21 COP 2013 – HUMAN RIGHTS Commitment: MRM is committed to the prevailing Global Compact principles and Recognizes fundamental human rights to its stakeholders and Human Resources through the conduct of all its business activities. 1. Our Processes/Systems  The company has continued to adhere to the labour laws of the country, ILO conventions and best practices in the country.  The management adheres to union agreement agreed in the negotiation with workers delegates.  The CBA covering the workers in the year 2013/2014 was concluded at the rate of 12% increase for the general wages and other allowances contained in the CBA were reviewed.  There is no forced labour at all in the company and employees work in an environment where they are treated with respect and all their rights and privileges recognized.  In our endavour to increase transparency and accountability, our employees are freely encouraged to use the whistle blower policy whenever they observe any unethical conduct by MRM employees or stakeholder. 2. Activities implemented in the reviewed year • Safety Baraza creating awareness to minimize accidents in the plant • Collective bargaining agreement with workers was concluded. • Medical cover for all employees was reviewed. • The provident fund by employees and employer was reviewed from 5% to 7.5% • Implementation of Employee Satisfaction survey feedback is ongoing. • We developed Skills Matrix across the company where skills fit/ do not fit in our current operations for the purposes of taking appropriate action. 22 3. Outcomes and value added to MRM • Reduction in injuries and absenteeism within the plant. • Harmonious relationship between the management and employees has been maintained. • Drastic improvement in productivity and change of behavior. • We have carried out vigorous campaign on internal training which has resulted in improved knowledge and skills in our employees that guarantees high quality products. • The following is the progress on training; L & D – Return on Investment Q1 Training Participants Status Before Training Return on Investment Taxation – Payroll  Wrong  Correct interpretation & application of External Assistant, interpretation & Tax Laws Training Finance Application of tax  Benefits passed to staff on Tax reliefs Executive, MA laws i.e. Insurance, Mortgages etc Assistant  Risk exposure to (staff/company trust levels improved) possible litigation  Accurate time relevance on interest changes – Prevailing interest rates applied as guided by the government  100% compliance  Company benefits when prevailing interests are high. Health & All staff in the  Low staff response  Clear understanding of Health & safety Safety Plant on safety alarms requirements and use of PPE’s. Training  High accident rates  Improved response to fire alarms & first Internal i.e. Q4 (41) 3 aid cases Major  Only 1 major accident in Q1’13 amounting to 5 days of lost time. Coil Operators –  Damages on coils  Total % of seconds and scrap is at Handling CD 1 & CD2 & material 3.92% at end on Q1 2013 compared to Internal 4.62% at the end of Q4 in 2012 ISO & QA  No understanding  Improved productivity i.e. average of Process Technicians of ISO 2,824MT per month as at March 2013 Parameters  Poor process compared to an average of 2,496 MT per Internal application month in 2012.  Gap in linking  QA & Production teams more focused correct action from on set operations/production objectives production team to & targets. correct non Improved process ownership conformance of products and process parameters 23 HR KEY ACHIEVEMENTS Q1MRM MKN Training Participants Status before Returns on training investments Autonomous MCL Operators, CRM Poor Autonomous Improved Skill pass Mill Maintenance Operators, Utilities, maintenance on the skin condition at MCL Maintenance pass mill in MCL Trade Finance Accountants, Sales Gap in the understanding Able to understand the Training Executive & Purchasing processes and industry and documentation documentation in the banking sector. 5K Audit Training Production, Inability to conduct proper Confidence in carrying out Maintenance, Utilities, 5K Audit processes audits without problems. Supply Chain, Sales, ARP & PKL PLCs Basics Training Electricians Difficulty in diagnosing Faster navigation and PLCs diagnosis of PLC problems Rolling Oil Training QA analysts, Mill Transition from dispersion Successful transition to Supervisors, type of rolling oil (old new rolling oil. Maintenance staff, Mill type)to emulsion rolling Operators & Production oil (new type). Managers HR KEY ACHIEVEMENTS Q1MRM MKN Training Participants Status before Returns on training investments Rockwell Electricians/Electrical Technicians No understanding/ Able to work and Automation knowledge of Rockwell troubleshoot Rockwell Training systems systems 6K & Autonomous Mechanical Maintenance Team in Workshop in disarray. 5K done in the Maintenance MCL workshop and layout Training put in place 24 PLCs Logix MCL Electricians Difficulty in operating Ability and added Training the PLCs knowledge of PLCs Logix operations Payment Terms Line Manager in Maintenance and Poor understanding of Improved Training Production terms of payments understanding & awareness of terms of payment. 132/11KV Sub Electrical Technicians Lack of knowledge & Ability to work and Station confidence in working troubleshoot safely. at the Sub Station. Pickling Line Pickling Operators Poor awareness of Greater engagement Operations operational impacts like and more focus on quality of products and good quality as well as workmanship volume achievements. HR KEY ACHIEVEMENTS Q1MRM MKN Training Participants Status before training Return on investments Skill Matrix All Line Managers Inability to conduct proper Successful understanding skills evaluation in and ability to do skills individuals/teams evaluation. Quality Inspection of CRM & CGL Operators Poor awareness of operational Greater engagement and Materials impacts like quality of more focus on good products and workmanship quality as well as volume achievements. SAP Plant module Maintenance Team Inaccurate and no booking of Improved postings of all training maintenance jobs in SAP maintenance data in the system. Basic Hydraulic I MCL Electricians Inability to work with Confidence and ability to Training Hydraulic systems properly troubleshoot easily. Rolling Techniques CRM Operators Poor awareness of operational Greater engagement and impacts like quality of more focus on good products and workmanship quality as well as volume achievements. Video Jet XL DN MCL Operators and New equipment Ability to operate maintain Training Electricians the new machine 25 4. Activities initially planned for 2013 year  Implementation of training plan in compliance with skills matrix.  Employee baraza to be held to discuss the changes in the CBA of 2013/2014 for the purpose of clarification.  Focus on health and safety to ensure nil accidents in the company  Monthly employee relations meetings that will work as a platform of communication with employees.  More employees to participate in sports that are currently sponsored by the company. 26 COP 2013 – ANTI – CORRUPTION Commitment MRM does not tolerate corruption in all its forms and other vices. There is commitment to policy, value statement, global compact principles and corporate governance policies that outlaw corruption in the business. 1. Our Processes or Systems MRM‘s value statement affirms the company policy on anti-corruption: We do not take shortcuts to quality and ethics. There is Code of Ethics on Business Conduct that is binding to the staff and suppliers. The Human Resource Department has developed an Employee Handbook to guide staff operations. 2. Activities implemented in the last year On anti-corruption, MRM has been creating awareness on the provisions of our Code of Conduct by holding Barazas (Employee forums) regularly. The Office of the Ombudsman is also now open to receive all complaints, including whistleblower issues, and address them. Such issues include but are not limited to corrupt practices. 3. Plans for 2013-2014 Going forward, we intend to identify our key values and ensure that all our employees understand them and are ready to embrace them in and outside the workplace. 27 COP 2013 – SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES CELEBRATING MRM– IN THE REVIEWED PERIOD 28 LEGAL DISCLAIMER This Report has been prepared by Mabati Rolling Mills within the principles of United Nations Global Compact – Communication On Progress (COP). It is intended solely for informative purposes and does not aim to form the basis for any investment decision. All featured information and related data are believed to be accurate at the time of publication of this report, and all information has been provided in good faith and relies on trustworthy sources. However, MRM does not make any kind of declaration, guarantee or promise in relation to this information. End of Report 29
