2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Daniel Omar Mora Franco Learn More! Diana Nassar Learn More! Stella Stefanova Learn More! Welcome to Cisco’s eighth Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report. Within this report, we share our approach, objectives, and performance on our core CSR pillars: Governance and Ethics, Supply Chain, Our People, Society, and Environment. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback A3 < Previous View Contents Introduction Supply Chain Society GRI Index How to Use This Report C2 Overview E2 Overview G2 Strategy and Analysis We encourage you to use the complete A4 Message from Chairman and CEO report PDF, which includes all sections G5 Performance: Economic and allows full access to videos, A5 Message from Sr. Vice President, C7 Our Supply Chain E7 Education search capabilities, and bookmarks. Corporate Affairs Alternatively, if you visit us online, you C8 Embedding Sustainability in E10 Healthcare G6 Performance: Environmental can access each section of our report A6 Cisco, CSR, and Innovation Core Business Processes individually. We’ve also created an E12 Economic Empowerment G8  erformance: Labor P Executive Summary, which provides an A6 Who We Are and What We Do C11 Partnering with Suppliers to Practices and Decent Work overview of our achievements in fiscal Improve Performance and E14 Critical Human Needs and year 2012 (FY12). A8 How a Network Works Build Capability Disaster Relief G9 Performance: Human Rights Interactive Elements A9 About This Report C18 Working with Industry Groups E16 Employee Engagement G10 Performance: Society This document contains interactive elements on mouse over and click. A10 Material Issues E17 Product Accessibility G11 P  erformance: Product Look for these icons throughout this Responsibility document. A12 Key Performance Indicators E18 Supplier Diversity Mouse over or click for interactive content. Icons appear in various colors. Governance & Ethics Our People Environment Appendix Mouse over to get more details then click to play video. B2 Overview D2 Overview F2 Overview H2 1. C  omparison of SustainAbility Bookmarks Materiality Matrix and Table 1 B5 Governance D5 Working Together F5 Environmental Sustainability This pdf is bookmark enabled. We of Environment Section have pre-populated bookmarks in the B7 CSR Management D7 A Safe and Healthy F11 Materials Environment section only. H3 2. G lobal Supplier Work Environment B14 Ethics F13 Energy and GHG Emissions Management Letter Recommended Software D9 An Open and Diverse Culture • Adobe Acrobat* Version 7.0 and above B16 Privacy and Data Protection F38 Water Use H4 3. Comparison of of BAU and • QuickTime D11 Employee Opportunities ICT Solution for Remote B17 Human Rights F39 Biodiversity and Land Use Collaboration D12 Rewarding Our People F40 Non-GHG Emissions H5 4. Comparison of BAU and ICT Solution for Teleworking F41 Effluents (Liquid) F41 Waste 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback A4 < Previous View Our business innovation underpins our CSR performance, volunteers, and 22,000 athletes and coaches, enabling Introduction which is outlined in this, our eighth, CSR Report. When experiences in ways never before possible. > Message from innovation occurs, the barriers that stifle economic Chairman and CEO growth and stall environmental sustainability are broken On top of these achievements, Cisco’s five-year postMessage from down. With companies, individuals, and governments Olympic engagement will contribute to education and Sr. Vice President, working together, we can level the playing field and innovation in the U.K., showcasing how technology can Corporate Affairs help economies develop and grow equitably. I firmly transform businesses and communities. In particular, our Cisco, CSR, and Innovation believe that education and the Internet are the two great legacy will help to rejuvenate the underserved area of equalizers in life, and through the use of technology we East London that surrounds the Olympic Park. Who We Are and What We Do are transforming lives. Cisco’s true value is not in what we make, but in what we make possible. Among a host of other initiatives, we have committed How a Network Works to developing additional Networking Academies in East About This Report Amazing things can—and do—happen when the previously London, bringing IT employment skills and opportunities Material Issues unconnected are connected, whether that is in the areas to thousands of students. We also will donate up to 30 Key Performance Indicators of healthcare, education, environment, or supply chain. percent of the networking equipment used at the Games Providing these connections creates a phenomenal to schools in the area, and our “Building a Brilliant Future” Fiscal year 2012 was a year in which we did what we said impact in corners of the world untouched by digital project will help to harness the inspiration of the Games we would do. We completed a significant reorganization media. Our own vision for CSR, You + Networks = Impact x, to develop the U.K.’s science, technology, engineering, that simplified our business and solidified our focus shows how our key internal and external stakeholders use and mathematics (STEM) skills base. on promoting the growth of networks and the Internet the power of networks to multiply social impact. through our five foundational priorities: In fiscal 2013 we will look to continue to drive profitable 1. Core routing, switching, and services I want to acknowledge the importance of networks in growth, realign resources to focus on innovation, and 2. Data center, virtualization, and cloud technologies this equation. Yes, this refers to the technology that Cisco make investments in strategic areas of the business. 3. Video creates, but we’re also referring to the human networks We remain focused on what we can control and 4. Collaboration that we help bring together. And that is important influence. Cisco is a great company with exceptional 5. Architectures for business transformation because partnerships between business, governments, talent and leadership, the capacity to adjust to challenges and nongovernmental organizations are as crucial as our and opportunities, a strong culture, and a passion Our strategy is to solve our customers’ business technology to creating impact multiplied. for customer success. CSR has always been and will challenges and fuel their growth by delivering intelligent always be one of the pillars of Cisco’s culture, and I networks and technology and business architectures, Our role as the official Network Infrastructure Supporter am extremely proud of the global impact of our CSR built on integrated products, services, and software for the London Olympics and Paralympics is an excellent programs. We are deeply committed to improving lives, platforms. example of our ability to strategically partner to facilitate communities, and the environment. incredible outcomes and experiences. In this case, In a macroeconomic environment that remains we partnered with the British government, the London challenging for Cisco and our peers, we have once again Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic reinvented ourselves. We continue to improve processes Games (LOCOG), National Broadcasting Company to make it easier to do business with Cisco. Our leaders (NBC), and British Telecom (BT). The 1800 Wi-Fi hot are held more accountable and our employees are more spots and 80,000 data connections we provided for empowered, fostering continued innovation. the London Olympics had a capacity four times larger than the network infrastructure in any previous Olympic John T. Chambers Games and helped connect 10 million spectators, 76,000 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback A5 < Previous View education, successful ICT careers, or business ownership, Our stakeholder engagement continues to be led by our Introduction advancing economic growth in communities worldwide. Sustainable Business Practices team within Corporate Message from Affairs. The team is also responsible for Cisco’s CSR Cisco’s Connecting Sichuan initiative has shown the Chairman and CEO reporting, which focuses on five key pillars: way partnerships with national and local governments, > Message from nonprofits, and the private sector can create new • Governance and Ethics: Promoting responsible Sr. Vice President, business practices with every employee at every level opportunities for advancing healthcare systems by Corporate Affairs improving access to healthcare for rural communities as of our business Cisco, CSR, and Innovation well as improving clinical and management efficiency for • Supply Chain: Embedding CSR into routine business Who We Are and entire regions. practices at every stage of the product lifecycle What We Do All of these engagements help our business by developing • People: Developing Cisco’s people; an inclusive, diverse, How a Network Works trusted relationships, strengthening markets for our and engaging culture; and organizational capacity About This Report products and services through local capacity building, • Society: Bringing people together to collaborate Material Issues and incubating Cisco solutions and best practices. on innovative solutions to social issues including Key Performance Indicators education, healthcare, economic empowerment, All this is made possible through networks. Creating shared value for society, the environment, and critical human needs and disaster relief Throughout our 28-year history, we have been committed and our business defines corporate social responsibility • Environment: Improving our customers’ and our own to being a responsible global citizen and to conducting (CSR) at Cisco. environmental sustainability through technology and ourselves in a way that respects and ultimately benefits stakeholder engagement As our Chairman and CEO John Chambers noted in his people, communities, and the environment. In this report, we provide updates to each of these five letter, our business innovation is a key CSR differentiator Cisco is committed to building and maintaining strong pillars, detailing our approach to addressing issues for Cisco: The technology, partnerships, and expertise relationships with our stakeholders. In FY12, we continued through collaborative partnerships, the expertise of our that we use to help our customers is also utilized to our successful global stakeholder engagement program, people, Cisco technology, and our financial resources. multiply positive impacts for society and the environment. utilizing our Cisco TelePresence solution to dialogue with and gather feedback from 28 CSR thought leaders in 13 Our CSR efforts are the result of connecting people Through networks, both peopleand technology-based, countries. We gathered this critical input without anyone around the world and the opportunities that those we can make amazing things happen, while helping to getting on an airplane, thus supporting our environmental connections create. I’m proud of what we, together address pressing issues such as access to healthcare, goals of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. with our partners, have achieved this year and excited under-performing education systems, or increasing about what opportunities tomorrow holds for multiplying greenhouse gas emissions. As part of this engagement, we’ve begun to target specific our impact. I welcome your feedback on our CSR We have witnessed the power of human and technology regions, and in July we hosted our first separate dialogue performance and reporting. networks time and again. Throughout this report, we with Brazilian CSR experts following the United Nations present case studies that show how these networks Conference on Sustainable Development. This session create opportunities to help Cisco multiply impact for helped us to consider the outcomes of the conference society, the environment, and our business. on our CSR programs and report (see page B13). We will continue to host regional dialogues in the future. For example, more than 4.25 million students have participated in the Cisco Networking Academy since 1997, This global and regional focus is only part of our CSR the result of partnerships with over 10,000 educational stakeholder engagement at Cisco. Throughout the institutions, governments, nonprofits, nongovernmental year we host one-on-one and group stakeholder organizations, and community centers in 165 countries. engagements that focus on a broad range of Tae Yoo Many of these students go on to pursue further environmental, social, and governance topics. Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback A6 < Previous View Introduction Cisco, CSR, and Innovation Who We Are and What We Do Cisco is founded and built on innovation. Our vision is Cisco designs and sells innovative networking solutions Message from Chairman and CEO for our technology to change the way people live, work, related to the information and communications play, and learn. Of course, incremental changes can This equation encapsulates CSR at Cisco: technology (ICT) industry and provides services Message from Impact Multiplied. Sr. Vice President, make a difference, but in our view, it is the big ideas associated with these products and their use. We work that are needed to disrupt the status quo and stimulate Breaking Down the Equation with a network of suppliers and partners to manufacture Corporate Affairs You: refers to anyone who has the ability or desire to > Cisco, CSR, and Innovation sustainable change. Cisco’s true value is not just in our equipment (see Supply Chain, page C1). multiply social or environmental impact. This could what we make, it’s in what we make possible. Cisco is mean employees, nonprofits, or public sector leaders. > Who We Are and the network, and the network is the platform on which Founded in 1984, Cisco has pioneered the development What We Do Networks: refers to both human networks (individuals innovation is built. of Internet Protocol (IP)-based networking technologies. How a Network Works and organizations) and technology networks (hardware and applications). Our products include routing, switching, and other About This Report We believe that this philosophy is as important to network-based technologies, such as application Impact x: represents the potential exponential reach of Material Issues environmental, social, and governance issues as it is to networking services, collaboration, home networking, Cisco’s CSR efforts, achieved by the combined power Key Performance Indicators anything else. And by applying this ethos of innovation of human networks and technology networks. security, storage area networking, telepresence systems, to Cisco’s CSR activities, we are striving to develop unified communications (such as WebEx), unified Throughout this report, we include case studies that solutions that help Cisco and our customers and partners computing, video systems, and wireless. We also provide highlight the Cisco Impact Multiplied equation in action. address social issues and promote environmental a range of technical support and advanced services. sustainability. We believe technology is good not just for business or socializing; we believe it is also a powerful Our customers’ success is at the core of our operational way to improve lives, build thriving communities, and About Cisco strategy and execution. We sell to and support a range protect the environment. of customers, from public sector organizations and • Cisco is headquartered in San Jose, California, USA, and has more than 475 offices in more than enterprise businesses to service providers, commercial The videos highlighted in this report and on the 165 countries. customers, and consumers. We aim to solve their most accompanying website profile just some of our innovative • Cisco has more than 66,000 employees globally, important business problems by delivering intelligent solutions, from supplier scorecards that help to integrate one-third of whom are engineers. networks and technology architectures built on integrated sustainability into our supply chain, to comprehensive products, services, and software platforms. • Approximately 13 percent of Cisco’s annual revenue ethics advice provided to our employees around the is invested in research and development (R&D). world. All videos are available at this link. Cisco’s Vision • Almost 100 percent of our manufacturing is Changing the way we work, live, play, and learn. outsourced. • We work closely with more than 600 suppliers around Cisco’s Mission Visit Cisco’s blog page, or the following topic-specific the world that support our supply chain. To shape the future of the Internet by creating entries, for real-time information about innovation at Cisco: unprecedented value and opportunity for customers, • Corporate Social Responsibility employees, investors, and partners. • Collaboration • Connected Life Exchange • Data Center and Cloud 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback A7 < Previous View Introduction Message from PICTURE YOUR WORKDAY Regardless of your impact, your world tomorrow will not be served by one giant cloud. Businesses and individuals will choose different solutions: Some will build private clouds; others will build public clouds; IN THE CLOUDS Chairman and CEO some may prefer hybrid solutions; others will consume cloud services to create a world of many clouds. Message from By 2015, we will create the equivalent data of 92.5 million Libraries of Congress in one year. Sr. Vice President, Corporate Affairs Cisco, CSR, and Innovation 9.4MB 13.2GB > Who We Are and 4.8GB AUDIO What We Do VIDEOS STREAMED WEB 22MB STREAMED CONFERENCES 10MB COMMUNICATION WEB PAGES How a Network Works TOOLS VISITED About This Report Material Issues PADMA’S Padmasree (Padma) Warrior Key Performance Indicators CLOUD Chief Technology and Strategy Officer THIS YEAR YOU WILL HAVE 6.6 TB 18 GB twitter.com/padmasree IN THE CLOUD DAILY THAT IS 20.8 KB .11% 73% .05% .05% 26% PER SECOND Cloud Computing Takes Off Cisco’s Role We recognize the risk to customers’ privacy that exists as a Cisco enables organizations to build cloud offerings using result of the expanding cloud platform, and we work hard to Cisco Global Cloud Index (2011-2016) estimates that by the network to connect and link different clouds. We deliver design features into our products to address those concerns 2016 global data center traffic will nearly quadruple from simplified, scalable, highly secure architectures needed for (see Governance and Ethics, page B16). 2011. Nearly two-thirds of that traffic will live in or pass cloud computing. Find out more about our cloud solutions. through the cloud, and Asia Pacific will generate the most Cisco’s Cloud Computing website features a range of videos cloud traffic. In its simplest form, cloud computing refers to Public, private, and community organizations can offer dedicated to cloud. Watch “Protecting All Types of Clouds” making shared resources, software, and data available via access to cloud computing through their own purposefor more information on how Cisco protects privacy. the Internet. These elements are stored on remote servers built clouds. We are putting these solutions into practice in that can be accessed by devices such as PCs and smart our own business, achieving cost savings and supporting phones around the world. remote workers through Cisco’s private cloud. Watch the Video! Cisco Chief Information Officer, How Big Is Your Cloud? Cisco is also harnessing the power of cloud computing Rebecca Jacoby, offers her insight In the illustration above, Padmasree Warrior, Cisco’s Chief to extend access to education and support sustainable on private clouds. Technology and Strategy Officer, sets out her personal development programs through, for example, the cloud usage. Figure out your usage at http://cisco.com/go/ Cisco Networking Academy and healthcare programs worklifecloud. (see Society, page E7). Learn more about Cloud and the Digital Divide. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback A8 < Previous View Introduction How a Network Works flow of IP packets within the network. The decisions As the foundations of network infrastructure, routers that a router is able to make on specific traffic flows can and switches are crucial in efforts to detect and prevent Internet Protocol is a series of specifications set out add substantially to the manageability, efficiency, and such attacks. Business-class routers and switches, Message from Chairman and CEO by various standards organizations, primarily the scalability of a network. such as those produced by Cisco, incorporate features Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). The IETF that address security, performance, reliability, and Message from Sr. Vice President, publishes specifications that, among other things, detail Network Security manageability. For example, Cisco Integrated Services Corporate Affairs how information is organized into IP “packets” to be Security is a serious concern when it comes to using Routers include built-in firewalls, intrusion detection and Cisco, CSR, and Innovation transported across the Internet. Each IP packet is unique networks. Hackers, denial-of-service attacks, identity prevention, and encryption, among other features. In to an IP address. theft, and even cyber terrorism are very real dangers. addition, hackers can be tracked because source and Who We Are and What We Do destination addresses are identified in each IP packet, Every device (for example, a computer, printer, or smart helping to deter attacks in the first place. > How a Network Works phone) has an IP address assigned to it that identifies the About This Report device’s location and how it interacts with the broader Internet routing allows service providers to see the Material Issues network (through unique IP packets). Each IP packet has address of the sender of information and the address Key Performance Indicators a source and destination address, which is called an IP of the recipient. Without adequate encryption, service address, and a static address that uniquely identifies a providers can also see the contents of messages and device, called a MAC (Media Access Control) address. attachments. Both forms of network security (protection of the network itself from denial-of-service and other The Internet infrastructure comprises primarily two types attacks, and protection of users from spam, hacking, of devices: switches and routers. Switches are designed and virus attacks) require network operators to have to identify and respond to a static MAC address. It capabilities that can be used to block access to websites switches traffic accordingly, typically between ports on or to copy and download users’ communications. the same device. A router is designed to identify and respond to the dynamic source and destination IP address of the particular IP packet and to route traffic accordingly across Estimates of the Growing Network numerous devices. “Cisco’s networking capability is the • From 2010 to 2015, mobile data traffic will grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 92 percent most important thing that Cisco Most switches are very localized. The traffic flowing • By 2014, video will quadruple all IP traffic inside a switch and the decisions a switch makes about does. It’s not that you just give network traffic are based specifically on the switch • By 2015, the amount of content traversing the Internet ports inside one device. Routers, however, are typically annually will be 540,000 times the amount in 2003 money; you show how to make a “network-aware” and make sophisticated decisions about • By 2015, video-on-demand traffic will triple network and make an impact by inter-networking based on current conditions in the • By 2020, 50 billion devices will be connected to network, including (but not limited to) route availability, the Internet working together with everybody.” route congestion, and opportunities for multicast (the • By 2016, 62 percent of all workloads will be processed Marina Rosenfeld delivery of a message or information from one source in the cloud Associação Cidade Escola Aprendiz, Brazil to multiple destinations in a single transmission). Each • A city the size of San Francisco will be built every router utilizes a continuously updated routing table that month for the next two decades Cisco’s 2012 Global Stakeholder gives the routers a real-time updated network “map” Engagement Sessions Source: VNI, Cisco IBSG, Cisco Global Cloud Index (2011-2016) that allows the routers to work in parallel to manage the 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback A9 < Previous View Introduction About This Report • Clearer reporting of Cisco’s priorities and material Assurance issues The data presented in the environment section of this This report covers our fiscal year 2012 (FY12), report is subject to internal and external audit as part Message from • A concise set of key performance indicators Chairman and CEO running from July 31, 2011, to July 28, 2012, and is of Cisco’s Environmental Management System (EMS) related to all our operations around the world, unless • An honest assessment of CSR challenges facing Cisco Message from and in accordance with ISO 14001 requirements. Sr. Vice President, stated otherwise. Our CSR strategy and reporting External assurance is provided for, at a minimum, all prioritize the issues that are most important to our We respond to these requests throughout this report. Corporate Affairs data supporting any public commitment, such as our business and to our stakeholders, identified through Each section leads with a snapshot that gives readers Cisco, CSR, and Innovation greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction goal presented in a formal materiality assessment (see page A10). The an overview of our objectives, performance, and Who We Are and Table 3 and Table 8 of the Environment section. main sections of the report align with these high–level challenges. These snapshots are consolidated in an What We Do Executive Summary, which is available for download. priorities: governance and ethics, supply chain, our The data in this report and the methodology for How a Network Works This interactive PDF enables easy navigation within the people, society, and the environment. collecting it have been internally reviewed. We held > About This Report report (see How to Use This Report). focus groups with CSR thought leaders during 2012 to Material Issues We encourage feedback from stakeholders, and we assess our CSR strategy and reporting, and we engaged use this report to respond to those with whom we have Changes to our approach can take time, but we aim to Key Performance Indicators extensively with nonprofit and nongovernmental engaged throughout the year. In FY12, feedback included be open and transparent about our progress, as well as organizations and CSR experts to gather their views on requests for: about the challenges we face. specific issues throughout the year. Headquarters, San Jose, CA, USA Bedfont Lakes, Feltham, United Kingdom 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback A10 < Previous View Introduction Material Issues • Freedom of Expression: Promoting the positive use of • Water Use: Managing the company’s direct and ICT to open up access to government and encourage indirect water footprint to mitigate water scarcity risk Cisco engages with different stakeholders in a variety transparency through free speech and the ability to in operations and throughout our supply chain (see Message from Chairman and CEO of ways throughout the year, including one-on-one organize (see page B18) Environment, page F38) and group engagements (see Governance and Ethics, Message from • Ethical Sourcing: Adopting and using transparent, • Disaster Relief: Effective response to natural and Sr. Vice President, page B10). The feedback that we receive from these ethical standards for sourcing and resiliency of labor manmade disasters (in the form of products, solutions, Corporate Affairs engagements informs our CSR strategy and approach. In and raw materials for direct operations and throughout and services, as well as philanthropy) (see Society, Cisco, CSR, and Innovation FY12, we also collaborated with SustainAbility to capture our supply chain (includes conflict minerals, rare earths, page E14) in one place our most material issues. SustainAbility’s Who We Are and factory conditions, etc.) (see Supply Chain, page C1) • Digital Security and Privacy: Designing and adapting research, in partnership with GlobeScan, has helped What We Do us prioritize the issues that have the biggest impact on • Human Rights: Promoting fair working conditions and network security as it relates to personal privacy How a Network Works both workplace and general human rights through and potential online threats (including cybercrime, Cisco’s business, on society, and on the environment. About This Report supply chain monitoring, auditing and policies, and economic espionage, military espionage, and cyber > Material Issues External assessments are vital because they help us policies governing interaction with authoritarian warfare) (see Governance and Ethics, page B18) balance internal and external priorities. SustainAbility’s governments (see Governance and Ethics, page B17) • Supplier Diversity: Promoting community and Key Performance Indicators materiality assessment is predominantly an “outside-in” • Corruption and Bribery: Implementing policies against economic development as well as supply chain view of Cisco’s material issues. It is not created to align unlawful, unethical conduct to secure direct business, security through the diversity and resiliency of our key perfectly with our strategic sustainability investments preferential treatment, or both, particularly in weaker suppliers (see Society, page E18, and Supply Chain, but rather to give us insight into balancing our existing states of the developing world (see Governance and page C10) portfolio and identifying emerging issues. Ethics, page B14) • Packaging: Optimizing selection, use, disposal, • Accelerating Entrepreneurship and Small and and impact of packaging material (see Environment, The terms and definitions in this assessment are those Medium Enterprises: Enabling entrepreneurial activity page F11) used by the researchers based on their research and enterprise growth through technology, especially • Education Performance: Improving education frameworks and are not necessarily the terms used in the developing world (see Society, page E12) performance and persistence through improved internally at Cisco. • Product Energy and Greenhouse Gases: Reducing pedagogy and innovative applications of ICT From this process, we have identified our most material energy use and greenhouse gas emissions of current (see Society, page E7) issues (shown in the top right quadrant of the matrix on and future portfolios of products and solutions (see the following page). These are: Environment, page F24) This is an extensive and diverse list of issues requiring • 21st-Century Skills: Promoting and embedding input from people and regions covering the breadth of • Digital Inclusion: Expanding affordable, equitable essential skills for the digital age, including ICT literacy, Cisco’s business. In our regular business operations and access to ICT services across people, communities, critical thinking and problem solving, communication, CSR program, Cisco addresses each of these issues, and geographies in order to promote connectivity and collaboration, creativity and innovation (see Society, and we report on our work throughout this report. as a prerequisite for enhanced educational, economic, page E1) and health outcomes (see Society, page E1) • Job Creation: Creating and promoting high-quality ICT Our materiality process is ongoing, and our CSR • Access to Healthcare: Increasing access to healthcare communications and reporting will continue to reflect jobs (see Society, page E1) delivery through ICT (see Society, page E10) this evolving process. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback A11 < Previous View Introduction Materiality Matrix Mouse over circles below for alternative views Message from With our input, SustainAbility developed a list of issues with high relevance to Cisco. Each issue was then assessed based on the level of societal concern, Chairman and CEO the potential business impact, and our ability to control or influence outcomes related to the issue. The results are captured in this materiality matrix, which Message from visually represents priority issues for Cisco. We selected and assessed 27 issues. Sr. Vice President, Corporate Affairs High Degree of Control Cisco, CSR, and Innovation Human Rights Who We Are and What We Do 21st-Century Skills How a Network Works Corruption & Bribery Freedom of About This Report High Operational Energy & GHGs Expression Control > Material Issues Job Creation Land Use/Biodiversity Digital Inclusion Key Performance Indicators Healthcare Efficiency Access to Healthcare Ethical Sourcing Education Accelerating Performance Entrepreneurship/SMEs Water Use Product Energy & GHGs Moderate Public Policy Product Control Societal Concern End-of-Life Digital Security & Privacy Poverty Alleviation Disaster Relief Low Supplier Diversity Control Hazardous Waste Packaging Education Access Workplace Diversity Issue Group Operational Waste Employee Training & Development Society Environment Low Governance Low Impact/Relevance for Cisco High 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback A12 < Previous View Introduction Key Performance Indicators Our April 2012 stakeholder engagement sessions revealed a request for a set of more refined key performance indicators (KPIs). In response, Cisco has identified the following Message from Chairman and CEO KPIs as the most significant to our business. We continue to report all performance metrics throughout our report, but these KPIs identify the CSR performance areas on which Cisco is most strategically focused. Message from Sr. Vice President, Corporate Affairs KPI FY10 FY11 FY12 Cisco, CSR, and Innovation Governance and Ethics Who We Are and What We Do % of eligible1 employees completing certification to the Cisco Code of Business Conduct 100% 100% 100% How a Network Works % employees responding positively to the CSR statement in the Cisco Pulse Survey² n/a 81% 85% About This Report Supply Chain Material Issues > Key Performance Indicators % Preferred suppliers publishing a CSR report: Manufacturing partners n/a n/a 75% Component suppliers n/a n/a 38% Logistics providers n/a n/a 57% Our People Employee satisfaction (average percent of employees who consider Cisco a great place to work) 84% 79% 82% Rate of injury and illness (per 100 full-time employees) for U.S. operations 0.33 0.30 0.22 % of female employees 23% 22% 22% Society $139 $295 $294 Total corporate and Cisco Foundation cash and in-kind contributions (US$) million million³ million³ Number of hours volunteered by employees 148,355 166,445 107,150 Environment Total contractual GHG emissions: Scope 1 and 2, metric tonne CO2e 376,141 416,927 251,672 Total air travel GHG emissions: Scope 3, metric tonne CO2e 106,783 127,232 139,431 Product trade-in and return: Product return, metric tonne 8,580 11,595 13,324 Product trade-in and return: Material to landfill4 0.33% 0.89% 0.43% 1. Excluding employees in France (who have a separate system), those recently joining Cisco through acquisitions, those on a leave of absence, interns, and contractors who must abide by our Supplier Code of Conduct. 2. Pulse statement is: “Cisco’s Corporate Social Responsibility activities, which focus on environmental, social, and governance issues, positively impact the way Cisco is perceived around the world.” Positive result means employees agree or strongly agree. 3. Includes Cisco Networking Academy in-kind contributions, which we included in our corporate giving data for the first time in FY11. 4. Landfilled material consists only of nonrecyclable materials such as broken pallets, wet cardboard, and shrink wrap. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback B1 < Previous View Governance & Ethics Overview Governance CSR Management Ethics Privacy and Data Protection Human Rights Watch the Video! Governance and Ethics Cisco’s commitment to ethical conduct and strong corporate governance has helped us build a robust company with a recognized corporate social responsibility (CSR) program. Our leadership team is committed to CSR, and we aim to contribute to sustainable development goals through our core business. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback B2 < Previous View Collaboration is the key to our approach. We draw on Our global CSR programs guide the ethical, social, and Governance & Ethics Overview the experience and expertise of employees around the environmental efforts of individual business units while > Overview company as well as insights from external stakeholders helping Cisco maintain a strong reputation and supporting These first three pages give readers an overview in developing our framework for ethical and responsible a successful business strategy. Working with public and Governance of Cisco’s objectives, key challenges, progress, and business conduct. private partners is essential for delivering CSR programs CSR Management performance with regard to Governance and Ethics. that make a difference on a global scale. Ethics We have used this overview as part of our Executive Ethical behavior makes our company more resilient. The Privacy and Data Protection Summary, which can be downloaded here. overriding objective of our Code of Business Conduct Human Rights and governance is that all Cisco employees maintain high ethical standards in all their business activities. Performance Summary Progress Toward Objectives Question FY10 FY11 FY12 Objective Progress in FY12 Status % of eligible1 employees completing certification to the Cisco 100% 100% 100% Continue to undertake robust Held a series of externally facilitated focus Code of Business Conduct* stakeholder engagement groups for opinion leaders to help us better on all CSR issues, including understand stakeholder views on Cisco’s governance, to guide our CSR CSR governance, performance, % employees responding positively to the CSR statement in n/a 81% 85% activities and resources and reporting (see page B13). the Cisco Pulse Survey2* Use credible research firms and Included in sustainability rankings by leading % employees completing the Pulse Survey who have 91% 90% 91% indices, such as the Dow Jones research firms and indices (see box, page confidence that Cisco takes ethical business concerns seriously Sustainability Index and oekom B3). We are also supporting think tank and research AG to benchmark Cisco consultancy SustainAbility’s Rate the Raters % employees completing the Pulse Survey who believe that 81% 81% 84% against peer companies and project to understand and recommend how the management team sets a good example of company CSR leaders to improve the transparency of corporate values, culture, and the Code of Business Conduct sustainability ratings. % employees completing the Pulse Survey who know where to 83% 83% 87% Create issues-based working Established an internal cross-functional go to report an ethics question or concern groups to inform our responses working group on human rights and to recent CSR developments, joined Business for Social Responsibility’s % employees completing the Pulse Survey who feel that they 72% 75% 78% such as the publication of human rights working group. Continued can report concerns without fear of retaliation John Ruggie’s report, Guiding to participate in cross-functional working Principles on Business and groups to inform our management of Human Rights: Implementing the issues related to privacy, ethics, risk, 1. Excluding employees in France (who have a separate system), those recently joining Cisco through acquisitions, United Nations “Protect, Respect, and supply chain. those on a leave of absence, interns, and contractors who must abide by our Supplier Code of Conduct. and Remedy” Framework 2. Pulse statement is: “Cisco’s Corporate Social Responsibility activities, which focus on environmental, social, and governance issues, positively impact the way Cisco is perceived around the world.” Positive result means employees agree or strongly agree. Achieved Ongoing * Corporate key performance indicator (KPI). For our complete list of KPIs, see Introduction 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback B3 < Previous View Governance & Ethics Responsible Investor Ratings for Cisco > Overview Carbon Disclosure Project Dow Jones Sustainability Index: FTSE4Good Index: Member of Greenpeace Cool IT Challenge oekom research Corporate Governance (Sep 2011): Top IT company and Member of World and Global, Global 100, U.S., and U.S. (Feb 2012): #2 IT company Responsibility Rating: CSR Management ranked #5 company across all North American Indexes 100 indexes1 “Prime” status industry sectors Ethics Privacy and Data Protection Human Rights 1. FTSE Group confirms that Cisco has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria and has satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series. Addressing Key Challenges new challenges. We will continue to use insights from information. This is even more important in markets We regularly review and refine our established customers, suppliers, and other stakeholders to review such as healthcare, which can bring extensive social governance approach to respond to stakeholders, reflect and strengthen our governance practices to meet benefits, but only if patients and doctors are confident best practices, and strengthen our company culture, these challenges. that their personal information is secure. Our robust business strategy, and management structures. data security measures are continually evolving to meet Cisco’s General Counsel has taken on the additional role new challenges, and we work to raise awareness about At the end of FY11, we set out to do a comprehensive of Chief Compliance Officer to promote ethical conduct potential security risks among employees and other review and refocus of our entire business. FY12 has in everything we do and to see that issues such as organizations, including customers (see page B16). therefore been a challenging year, but the changes human rights are being addressed at the highest level introduced will make it easier for stakeholders to of the company. Stakeholders have told us they want to see Cisco identify engage and work with Cisco. Simplicity is central to this our CSR priorities and set out a clearer vision, tying approach, and the simplification of our Code of Business The new UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human CSR to our core business by demonstrating how our Conduct is a prime example (see page B14). We updated Rights set out expectations for businesses to respect technology is contributing to our CSR commitments and the Code to make it even easier to use, reduced the human rights. We are committed to respecting the human wider sustainable development goals. We conducted a length of the document, and added reference tools to rights of our employees and our suppliers’ workers. detailed materiality assessment in FY12 based on a wide help employees find specific policies or topics. range of inputs from internal and external stakeholders, Responding to concerns about the privacy and security and we have published a list of our most material issues The Code remains the foundation of our strong culture of data is increasingly critical for Cisco as we strengthen (see page A10). We also recognize the need to show of ethics, and it supports responsible and sustainable our contribution to cloud computing, which changes clear direction and set more long-term objectives to business practices as we enter new markets and face the way people and organizations store and share demonstrate progress. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback B4 < Previous View Governance & Ethics Objectives for FY13 and Beyond > Overview 100% of eligible1 employees to complete annual certification to the Cisco Code of Business Conduct Governance You: In the second half of 2011, Thailand was hit by CSR Management floods that devastated local communities, affected Collaborate with peer companies in the ICT sector to develop human rights training for employees component suppliers, and directly impacted our Ethics team of 100 employees and 30 regular contractors Privacy and Data Protection Develop, implement, and communicate a formal human rights policy and governance model, aligning with the UN Guiding in the Bangkok and Chonburi offices. We activated Principles on Business and Human Rights and best practices our Thailand incident management team to minimize Human Rights adverse impacts on our business and encouraged Continue with formal and informal stakeholder engagements throughout FY13, including additional regional sessions, our network of employees in Thailand and beyond to with the goal of yearly improvement of our CSR implementation support the impacted communities. Networks: We immediately contacted all of our people Augment and deepen engagement with key socially responsible investors as we continue a meaningful dialogue on in the affected areas to confirm that they were safe, issues of importance to our investors. provide them with emergency information, and offer crisis support, including temporary accommodation for some employees whose homes were flooded. We used 83% of employees to respond positively to the CSR statement in our annual employee Pulse Survey2 Cisco technology and the expertise of Cisco teams to partner with the Thai government in supporting national 1. Excluding employees in France (who have a separate system), those recently joining Cisco through acquisitions, those on a leave of absence, interns, disaster relief efforts. Our disaster response teams and contractors who must abide by our Supplier Code of Conduct. set up Tandberg telepresence units in four command 2. Pulse statement is: “Cisco's Corporate Social Responsibility activities, which focus on environmental, social, and governance issues, positively impact centers that formed a central communications hub for the way Cisco is perceived around the world.” Positive result means employees agree or strongly agree. those coordinating relief efforts in the Prime Minister’s Operations Center. These units were also used to connect people stranded by the floods with doctors and hospitals for medical assistance. Cisco’s Asia Pacific leader issued an appeal to employees across the region to support the efforts of their colleagues in Thailand through fundraising and donations. Impact x: In addition to donations of equipment, expertise, and 600 survival kits, Cisco employees contributed donations to Habitat for Humanity and Save the Children through our employee giving program. These funds were matched by the Cisco Foundation, raising nearly US$50,000 for relief efforts. Our business continuity plans helped to minimize adverse business impacts, and we supported our employees and the communities devastated by these floods. The Cisco Network Emergency Response Vehicle (NERV) NERVs are deployed by the Cisco Tactical Operations (TacOps) is a mobile communication center, supported by a highly team. The team establishes IP-based communications for first trained team, that is designed to establish interoperable responders, government agencies, relief organizations, and communications in emergency situations. others who require mission-critical connectivity to respond effectively. Read more 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback B5 < Previous View Governance & Ethics Governance A majority of the members of our Board of Directors are We regularly re-evaluate existing and emerging risks that independent directors who meet regularly without the may affect our business. Risk is assessed and addressed We believe in the power of collaboration. That philosophy presence of Cisco management. Our Board has adopted by relevant functions (such as Corporate Affairs, IT, or Overview is reflected in Cisco products, systems, and services and clear governance policies for: supply chain), and our risk teams undertake extensive > Governance in our approach to corporate governance. This approach research and detailed analysis of external reports and CSR Management • Board composition helps us manage risks effectively, enabling business forecasts of market trends to assist business planning. Ethics continuity and sustainable growth. • Board meetings and materials Privacy and Data Protection • Board committees In FY12, we conducted a detailed risk-mapping exercise Management Approach and enhanced our metrics to measure risk management Human Rights • Stock ownership guidelines for non-employee Simplicity, accountability, and empowerment are at maturity ratings. We aim to increase collaboration on directors and executive officers the heart of our plans to improve efficiency, promote risk management throughout the company through the consistency, and build a more focused company that • Management responsibilities Enterprise Risk Management Program, which promotes is easier to work for and to do business with. In FY12, effective governance of risk across the company, and the we embedded these themes in our communications, All members of the Board’s Audit, Compensation Risk and Resiliency Operating Committee. processes, and relationships with customers, employees, and Management Development, and Nomination and and partners. In particular, Gary Moore, Cisco’s President Governance committees are independent directors. The Risk and Resiliency Operating Committee is an and Chief Operating Officer, has provided clear updates integrated, cross-functional decision-making committee Our internal audit function is responsible for overseeing regarding how Cisco is addressing these commitments. that pursues informed decisions on risk and resiliency Cisco’s operational and financial processes. It reports (Read more.) The results are already evident with an and promotes excellence in risk governance. It manages regularly to the Audit Committee. See our Corporate increased Ease of Doing Business score in our customer collaboration between a wide range of company Governance website for further information. satisfaction survey. functions to address risks that no single function can resolve. Its decisions are informed by a series of working In FY12, the Corporate Policy function (which centralizes Cisco includes a question in our employee Pulse Survey groups that report to the committee each quarter. corporate policies and approves changes) joined our regarding the effectiveness of our CSR activities. We Ethics Office and Cisco’s General Counsel took on the asked employees to respond to the statement: “Cisco’s additional role of Chief Compliance Officer to embed our Corporate Social Responsibility activities, which focus on commitment to ethical conduct across Cisco. environmental, social, and governance issues, positively “It would have been good to see impact the way Cisco is perceived around the world.” Risk Management A large proportion of employees (85 percent of those more about how sustainability fits Cisco is founded and built on innovation. We continue to surveyed) agreed or strongly agreed with the statement. push boundaries in our efforts to connect the world and with your core business strategy achieve long-term growth opportunities for our company. Corporate Governance Managing risk is essential as we enter new markets and and ties into governance and your Cisco’s corporate governance policies are designed introduce new products. Risks associated with data to foster ethical conduct and help us comply with main product lines.” privacy and security, for example, have changed with regulatory requirements and applicable laws for publicly the growth of cloud computing (see page B16), and the Natalie Falzon listed companies. increased use of IT and social media by consumers. Telstra, Australia Cisco’s 2012 Global Stakeholder Engagement Sessions 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback B6 < Previous View Business resiliency is a core part of our risk management Current policy priorities include: • Joint U.S.-China Collaboration on Clean Energy Governance & Ethics activities. Our strong incident management and business • Increasing broadband and next-generation network • Joint Venture: Silicon Valley Network Overview continuity programs enhance Cisco’s ability to rapidly deployment globally • Milpitas Chamber of Commerce respond to internal and external disruptions or threats > Governance • Promoting wireless networking and increasing and to maintain or recover operations with a goal to limit, • National Conference of State Legislatures CSR Management spectrum allocations for wireless use to a practical extent, the impact to our employees and • National Foreign Trade Council Ethics our business. In the second half of 2011, our incident • Encouraging continued innovation in network security • National Governors Association Privacy and Data Protection response management responded to floods that • Reforming the U.S. patent system devastated communities in Thailand (see page B4). • North Carolina Citizens for Business and Industry Human Rights • Limiting regulation of Voice over Internet Protocol • San Jose/Silicon Valley Chamber of Commerce The Board of Directors, acting directly and through • Maintaining freedom for service providers to develop • Silicon Valley Leadership Group its committees, is responsible for overseeing risk innovative business models management and business resiliency. Under the • Stanford Institute for Economic Policy and Research • Balancing consumer privacy, network security, and Board’s oversight, Cisco has implemented practices Internet business • TechAmerica and programs designed to help manage business risks • Promoting reasonable intellectual property rights • TechNet and to align risk-taking appropriately with our efforts management • Telecommunications Industry Association to increase shareholder value. • U.S.-China Business Council Cisco employees and partners are guided by our Code Public Policy of Business Conduct, which stipulates expectations • U.S. Information Technology Association Cisco engages with governments at many different levels regarding political activities and interactions • Wi-Fi Alliance to help shape public policy and regulations that support with government entities and their employees or the technology sector and help governments meet their • Wireless Communications Association International representatives. See our Government Affairs website for goals. We recognize that stakeholders want to know our positions on these and other areas. our position on public issues, so we are now including information about public policy in this report. Collaborating with Industry Organizations We collaborate with peers to build trust and develop Cisco’s Global Policy and Government Affairs (GPGA) strong working relationships with government leaders team develops and influences pro-technology public through industry associations, including: policies and regulations. Working collaboratively with industry stakeholders, association partners, • Aspen Institute and government leaders, the GPGA team builds • Business Council for International Understanding relationships with government leaders to influence • California Chamber of Commerce policies that affect Cisco’s business and overall IT • Canadian Advanced Technology Alliance adoption, looking to help shape policy decisions at a global, national, and local level. • Civil Justice Association of California • Computing Technology Industry Association The GPGA team is composed of former elected • Council of the Americas officials, legislators, parliamentarians, regulators, senior U.S. government officials, and government affairs • DIGITALEUROPE professionals who help Cisco promote and protect the • European American Business Council Cisco House, 2012 Olympics use of technology around the world. • Information Technology Industry Council Photography by Sean Ebsworth Barnes 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback B7 < Previous View Governance & Ethics Political Support CSR Management CSR Governance Cisco does not make donations to federal candidates for The Sustainable Business Practices team monitors office. We occasionally make corporate contributions in Cisco manages CSR activities by engaging the insight emerging CSR issues and identifies areas for potential Overview support of local and state ballot measures on issues such and expertise of internal subject matter experts and action. The team collaborates with Cisco’s subject Governance as transportation or education that impact our operations external stakeholders. This helps us focus on the areas matter experts on strategies and initiatives that create > CSR Management in California, Massachusetts, Georgia, North Carolina, that are most important to our business and the people long-term, sustainable benefits for our business and the Ethics and Texas. Cisco fully complies with all reporting and communities with whom we interact. global community. Its mission is to build sustainability into Privacy and Data Protection requirements regarding such contributions. normal business processes and engage employees in all Tae Yoo, Cisco’s Senior Vice President of Corporate business functions within Cisco. Human Rights Employee Political Action Committee Affairs, is the catalyst behind Cisco’s CSR vision. She Cisco’s employee-sponsored political action committee heads our CSR strategy, which engages public-private The team is responsible for CSR reporting, stakeholder (ePAC) enables U.S. employees to contribute to the partnerships and leverages Cisco’s business, technical, engagement, and benchmarking. It also works with campaigns of U.S. federal and state elected officials and financial assets for sustainable social impact in executive leadership to review performance, help and political candidates who champion Cisco and our communities around the world. Ms. Yoo also leads our prioritize CSR issues and programs, and set goals. industry’s public policy priorities and business objectives. social investment programs in education, healthcare, All campaign contributions made by Cisco’s ePAC are critical human needs, and economic development. made according to a plan that supports Cisco’s policy objectives and is approved annually by the ePAC board. Contributions made by ePAC are public and transparent. Our CSR Business Process ePAC’s contributions are reported online by the Federal Election Commission and California Secretary of State. Cisco’s CSR Business Process helps us set goals, develop and implement policies, and monitor and report on performance. We encourage civic engagement and provide educational opportunities for employees on specific issues as well as Business Functions Sustainable Business opportunities to meet with political candidates through Practices Team town hall meetings and other forums. 6 Measure 1 CSR Reporting Performance 5 Implementation Stakeholder Engagement 2 and Analysis 4 Prioritization, Stakeholder Feedback 3 Goals, and Initiatives to the Business 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback B8 < Previous View Global Frameworks and Forums Governance & Ethics Several global frameworks and forums inform and Franklin Institute Honors John Chambers with connect to each other through computer networking and the Internet, and for his leadership by example in corporate Overview guide our work on CSR. These include: Bower Award for Business Leadership responsibility and personal philanthropy.” Governance • Clinton Global Initiative Cisco Chairman and CEO John Chambers was honored In addition, Chambers has been widely recognized for his in FY12 by the Franklin Institute with the Bower Award for > CSR Management • UN Global Compact and Cisco’s CSR leadership, including receiving the U.S. Business Leadership. The award recognizes outstanding State Department’s top CSR award (ACE) twice, from Ethics • UN Millennium Development Goals leadership in American business, promoting sound Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in 2010 and Secretary of economic practice and high ethical standards while Privacy and Data Protection • World Economic Forum State Condoleezza Rice in 2005. He received the first ever serving as an inspiration to industry leaders. Human Rights Clinton Global Citizen Award from former U.S. President Global CSR Management Standards and Guidelines Chambers received the award for “shaping Cisco Systems, Bill Clinton in 2007 and was also awarded the Woodrow Inc., into one of the world’s most widely respected and Wilson Award for Corporate Citizenship in 2004 and the • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): CSR reporting successful technology companies, providing business and prestigious Excellence in Corporate Philanthropy Award guidelines (see our GRI Index) consumer technologies that allow millions of people to (an award given by CEOs to their CEO peers) in 2006. • ISO 14001: Environmental management standard (see Environmental Management System, page F6) Rio+20: Contributing to the Debate Cisco is also a corporate partner in the Regeneration Roadmap project. Launched at the Summit, the Regeneration Cisco supported the sustainable development aims of Roadmap project is a collaborative and multi-faceted the Rio+20 Earth Summit in June 2012 and contributed initiative developed by CSR research company GlobeScan to the debate at the accompanying UN Global Compact and think tank SustainAbility. The project aims to promote Corporate Sustainability Forum. sustainable development within the next generation, Our focus was on the role of technology in disaster risk focusing in particular on how the private sector can reduction and resilience building. Cisco is a member of improve sustainability strategy, increase credibility, and the UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction Private Sector deliver widespread results more quickly. Advisory Group and leads the private sector team on Following the Rio+20 Summit, we held a stakeholder the UN Making Cities Resilient campaign. We presented engagement session with opinion leaders in Brazil to gauge examples of public-private partnerships, including the use their views on how Cisco can contribute to sustainable of technology to address urbanization challenges in Korea development. We also asked them to comment on our CSR and the Planetary Skin Institute in Brazil, which addresses performance and reporting more generally. Stakeholders issues of resource scarcity and in which Cisco has been recognized that Cisco’s strength is using our technology to involved from the start (see Environment, page F37). support sustainable development. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback B9 < Previous View External Partnerships • Working with the World Resources Institute and the in continuing to improve our CSR reporting. Their input Governance & Ethics Collaboration with external partners is key to the World Business Council for Sustainable Development helps us align our business more closely to society’s Overview implementation of our CSR programs around the world. to initiate the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (Scope 3) needs and prioritize issues while gaining valuable insight This collaborative approach is well established at Cisco. Product ICT Sector Supplement into external perspectives, building ongoing relationships Governance We aim to continue to develop and share best practices • Supporting the Committee to Encourage Corporate with key influencers, and providing learning opportunities. > CSR Management for public-private partnerships to increase our impact. Philanthropy through membership and collaboration Ethics Our Sustainable Business Practices team manages in their mission to “lead the business community in Privacy and Data Protection Cisco works with a wide range of global and local collaboration and feedback between Cisco and raising the level and quality of corporate philanthropy” Human Rights partner organizations, from nonprofits and governments stakeholders on CSR issues. Insights from stakeholders, to peer companies. A list of our community partners is Stakeholder Engagement opinion leaders, and experts are analyzed and shared available online. Cisco values the input of external stakeholders in with the relevant teams within Cisco and with our developing our CSR strategy and initiatives as well as business partners. Evidence of this collaborative approach can be found throughout this report as we work with others to further global sustainable development goals, improve CSR standards in our supply chain, and make our products more sustainable. Examples include: • Partnering with schools and other institutions through our longest-running CSR initiative, Cisco Networking Academy, to reach more than 4 million students in over 165 countries • Working together with peer companies and suppliers through the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) to develop a common approach to tackling the issue of conflict minerals in the ICT supply chain “Cisco has great, concrete short-term goals. They can strengthen their CSR strategy by adding long-term, more aspirational objectives.” Linda Qian Intel, U.S. Cisco’s 2012 Global Stakeholder Engagement Sessions 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback B10 < Previous View Governance & Ethics How We Engage With Key Stakeholders (continued) Overview Stakeholder Group How We Engage Examples of How Cisco Is Responding to Issues Raised Governance > CSR Management Communities • Social investment programs • Cisco and the Cisco Foundation provide cash, products, and people to help organizations Ethics • Partnerships with corporations, nonprofits, governments, and NGOs create scalable, replicable, and sustainable solutions that use Internet and network technology to benefit individuals and communities around the world. See more on our Privacy and Data Protection • Employee volunteering and participation in civic councils in their support for community partners. local communities Human Rights CSR Opinion Leaders • Stakeholder meetings to gain feedback on our CSR performance • See page B13 for more information about the meetings and their findings. Feedback from and reporting stakeholders suggested that we had begun to address a number of concerns raised in the previous year. Customers • Annual Customer Satisfaction Survey • In FY12, Cisco won one of Forrester Research’s “Voice of the Customer Awards,” which • “We’re Listening” blog engages customers and partners about their recognize organizations that excel in collecting, analyzing, and acting on feedback from their experience with Cisco and how we can improve customers. Forrester Research highlighted efforts that we have made to make it easier to do business with Cisco. In particular, the award recognized improvements that we made to our online customer support website, resulting in 81 percent of issues now being resolved online, avoiding 356,000 cases per month. Employees • Regular informal engagement through team meetings • Asking employees to provide feedback through our Employee Pulse Survey, achieving an • Internal communications 83 percent response rate in FY12. • Quarterly “All Hands” meetings • Responding to the findings of the FY11 Employee Pulse Survey. See Our People, page E6. • Annual leadership and sales meetings • Being recognized by multiple awards focusing on employee programs and benefits. These included awards for best place to work, multicultural business opportunities, • Focus groups disability advocacy, and intern and MBA graduate hiring practices. Read more on Cisco’s • Employee Pulse Survey CSR Awards webpage. • Annual ethics training and certification to Code of Business Conduct Governments and • Contributing to policy development through our Global Policy and • Engaging on policy developments that affect our industry. See Public Policy (page B6) for a Regulators Government Affairs team and industry associations list of Cisco’s critical policy priorities, and visit our Government Affairs page for our position • Partnerships with governments on social issues such as education on these areas and more. and healthcare • Partnering with the Jordanian government on a healthcare initiative that uses ICT to improve • Blog on High-Tech Policy: Thoughts and Opinions from the efficiency of and access to healthcare services in Jordan. See Society, page E11. Government Affairs • Focusing on social impact through our Tactical Operations team. For example, the Cisco Network Emergency Response Vehicle (NERV) is a mobile communications center that is designed to establish interoperable communications in emergency situations. The employees on this team work with governments, NGOs (such as NetHope), and the United Nations to set up and manage vital communications capabilities following natural disasters. (continues on next page) 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback B11 < Previous View Governance & Ethics How We Engage With Key Stakeholders (continued) Overview Stakeholder Group How We Engage Examples of How Cisco Is Responding to Issues Raised Governance > CSR Management Industry • Participation in industry partnerships to promote the role of ICT in • Participating in the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition to address issues in the ICT Ethics sustainability, respond to new regulations, and develop standardized supply chain such as conflict minerals and working hours. See Supply Chain, page C18. approaches to challenges • Working with the International Electronics Manufacturing Initiative to standardize lifecycle Privacy and Data Protection assessments of electronics products. See Environment, page F8. Human Rights • The Internet has become an essential vehicle for everyday communication, but access to the Internet is still not universal. Cisco partners with TechNet, a coalition of ICT companies dedicated to advancing the industry’s public policy agenda and bringing network access to everyone around the world, especially the disadvantaged. Investors and • Regular meetings with investors • Cisco’s Investor Relations team aims to communicate with transparency and integrity. Analysts • Annual Meeting of Shareholders We strive to be a superior resource for Cisco's investors and analysts and to be strategic partners for management. • Annual Report • The IR team shares investor views on key sustainability issues—from human rights to • Proxy Statement executive compensation—with Cisco executives and members of Cisco’s Board of Directors. • This CSR Report • IR engages in ongoing, cross-functional collaboration with internal groups such as • Sustainability investment indices corporate affairs, sustainable business practices, the ethics program office, the Cisco Foundation, legal and compliance, and others. • Investor Relations website • IR meets regularly with socially responsible investors (SRIs) and engages Cisco leaders in dialogue with SRIs as well. See a list of awards won by our Investor Relations team online. Nonprofits • Meetings with CSR opinion leaders • Partnering with nonprofits such as Appleseeds Academy, Inveneo, One Global Economy, • Working with partners to deliver community and CSR programs Feeding America, Habitat for Humanity, and a range of local partners to establish a network of Community Knowledge Centers in sub-Saharan Africa • Providing technology skills and expertise through employee volunteering • Working with NetHope and Inveneo to assist with humanitarian efforts at the Dadaab refugee camp in Kenya by setting up a high-speed wireless Internet connection • Driving NGO efficiency and effectiveness through technology grants • Supporting the Grameen Foundation’s Progress Out of Poverty Index, which aims to improve the delivery and impact of poverty alleviation programs such as microfinance • Working to solve global challenges through influential coalitions such as the World Economic Forum and Clinton Global Initiative For more on these and other partnerships with nonprofits, see Society, page E5. (continues on next page) 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback B12 < Previous View Governance & Ethics How We Engage With Key Stakeholders (continued) Overview Stakeholder Group How We Engage Examples of How Cisco Is Responding to Issues Raised Governance > CSR Management Sales Channel • Quarterly and annual surveys to understand our performance • Partner Education Connection provides training on products, tools, and solutions to promote Ethics Partners and how we can help partners grow their business our partners’ businesses, and their continued technological education and certification. • Channels blog Any employee of an authorized Cisco Channel Partner company can request access. The Privacy and Data Protection majority of courses on are free, and partners report that it helps decrease travel expenses • Facebook while increasing productivity and sales. Human Rights • Cisco Channels Twitter account • YouTube • Partner Community: provides a secure, engaging, and cohesive forum for partners to learn, share, and collaborate with their peers and Cisco experts Suppliers • Close collaboration to incorporate CSR into all aspects of the • Including sustainability criteria in our performance scorecards for preferred suppliers supply chain • Working with suppliers through our auditing process and other engagement to build their • Supplier Code of Conduct and Supplier Ethics Policy CSR capabilities • Regular audits • Mentoring diverse suppliers and participating in global business missions to support their business development See Supply Chain, page C11, for more on our engagement with suppliers. Watch the Video! Sustainability criteria in Cisco’s supplier scorecards help us to better monitor supplier performance and to collaborate with our supply chain partners, such as D.W. Morgan, to optimize environmental and labor improvements. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback B13 < Previous View Material Issues Governance & Ethics Cisco Invites Global CSR Stakeholders to the Virtual Boardroom The findings of our engagement with stakeholders were Overview In FY12, we held a series of meetings with 28 CSR opinion leaders representing academia, customers, government, fed into our latest detailed materiality assessment in July industry and sustainability organizations, investors, peer companies, and NGOs. For the second year, we used Cisco 2012. This assessment was conducted by the think tank Governance TelePresence technology to bring stakeholders together virtually to avoid travel-related carbon emissions. Participants and consultancy SustainAbility using a methodology that > CSR Management from 12 countries joined four sessions covering Asia Pacific, the Americas, Europe, and (following the Rio+20 Earth also draws on research by GlobeScan. It has helped us Ethics Summit) Brazil. to prioritize those issues with the potential to have the Privacy and Data Protection Participants recognized that our reporting had improved, and those who had taken part in our FY11 feedback sessions greatest impact on Cisco’s business, the environment, confirmed that Cisco had listened and responded to their feedback. The following table summarizes the feedback and society. From this process, we have identified our Human Rights received and our responses: most material issues (see Introduction, page A10). Feedback Cisco’s Response Improve disclosure on social and environmental In this report, we have included an overview of key challenges challenges in the introductory pages of each section. Show how we are promoting the use of our products and The Society and Environment sections of this report services to drive the sustainability agenda outline how we are promoting the use of products such as our remote collaboration, EnergyWise, data center, and smart grid products and solutions to improve the sustainability of our operations and those of our customers. Set clearer, bolder environmental targets and report We continue to look to external frameworks such as the performance against them Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) to benchmark our CSR program and goals. From this insight, we believe we are in a solid position, but we recognize that there is more to be done. See our Environment video for insight on Cisco’s performance from CDP Executive Chairman Paul Dickinson. Cisco CTS-3000 TelePresence unit (6 users) with CTS-3200 Improve transparency on human rights issues. We have published a human rights policy and included in TelePresence (18 users) this report an extensive discussion on human rights and Cisco’s Human Rights Roadmap, which will align to the UN Guiding Principles (see page B21). Stakeholders also recommended a number of further improvements to help Cisco maintain its reputation as a CSR leader. These include articulating a holistic CSR approach and a more succinct list of KPIs, identifying and focusing on our most material issues, and being more candid about the challenges we face. Stakeholders were impressed to see that Cisco’s CSR and business strategies are closely aligned, and they wanted to see this connection strengthened in our reporting. We aim to address their feedback in this report. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback B14 < Previous View Governance & Ethics Ethics Code of Business Conduct during the holiday season every year, we conduct an The Cisco Code of Business Conduct defines our internal communications campaign to remind employees Ethical business conduct is crucial in helping us attract expectations for our employees’ ethical behavior. All about the gifts and entertainment policies. Overview and retain customers, business partners, and talented employees must follow this Code, which provides Governance employees. As the world changes, new products and information about our policies and procedures, guidelines Reporting Concerns CSR Management services carry new ethical challenges. Integrity remains We encourage employees and other stakeholders for decision-making, and real-life examples of potential > Ethics one of our most fundamental core values and drives work-related ethical dilemmas. to promptly report concerns to us about suspected Privacy and Data Protection our commitment to uphold high standards on ethics and unethical behavior. The ways they can do this include: human rights. The Code requires: Human Rights • Speaking to a manager or human resources • Honest and ethical conduct representative. Cisco Named One of the World’s Most • Full, accurate, and timely disclosures to government • Contacting team members in our Legal or Ethics Ethical Companies for Five Years Running agencies and in other public communications where offices directly. appropriate • Contacting the Ethics Office by email at For the fifth consecutive year, Cisco was included in the Ethisphere’s World’s Most Ethical Companies. Cisco was • Protection of confidential and proprietary information ethics@cisco.com or through our anonymous one of 145 companies awarded with this title in 2012 for belonging to Cisco, our customers, and our suppliers webform, channels that account for more than our ethics and compliance programs. 70 percent of reported concerns. • Compliance with all applicable government laws, rules, See our website for more CSR awards and recognition. and regulations • Reporting concerns through our global helpline, • Prompt reporting of potential violations which is run by a third party and available to people outside Cisco. Around 15 percent of concerns are In FY12, we updated the Code to make it even easier to reported using the helpline. The Cisco Ethics Line use. In response to employee feedback, we reduced the is available in more than 150 languages and open length of the document and added reference tools to 24 hours a day. Calls can be made anonymously, if help employees find specific policies or topics. We also preferred (in countries where this is permitted by law). began to embed short videos in the new document that Our Ethics@Cisco website contains dialing instructions explain how to put the Code into practice. For example, for over 60 countries. the new “It’s just a mooncake” video in the Gifts and Entertainment section shows that something as simple In FY12, the Ethics team launched two new online tools as giving or accepting a gourmet holiday pastry as a for employees to disclose gifts and outside business business gift must be done properly. interests. These tools make it easier for our employees to get prompt reviews and decisions about approval for The Cisco Supplier Ethics Policy sets similar expectations these more common issues and for the Ethics team to for our business partners. Both require compliance with respond and track these centrally. all applicable regional and national laws and regulations. We make clear to employees that they will not face The Ethics Office also raises awareness about business retaliation if concerns are raised in good faith, and fear ethics among employees, business partners, and of retaliation is low. Only 18 percent of concerns were suppliers. It offers ethics training for employees, helping reported anonymously in FY12. them recognize ethics-related situations. For example, 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback B15 < Previous View In FY12, the main concerns raised related to conflicts of Governance & Ethics interest, gifts and entertainment, and human resources Pulse Survey Results Overview issues. We make it a priority to investigate all concerns. Violations may result in disciplinary action, including Question FY10 FY11 FY12 Governance termination of employment in certain cases. CSR Management I have confidence that Cisco takes ethical business 91% 90% 91% > Ethics Ethics is embedded in Cisco’s culture. Employee concerns seriously Privacy and Data Protection responses to the ethics questions in the annual Pulse Survey show a strong and stable ethical culture The management team sets a good example of company 81% 81% 84% Human Rights values, culture, and the Code of Business Conduct (see table). I know where to go to report an ethics question or concern 83% 83% 87% Employee Training and Awareness Each year, we require all regular employees (in countries where this is permitted by law) to recertify compliance I can report concerns without fear of retaliation 72% 75% 78% with the Code of Business Conduct, to refresh their commitment to ethical conduct, and to get updated training for more than 1000 employees in global supplier related to study preparation and testing, protecting information on any changes Cisco has made to the Code. management, recruitment, and employee relations. This information, and professional conduct related to their In FY12, all of Cisco’s eligible1 employees completed builds on existing ethics training such as: Cisco certification. We have developed a series of recertification. Newly hired employees must certify • An anticorruption course for employees who interact training videos to accompany the Code. within three weeks of joining Cisco. The certification is available online in 13 languages and in an Americans with with government representatives and officials, Disabilities Act (ADA)-accessible version. monitored by a public sector compliance team in the Legal department (see box) When Does a Gift Become a Bribe? Our internal ethics website provides training, links to • A program for human resource professionals, designed In July 2012, we introduced new training on policies, and other resources, as well as a discussion to provide the tools they need to act as ethics anticorruption, delivered by video with a follow-up forum for employees on ethics topics. It includes our advocates and respond to employee questions related test of 10 questions. ethics training videos and online modules. We to the Code of Business Conduct Focusing on the difference between an acceptable introduced a new training video in FY12, “Everyday business gift and a bribe, the training sets out what • A quarterly course for new recruits addressing Cisco’s employees should look out for. While the specific Ethics,” to accompany the certification process for all commitment to ethical business practices criteria of anticorruption laws and regulations vary employees. The resulting increased awareness has • Live training for employees joining our sales teams around the world, the key factor is reciprocation. This contributed to an increase of more than 700 percent means that if a gift, favor, or hospitality is given with over FY11 in the number of inquiries and disclosures of (Cisco Sales Associates) the expectation of getting something back (such as outside business interests. • Annual live training for employees in China obtaining or retaining business), it becomes a bribe, not a gift. We provide on-demand training tailored to specific In FY12, we established a new Code of Certification All employees who interact with government or employee groups when it is requested by business Ethics for Cisco employees and external IT professionals public officials will be required to complete this or regional management. In FY12, we provided live taking Cisco certification training (approximately 2 million training in FY13. globally at any given time). The Code covers ethics 1. Excluding employees in France (who have a separate system), those recently joining Cisco through acquisitions, those on a leave of absence, interns, and contractors who must abide by our Supplier Code of Conduct. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback B16 < Previous View Governance & Ethics Privacy and Data Protection offerings to help Cisco maintain the integrity of our own Privacy and security standards are part of our Code of operations, reducing risks and improving the privacy of Business Conduct. Our cross-functional program for People are understandably concerned about how their proprietary information. reporting and tracking incidents provides a standard, Overview personal information is used and shared, and they want global process to report, categorize, monitor, refer, Governance to feel confident that data communicated or stored Privacy by Design and investigate alleged incidents. CSR Management online is secure. Cisco works regularly to enhance Designing privacy into our products helps Cisco Ethics robust processes and systems that protect customer maintain a market-leading position for our applications. In FY12, Cisco was again awarded > Privacy and Data Protection and employee data and to raise awareness about the “Privacy by Design” is the concept that privacy is not an TRUSTe’s Privacy Seal. This seal importance of data protection and privacy. add-on, but rather a core component of our products, indicates that our privacy policy Human Rights services, and systems. and programs meet best practices We implement best practices to protect our networks, for transparency, accountability, systems, and information. Twice yearly, we analyze and We have created guidelines for our engineers and and choice regarding the collection publish security trends, changing threats, and innovative product managers to make sure they understand the and use of personal information. The award was also ways to transform IT and business models for greater privacy and data protection needs of new applications. expanded to include compliance with the U.S.-EU security, using the results to identify early warnings. This helps the development team design features and Safe Harbor framework. This supports the Safe Harbor Our Privacy Portal showcases our program. functionality that make it easier for Cisco, customers, and Certification we achieved for customer and partner data users to comply with legal and business requirements to in FY12 and for employee data in FY11, which provides Securing the Cloud protect personal information. assurance that we take data protection seriously and The growing popularity of cloud (Internet-based) will continue to improve internal controls to safeguard computing is changing the way organizations and Our supplier review program assesses service providers personal information. individuals share data. It is crucial to our business that to mitigate potential risks, especially with respect to we maintain the trust of our customers, partners, and cloud solutions. We base our assessment on guidance Promoting Security Awareness employees as we build our offerings in this area. Our developed by the Cloud Security Alliance, an organization We have embedded security into corporate initiatives cloud security offerings include: promoting the use of best practices for providing security and into our Code of Business Conduct to encourage • Capabilities to help cloud service providers and assurance within cloud computing. employees to integrate security into their daily activities. subscribers secure their cloud infrastructure Through the Cisco Security Education Program, we are Privacy Compliance using our own experience to help other organizations • Cloud-based email, web, and threat intelligence Compliance with regulations on privacy and data increase awareness of security to protect privacy, security for customers protection is managed by a cross-functional team with intellectual assets, and computing resources. Promoting • Secure cloud access to help organizations control representatives from our legal, IT, information security, the right behaviors is a key focus, for example, through access to resources and software hosted in the cloud, sales, marketing, and HR departments. Training is a campaigns to raise awareness of risks associated with enabling a trusted cloud environment major component of our compliance program, and we social networking. Regular updates and tips can be found provide comprehensive privacy and security training on the Cisco security blog. These security services are as important to Cisco for employees specific to their responsibilities. Online as they are to our customers and partners. Sensitive privacy training modules and resources are available to all personal and company data become susceptible to employees and contractors via our internal privacy portal. various security threats as new technology is used Our quarterly “Privacy Corner” newsletter raises global to build cloud offerings. We use our cloud security awareness of emerging privacy trends and regulations. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback B17 < Previous View Governance & Ethics We also monitor data security risks and publish a weekly Human Rights Networking Academy brings technology education, 21stCyber Risk Report that highlights current security activity. century skills, and improved job prospects to students in The report addresses seven major risk-management Cisco’s technology creates opportunities for connectivity, more than 165 countries. To date, we have empowered Overview categories: vulnerability, physical, legal, trust, identity, expression, and access to information to a growing and prepared over 4 million students for careers Governance human, and geopolitical. Cyber Risk Reports are powered number of people across the world. At the same time, we in the ICT field. We also partner with humanitarian CSR Management recognize our responsibility to realize these benefits in a by Cisco Security Intelligence Operations, our advanced organizations such as NetHope, a collaboration of 32 Ethics security infrastructure. manner that respects human rights through our operations, humanitarian organizations, to meet critical human needs Privacy and Data Protection business relationships, products, and services. in disaster-stricken areas. Thanks to Cisco technology, > Human Rights Collaboration on Privacy a NetHope technologist can now quickly set up Internet We value the insights and collaboration of peers in our We support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights communication and provide this critical lifeline to people work to protect customer security, and we share our and the United Nations Global Compact, a strategic affected by natural disasters. experience with them, as well. Cisco participates in, or is policy initiative for businesses that are committed to a member of, privacy associations and alliances, including: aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally Our networking technologies are also being used to accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, improve access to quality healthcare. We have partnered • Cloud Security Alliance environment, and anticorruption. All our activities are with the Government of Jordan to create the Jordan • Health Information Trust Alliance conducted in strict compliance with applicable laws, Healthcare Initiative (JHT), which uses our “care-at-a • International Association of Privacy Professionals including U.S. export rules and regulations. Our human distance” technology solutions to provide healthcare to rights approach is coordinated by our Corporate Affairs remote, rural populations and underserved individuals • National Cyber Security Alliance department, and compliance is overseen by our General and communities. We also invested US$50 million over • Payment Card Industry Board of Advisors Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer, Mark Chandler. three years in Connecting Sichuan, a public-private partnership that helped revitalize healthcare, education, Our Key Opportunities and Challenges and the workforce in Sichuan Province following the 2008 Protecting Children Online Information and communications technology (ICT) earthquake. We helped design healthcare solutions that plays a powerful role in shaping the way we connect, all work in concert with a collaborative delivery network. Online privacy is particularly important for younger communicate, and collaborate with one another. From Thanks to this partnership, our advanced communication Internet users as their safety is a primary concern. Cisco supported National Cyber Security Awareness Month the way we access and share information to the way we and collaboration technologies are now giving rural in October 2011 by posting a series of blogs with top protect it, ICT can be a positive force for creating new patients and healthcare providers easier, more affordable tips, including guidance for parents on steps to help opportunities and advancing human rights. access to urban doctors, facilities, and professional their children stay safe online. See, for example, our tips on social networking safety. Cisco also offers parental training. Similar solutions have also been developed to We use our networking technologies to create new controls on home networking products such as our advance education and economic development through opportunities for more people across the world. At the Linksys router to enable parents to restrict children’s the Connecting Sichuan partnership. See the Society access to certain websites. most general level, more than 1 billion people have better section of this report for more information. Internet access thanks to Cisco’s products. Our Cisco 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback B18 < Previous View Freedom of Expression We believe that the threat to freedom of expression and equipment’s core features. The nature of Internet routing Governance & Ethics We live in an age where our technologies can be used Internet freedom today does not reside in standardized is such that in order to deliver messages and content, Overview by governments and organizations, both to enable and equipment, but rather in efforts to adopt special service providers generally can see the addresses of the to impede communications, and both to protect and to protocols that deviate from global norms and efforts to senders and recipients of information and, in the absence Governance impair privacy. enable special censorship or filtering systems. We have of adequate encryption, the contents of messages and CSR Management worked in opposition to such efforts and will continue attachments. Individuals, companies, and countries make Ethics As a leading provider of network equipment, we believe to do so. For example, in March 2012, we committed their own decisions with respect to how they operate Privacy and Data Protection that upholding the right to freedom of expression is to not responding to a public tender published by the networks and network security in terms of protecting the fundamental to our business and society. We strongly Government of Pakistan to build and implement a network itself from denial of service and other attacks > Human Rights support freedom of expression and open communication national-level Internet filtering and blocking system. and protecting users from spam, hacking, and virus on the Internet, and we are proud of our role in helping to We also do not supply video surveillance monitoring attacks. This requires operators to have capabilities that make Internet technology ubiquitous, allowing billions of software or systems in China. We are strongly committed can also be used to block access to particular websites people in nearly every nation across the world to access to a standards-based global Internet that maximizes or copy and download users’ communications. We information previously unavailable to them. the opportunities for freedom of expression, and we do cannot shut down such networks—only network operators not customize our equipment to help any government have that capability. We advocate that users should have Our goal in providing networking technology is to to censor content, track Internet use by individuals, or access to workable encryption, and we have opposed expand the reach of communications systems. To meet intercept Internet communications. Read our statement to the efforts of some governments to block users from this objective, we build our products on open, global the Business & Human Rights Resource Centre for more adequate encryption. standards, which we believe are critical to overcoming information on this issue. censorship and keeping the world connected. Product Use A full appreciation of the human rights issues associated We believe our role in providing more people across By making our products interoperable, we strengthen with network equipment requires an understanding of the the world with access to the Internet is hugely important, the Internet’s capacity to be a positive force for and that operating in most countries brings more benefits society. Our work across the world is guided by the than if we were not present. In all countries where we following principles: do business, our network technologies, whether they • We do not participate in business activities that would are sold directly or through local partners and service aid repression. providers, include the same standard Internet-access equipment and network management capabilities that • We do not support attempts by governments to are used by public libraries in the United States, which balkanize the Internet or create a “closed” Internet, as includes such capabilities as blocking inappropriate such attempts undermine fundamental human rights, content for children. including the right to freedom of expression. • We do not customize or develop specialized or unique We also believe in an open Internet where people can filtering capabilities to enable regimes to block access access the same information no matter where they are in to information. the world. We design our products and services to enable • We do not supply nor do we support mediation this access while safeguarding human rights. Despite equipment that allows the interception of telephone these efforts, it has been alleged that some customers calls made over the Internet using Voice over Internet in some countries have misused our technology. In some Protocol (VoIP). cases, awareness of the fact that a government does 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback B19 < Previous View not respect the open Internet is confused with complicity networks globally. Although the International Organization rights. For more information about our supply chain Governance & Ethics in efforts to limit communications or repress freedom, for Standardization (ISO) has rejected the Chinese program—including our positions on slavery and human Overview even where the equipment being supplied is standardsgovernment’s application to make WAPI an international trafficking and conflict minerals—see the Supply Chain based, non-customized access equipment necessary standard, WAPI continues to be used as the default section of this report. Governance to facilitate communications. One example is the use standard in China despite concerns that WAPI remains CSR Management Our Approach of Cisco’s routing equipment in China, where we were incompatible with internationally recognized standards. Ethics falsely accused in 2002 to have taken part in designing While our equipment supports the globally recognized As our business grows and reaches more people across Privacy and Data Protection customized technologies used to censor the Internet and Wi-Fi standard, suppliers and users of our equipment the world, we must continue to identify and enhance > Human Rights track opponents of the Chinese government. We have in China are able to add WAPI to our equipment. We the way we address our key human rights opportunities, strongly denied these allegations. Read our blog for more would not be able to sell our equipment and provide risks, and challenges. To achieve this, we regularly information on this issue. the benefits of an open Internet in China if WAPI could engage and collaborate with our stakeholders, including not be added. Many western vendors of handsets non-governmental organizations (NGOs), industry peers, Our networking equipment can also play an important and infrastructure, however, comply directly with and investors, and CSR practitioners, to help us gauge role in helping to promote public safety—through crime incorporate the WAPI protocols in their products, enabling expectations and understand the ongoing effectiveness prevention assistance, for example—but we recognize this non-standard encryption to proliferate. Our efforts of our work. that there is a growing concern about the use of to oppose WAPI are rendered meaningless when other networking equipment for improper surveillance that vendors incorporate the code. Nevertheless, we continue Examples of our collaboration in FY12 include: would violate an individuals’ privacy rights. For instance, to maintain our efforts to push for international standards concerns have been raised about our work on the that are used to pursue a safe and secure open Internet. Business and Human Rights Resource Center: We “Smart+Connected Communities” project in Chongqing, respond to questions from the Business and Human China. This project is based on standard, unmodified Employees Rights Resource Center, an NGO and portal that Cisco routing and switching equipment and does not To safeguard the rights of our employees, we follow reports on positive and negative human rights impacts include video surveillance hardware or software. We have our Code of Business Conduct, which was expanded in of companies across the world. We appreciate the not and will not sell video surveillance cameras or video FY12 to include freedom of expression and privacy. We Center’s contributions to advancing the field of business surveillance management software in general public also rely on our many employee policies and guidelines infrastructure projects in China. that incorporate relevant laws and ethical principles— including those pertaining to freedom of association, Global Standards nondiscrimination, privacy, compulsory and child labor, We believe that open and global product standards immigration, fair pay, and working hours—to guide our play a very important role in protecting and respecting day-to-day activities and business decisions. human rights. For this reason, we work with policy makers and participate in standard-setting bodies, Supply Chain working groups, and industry coalitions to create and To help protect the rights of workers in our supply maintain a secure global standard for wireless local area chain, we maintain a Supplier Code of Conduct, which network (WLAN) connection. describes our expectations on key human rights issues, including child and forced labor. Through our supplier China, however, uses a local national standard known as audit process and capability-building programs, we WLAN Authentication and Privacy Infrastructure (WAPI) to partner with our suppliers to uncover any human provide secure access to the Internet rather than the IEEE rights violations and work with them to improve their 802.11 standard, which is now universally used in Wi-Fi performance. Our top priority is to partner with suppliers that share the same values we have about human 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback B20 < Previous View and human rights, and our dialogue helps us better Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition: Cisco is a Global Network Initiative (GNI): We follow closely the Governance & Ethics understand issues of concern and how we can most founding member of the Electronic Industry Citizenship achievements of the GNI, and we have had different Overview effectively address them. Coalition (EICC). The EICC Code of Conduct specifically levels of direct and indirect engagement with GNI addresses human rights issues, including forced or leaders, board members, company members, and Governance Business for Social Responsibility (BSR): In FY12, involuntary labor, child labor, wages and benefits, working the executive director over the years. CSR Management we joined the Human Rights Working Group set up by hours, nondiscrimination, respect and dignity, freedom Ethics BSR, which serves as a forum for companies from all of association, health and safety, protection of the We support the principles of the GNI applicable to Privacy and Data Protection industries to share ideas, exchange best practices, and environment, supplier management systems, supplier operators of public Internet access networks. Where > Human Rights discuss challenges they face in the area of human rights. ethics, and supplier compliance with laws. For more we have offered to build such networks and operate Cisco hosted the group’s July 2012 meeting, and we information about our involvement with the EICC, see them temporarily, we have included contractual terms have separately engaged BSR to inform our approach to the Supply Chain section of this report. specifically permitting us to act in accordance with the integrating human rights into our management processes. due process protections set forth in the GNI principles “Our goal in providing networking technology is to expand the reach of communications systems, and our products are built on open, global standards. We do not support attempts by governments to balkanize the Internet or create a “closed” Internet because such attempts undermine the cause of freedom. In fact, adherence to open standards is critical in the efforts to overcome censorship.” Mark Chandler Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Cisco 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback B21 < Previous View relative to supplying user information during any period 1. Policy 3. Due Diligence Governance & Ethics in which we might operate the networks. We do operate In FY12, we created a global human rights policy that In FY12, we reviewed our own approach to identifying Overview some of the networks providing services that are used articulates our commitment to human rights and outlines and addressing human rights risks, and we benchmarked primarily by enterprises such as WebEx and Callway our approach in relevant impact areas. The executive 10 leading companies across a range of industries to Governance (which allows for bridging of telepresence services). In sponsor of the policy is Randy Pond, Executive Vice understand best practices in this area. Our benchmark CSR Management President of Operations, Processes, and Systems. included a review of publicly available resources to those circumstances, we also support the GNI principles. Ethics understand human rights approaches at other companies, Other Stakeholder Engagement Efforts: In addition 2. Governance and it was augmented by in-person interviews with key Privacy and Data Protection to developing our internal approach to human rights, In FY12, we established a new human rights governance practitioners and stakeholders. > Human Rights Cisco participated in the Stockholm Internet Forum in model that coordinates oversight of human rights issues Sweden and engaged with Freedom House and several across different functions throughout the company. Our 4. Remediation Socially Responsible Investors on Internet freedom and new governance model will be managed by a crossOur goal is to develop a mechanism for reporting governance issues in the past year. functional human rights working group consisting of questions related to human rights that is similar to our subject matter experts from across the company. Led current ethics “hotline” procedure, and we aim to begin Looking Ahead: A Roadmap for Human Rights: by Cisco’s Corporate Affairs department, this working developing this system in FY13. Once it is in place, In FY12, we developed a roadmap to address human group will be responsible for defining, communicating, employees and stakeholders will be able to raise human rights more systematically across our organization. This and executing our human rights strategy and roadmap, rights concerns by email or telephone. roadmap applies the framework and recommendations put and it will report to our executive sponsor and our Chief forward by the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Compliance Officer, who will in turn report to the Audit Rights developed by UN Special Representative John Committee and Board of Directors. Ruggie and endorsed by the UN Human Rights Council. Our human rights roadmap covers four critical areas: policy, governance, due diligence, and remediation. “I was impressed with the CSR With the help of BSR, we reviewed best practice approaches by leading peer ICT and non-ICT companies program and thought it was to understand how they could be applied to our very robust and well connected roadmap. We also began a review of human rights stakeholders to better understand their expectations, to the business.” and we believe that these insights will further inform Laurie Ginsberg our efforts going forward. Aspen Institute, U.S. Cisco’s 2012 Global Stakeholder Engagement Sessions 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback C1 < Previous View Supply Chain Overview Our Supply Chain Embedding Sustainability in Core Business Processes Partnering with Suppliers to Improve Performance and Build Capability Working with Industry Groups Watch the Video! Supply Chain We expect our suppliers to meet the same high standards on ethics, labor rights, health and safety, and the environment that we apply to our own people and operations. Cisco works closely with suppliers to manage these sustainability issues and improve their performance throughout the supply chain and at every stage of the lifecycle of our products. We look to use our relationships with our network of suppliers and peer companies to multiply the impact we can have on sustainability in the information and communications technology (ICT) supply chain. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback C2 < Previous View We focus our performance monitoring, audit program, Supply Chain Overview and capability building efforts on around 200 preferred “The discussion about sustainability > Overview suppliers (see page C8) with which we spend These first five pages give readers an overview approximately 75 percent of our supply chain expenditure. and CSR in Cisco’s supply chain Our Supply Chain of Cisco’s objectives, key challenges, progress, Embedding Sustainability in and performance with regard to Supply Chain. We Cisco also plays a broader role in raising standards gives the reader an understanding Core Business Processes have used this overview as part of our Executive throughout the ICT supply chain by working directly with Partnering with Suppliers Summary, which can be downloaded here. of the lifecycle impacts of Cisco’s suppliers and with peer companies through industry to Improve Performance and Build Capability initiatives such as the Electronic Industry Citizenship products and how Cisco is Coalition (EICC). Working with Industry The manufacturing of our products is nearly entirely addressing them.” Groups outsourced. More than 600 suppliers provide We recognize that our customers and other stakeholders, Andy Jones components for, manufacture and test, deliver, take such as investors, have a growing interest in sustainability Amcor, Australia back, recycle, or enable reuse of Cisco products. Clear issues in the supply chain. Increasing transparency and communication and close collaboration with these addressing sustainability in the supply chain help us Cisco’s 2012 Global Stakeholder suppliers is critical to our ability to deliver high-quality to build customer trust, reduce costs, secure continuity Engagement Sessions products to customers while meeting our CSR goals. of supply, and protect our brand. Collaboration with suppliers also encourages innovation to develop more We communicate our expectations of our suppliers sustainable products for our customers (see Environment, through our Supplier Code of Conduct, with which page F9). all suppliers are expected to comply, and we monitor compliance through supplier self-assessments, Our strategy is to multiply our positive impact on sustainability criteria in supplier scorecards, and sustainability standards and performance throughout the third-party audits. Regular engagement helps us supply chain by: strengthen our relationships with suppliers and build • Embedding sustainability into routine business their sustainability capabilities. Using Cisco solutions practices at every stage of the product lifecycle that such as Cisco TelePresence, we are able to discuss touches our supply chain sensitive issues face-to-face with suppliers around • Working with manufacturing partners, component the world. In addition, we aim to provide a practical suppliers, and logistics partners to build their example to suppliers on how to integrate CSR into capabilities for managing sustainability impacts and to their day-to-day business operations by working to improve performance improve our own practices. • Partnering with industry consortia to develop common standards and tools to address broader sustainability challenges in the ICT supply chain 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback C3 < Previous View Supply Chain Preferred Supplier Performance Summary > Overview Indicator FY121 Our Supply Chain You: Cisco is committed to improving sustainability Embedding Sustainability in performance throughout the supply chain. One of our % Preferred suppliers publishing a CSR report, by count* Core Business Processes key focuses in FY12 has been to better understand our suppliers’ sustainability performance so we could • Manufacturing partners 75% Partnering with Suppliers target improvements more effectively. To this end, • Component suppliers 38% to Improve Performance we included sustainability criteria in our business and Build Capability • Logistics providers 57% scorecards for preferred suppliers for the first time, Working with Industry and we are encouraging our suppliers to report their Groups performance publicly in a CSR report and to disclose % Preferred suppliers responding to Cisco’s supplier sustainability survey (for scorecard), by count their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions through the • Manufacturing partners 100% Carbon Disclosure Project. • Component suppliers 81% Networks: Cisco is encouraging these improvements • Logistics providers 100% by collaborating with our network of suppliers and a network of peer companies through industry initiatives such as the EICC and the International Electronics % High-risk manufacturing partners audited, by facility count 65% Manufacturing Initiative (iNEMI). We continue to monitor labor and environmental performance through % High-risk component suppliers audited, by count 27% audits against our Supplier Code of Conduct. We are also working with others in our industry to adopt a standardized approach for measuring and monitoring % Preferred suppliers reporting to Carbon Disclosure Project, by count 50% suppliers’ sustainability performance and to tackle industry-wide challenges such as working hours and % Preferred suppliers providing GHG emissions related to Cisco products, by count conflict minerals. • Manufacturing partners 100% Impact x: By the end of FY13, we aim to have established • Component suppliers 30% a reliable baseline of preferred suppliers’ sustainability performance. This will enable us to work with them • Logistics providers 100% more effectively to improve their overall sustainability performance. For example, our goal is for 100 percent of 1. This is the first year we have published data on these indicators. In future years, we will report year-on-year performance to show trends. our preferred suppliers to have set reduction targets on * Corporate key performance indicator (KPI). For our complete list of corporate KPIs, see Introduction. GHG emissions and to begin reporting progress toward these targets within the next three years. By working together with these networks of suppliers and peers, we can have a much bigger impact on sustainability in the supply chain than any one company could have alone. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback C4 < Previous View Supply Chain Progress Toward Objectives > Overview Objective Progress in FY12 Status Our Supply Chain Embedding Sustainability in Embedding Sustainability in Core Business Processes Core Business Processes Partnering with Suppliers Integrate sustainability questions into our business Deployed sustainability criteria in business scorecards for all contract manufacturers, logistics partners, and preferred to Improve Performance scorecard for preferred suppliers to better understand component suppliers. and Build Capability their performance, identify where they need support, and promote ongoing improvements Working with Industry Groups Launch a Supplier Appreciation Award for Award launched in September 2011. Won by one of our logistics partners, UPS, in recognition of its exceptional Sustainability to recognize suppliers that demonstrate sustainability commitment. Award will be repeated annually. an outstanding commitment to sustainability Provide additional training on sustainability issues for Continued to provide sustainability training to supplier-facing employees through webinars and other informal employees who engage regularly with suppliers engagements. Launched a new web-based training module, which has been rolled out initially to logistics and manufacturing supplier managers. Partnering with Suppliers to Improve Performance and Build Capability Communicate and require suppliers to acknowledge Required all suppliers to affirm their acceptance of the Code and sent a supplemental communication to all suppliers the revised Supplier Code of Conduct after the Code was revised to make them aware of the changes. Enact Processes That Meet the Requirements of: • U.S. Dodd-Frank Act Published a policy on conflict minerals and initial guidance for suppliers on compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act, and developed a survey to assess suppliers’ readiness to comply. • California Transparency in Supply Published a statement on Cisco.com that describes our position on slavery and human trafficking and explains how our Chains Act of 2010 commitment to freely chosen labor is embedded in our supply chain practices. Partner with suppliers to identify and Collaborated with logistics partners to optimize routes and shift transport mode from air to sea (see Environment realize sustainability improvements logistics, page F27). Helped build suppliers’ capabilities to measure, manage, and publicly disclose sustainability impacts to establish a baseline for performance (including indicators such as working hours and injury and illness rates) before working more closely with them to promote on-the-ground improvements. Working with Industry Groups Continue to work through industry groups such as Contributed to EICC working groups to develop industry-standard tools on issues such as working hours (see page C15) the EICC and iNEMI to develop tools and standards to and conflict minerals (see page C17) in the supply chain. Co-led iNEMI’s Eco-Impact Evaluator project to develop an address global sustainability estimator tool that will establish a unified format for requesting lifecycle assessment information from suppliers. Achieved Ongoing 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback C5 < Previous View Addressing Key Challenges The sustainability scorecard response rate was 100 We are increasing transparency by publishing supply Supply Chain Stakeholders continue to ask companies for more percent among manufacturing partners and logistics chain sustainability performance metrics in this report for > Overview information about the sustainability impacts of their providers but 81 percent among preferred component the first time (see page C13), and we will continue to do supply chain as nongovernmental organization (NGO) suppliers. To achieve a 100 percent response rate in so in future years to enable year-on-year comparisons. Our Supply Chain campaigns, customers, financial analysts, and new FY13, we will work with suppliers to understand and help Embedding Sustainability in The toughest sustainability challenges cannot be regulations require companies to demonstrate increased them overcome challenges in completing the survey and Core Business Processes transparency. We answer the most commonly asked providing the data we ask for, and we will follow up more resolved by one company alone. Cisco continues to Partnering with Suppliers questions in this report. vigorously with non-respondents. We recognize that support industry efforts to tackle issues such as working to Improve Performance many suppliers are asked to complete multiple surveys, hours and conflict minerals and to develop standards and and Build Capability We are working with our preferred suppliers on the and we are working with others in our industry to explore share best practices throughout the shared ICT supply Working with Industry best approach to managing key sustainability impacts. ways to standardize the process to create greater chain. Working with the EICC to develop tools to address Groups Sustainability criteria now account for at least 5 percent efficiencies and a higher response rate. these issues will be an important focus in FY13, as will of the business performance scorecard that determines helping our suppliers implement a due diligence process preferred status for our suppliers. We ask suppliers to To support the self-assessment scorecard process, to comply with the conflict minerals provisions of the U.S. disclose their performance on sustainability issues to help we more than doubled the number of site audits we Dodd-Frank Act. us increase transparency in our supply chain. conducted to monitor suppliers’ performance in FY12, covering 65 percent of manufacturing partner facilities We will continue to refine the scorecard process to and 27 percent of component suppliers identified as high gather more consistent data, and we will help suppliers risk. Our engagement with suppliers initially focused on “Provide more on what you’re doing improve their capability for calculating and reporting their manufacturing partners and logistics providers, but we in the supply chain. What didn’t impacts. For example, we ask all of our manufacturing are now increasing visibility further down the supply chain partners and logistics providers to provide data on by auditing more component suppliers and including work? What are your successes?” Cisco’s share of their GHG emissions to help us them in the scorecard process. The most frequent audit understand the impacts related to our products and to Dr. Margaret Burnett findings in FY12 still relate to labor issues, specifically Sustainability Practitioner, Hong Kong help suppliers reduce these impacts. We make a similar working hours, which remains a significant supply chain request of our preferred component suppliers, but not challenge in the ICT industry. Cisco’s 2012 Global Stakeholder all of them are able to provide this data. We are also Engagement Sessions encouraging preferred suppliers to report their carbon emissions through the Carbon Disclosure Project and to set reduction targets. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback C6 < Previous View One of our top priorities is to increase transparency Supply Chain further down the supply chain. By understanding Objectives for FY13 and Beyond > Overview the impacts of the entities that are suppliers to our manufacturing partners and component suppliers, we Audit half of our high-risk manufacturing facilities and a third of our high-risk component suppliers in FY13 Our Supply Chain can work with our suppliers to reduce risk and improve Embedding Sustainability in Partner with suppliers to identify and realize sustainability improvements in FY13 performance. To address this, we are introducing criteria Core Business Processes into our audits for our suppliers to report how they are Partnering with Suppliers monitoring their own suppliers in line with the revised 100% of preferred suppliers to complete Cisco’s supplier sustainability survey, enabling assessment of their sustainability to Improve Performance performance in our business scorecards in FY13 and Build Capability EICC audit protocol launched at the end of FY12. This will help to identify areas for improvement throughout the Working with Industry 100% of preferred suppliers to report their GHG emissions through the Carbon Disclosure Project questionnaire in FY13 supply chain. Groups Cisco’s response to these challenges is provided in more 100% of preferred suppliers to have goals in place to reduce GHG emissions and report progress against their goals by end of FY15 detail throughout this section. We also have set objectives on packaging reductions, 100% of preferred suppliers to report Cisco’s share of their GHG emissions by end of FY15 product take-back, and recycling. These are outlined in the Environment section (page F11). 100% of manufacturing partners to publish a CSR report in FY13 75% of logistics providers to publish a CSR report in FY13 100% of Cisco supplier managers to complete web-based training on sustainability in FY13 Establish a due diligence process to assess whether tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold in our products are being sourced from conflict-free minerals, and publish a conflict minerals report by May 31, 2014, as required by the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback C7 < Previous View Supply Chain Our Supply Chain Our supply chain operations encompass everything involved in the development, manufacture, distribution, and take-back of our products. This includes product design, demand Overview management and planning, sourcing, order management, manufacturing, delivery, and reverse logistics. > Our Supply Chain Embedding Sustainability in We aim to embed sustainability criteria and improve performance at every stage (see table below). For more on how we are reducing the environmental impacts of our products Core Business Processes from design to end of life, see the Environment section (page F8). Partnering with Suppliers to Improve Performance and Build Capability Embedding Sustainability at Every Stage of Our Supply Chain Working with Industry Groups Design / Develop Plan / Order Source / Make Deliver End of Life Role Cisco designs and develops Cisco works with suppliers Cisco assesses component Logistics service providers Cisco connects customers products. to plan the production of suppliers against our transport finished products with our take-back suppliers, products. standards. Manufacturing to our customers. which bring trade-in products partners then source parts back to Cisco for possible from suppliers on Cisco’s refurbishment, resale, or reuse. approved vendor list and Damaged or very old products make finished products. are sent directly to recycling partners for disassembly and recycling of materials. Embedding “Design for Environment” Our product reuse team is Sustainability is a core In addition to assessing We promote the return; Sustainability principles are incorporated part of the planning team, part of our criteria for logistics providers against refurbishment, remarketing, in our product requirements which aims to fill orders assessing the performance our Code of Conduct and reuse; and recycling of our document template. These with used equipment where of our component and and scorecard, we work products through our trade-in include improving the energy possible. manufacturing suppliers. We with them to reduce their and take-back programs. efficiency of our products, monitor compliance with our environmental impacts. reducing packaging, and Supplier Code of Conduct designing products for ease and the Cisco Controlled of recycling (see Design for Substances Specification, Environment, page F8). and we work with suppliers to improve their performance. In Practice Our quality team works with Rather than shipping Sustainability is integrated We work with logistics More than 99 percent of the suppliers to understand the accessories such as cables into the business scorecard providers to reduce the electronics sent to our e-scrap availability of alternative and power supplies with we use to assess suppliers’ impacts of their fleets by recyclers is recycled. Cisco is materials with lower our products as standard performance. Our engagement optimizing shipping routes, also exploring new business environmental impacts. Once procedure, we make these with suppliers through shifting transport mode from models with our customers a new material has been items orderable options that our scorecard and audit air to sea, and improving fuel and partners to raise utilization tested for reliability, the team customers can request only processes enables us to build efficiency, where possible. of our products and extend encourages designers to use if needed. capability in the supply chain their useful life. these components in our by, for example, encouraging products. suppliers to develop robust labor management systems. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback C8 < Previous View We spend billions of dollars each year with the more We work with suppliers to collect and recycle our products Preferred suppliers qualify and maintain their status by Supply Chain than 600 suppliers that manage our manufacturing and at the end of their useful life, where environmental impacts consistently achieving a high level of performance on our Overview logistics and provide over 80,000 different parts to make are a significant concern (see Product Take-back, Reuse, business scorecard in key areas such as cost, quality, Cisco’s core portfolio of products. and Recycling, page F42). technology, fulfillment, and responsiveness. In FY12, we Our Supply Chain introduced sustainability criteria as part of our scorecard > Embedding Sustainability in Our suppliers are numerous, complex, and globally Around 200 “preferred suppliers” account for process for monitoring their performance (see page C9). Core Business Processes dispersed. The majority of our expenditure is with three approximately 75 percent of our supply chain expenditure. Partnering with Suppliers types of suppliers: These preferred suppliers include our manufacturing to Improve Performance • Manufacturing partners: A select group of suppliers partners and the logistics service providers that deliver Embedding Sustainability in Core and Build Capability that produce finished Cisco products our products to customers, as well as some component Business Processes Working with Industry and materials suppliers. We use approximately 80 Groups • Component suppliers: A much wider group of We are embedding responsible supply chain practices manufacturing facilities, warehouses, and logistics hubs suppliers that are often contracted directly by Cisco into routine business processes to promote sustainability around the world (see map on this page). to provide parts to our manufacturing partners as a key criterion in our assessment of and ongoing according to our specifications relationships with suppliers. This helps us improve the Preferred suppliers have committed themselves effective management of our supply chain. It also looks • Logistics service providers: A small number of to working closely with Cisco and to investing in a to reduce risks related to business continuity (see Risk suppliers that we use to distribute our products to long-term, strategic relationship that delivers innovation Management, page B5). customers and value to our customers. They have a high level of engagement with Cisco in all aspects of the business, including sustainability. Cisco Manufacturing Partners and Logistics Mouse over regions below for alternative views Manufacturing and Fulfillment Locations Asia Pacific Multi-Function Americas 66%1 Logistics Centers 30%1 1. Data based on third-quarter 2012 supplier expenditure, Europe which is approximately representative of annual expenditure. 4%1 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback C9 < Previous View Supplier Code of Conduct In addition to the Code, suppliers must also comply with Supply Chain We have adopted the code of conduct of the Electronic the Cisco Controlled Substances Specification, which Overview Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) as the Cisco acknowledges their compliance with certain environmental Supplier Code of Conduct. This Code outlines regulations, such as the EU Restriction of Hazardous Our Supply Chain our expectations of suppliers with regard to social Substances Directive (see Environment, page F41). > Embedding Sustainability in responsibility and human rights, the environment, Core Business Processes ethics and governance, health and safety, and related Supplier Scorecard Partnering with Suppliers management systems. It also requires our suppliers to In FY12, we integrated sustainability criteria into our to Improve Performance extend the Supplier Code of Conduct to their overall business scorecard for preferred suppliers. The and Build Capability own suppliers. scorecard is used to establish preferred supplier status Working with Industry and to monitor supplier performance. Groups Suppliers must formally acknowledge the requirements of the Code, usually as part of their contractual agreements Sustainability now represents between 5 and 8 percent Cisco Supply Chain Sustainability with Cisco. of the total score (depending on supplier type), alongside Guiding Principles many other criteria such as technology, cost, quality, These overarching principles apply to our own The Code is reviewed and updated regularly so that it responsiveness, and collaboration. Suppliers complete a operations and those of our global suppliers: continues to reflect best practices and take account of survey, and their performance on sustainability metrics • Operate ethically and in compliance with emerging issues. We worked with the EICC to develop is reviewed at least once per year as part of regular applicable laws the latest version of the Code, which was published in business reviews. Suppliers must maintain strong scores • Value employees, embrace diversity, and promote FY12. We communicated the latest version of the Code to earn and retain their status as preferred suppliers, a fair and respectful workplace to our suppliers and have asked for their continued and those that perform particularly well often gain more commitment. Revisions to the Code include additional business from Cisco. • Provide a safe and healthy workplace and strive to reduce the environmental footprint of products content on: and operations By integrating sustainability into business reviews, we • Freely chosen employment, humane treatment, and • Be an asset to local communities by supporting aim to show suppliers that Cisco takes sustainability in freedom of association education, healthcare, and basic human needs the supply chain seriously and that they must have an • Responsible sourcing of minerals programs as well as ongoing economic development acceptable level of sustainability performance to do • Business integrity and improved disclosure business with Cisco. This process provides a channel for • Promote engagement with and development of diverse suppliers of information regular communication with suppliers on sustainability issues and complements our site audits as a way of • Strengthen management systems that govern • Processes that communicate Code requirements responsible operations to their own suppliers and that monitor their supplier monitoring performance and identifying areas for compliance to the Code building capability. These revisions aim to comply with the requirements The scorecard encourages suppliers to track and of the 2010 California Transparency in Supply Chains disclose environmental and labor impacts, helping us Act, the U.S. Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and improve transparency on sustainability issues in the Consumer Protection Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and supply chain. The survey also asks suppliers to report any the updated Organisation for Economic Co-operation environmental or health and safety infractions (such as and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational regulatory violations) and to describe the remedial actions Enterprises. The related EICC supplier assessment that were taken. We make clear that these are not part tools and validated audit protocol are also being of their score and that suppliers will not be penalized for updated accordingly. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback C10 < Previous View disclosing this information. Our aim is to promote open, Training Cisco Supplier Managers Supply Chain honest dialogue and to work together with suppliers to To integrate sustainability into core business processes Overview resolve any issues. and effectively raise awareness of our requirements among suppliers, it is essential that our supplier Our Supply Chain We consulted suppliers as we developed the management teams at Cisco understand sustainability > Embedding Sustainability in sustainability criteria for the scorecard, integrating their and communicate about it confidently. This is important Core Business Processes feedback into the process. We also took into account because our long-term objective is to build sustainability Partnering with Suppliers existing industry standards and guidelines such as those into standard business processes so that each business to Improve Performance published by the Carbon Disclosure Project, the Global function considers sustainability as a regular part of its and Build Capability Reporting Initiative, the Occupational Safety and Health business activities and decisions. Promoting Supplier Diversity Working with Industry Administration, and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Groups Promoting the growth and use of diverse suppliers In FY12, we conducted targeted training sessions for (in the form of womanand minority-owned businesses) The sustainability part of the score is based on a range of all employees who work on our Supplier Management within the supply chain is one of Cisco’s Supply criteria that are tailored to the type of supplier, including: teams. Cisco’s Supplier Code of Conduct is also noted Chain Sustainability Guiding Principles. Working with in our overall Code of Business Conduct (COBC), which diverse suppliers gives us access to a wider range of • Providing data and setting goals on environmental innovative supply chain partners, enhances supply chain impacts such as water and waste, and reporting GHG all eligible employees review every year during COBC competitiveness, and increases customer satisfaction. emissions through the Carbon Disclosure Project certification (see Governance & Ethics, page B14). Broadening our supplier base also contributes to business continuity by reducing the risk of disruption • Reporting data on labor issues such as injury and We have also launched a formal web-based training in our supply chain. illness rates, working hours, and employee turnover module on sustainability for supplier managers. It explains We directly support diverse suppliers by providing a • Demonstrating commitment to sustainability by, for the business case for sustainability and the role of range of mentoring and networking opportunities to example, publishing a CSR report with clear goals and managers in engaging suppliers, and it outlines the key help them develop their global business capability metrics and by participating in sustainability-related points of the Supplier Code of Conduct and how Cisco and competitiveness, and we indirectly support them industry groups monitors compliance. We initially rolled out the training throughout the supply chain by encouraging our preferred suppliers to buy components, products, and to manufacturing and logistics supplier managers, and it services from diverse suppliers and to report their We continue to refine the scorecard criteria on specific will be mandatory for component supplier managers in diverse expenditure to us. (For more on our supplier issues such as working hours and to expand the FY13. Additional training on specific topics will also be diversity program, see Society, page E18.) guidance that we offer as part of this process to improve developed to supplement this training. the accuracy and relevance of the data we gather. In FY12, we achieved a 100 percent response rate from Scorecard Results FY12 our preferred manufacturing partners and preferred logistics providers, but only 81 percent from preferred Preferred Preferred Logistics Preferred Component component suppliers. Our focus in FY13 will be to Manufacturing Partners Providers Suppliers achieve a 100 percent response rate from all preferred suppliers to provide accurate baseline data. We aim to Survey response rate 100% (FY13 goal: 100%) 100% (FY13 goal: 100%) 81% (FY13 goal: 100%) report the percentage of preferred suppliers that meet or exceed our requirements in future years when we have Supplier publishes a CSR report 75% (FY13 goal: 100%) 57% (FY13 goal: 75%) 38% (goal not currently more reliable data. established) 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback C11 < Previous View Supply Chain Partnering with Suppliers to Improve • Conducting a site tour to assess conditions in different to working hours (see box, page C15) and emergency Performance and Build Capability areas, including production lines, cafeterias, resting response procedures. Following the communication of Overview areas, and dorms, if applicable our guidance on juvenile labor, we had no major findings In addition to our regular review of preferred suppliers’ related to child labor. Our Supply Chain • Gathering information from management sustainability performance through our business Embedding Sustainability in scorecard (see page C9), we monitor their compliance • Interviewing employees in their preferred language Core Business Processes separately from management Percent of High-Risk Suppliers Audited with the Supplier Code of Conduct and help them > Partnering with Suppliers improve their performance through audits and follow-up The audit team produces a report based on the audit to Improve Performance FY11 FY12 actions (see chart on next page). that is shared with Cisco and the supplier. For any and Build Capability issues identified, the supplier must produce a corrective Working with Industry Manufacturing partner Audit findings and corrective action plans enable us action plan and subsequently provide evidence that the 29% 65% Groups facilities to identify trends and opportunities to help suppliers corrective actions have been implemented. Action must enhance their sustainability capabilities. We highlight be taken on priority issues within 30 days, and all findings Component suppliers 13% 27% some specific examples of typical audit findings and the are expected to be addressed within 180 days except for actions we are taking in the table of examples on page certain issues that require long-term improvement plans. C14. We also provide guidance for suppliers on specific issues, encourage them to participate in industry training, Audit Findings Plans are in place for correcting all the major issues and work directly with suppliers to build their capabilities. In FY12, we more than doubled the number of audits identified in the FY12 audits. We work with suppliers we completed of supplier facilities. Our auditing efforts to review and agree on corrective action plans and to We generally follow a six-step process for communicating focus on manufacturing partners and component monitor their implementation (see table of common audit our Supplier Code of Conduct to suppliers, monitoring suppliers as these have been identified as higher risk findings and responses, page C14). compliance, and helping them improve performance. than logistics partners. Supplier Audits All of our manufacturing partners’ high-risk facilities All audits, whether sponsored by Cisco or by multiple have been audited at least once over the past two “Although reporting on supply companies via the EICC validated audit process, are years. We also met our goal of increasing the number chain issues is better than in the conducted by a third-party auditor at the supplier’s facility. of audits of component suppliers’ facilities, which made Cisco representatives participate in selected audits where up two-thirds of our audits in FY12, and we plan to past, I miss more details on audit potential high-risk issues have been identified in the audit more component suppliers in FY13 to give us supplier’s self-assessment or by other means. While most a better understanding of the potential sustainability findings. It would be good to know of our audits are announced in advance, we are beginning issues in our supply chain. Our goal is to audit half what percentage preferred to conduct some unannounced audits. of our high-risk manufacturing facilities and a third of our high-risk component suppliers every year. suppliers account for in Cisco’s The audit criteria include environment, ethics, health and safety, labor, and related management systems. Auditors This year, we are reporting the percentage of highsupply chain expenditure.” use the standard protocol and audit tools developed by risk supplier facilities audited, and we are disclosing Philipp Ruehle the EICC. These include: more detailed information on audit findings. Most of the oekom research AG, Germany • Reviewing documentation, including policies and findings (see chart, page C13) in FY12 were related to Cisco’s 2012 Global Stakeholder procedures, personnel records, time sheets, and labor practices and health and safety, and in particular Engagement Sessions relevant permits 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback C12 < Previous View Supply Chain Cisco Supplier Code of Conduct SITE AUDITS CORRECTIVE ACTION SELFAND CAPABILITY CONTINUOUS Overview INTRODUCTION SCREENING ASSESSMENT SCORECARDS IMPROVEMENT SUPPORT Our Supply Chain Embedding Sustainability in Core Business Processes > Partnering with Suppliers to Improve Performance 2 3 and Build Capability Supplier Engagement Process 1 6 Working with Industry 4 5 Groups 1 2 3 Share our Supplier Code of Conduct with suppliers Evaluate suppliers to identify higher-risk facilities Evaluate those facilities through self-assessments and communicate our expectations on how it should be applied We include the Code in our agreements with suppliers, and Our risk assessment of each supplier facility is based on Suppliers identified as high risk are asked to complete a we communicate any changes to the Code as appropriate. factors such as our budget with the supplier, the country self-assessment for each facility that supplies Cisco. where the facility is based (using external global risk indices), number of employees, and type of product or service provided. Preferred suppliers are evaluated every year to h elp us prioritize which sites to audit. 4 5 6 If warranted, commission an audit of facilities, Work with suppliers on corrective action plans to Validate that issues have been resolved and either via the EICC-validated audit process or resolve issues raised by audit findings continue to monitor and talk with suppliers using Cisco-sponsored third-party auditors We prioritize facilities to audit based on the results of our Priority issues must be resolved within 30 days. Other Documentary evidence must be provided to demonstrate risk assessment and the subsequent self-assessment, or issues are expected to be closed within 180 days, with that issues have been resolved and, if needed, we will if we identify any other significant factors that may warrant the exception of certain issues that require long-term conduct a follow-up audit to confirm this. We engage an audit. We participate in joint EICC audits where our improvement plans. In these cases, suppliers must with suppliers to understand the corrective actions they needs align with those of other EICC member companies. regularly update us on progress. are taking and continue to work with them until their Facilities are generally audited every two years. Some performance improves. are audited more frequently, depending on audit results or relevant information that comes to light between scheduled audits. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback C13 < Previous View Supply Chain FY12 Supplier CSR Audit: Summary of Findings FY12 Supplier CSR Audit: Summary of Findings Overview Findings Findings Total Number Findings Findings Total Number Identified Identified of Audit Identified Identified of Audit Our Supply Chain as Major as Minor Elements as Major as Minor Elements Embedding Sustainability in Core Business Processes Labor 63 58 1402 Environment, Health, and Safety 11 21 868 Freely chosen employment 5 8 Management System > Partnering with Suppliers Child labor avoidance 0 18 Company commitment 0 1 to Improve Performance and Build Capability Working hours 37 12 Management accountability and 1 3 responsibility Working with Industry Wages and benefits 17 14 Groups Legal and customer requirements 0 1 Humane treatment 1 3 Risk assessment and risk management 3 2 Non-discrimination 2 1 Performance objectives with implementation Freedom of association 1 2 1 3 plans and measures Health and Safety 41 34 1142 Training 2 4 Occupational safety 7 4 Communication 0 0 Emergency preparedness 16 8 Worker feedback and participation 1 1 Occupational injury or illness 6 5 Audits and assessments 1 5 Industrial hygiene 4 9 Corrective action process 2 0 Physically demanding work 2 5 Documentation and records 0 1 Machine safeguarding 3 2 Ethics 8 6 361 Food, sanitation, and housing 3 1 Business integrity 1 1 Environment 15 21 643 No improper advantage 0 1 Environmental permits and reporting 4 2 Disclosure of information 0 0 Pollution prevention and resource reduction 0 1 Intellectual property 1 1 Hazardous substances 4 16 Fair business, advertising, and competition 4 2 Wastewater and solid waste 4 1 Protection of identity 2 1 Air emissions 3 0 General Code and Legal Compliance 6 4 269 Product content restrictions 0 1 Electronic industry code of conduct 6 3 Labor and Ethics Management System 41 58 856 Compliance with laws 0 1 Company commitment 3 1 Major nonconformance: A significant failure in the management system that renders established processes or Management accountability and responsibility 6 10 procedures ineffective. Legal and customer requirements 3 8 Minor nonconformance: Typically an isolated or random incident that does not necessarily indicate a systemic problem with management systems. Risk assessment and risk management 7 13 Total audit elements: The total number of audit criteria with the potential for a finding. Performance objectives with 1 10 implementation plans and measures Training 7 2 Communication 6 3 Worker feedback and participation 1 2 Audits and assessments 4 4 Corrective action process 1 5 Documentation and records 2 0 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback C14 < Previous View Examples of Common Audit Findings and Responses in FY12 Supply Chain We highlight some specific examples of findings from our audits in FY12 in the following table and explain how we required suppliers to respond by strengthening their management Overview systems and building their capability. Our Supply Chain Embedding Sustainability in Category Finding Response Core Business Processes > Partnering with Suppliers Labor: Overtime hours and consecutive days worked without a break Suppliers have enhanced their management systems to monitor working hours and to Improve Performance Working hours exceed regulatory requirements. have implemented a control mechanism to alert managers to overtime exceeding the and Build Capability maximum working hours set by the EICC and to increase management accountability. Working with Industry Labor: Contracted workers are not compensated correctly for overtime by Suppliers have implemented requirements for labor agencies to correctly calculate Groups Wages and benefits labor agencies or outsourced companies. compensation for overtime for contract workers. Labor: The agency used for hiring contract workers was retaining some The agency has documented the request by foreign workers asking the agency to Freely chosen employment migrant workers’ passports for safekeeping, although the agency retain their passports for safekeeping, clearly stating that the workers are able to stated that this was by request from the workers. retrieve their passports when needed. Labor: Line leaders set limits for toilet use during a shift. This practice was withdrawn immediately, and line leaders were provided with training Freely chosen employment on the importance of labor welfare. Labor: No procedure in place to respond to the discovery of underage A new procedure has been established that documents the process to be followed Child labor avoidance workers. if underage workers are found. Health and Safety: Lack of analysis of root causes of health and safety incidents. Suppliers’ management personnel have been assigned responsibility for health and Occupational injury and safety. Procedures for analyzing root causes of incidents and corrective action plans illness have been implemented. Health and Safety: Emergency signals or alarms are inadequate or managed Suppliers’ health and safety managers have been made accountable for risk Emergency preparedness ineffectively, and fire drill training for workers is inadequate. assessment, emergency preparedness, and effective training. Environment: Handling procedures for chemicals and hazardous materials are not Training on the handling of hazardous materials is now mandatory for all Hazardous substances adequately implemented throughout the facility. production workers. Environment: Inadequate wastewater controls. Mechanism to monitor wastewater discharge level has been established and tested. Wastewater and solid waste Labor and Ethics Lack of formal labor and ethics management system. Supplier has established a management system which includes a CSR committee management system: with representatives from business units and relevant functions. Management accountability and responsibility Labor and Ethics Inadequate training and communication to workers on labor and Supplier has implemented communications on labor and ethics management through management system: ethics management system. a worker welfare committee. Training 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback C15 < Previous View Capability Building Our tailored support includes talking about sustainability Supply Chain To improve sustainability performance globally, we work issues with our suppliers’ senior managers, discussing Overview closely with our preferred suppliers to help them improve audit findings and appropriate corrective actions, their performance. In FY12, we continued to engage with and conducting regular reviews of their sustainability Our Supply Chain many of our preferred suppliers to communicate our performance. Embedding Sustainability in sustainability priorities, understand their priorities and Core Business Processes challenges, and identify opportunities where we can In FY12, we provided guidance for suppliers producing > Partnering with Suppliers partner to improve overall sustainability performance. their first CSR reports by directing them to the Global to Improve Performance These discussions helped to align priorities and better Reporting Initiative framework. We supported our and Build Capability prepare suppliers to implement programs that support suppliers in reporting their climate impacts through the Working with Industry Cisco’s sustainability goals. Carbon Disclosure Project, and we provided guidance Groups Focus on Working Hours documentation for specific issues, such as the California The integration of sustainability metrics into our Transparency in Supply Chains Act, juvenile labor, and The issue of excessive working hours in the ICT supply chain has been highlighted in recent years by scorecards and business reviews for preferred suppliers waste management in China, as well as an updated NGO campaigns and the media. We take this issue helps us identify areas for capability building. For specification on controlled substances for our products. extremely seriously. example, one of Cisco’s priorities is to help suppliers We also published preliminary guidance documentation Monitoring working hours is an important element understand how to allocate GHG emissions to each on conflict minerals and engaged with suppliers to of our supplier audit process and scorecard for product or component to support their customers’ assess their awareness of the issue and understand preferred suppliers. In FY13, we will require our calculations of product lifecycle impacts. To this end, their knowledge of the origin of their materials. This will manufacturing partners to provide a breakdown of their we have recently begun working with the Massachusetts continue to be a key focus in FY13 (see page C17). average monthly working hours using a tracker tool Institute of Technology and members of the EICC to we are developing. Our manufacturing partners have systems in place to record working hours. We have develop approaches that different types of suppliers Cisco aims to raise sustainability standards throughout ongoing dialogue with them about how they are can use to calculate this data. the supply chain by working with suppliers to help them working to reduce overtime, and we continue to improve their management systems and implement monitor their performance. We identify areas for improvement and opportunities to similar processes when working with their own suppliers. Our site audits found that average working hours per partner through our audits of suppliers’ performance, and The Cisco Supplier Code of Conduct requires all week have dropped from around 80 hours per week we focus on any specific issues raised by stakeholders. suppliers with which we have a direct relationship to in FY11 to between 68 and 72 in FY12. This still exceeds Where suppliers are not meeting our requirements, we apply these same standards to their own suppliers. the 60-hour maximum required by the EICC. We also help them take appropriate corrective actions and work This includes all of the manufacturing partners, logistics found that while a rest day for every seven-day working week is generally observed by most of the with them to raise standards. We believe that this is the partners, and component suppliers on our approved facilities audited, this is not guaranteed, especially most effective way to embed sustainability awareness vendor list. during peak seasons. and promote ongoing improvement among suppliers. Reducing overtime remains one of the biggest supply chain challenges for our industry because many factors contribute to excessive overtime, including production demands, availability of labor, and wages. The complexity of this challenge is highlighted by the increase in turnover experienced by some suppliers that are reducing their working hours, as workers leave to go to companies that will offer them more hours. We will continue to work through the EICC Working Hours task force (see page C18) to set standards and to require our suppliers to contain overtime within acceptable limits. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback C16 < Previous View We use our network of suppliers to pair up individual Supply Chain suppliers to enable them to share best practices and Overview learn from each other. We also encourage suppliers to join the EICC and participate in wider industry efforts Our Supply Chain to promote standardization and build capability. For Embedding Sustainability in example, we nominate suppliers to participate in industry Core Business Processes training initiatives. In FY12, three of our suppliers in > Partnering with Suppliers China completed EICC training on worker-management to Improve Performance and Build Capability communication, and one supplier in Malaysia completed EICC training on health and safety. Working with Industry Groups Environmental sustainability is another key focus of our capability-building activities. Helping suppliers improve their management of environmental issues and reduce their impacts can, in turn, help us reduce the overall impacts of our products throughout their lifecycle. For example, we monitor the list of noncompliances with wastewater regulations published by the Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs, a Chinese NGO, and we act promptly in any case where a Cisco supplier is mentioned to reiterate the standards we require and help the supplier develop effective environmental management systems. We have provided additional guidance on waste and wastewater management to suppliers in China to help them understand requirements, and we encourage suppliers to complete training on environment, health, and safety developed by the EICC. At the product level, we are working with suppliers as well as product engineers to source components that are more energy efficient and contain less hazardous material. For more information on our approach to managing environmental issues throughout the lifecycle of our products, see the Environment section (page F8). 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback C17 < Previous View Supply Chain Tackling Conflict Minerals Overview The Issue: Increased scrutiny from NGOs and growing interest from governments have put a spotlight on the use of Cisco’s Three-Stage Approach to Validating Conflict-Free Sourcing of the Regulated Minerals Our Supply Chain certain metals in the electronics industry, specifically those Embedding Sustainability in derived from potential “conflict minerals,” namely columbiteTrace Minerals to the Smelter Conflict-Free Smelter Validation Validate and Report Core Business Processes tantalite (known as “coltan,” refined to produce tantalum), wolframite (refined to produce tungsten), cassiterite (refined > Partnering with Suppliers Collecting and evaluating supplier Working through industry consortia Obtaining an independent privateto produce tin), and gold. to Improve Performance responses to the EICC-GeSI industry to develop and implement audit sector audit of Cisco’s Conflict and Build Capability The Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) is among the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template protocols for smelters Minerals Report to verify our world’s primary sources of these minerals, and many of the conflict-free status before filing Working with Industry mines and transportation routes in the area are under the with the U.S. Securities and Groups control of armed groups. The concern is that the mining and Exchange Commission purchase of these minerals from the DRC and its bordering countries may be directly or indirectly financing or benefiting armed groups in the region that are often accused of major • Working with suppliers to identify conflict-free solutions human rights abuses. • Publishing a Conflict Minerals Report by May 31, 2014, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act The U.S. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, passed in July 2010, puts the burden on or gold that are necessary to their production or functionality a chain of custody for these minerals and to develop a clear companies to know and disclose the source of these or, if products do contain these minerals, that they originate process to trace the minerals back to their source. The metals in their products. It requires any company that from smelters that have been validated as “conflict free” by working group brings together a wide range of stakeholders, makes products containing these metals to conduct a an independent private-sector party. The revised Supplier from miners, smelters, and brokers to capacitor makers and reasonable country-of-origin inquiry and due diligence Code of Conduct also includes a requirement for suppliers other manufacturers of electronic components and products. process of their supply chain and to publish a report to exercise due diligence on the source and chain of custody disclosing whether those minerals originated from the Two key initiatives have come out of this engagement and of these minerals. DRC or its bordering countries. are now underway: We informed suppliers of our requirements on conflict This regulation, and the underlying issue, is not exclusive to • An in-region sourcing program that traces minerals from minerals in FY12 and published preliminary guidance the electronics industry. It affects many other industries that the mine to the smelter documentation for them. We also met with approximately use these metals in their products, including the aerospace, 20 suppliers, including all our manufacturing partners, to • A conflict-free smelter assessment program that automotive, and jewelry industries. Resolving this issue assess their awareness of the issue and their knowledge of certifies smelters and refiners that source only conflictdemands extensive collaboration with many participants the origin of their materials. free minerals within and outside the ICT supply chain. We are now rolling out a survey, based on the industry Cisco worked with the EICC to develop a standard Our Response: In FY12, we published a policy on conflict questionnaire developed by the EICC, to assess supplier methodology for auditing the metals supply chain, which is minerals, asserting our commitment to source minerals in awareness of the requirements of the Act and their intended to create a common way of collecting and reporting a manner that respects human rights and our support for readiness to comply. this information. We also asked suppliers to list the smelters the goals and objectives of the Dodd-Frank Act. We also from which they source tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold provided training sessions for relevant Cisco employees Supporting an Industry-Wide Approach so these smelters can be included in the EICC conflicton our requirements under the Act. We continue to support an industry-wide approach to the free smelter validation program. (For more information on complex issue of conflict minerals. Through our participation The policy requires suppliers to certify that all products industry initiatives, see www.eicc.info.) in the EICC Extractives Working Group, we support industry supplied to Cisco do not contain tantalum, tin, tungsten, initiatives to better understand the challenges of establishing 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback C18 < Previous View Supply Chain Working with Industry Groups large retailers and manufacturers that do business in Training, Tools, and Standards the state of California to provide information about their In collaboration with the EICC, we are developing Cisco promotes responsible practices in the wider efforts to eradicate slavery and human trafficking from common industry training, tools, and standards to support Overview ICT supply chain through industry collaboration and their supply chains. suppliers in improving their sustainability performance. Our Supply Chain participation in global industry consortia such as the Embedding Sustainability in EICC and iNEMI. These forums enable Cisco to exchange Cisco is a member of the EICC’s task force on Cisco contributes to the development of industry training Core Business Processes ideas and pool resources with industry peers, share Freely Chosen Employment, and we have published courses. In FY12, we encouraged our suppliers to Partnering with Suppliers best practices, respond to stakeholder concerns, and a position statement on this issue in line with EICC complete the EICC e-learning course on CSR and to to Improve Performance influence the development of industry standards. recommendations and have strengthened our participate in face-to-face training offered through the and Build Capability Supplier Code of Conduct in this area. We require our EICC on specific issues such as occupational health and > Working with Industry We play an active role in the EICC’s working groups manufacturing partners to provide us with documentation safety and worker-management communications. Groups on extractives, environmental sustainability, learning of their policy and supporting management system to and capability building, and management tools, and allow us to assess their compliance with the Act. We Our participation in iNEMI focuses on reducing the we contribute to regular revisions of the Supplier Code document and track their commitment and monitor their environmental impacts of the materials that make up of Conduct. We participate in the EICC’s task forces conformance through our supplier audit process, which our products. For example, Cisco leads a working group on working hours, freely chosen employment, Asia, now includes specific requirements on compliance with to define standard methodologies and approaches for and governance, the last of which aims to improve the the Act. simplifying lifecycle analyses for the ICT industry, and effectiveness of the EICC itself. we participate in projects to identify alternatives to Slavery and human trafficking are covered in our Code of polyvinyl chloride and halogenated flame-retardants in Cisco is a founding member of the Stanford Initiative for Business Conduct training for Cisco employees, and we printed circuit boards. We are also helping to develop the Study of Supply Chain Responsibility. Established also provide resources to help employees understand standardized approaches for collecting key environmental in FY12, this research initiative aims to explore the the requirements and respond to related requests from performance indicators from suppliers through the relationship between global supply chain social and our customers. EICC Environmental Sustainability Working Group. For environmental responsibility and business performance, more details on Cisco’s activities in this area, see the to share best practices, and to develop a supply chain We support the EICC’s goal to reduce excessive overtime Environment section (page F9). sustainability maturity model for the industry. in manufacturing facilities based in China. In FY12, we participated in the EICC Working Hours task force to Labor Standards analyze average working hours based on EICC members’ In FY12, we continued to work with peers in the EICC to supplier audit findings and to share best practices. promote socially responsible labor practices, focusing The EICC is also developing training for suppliers on in particular on working hours and compliance with the managing working hours. 2010 California Transparency in Supply Chains Act. The Act, which came into force in January 2012, requires 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback D1 < Previous View Our People Overview Working Together A Safe and Healthy Work Environment An Open and Diverse Culture Employee Opportunities Rewarding Our People Watch the Video! Our People We work hard to inspire and engage our employees. We want them to feel that working at Cisco is more than just a job. The ideas, energy, and commitment of our employees propel our success. We continue to focus our efforts on building an engaged, talented, and motivated workforce. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback D2 < Previous View Collaboration lies at the heart of our employee strategy, Our People Overview which focuses on five areas: > Overview • Working together: Embedding a collaborative These first three pages give readers an overview Working Together working culture of Cisco’s objectives, key challenges, progress, A Safe and Healthy Work and performance with regard to Our People. We • A safe and healthy work environment: Focusing on Environment have used this overview as part of our Executive our people’s safety and promoting their physical and An Open and Diverse Summary, which can be downloaded here. mental well-being Culture • An open and diverse culture: Engaging our employees Employee Opportunities and promoting inclusion and diversity Rewarding Our People Our employees are experts in engineering, sales, and • Employee opportunities: Realizing the full potential business support, and they have diverse backgrounds, of our employees through development and skills, and experience. At the end of FY12, we employed training opportunities more than 66,000 people. More than 15,000 are based at our headquarters in San Jose, California, and our • Rewarding our people: Rewarding employees global workforce works from more than 475 offices through competitive, performance-based across 165 countries. compensation and benefits You: In 2012, Cisco’s Connected Women in Technology ERG and the Engineering Talent team successfully collaborated to organize the Women Performance Summary in Technology Forum. Networks: Around 300 employees attended the FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 Forum at our San Jose headquarters, with additional participants joining from worldwide locations such as Employee satisfaction (average 87% 90% 84% 79% 82% China, India, the Netherlands, the U.K., Bulgaria, and percent of employees who Israel via Cisco TelePresence, Cisco TV, and WebEx. consider Cisco a great place Impact x: In total, more than 1400 employees attended to work)* the event, which featured keynote addresses from senior women Cisco executives as well as panel Rate of injury and illness 0.37 0.34 0.33 0.30 0.22 discussions, workshops, and networking events aimed (per 100 full-time employees) at supporting women employees in developing their for the United States* careers. Connected Women ERG chapters organized complementary events at various Cisco sites, including Percent of female employees* 24% 23% 23% 22% 22% Research Triangle Park in North Carolina, New York City, Lawrenceville and Atlanta in Georgia, Boxborough in Massachusetts, Oslo, and Mexico City. Attendees Percent of non-Caucasian 44% 46% 44% 45% 45% came away with practical advice for developing their employees in the United States careers and expanded their network of contacts. All of the participants were challenged to share what they had * Corporate key performance indicator (KPI). For our complete list of KPIs, see Introduction. learned with their co-workers after the forum. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback D3 < Previous View Our People Progress Toward Objectives > Overview Objective Progress in FY12 Status Working Together A Safe and Healthy Work Explicit, visible leadership commitment to a differentiated employee experience: Rolled out the Cisco Leader Playbook, a quarterly online resource that includes manager Environment Senior leaders will invite employees to help build “the Next Cisco” as it relates to their and team discussion guides and activities on specific topics such as organizational An Open and Diverse function. We have developed a playbook with information and checklists to support change and giving back. Culture leaders in guiding their teams through transitions in a way that increases engagement. Employee Opportunities Compensation and recognition: We offer total compensation that is higher than Introduced initiatives to help employees feel recognized and rewarded for their work, Rewarding Our People most of our peer companies and provide differentiated reward opportunities for including: our highest performers. We expect to introduce conservatively funded base pay • Reinstating a midyear bonus advance for senior managers and below increase and promotion programs in October 2012, and we would like to provide additional funding for these programs later in the year to align with any improvement • Implementing a one-time discretionary stock distribution that allowed managers in overall company results. to reward high-achieving technical talent with company shares • Adjusting base salaries to reduce pay gaps, especially in countries with fast-moving labor markets • Paying company bonuses that were, on average, higher than those paid by our peer companies Manager-employee relationships: These relationships are critical to long-term Training on employee engagement completed by approximately 24 percent of directors employee engagement, and we will continue to focus on this through existing programs and people managers, putting us on track to reach 90 percent by FY14. for internal movement and promotion, such as the Cisco Performance Connection and Cisco Talent Connection. Over the next three years, we aim to put 90 percent of our directors and people managers through training at no cost to individual departments. Achieved Ongoing 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback D4 < Previous View Addressing Key Challenges The results of our FY12 employee Pulse Survey Our People As we expand into new markets and develop new showed improvement in all categories between FY11 > Overview technology, it is vital that our workforce is equipped and FY12, but we can still do more to make sure that to capitalize on opportunities. This means developing employees feel rewarded for their performance. We will Working Together dynamic managers who have the flexibility to move continue to build on initiatives to enhance compensation A Safe and Healthy Work between teams and functions. Retraining our talent and and recognition, such as introducing twice-yearly Environment developing transferable skills are important to supporting compensation reviews in FY13. An Open and Diverse our growth efforts because we need a flexible workforce Culture that can respond to new demands. Our challenge is to We understand that supporting a culture of inclusion Employee Opportunities build a talent pipeline of future leaders and to develop and diversity generates new ideas and enables us to Rewarding Our People our employees’ core capabilities and transferable skills. serve our customers better. But our figures from FY07 By meeting this challenge, we will also retain talent to FY12 do not show the growth in diversity around because we will be able to move the best and brightest the company that we would like to see, with many of people into new and developing areas of the business. our key metrics decreasing or staying relatively flat over the past five years (see page D10). To address We want to fully engage our employees in our this, we are continuing to support initiatives such as organizational transition. We aim to differentiate employee resource groups (ERGs) and our Executive ourselves from our competitors by improving employee Talent Insertion program, and expanding our inclusion engagement and retention as we introduce changes and diversity focus across functions and regions (see that will improve our operations. Initiatives will focus page D9). We have also added diversity categories in the Awards and Recognition on the areas of talent acquisition and management, annual Pulse Survey for U.K. and U.S. employees to help In FY12 Cisco was included in Fortune magazine’s career development, employee engagement, and identify further opportunities. “100 Best Companies to Work For” list for the 15th employee benefits. consecutive year. We were ranked thirty-second among companies with more than 10,000 employees, and the 2012 list highlighted Cisco’s generous employee benefits. We consider this continuing Objectives for FY13 and Beyond “We seem to have lost some of the recognition to be a considerable achievement given the transition and other challenges that Cisco has Maintain employee engagement level at 82 percent or experienced in recent years. camaraderie and fun that we had higher in FY13 Cisco also was recognized on Working Mother 10 years ago. In part, I believe it magazine’s “100 Best Companies” list in 2011. The Introduce twice-yearly compensation reviews in FY13 magazine applauded our benefits package for U.S. is the result of our size; however, employees, which includes child-care and schoolProvide capability training for 90 percent of directors and age child assistance programs. Working Mother also I would like to see us try to focus people managers by FY14 ranked Cisco seventh out of 25 companies on its “Best Companies for Multicultural Women” list in 2012. more on having fun as a team.” In FY12, Human Rights Campaign, a civil rights Cisco Employee organization working to achieve equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender Americans, awarded FY12 Pulse Survey Cisco a 100 percent rating in its Buyer’s Guide for Workplace Equality. Cisco has achieved this rating for nine consecutive years. For a full list of awards, click here. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback D5 < Previous View Our People Working Together • Annual virtual strategic leadership meetings for all employees of director and higher grade, and virtual Communication and collaboration are at the heart “Senior executives have made Overview sales meetings for our entire sales organization of our working environment. We promote the use of significant efforts in communicating > Working Together • The Cisco Employee Connection intranet site, which flexible, cross-functional teams that work together on runs regular short surveys of employee views on A Safe and Healthy Work new business opportunities. Our Collaboration Across the strategy to employees and Environment particular topics Cisco program recognizes exceptional cross-functional An Open and Diverse teamwork and provides teams with opportunities to be • The Cisco “Insight Series” with John Chambers to explaining the company position Culture recognized throughout the company. This is one of many help employees understand how we are navigating the when tough times are ahead.” Employee Opportunities ways that we encourage collaboration. changes to our operations and workforce Rewarding Our People • Dedicated resource pages on our intranet to explain Cisco Employee Our collaborative technologies continue to change the how we are simplifying operations FY12 Pulse Survey way employees work and communicate with one another across business functions, markets, and regions by In FY12, we rolled out the Cisco Leader Playbook, a facilitating collaboration, regardless of location. quarterly resource designed to increase engagement Used together, these technologies allow thousands of around our business goals. It provides a tool kit including Employee Communications employees to participate in virtual meetings from their content, discussion guides, and team activities to We foster a culture of openness and transparency, using desktops and interact with executives and colleagues. encourage dialogue between managers and their communications programs to equip our people managers Company meetings, for example, include a live audience, teams that has had a positive impact on employee with the means to understand our business strategy and a virtual audience joining from other Cisco sites by engagement levels. Engagement is included in all convey it to their teams. telepresence, and a live broadcast on Cisco TV. Video managers’ development objectives, and managers can on demand is made available after the event for those record the outcome of engagement activities in the Cisco Our Management Central website provides tools and who cannot attend in real time. A live moderated chat Performance Connection, providing acknowledgment and information to support managers in their jobs and keep using Jabber allows executives to answer employee reward for their success. them informed and aligned with business developments. questions submitted online. Approximately 16,600 The site uses discussion forums, videos, and podcasts to people participated in the May 2012 company meeting, Enabling Collaboration promote collaboration among Cisco managers globally. representing 25 percent of Cisco’s employees. Our suite of collaboration tools and technologies allow Over 10,000 managers have access to Management employees to stay in touch and connect across our Central, which sees an average of 2400 visits per Cisco’s WebEx Social allows employees to create a operations. They offer flexibility, promote a positive day. Management Central is supported by Leadership customized online resource of information they need work-life balance, foster a sense of community, and Quarterly, an interactive quarterly forum for managers to to do their jobs. It uses a social networking model to improve productivity. engage with John Chambers and other senior leaders on suggest relevant content, resources, and subject matter business relevant topics. We also offer a virtual training experts to individual users. It allows users to follow the More than 14,000 Cisco TelePresence systems are in use program to help managers communicate more effectively activities of co-workers and to share and track projects. worldwide, including applications that allow participants with employees, customers, and partners. There are over 88,000 unique visitors and approximately to join using mobile devices. Cisco WebEx provides 35,000 regular users who use it as part of their work desktop and application sharing capabilities, video, and It is essential that all employees understand our goals and routine to connect and collaborate. instant messaging. And Cisco Jabber technology enables expectations. Employees have opportunities to engage employees to access a range of applications such as with senior management and learn about the company’s instant messaging, voice, video, voice messaging, strategy through events such as: desktop sharing, and conferencing on any device. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback D6 < Previous View Pulse Survey Our People We regularly seek input from employees to understand Pulse Survey Results Overview what motivates them and to learn how we can improve job satisfaction. Our annual Pulse Survey is one of the Category FY10 Scores FY11 Scores FY12 Scores > Working Together most important listening tools at Cisco. It is a confidential, A Safe and Healthy Work Employee Engagement Index 82 79 82 online survey for all employees that helps leaders Environment pinpoint employee concerns in 10 categories (see table). An Open and Diverse Collaboration 85 85 87 Culture In FY12, 83 percent of employees took part in the survey, Employee Opportunities up 2 points from the previous year. Results improved Respect for People 82 84 86 Rewarding Our People in all categories, including our focus areas for FY12. These included Employee Engagement (up 3 points to Communication 79 79 82 82), Development (up 2 points to 77), and Organizational Alignment (up 7 points to 73). Creating a diverse and Organizational Alignment 79 66 73 inclusive environment is critical to Cisco (see page D9) and we also saw an increase in the Inclusion Index, up by Inclusion Index 78 79 82 3 points from 79 in FY11 to 82 in FY12. Other significant increases include Innovation and Excellence (up 5 points Innovation and Excellence 77 73 78 to 78). Manager Index 77 83 84 We benchmark measure ourselves against other large high-tech companies to understand our performance. Development 72 75 77 In FY12, on average our scores were 7 points higher than the industry benchmark. Recognition 65 68 72 We take employees’ views seriously. We organize follow-up surveys and focus groups to gain a better Employees can see the results for the whole company In FY13, we will focus on improvements in the understanding of how we can improve in low-scoring as well as individual functions on an employee Pulse following areas: areas, and we work to introduce changes accordingly. website. Managers are expected to share their results • Organizational alignment: We will continue to engage In FY12, scores improved in a number of areas where we and discuss improvement plans with their team. In FY12, with employees on our organizational realignment implemented improvement plans following FY11 survey we organized a Learn About Live virtual training session and link employee performance with company results. For example, following the introduction of more to help managers understand their results, create plans and functional goals through Cisco Performance in-depth midyear career discussions as part of the Cisco to address areas of opportunity, and showcase examples Connection year-end reviews. Performance Connection review process, 86 percent of best practices from high scorers in different parts of of employees responded positively to the statement, • Recognition: While recognition was up 4 points in the business. “In the last 12 months, I have had a meaningful career FY12, there is still room for improvement. We will development discussion with my manager,” up 5 points continue initiatives introduced in FY12 to enhance from FY11. compensation and recognition, and we will introduce twice-yearly compensation reviews in FY13. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback D7 < Previous View Our People A Safe and Healthy Work Environment This group manages significant regional and local incidents, such as tsunamis, earthquakes, and typhoons We are committed to providing the best working as well as social and political unrest, which can affect Overview environment for our employees’ health and well-being. some of our operations (see Risk Management). Working Together We do this by using our collaborative technology to offer > A Safe and Healthy Work people the freedom to choose how, when, and where Over 120 emergency response teams, made up of more Environment they work and by providing a wide range of health and than 2800 employee volunteers, are located in Cisco An Open and Diverse well-being programs. offices worldwide. They are trained to be first responders Culture in the event of a variety of emergency situations, from Employee Opportunities Occupational Health and Safety assisting with building evacuations to administering first Rewarding Our People The health and safety of our employees is central to aid. Their medical training can include potentially lifeour business. Our Occupational Health and Safety threatening situations such as cardiac arrest, and over Program aims to identify and reduce the risk of injury 460 automated external defibrillators are located in Cisco and illness across our operations by standardizing health offices around the world. Our emergency response and safety management while allowing local teams to teams responded to approximately 160 medical incidents monitor effectiveness. and 120 building evacuations globally in FY12. “I think Cisco is a great place to The majority of employee workplace injuries are Health Benefits ergonomic issues, and in FY12 we continued to focus We provide insurance programs to eligible employees, work because I feel that the work on ergonomic-related injury awareness and prevention. including health, dental, vision, disability, and life Our office-based employees benefit from our Global insurance benefits. Our programs cover health-related I do here can actually make a Ergonomic Program that provides in-person and matters such as pregnancy, healthy living, and condition difference. I see areas where there virtual support to help identify, measure, and reduce management to encourage healthy, balanced lifestyles. ergonomic risks. is opportunity for improvement U.S. employees have access to additional support We follow global regulatory and industry standards in our programs from prenatal care to eldercare assistance, and I feel enabled and empowered Lab Safety Program, using a risk-based approach that and our San Jose headquarters offers a health center, provides guidance on assessing, communicating, and to make the changes to improve pharmacy, fitness center, and vision center. Onsite health managing lab-based safety hazards. facilities are also available in Research Triangle Park in the business.” North Carolina and in Bangalore, India. The fitness center Our employee injury and illness rate for U.S. operations in San Jose provides customized exercise programs, Cisco Employee fell from 0.30 in FY11 to 0.22 per 100 full-time personal training services, and group classes. Over FY12 Pulse Survey employees (FTEs) in FY12, and the rate of injuries and 4000 employees regularly visit the center, averaging illnesses resulting in lost time decreased from 0.03 in over 1000 visits per day. Onsite fitness facilities are FY11 to 0.008 per 100 employees. also available at our campuses in Richardson, Texas; Research Triangle Park, North Carolina; Boxborough, Cisco’s Global Safety, Security, and Business Resiliency Massachusetts; and Lawrenceville, Georgia. department is responsible for the protection of employees, property, revenue, and physical assets. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback D8 < Previous View Cisco’s HealthConnections program promotes healthy employee-led community provides Cisco employees and Our People living choices among Cisco employees and their families. their families with access to resources and information “New products and new technologies Overview Employees can earn financial incentives of up to US$800 about cancer. The network is staffed by employee Working Together per year and spouses or partners can earn up to $400 volunteers and has a formal operating structure that provide endless learning opportunities per year by taking part in activities such as completing includes a global leadership team, executive sponsors, > A Safe and Healthy Work an annual personal health assessment and participating and an online collaborative forum to share information. and keep things challenging and Environment in health coaching, online healthy living programs, monthAn Open and Diverse exciting. No time to be bored; long wellness challenges, and condition management Flexible Working Culture programs. More than 60 percent of employees have How, when, and where people want and need to work always something new to learn.” Employee Opportunities completed a health assessment over the past four years, is changing. Our collaborative technology supports Rewarding Our People and approximately 45 percent of employees take one employees in balancing work, family, and other personal Cisco Employee every year. Health coaches support employees in areas responsibilities. Feedback shows that employees rank FY12 Pulse Survey such as diet, weight management, stress management, workplace flexibility as one of their most important smoking cessation, and exercise programs. Coaching benefits and that they view it as one of the best things also is available via telephone, email, and, for San Joseabout working at Cisco. based employees, Cisco TelePresence. A supporting website acts as a hub for all health-related programs Supporting flexible working is increasingly important as and contains information on health-related topics. we seek to attract and recruit future talent. According to research conducted by Global Workplace Solutions, 57 Cisco HealthPresence technology connects the San percent of people aged 18 to 25 prefer to work flexibly Jose health center with employees at 80 Cisco sites and to choose when they work, and 78 percent prefer to worldwide. In FY12 Cisco launched Stanford Telederm, be mobile rather than work in a static environment. connecting Cisco employees with leading dermatologists at the Stanford Medicine Outpatient Center using Cisco has generally offered most of our employees a HealthPresence, saving Cisco employees time and strong degree of flexibility in terms of working hours and money. Physicians can conduct remote consultations telecommuting practices. Technology such as Cisco to identify and diagnose a range of potential Virtual Office, Cisco TelePresence, and Cisco WebEx health conditions. make it possible for employees to access real-time business information and collaborate with colleagues and Also in FY12, Cisco launched an Expert Medical Opinion customers at any time and in any place while saving time Our Off/On Ramp program allows eligible employees to program to support employees and their families facing and travel costs. These have been widely adopted by our take a career break for one to two years and then return serious medical conditions, including major surgery. employees: to the company as long as they secure an open position The program gives Cisco employees access to a team • Telecommuting is used by 95 percent of employees, before the end of their leave. Participating employees of experienced physicians to help them make informed and the number of full-time remote workers rose are not paid, but they are still eligible for company-paid decisions about different care options, and it provides from 1077 in FY11 to 1110 in FY12, an increase of benefits during the first year. access to independent second opinions. 3.06 percent. • Part-time opportunities are available in Europe, the We recognize that serious diseases such as cancer United States, and parts of the Asia Pacific region. can have life-changing consequences, and in FY12 we The number of part-time workers at Cisco rose by relaunched the Cisco Cancer Support Network. This 28.3 percent to 254 in FY12. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback D9 < Previous View Our People An Open and Diverse Culture that provides mentoring and networking opportunities for African-American midlevel IT managers. It is the only Fostering an environment of inclusion and diversity national mentoring program in the United States focused Overview creates a culture that celebrates differences and on cultivating executive talent among African-American Working Together unique ideas. Each employee brings his or her own life IT professionals. A Safe and Healthy Work experiences, culture, talent, and perspective to Cisco. Environment Together our diverse employees generate new ideas, We support the Girls/Women in Technology Initiative > An Open and Diverse promote better decision-making, and create a workforce that aims to encourage more girls to study and consider Culture that mirrors our customers and the world at large. careers in science, technology, engineering, and Employee Opportunities mathematics. We partner with the National Center for Rewarding Our People Cisco’s Global Inclusion and Diversity Board is responsible Women & Information Technology. Cisco’s Connected for integrating inclusion and diversity into our business Women Technology Network organizes hands-on processes and operations at all levels. Members serve practical exercises to give young women an introduction Employee Resource Groups in Action as executive sponsors for a range of diversity programs to how technology, including Cisco products, can be Cisco ERGs are important advocates and role models and ERGs. used to respond to real-world problems like earthquakes. for our inclusion and diversity initiatives. By connecting employees across Cisco, the ERGs help to increase All Cisco employees and functions are responsible As well as partnering with diverse organizations, we use employee engagement and improve retention, while for promoting a culture of inclusion and diversity, and a wide variety of programs to identify and recruit diverse contributing to innovation and fostering business relevant goals are included in annual performance partnerships. Members act as external ambassadors talent outside and within Cisco. The Executive Talent for Cisco’s inclusive culture among our customers, reviews. Our self-assessment tool helps employees Insertion program aims to increase the recruitment of business partners, and potential recruits. gauge their success in meeting these important goals. diverse leaders to Cisco in engineering, finance, sales, The Cisco Black Employee Network (CBEN) is a global and operations. We are looking to staff interview panels ERG with chapters in the United States, Europe, Recruitment that better represent the diversity of our workforce to Nigeria, and South Africa. In FY12, BEN volunteers We have a dedicated diversity recruiting oversight provide diverse perspectives in assessing talent. mentored a group of students from the Gwinnett manager and a global diversity recruitment strategy School of Mathematics, Science, and Technology in that aims to increase the diversity of the candidate pool Employee Support Lawrenceville, Georgia, as part of their Senior Capstone for executive, professional, and university hires. We Experience program. They guided students through the We value diversity and seek to provide tailored support challenge to invent the “device of the future,” which partner with a range of diverse organizations, societies, for employees from all backgrounds in fulfilling their would combine the functions of a cellphone, media and community groups to connect with potential potential. For example, our JUMP development program player, learning device, and e-wallet. employees such as the National Society of Black for female entry-level management positions helps Cisco BEN members also are involved in the Junior Engineers, Society of Women Engineers, Anita Borg participants develop their leadership skills. An initial pilot Achievement Fellows mentoring program, teaching Institute for Women In Technology, Diversity Woman, in the U.K., France, and Spain resulted in a 30 percent teams of students business and entrepreneurship European Professional Women’s Network, Hispanic promotion or movement rate for participants. Based on its skills. Since 2011, BEN has supported The 100 Black IT Executive Council, Employers Forum on Disability, success, we are rolling out the program more broadly to Men of America, an NGO dedicated to educating and Stonewall, and Workplace Pride. empowering African-American children and teenagers. other regions with participants completing three modules BEN members work with 100 Black Men of America over nine months, covering leadership, career planning, executives on joint mentoring opportunities and on For example, in the United States our scholarship and execution. exploring how the organization, and its members, can program with the National Consortium for Graduate benefit from Cisco technology. Degrees for Minorities in Engineering and Science, Inc., Cisco has a long-established community of employee aims to improve access to top minority talent. In FY12, networks and ERGs that represent the diverse cultures Cisco also participated in the Information Technology and interests of our employee population (see feature Senior Management Forum’s Executive Protégé Program box). They provide mentoring programs, community 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback D10 < Previous View outreach, recruitment and networking opportunities for Our People diverse employee groups and support for wider company Diversity Performance Overview inclusion and diversity initiatives. For example, the Cisco Disability Awareness Network ERG supports and FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 Working Together promotes the needs of employees, partners, customers, A Safe and Healthy Work Percent of female employees 23% 23% 23% 22% 22% and community members with disabilities. Environment > An Open and Diverse Nearly 40 percent of women at Cisco locations in the Percent of female new hires 27% 23% 20% 19% 23% Culture United States participated in an ERG in 2011. There are Employee Opportunities more than 40 global chapters of the Cisco Connected Percent of female vice presidents 16% 15% 15% 15% 15% Rewarding Our People Women ERG, as well as our Connected Women Technology Network ERG. The Connected Women Percent of non-Caucasian 45% 46% 44% 45% 45% ERGs hosted hundreds of presentations, workshops, employees in U.S. operations and webinars to foster networking, mentoring, work-life balance, and career development in FY12. Percent of non-Caucasian new 52% 52% 42% 46% 52% hires in U.S. operations Our diversity figures have remained relatively constant since FY08. In FY12, women made up 22 percent of Percent of non-Caucasian vice 22% 21% 22% 24% 26% presidents in U.S. operations our global workforce, the same as FY11 and a small decrease from 23 percent in FY10. The number of women in senior roles of vice president or above has also remained relatively constant at 15 percent. • Japan Inclusion Leadership Team In Japan we organized our first diversity week to raise • India Operations Inclusion and Diversity awareness of inclusion and diversity as a strategic Our biggest improvement has been in the number of advantage for our business and demonstrate senior non-Caucasians serving as vice president or above. leadership commitment. Nearly 900 participants explored In FY12, we introduced additional diversity categories in The 26 percent of non-Caucasian vice presidents in topics such as diverse talent, working parents, and the annual Pulse Survey for U.K. and U.S. employees to FY12 compared with 24 percent in FY11, a steady rise flexible work practices. A “More Together” week in better capture and understand their needs and identify from 22 percent in FY08. France provided information and training on inclusion opportunities to support minority groups. They include optional categories for U.S. military veterans, lesbian, and diversity to support minority employees in achieving We recognize that we must do more to improve this personal and business goals. gay, bisexual, and transgender employees as well as for performance. That’s why we have expanded the employees of Middle-Eastern, Irish, South Asian, and functional and geographical leadership on diversity We are committed to promoting greater diversity among Pacific Rim Asian descent. and inclusion around the world to incorporate: our employees and to creating an inclusive workplace • The Americas Sales Inclusion Leadership Team We also broadened our optional disability categories to by focusing on the recruitment, retention, development, better assess the needs of our workforce and identify and promotion of diverse talent. We will also continue to • Cisco Services Inclusion and Diversity opportunities to guide product accessibility. The Cisco work with diverse organizations to connect with potential Ambassador Program Accessibility Initiative stresses the importance of creating employees from all backgrounds. • Finance Inclusion and Diversity accessible products, websites, and documentation • Operations, Processes and Systems Inclusion (see Product Accessibility, page E17). and Diversity • Europe, Middle East, Africa, and Russia Inclusion and Diversity 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback D11 < Previous View Our People Employee Opportunities Securing Our Technical Leadership A highly skilled workforce is imperative if we are to Overview It is vital that we invest in our technical capabilities to equip remain economically competitive and sustain our our engineering community with the skills and qualities Working Together success. We recognize our employees’ core skills and to support our business and lead the development of A Safe and Healthy Work provide flexible learning opportunities to address their new products and services. In FY12, Cisco delivered over Environment 500,000 hours of training to our engineering community development needs and career aspirations. Our formal An Open and Diverse with a focus on product development, innovation, and and informal learning and development opportunities Culture management and leadership development. Some our support employees’ success and encourage innovation. initiatives in FY12 included: > Employee Opportunities This, in turn, helps us retain top talent who have the • Strengthening technical and leadership capabilities in Rewarding Our People necessary skills to respond to market developments. India by launching the Network Science Fundamentals and Technical Leadership Incubation programs which The Engineering Community Learning Network (CLN) Career Development aim to develop our pipeline of emerging technical leaders. Program inspires and supports collaboration, innovation, We offer a variety of training courses for management, We also established the Engineering India Leadership and creative thinking by bringing our global engineering technical, and professional development. International Program to build an engineering center of excellence. communities together. The volunteer-led network has hosted over 200 training events that have connected 17,000 and rotational assignments develop employee and • Developing a “Technical Leader” role-based training engineers to share invaluable knowledge and expertise. leadership capabilities and build a mindset that program to provide career development opportunities for In FY12, we also focused on improving the delivery of understands the needs of global markets. Cisco’s top technical talent. We also developed a similar technical training across functions through the CLN. As “Product Manager” program covering all levels of product a result, we had more than 20,000 “repeat learners.” management, from on-boarding to developing general The Cisco Performance Connection is a year-round In addition to our core enterprise management and management skills. performance management and development process. leadership development, we made a concerted investment Managers and employees meet three times a year to • Delivering a customized business and finance-based to focus on building coaching skills for managers, providing training program to our senior technical community to discuss performance and agree upon development a leadership styles assessment for all people managers at better integrate the business and technology components goals. Development opportunities include professional all levels, and providing executive coaching for 25 percent of our strategy and build our organizational capabilities. of all director-level engineers globally. and technical certifications and external training, which is supported through Cisco’s tuition reimbursement program. In FY12, Cisco spent more than $142 million on training and development, up from $113 million in FY11. promoted approximately 10,900 employees, or 16.8 employees). The total workforce reduction as a result Ninety-one percent of employees participated in at least percent of our total employee base. Our CareerPath of this action was 6500 people, including 2100 who one course, collectively spending more than 2.9 million website allows employees to search a global database took voluntary early retirement, or 9 percent of our hours in learning and development training courses, and to match job openings with their résumés. It is full-time workforce. an increase from 82 percent and 2.4 million hours supported by Talent Connection, an internal website that respectively in FY11. creates a marketplace for employees and managers to The Cisco Partner Talent Placement Program connects match their skills with a broad range of suitable vacancies Cisco employees impacted by our reorganization with Our ERGs also provide opportunities for employee across different functions as they arise. vacancies at our partners. Through this program, we development by conducting regular development connect our partners with interested and eligible Cisco activities, including webinars and discussions on Supporting Employees Affected by Reorganization employees through recruitment specialists, using a leadership, networking, and relationship building. In FY12, we completed the comprehensive action plan website where Cisco partners can post suitable positions, to simplify our organization announced in FY11 (see search and match eligible talent to job openings, access We promote opportunities for career progression from Cisco’s 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Report résumés, and contact employees directly. Over 220 within the company and aim to fill 60 percent of job for more information about support offered to affected employees were placed with Cisco partners as a result. openings with internal candidates. During FY12, Cisco 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback D12 < Previous View Our People Rewarding Our People innovation, or business impact. The Cisco Achievement Additional benefits for eligible employees include taxProgram offers cash awards to encourage and reward efficient retirement savings support with company We believe in sharing our success with our employees. exceptional contributions to the achievement of business contributions, tuition assistance, paid time off and paid Overview Our competitive performance-based pay and benefits unit and company goals. In FY12, more than 41,500 holidays, family leave, and an employee stock purchase Working Together reward innovation, collaboration, and profitability. Cisco Achievement Program awards—one-time cash plan, as well as a range of health and wellness benefits. A Safe and Healthy Work payments—were issued to employees globally. Environment Our total rewards philosophy focuses on providing An Open and Diverse compensation, benefits, and long-term savings Culture packages that are competitive in each of the markets Employee Opportunities where we operate. We aim to provide salaries (inclusive Cisco Employee Benefits > Rewarding Our People of base pay and bonus) in the top 25 percent of remuneration offerings, based on a benchmark of • Adoption Assistance (U.S.) •H  ealth Insurance: Medical, disability, and life benefits; 45 comparator companies. Cisco’s FY12 total • Autism Benefit (Global) dental and vision where prevalent (Global) compensation to employees—including salary, benefits, • Baby Gift Program (Global) • Insurance: Healthcare Domestic Partner eligibility (Global) bonus, commissions, and stock awards—totaled • Onsite Cafeterias (Multiple locations) •C  hildren’s Scholarship Fund for the children of deceased approximately $13.2 billion. employees (Global) •O  nsite Childcare Centers (two centers in San Jose, CA; • Cisco Equipment Discount Program (U.S.) one in Bangalore, India; and a backup childcare program We align employee and company goals through our for Research Triangle Park, NC) • Death Benefits for Family (Global) bonus program, which makes a direct link between the • Onsite Fitness Center (Multiple locations) company’s performance, the individual’s performance, • Education Benefits: Employee Tuition Assistance (Global) •O  nsite Health Centers (San Jose, CA; Bangalore, India; and employee pay. Exemplary contributions from high • Family Crisis Assistance (Global) and HealthPresence in RTP) performers are rewarded by cash and stock awards. • Eldercare Program (Global) • Onsite Pharmacy, Vision Center (San Jose, CA) Outstanding sales performance, collaboration and • Employee Assistance Program (Global) • Relocation Assistance (Global) technology, and long-term service milestones are also • Employee Bonus Program (Global) •T  ax-Advantaged Long-Term Savings with company recognized with awards. contribution (such as 401(k) retirement accounts) (Global) • Employee Discount Program (U.S., Canada, and U.K.) • E xpert Medical Opinion (Global) • Tuition Assistance Program (U.S.) The Chairman’s Choice Awards honor and celebrate outstanding achievements by individuals or teams • Financial Education (U.S.) •O  ff/On Ramp Program (Up to two years off work, unpaid but first year with medical benefits) (Global) across the company in one of three areas: culture, • Flexible Work Practices (Global) • Employee Stock Purchase Plan (Global) • Health & Wellness Programs (Multiple locations) Cisco provides culturally relevant leave-of-absence and time-off programs for employees globally. “Cisco is a company with great Examples of these programs in the United States include: people at all levels, a clear culture, • Adoption leave: paid • Military leave: differential paid and a drive to achieve success. • Bereavement time off: paid • Paid time off (vacation): paid • Educational leave: unpaid • Paternity leave: unpaid People are valued, listened to, • Jury duty time off: paid • Personal leave: unpaid and engaged.” • Pregnancy disability leave/maternity leave: paid Cisco Employee FY12 Pulse Survey 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback E1 < Previous View Society Overview Education Healthcare Economic Empowerment Critical Human Needs and Disaster Relief Employee Engagement Product Accessibility Supplier Diversity Watch the Video! Society Information and communications technology (ICT) brings people together to spur innovation and improve livelihoods. By enabling collaboration between individuals and organizations, our technology provides access to essential information and services that help to promote economic empowerment and improve the delivery and quality of healthcare and education to underserved communities. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback E2 < Previous View Cisco supports projects that bring people together Our social investment strategy prioritizes the areas Society Overview through technology to encourage innovation and where we believe human and technology networks have > Overview entrepreneurship, deliver critical goods and services, the biggest potential to multiply our impact and achieve These first four pages give readers an overview of improve education and healthcare, and create economic scalable and sustainable solutions, covering: Education Cisco’s objectives, key challenges, progress, and opportunities for people around the world. Creating more Healthcare • Education performance with regard to Society. We have used prosperous and healthy communities benefits people Economic Empowerment this overview as part of our Executive Summary, • Healthcare and our business. We aim to make a lasting difference Critical Human Needs and which can be downloaded here. and partner with organizations that use technology to • Economic empowerment Disaster Relief multiply the impact of their programs and services and • Critical human needs and disaster relief Employee Engagement to improve their processes and effectiveness. Product Accessibility We contribute cash and in-kind contributions1 of our products and expertise, and we encourage employees Supplier Diversity to volunteer their time to support organizations in their communities around the world. Volunteering helps to Performance Summary build leadership skills, teamwork, and loyalty among our employees (see page E16). FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 Improving the accessibility of our products for people Total corporate and Cisco $92 million $128 million $139 million $295 million1 $294 million1 with disabilities helps us expand the benefits of Foundation cash and in-kind technology to more people (see page E17). We can contributions* also make a difference in underserved communities and local economies by supporting small and minority-owned Number of hours volunteered 88,870 78,000 148,355 166,445 107,150 by employees* businesses through our supplier diversity program (see page E18). Number of active students in 700,000 800,000 900,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 Cisco Networking Academy courses 1. Includes Cisco Networking Academy in-kind contributions, which we included in our corporate giving data for the first time in FY11. * Corporate key performance indicator (KPI). For our complete list of KPIs, see Introduction Networking Academy students with their instructor at the CIDA ICT Academy, South Africa 1. Includes Networking Academy software, support, expertise, training, and design. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback E3 < Previous View Society Progress Toward Objectives > Overview Objective Progress in FY12 Status Education Healthcare Launch a new global volunteer program to raise Launched Cisco VolunteerX, a year-long program that challenges employees to volunteer a combined 150,000 hours Economic Empowerment awareness of Cisco’s community programs, and raise at least $1 million in matching funds by May 2013. Winning regions and functions will receive $25,000 grants encourage more employees to get involved and for the nonprofit organization of their choice. Critical Human Needs and recognize exceptional contributions. Introduced a Volunteer of the Year Award program, with the first awards presented in September 2012. Disaster Relief Employee Engagement Incorporate the requirements of new U.S. legislation Integrated the requirements of the 21st-Century Video Accessibility Act into our product design processes. We also Product Accessibility on accessibility into Cisco’s best practices and conducted regular refresher training with technology groups to emphasize the importance of accessibility and raise Supplier Diversity corporate requirements and raise awareness through awareness of new regulatory requirements. training for our technology groups. Maintain strategic relationships with the World Attended eight World Economic Forum meetings: Economic Forum and Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) • Participated in expert councils on education systems, climate change, digital health and infrastructure, to inform our activities and share best practices. and urban development. • Helped identify and recognize innovative companies with the potential to impact society. • Contributed to the Global Information Technology Report. Attended four CGI meetings. Worked with local partners and government agencies in four African countries to transfer ownership of dozens of Community Knowledge Centers to local organizations as part of our CGI commitment. Continue to support partners such as the Grameen Supported the expansion of the Grameen Foundation Progress Out of Poverty Index™ (PPI™), which, it is estimated Foundation to expand its Social Performance will be used by 200 organizations serving 20 million clients by the end of 2012. Management initiative, which helps poverty-focused organizations accurately measure the social impact of program and service offerings. Continue to work with partners including Tamkeen.net Continued to support the Palestinian ICT sector through cash grants, mentoring, and investments in venture capital and others to support development of entrepreneurship and seed funds. in the Palestinian ICT sector. Enhance U.S. veterans programs across Cisco Established a Director of Veterans Programs to coordinate U.S. veteran initiatives across Cisco, including employee through existing channels, such as employee resource volunteering, education, and recruitment. Partnered with Futures Inc., a software development company, to create groups (ERGs) and mentoring programs. Plan Veterans a specialized job portal for veterans. Joined the 100,000 Jobs Mission, a coalition of U.S. companies committed to Day events and develop strategic partnerships with collectively hiring 100,000 U.S. veterans by 2020. recognized veterans projects and associations. Achieved Ongoing 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback E4 < Previous View While this presents a challenge to our business growth, Society we believe there is also an opportunity to use technology “How can ICT help combat poverty > Overview to help public and private partners increase efficiency Education You: The Cisco Networking Academy is a powerful and cut costs while encouraging innovation and and contribute to social equity? example of how we combine human and technology improving program outcomes. We will continue to focus Healthcare networks to multiply our impact. More than 4.25 million on projects that use technology to achieve scalable, This is one area I would like to see Economic Empowerment students have participated in the Cisco Networking replicable, and sustainable outcomes. Academy since it began in 1997, completing over 110 you really expand on in the future.” Critical Human Needs and Disaster Relief million online assessments. Partnerships are vital to our approach, and we aim to Prof. Sudhakar Yedla Employee Engagement Networks: We partner with more than 10,000 improve our reporting to collect and validate data on how Indira Gandhi Institute of Development educational institutions, nonprofits, NGOs, governments, our partners are performing against their goals. This will Research (IGIDR), India Product Accessibility and community centers in 165 countries that provide enable us to measure the impact of our investments. Cisco’s 2012 Global Stakeholder Supplier Diversity classroom space, computer lab equipment, and qualified instructors. Cisco provides free, cloudEngagement Sessions delivered online curricula and interactive activities, Improving ICT education delivery: We expect demand network simulation, visualization tools, and online for ICT skills to continue to grow, given the growth in assessments to prepare students for entry level ICT networking opportunities and continuing high rates of positions and promote entrepreneurship. unemployment in many of our markets forcing people We expect the new business model to strengthen the Impact x: The Networking Academy provides a steady to explore new career paths. This demand will make relationship between Cisco and the individual Networking supply of ICT professionals around the world, with vocational education programs increasingly valuable for Academy locations and to increase the sustainability of students going on to pursue successful ICT careers students and for our business. We will continue to focus and to start their own businesses. It encourages the program. In FY12, we also continued rolling out the on this, and the use of ICT to transform the delivery new Cisco NetSpace interactive learning environment, economic growth in communities and supports many of our initiatives to improve ICT education as part of our and quality of education, through the Cisco Networking which incorporates new content and collaboration wider commitment to economic development around Academy program and public-private partnerships that features designed to increase student and academy the world. focus on science, technology, engineering, and math success. The first academy locations began using (STEM). These are increasingly important focus areas for the NetSpace learning environment in July 2012, and governments given their role in supporting innovation all academy locations are expected to adopt the new Addressing Key Challenges and competitiveness. platform by July 2013. In the coming years, we will The struggling global economy is continuing to put continue to refine both the new business model and pressure on charitable and community organizations, The rapid expansion and the global reach of Cisco Cisco NetSpace to improve the provision of Networking which face a growing demand for their services while Networking Academy has motivated us to change how Academy courses and more effectively meet the needs experiencing a decline in funding and resources. we support the 10,000 academy locations around the of individual academies and students. Likewise, governments at all levels are under pressure world, to focus on their long-term sustainability and to cut costs and demonstrate value for money spent flexibility. In FY12, we launched a new Networking Building capacity to transform healthcare: Experience on public services including education and healthcare, Academy business model that enables local academies from our Connecting Sichuan initiative shows the role adding to the demand on nonprofit organizations and to choose instructor training, day-to-day technical partnerships with national and local governments, NGOs, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). support, workforce support, and other resources from and private-sector partners can play in advancing global partners that meet their unique needs. Previously, healthcare systems and improving the quality of patient local academies were assigned to a “regional academy” care. Using the network as the platform established in their geographic area for support. a blueprint for enabling partners in their efforts for improving the delivery and quality of healthcare. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback E5 < Previous View We have expanded our care-at-a-distance and Society collaborative healthcare models to the country of Jordan Objectives for FY13 and Beyond > Overview for providing greater access to high-quality care in remote rural communities, and we continue to explore Collaborate more closely with the Cisco Networking Academy to encourage military personnel interested in an ICT career to Education obtain their basic CCNA certificate ways to transform healthcare delivery models elsewhere. Healthcare Economic Empowerment Our experience demonstrates the importance of building Engage our more than 80 partners in the 100,000 Jobs Mission, a coalition of companies committed to collectively hiring 100,000 U.S. veterans by 2020 Critical Human Needs and and maintaining strong relationships with government Disaster Relief partners for the long-term sustainability of our healthcare Continue to strengthen the new business model for supporting local Networking Academy programs that was introduced Employee Engagement partnerships. This is particularly important as we expand in FY12 into regions of economic and political uncertainty, where Product Accessibility there can be a high turnover of government officials Supplier Diversity Transition all Networking Academy instructors to the new learning platform, Cisco NetSpace, to increase collaboration and and limited numbers of healthcare workers trained opportunities for students globally in connected healthcare technology. To address this challenge, we will focus on providing ongoing support Introduce new learning material to the Networking Academy community via Cisco NetSpace and training for healthcare professionals, and we will work with government officials to demonstrate the Continue to support and engage in programs that increase the number of students studying STEM subjects at primary and value of our partnerships when seeking buy-in from secondary school levels through partnerships with nonprofit organizations and NGOs decision makers. Strengthen the self-sufficiency of our Community Knowledge Center model and complete transition of ownership to Supporting nonprofits in meeting critical human needs: government and local NGO partners Population growth and climate change will continue to put pressure on food prices and water resources. We have Create Cisco Accessibility Executive Sponsors to champion accessibility among Cisco Technology Groups, continue to work also seen a rise in the number and severity of natural with the National Technical Institute for the Deaf and other partners to incorporate accessibility features into Cisco products, disasters, which puts additional pressure on the ability of and roll out training for educators and employers in California to support the DeafTEC initiative humanitarian and relief agencies to respond. A consistent issue for our partners in developing countries is lack of consistent and reliable access to ICT and the Internet. To meet these challenges, we will continue to look for opportunities to improve Internet reliability and expand the use of ICT to support partners and increase the efficiency, quality, and productivity of organizations that meet basic human needs and respond to disasters. Cisco in action 2012 Cisco CSR Report Employee Volunteering 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback E6 Meeting Critical Human Needs and Disaster Relief Education Healthcare < Previous View Economic Empowerment Society Cisco in Action Click on the social initiatives The map provides examples of our below for more information > Overview Canada Russia social initiatives from around the world. United Education Kingdom Netherlands Hungary Kazakhstan Serbia Employee Volunteering Healthcare United States Turkey China Economic Empowerment Jordan Critical Human Needs and Disaster Relief Japan Caribbean Critical Human Needs and Mexico Education—North America Africa India Disaster Relief Central America Education—Latin America Employee Engagement Thailand Education—Eurasia and Africa Kenya Product Accessibility South America Brazil Singapore Healthcare Supplier Diversity Economic Empowerment Argentina Courtesy Grameen Foundation Courtesy Feeding America 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback E7 < Previous View Society Education In the run up to London 2012 we also sponsored two The growth of innovations like e-commerce and cloud national schools competitions with STEMNet—an education Overview computing have increased demand for people qualified initiative funded by the U.K. government—to encourage > Education young people across the U.K. to consider STEM subjects to design, build, manage, and secure computer networks. and take their first steps toward a career in technology. Healthcare Yet many people lack access to education that can Economic Empowerment prepare them for such employment. Finally we partnered with JANET (the U.K.’s National Research Network), Ravensbourne College in East London, Critical Human Needs and and the Royal Shakespeare Company to broadcast an Disaster Relief Cisco supports education to encourage long-term, interactive social media version of the play iCinna to all sustainable economic growth in developed and secondary schools in the U.K. to excite students on the Employee Engagement developing countries. Our focus is on creating scalable possibilities created by new applications of digital media. Product Accessibility Nearly 9000 students at 140 schools participated. and self-sustaining initiatives that use the power of Supplier Diversity human and technology networks to multiply our impact To encourage digital innovation, Cisco Chairman and CEO and transform the way education is delivered and to John Chambers and British Prime Minister David Cameron provide the skills that people need for ICT roles. This jointly launched the British Innovation Gateway Initiative (BIG), a five-year program that aims to bring together in turn supports our own business growth and enables Internet startups, businesses, investors, technologists, further expansion of technology and its benefits. By and innovation experts to support innovation and building stronger, better-educated communities, we can entrepreneurship in the U.K.’s high-tech industry. As increase the pool of trained professionals who will be Creating a London 2012 Games Legacy part of BIG, Cisco will work with partners to open two able to create, install, and use our products now and in innovation centers in the Olympic boroughs of East London. As official supporter and network infrastructure provider With Cisco’s support, these will link to other world-class the future. to the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games, Cisco innovation centers across the U.K. in a new National Virtual launched a five-year London 2012 legacy program focused Incubator, enabling entrepreneurs to network, exchange We work with education partners, including governments, on promoting science, technology, engineering, and math ideas, and access mentorship and funding. (STEM) skills and digital innovation to help grow the U.K.’s nonprofits, and NGOs, to support education initiatives hi-tech industry. The Olympic Park itself will form part of our wider plans that use our core networking technologies and expertise to transform the area and showcase how technology can to create replicable, scalable, and sustainable solutions. Focusing on education, Cisco announced plans to create improve local businesses and communities based on our additional Networking Academies across East London At the same time, we help nonprofits improve the to train thousands of students to enter the ICT industry. Smart + Connected Communities Initiative. efficiency and effectiveness of their operations so they We partnered with education NGO the Pearson Foundation We also launched the BIG Awards, an annual open can direct more resources to education delivery, allowing to launch the “Out of the Blocks” science and math innovation competition that will be held over the next five us to reach more people. education program, with content inspired by the Olympic years to identify and offer financial and mentor support and Paralympic games, in every secondary school in the for the next generation of the U.K.’s digital entrepreneurs U.K., reaching 17,000 teachers. and startups. Cisco Networking Academy Cisco Networking Academy is our largest and longestrunning education program, reaching millions of students from diverse backgrounds. It uses cloud computing technology (see Introduction, page A7) to deliver scalable, high-quality ICT education that supports long-term, sustainable growth by preparing students for entry-level ICT roles and provides skilled networking professionals to support local economies. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback E8 < Previous View The Networking Academy program is a powerful Society example of how we use public-private partnerships to “I think that the Networking Academy Overview foster human and technology networks that together > Education can have a much larger impact. We partner with can help with so many people, educational institutions, nonprofits, NGOs, governments, Healthcare and community centers that provide classroom space, but I missed information about how Economic Empowerment computer lab equipment, and qualified instructors. Cisco, you are including disadvantaged Critical Human Needs and in turn, provides free online, up-to-date ICT curricula and Disaster Relief professional development opportunities for teachers. people. I want Cisco to be more of Employee Engagement Product Accessibility In FY12, 1 million students were enrolled in Cisco a facilitator in its programs.” Networking Academy courses in 10,000 academies in Supplier Diversity Claudia Medronho Naumann 165 countries. Since the program began in 1997, 4.25 University of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil million students have participated, completing over ICT Education for U.S. Veterans 110 million online assessments. The Cisco Networking Cisco’s 2012 Global Stakeholder Engagement Sessions Military veterans possess many traits that are valuable Academy Facebook community had more than 380,000 in the workplace, including leadership and teamwork members at the end of FY12, a 56 percent increase from skills, a strong work ethic, and experience working FY11. This online community empowers students to help under pressure. However, veterans’ experiences often each other by enabling them to connect and collaborate Supporting other aspects of our social programs: can’t be easily matched to the job descriptions posted with their peers and brings value to Cisco by reducing by corporations. The Cisco Networking Academy underpins many of our operational costs associated with our help desk. initiatives to improve ICT education as part of our wider In FY12, we partnered with Futures Inc., a software commitment to economic development around the world. development company, to create a specialized job In addition to preparing students for internationally website for U.S. veterans that matches military job skill codes to corporate job openings, making it easier for recognized Cisco certifications, entry-level jobs, For example, the Cisco Health Information Networking veterans to find jobs that are well-suited to their skills. and continuing education, Networking Academy course is helping to prepare people for new jobs in courses encourage innovation, problem solving, and U.S. military personnel interested in an ICT career can health information technology. Delivered through Cisco take classes that prepare them for entry-level jobs, entrepreneurial skills through realistic simulations, Networking Academy, the program teaches students certifications, or further education at one of 21 Cisco hands-on learning, case studies, games, and global basic information about healthcare settings, security and Networking Academy programs located at major military competitions. Cisco Aspire, for example, is an privacy, electronic health records systems, and medical bases across the U.S. By the end of FY12, approximately educational game that provides realistic business and practice workflows, among others. In FY12, 159 students 33,000 U.S. military personnel had completed Cisco networking scenarios in an engaging virtual environment Networking Academy courses, giving them a greater at 21 academy locations in 12 states participated in the chance of finding job and career opportunities once where students make business and technical decisions Health Information Networking course. their military service is over. to complete projects for clients. The Passport21 to Since 2006, Cisco has partnered with the Habitat Cisco supports U.S. veterans through education and Entrepreneurship offering exposes students to scenarios employment opportunities and is a founding member that help them develop critical business and financial Centre for Development and Governance, the UN of the 100,000 Jobs Mission, a coalition of more than skills and gives them confidence and skill sets that are Development Program, Turkish Informatics Foundation, 80 corporations committed to collectively hiring useful to start their own business. and Istanbul Technical University to deliver SPARK, a 100,000 U.S. veterans by 2020. project to improve ICT expertise among disadvantaged 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback E9 < Previous View youth while encouraging volunteerism. Young people Global Education Engagements Society from across Turkey are selected to become trainers in We invest in nonprofit organizations and NGOs that “It would be good if you tied your Overview the program and develop computer networking skills promote science, technology, engineering, and math > Education within the Cisco Networking Academy framework. (STEM) education, particularly among underserved social impacts into your business These young instructors then provide networking skills populations. Through expertise, product grants, and cash Healthcare to disadvantaged and unemployed young people in their grants, we target technology-based solutions that help practices more and show how your Economic Empowerment cities. Since the program was launched, more than 2400 our partners deliver and administer education programs activities add value to communities.” Critical Human Needs and people have been trained by a team of 60 volunteer more effectively and efficiently by building capacity and Disaster Relief instructors, who in turn have advanced their own IT skills. encouraging collaboration. This frees up resources, James Taplin Employee Engagement More than 20 of these instructors have gone on to secure multiplying our impact by allowing our partners to reach Forum for the Future, U.K. Product Accessibility employment in the IT sector, with one starting his own more people in more communities. Cisco’s 2012 Global Stakeholder IT company. Engagement Sessions Supplier Diversity For example, GETideas.org is a public-service online In FY12, we launched a new initiative in the Asia Pacific community developed by Cisco to encourage peer-toregion in response to growing interest from students who peer dialogue between education thought leaders on wanted to use their skills to benefit their communities. the global challenges facing education. More than 2900 In July 2011, Cisco made a $250,000 grant to help MIND One hundred and fifty Networking Academy education leaders from 167 countries share ideas and Research Institute test and scale its Spatial Temporal students from 10 countries volunteered to become IT resources on ways to transform the delivery and quality (ST) Math Program across the United States. MIND Ambassadors and use their new ICT skills to improve of education through practical case studies, featured is a nonprofit organization that helps children with lives in rural, remote, and underserved communities. resources, virtual roundtables, and blogs. In FY12, limited language skills from underserved areas achieve 65,994 unique visitors used the site. academic success. Its ST Math program is a highly visual, With our continued commitment to expanding ICT game-based software program that helps students learn and networking opportunities to underserved people We also support local education initiatives such as Teach math despite language barriers and, in some cases, and communities in FY12, we launched new academies for All, launched in 2007 by Teach for America. Teach for learning disabilities. Cisco supported initial work to targeting students with disabilities in Hungary, Kenya, All is a network of independent social enterprises in 24 convert the program into an online format, increase the and Russia. countries that recruit high-performing young teachers number of grade levels supported by the software, and, to teach in underserved communities for two years. more recently, deploy it in five Silicon Valley schools, We are also working to increase the participation of Cisco has provided product support, including WebEx, to where it increased math proficiency scores by an average women in the ICT industry. Globally, in FY12, 20 percent facilitate collaboration between Teach for All employees 11.2 points compared to 4.2 points at nonparticipating of Networking Academy students and 17 percent of and member organizations. By May 2012, Teach for All schools. Cisco also supported scaling MIND’s ST Math instructors were female. The Middle East region has the had hosted more than 600 WebEx meetings connecting program to 14 schools in Phoenix and Yuma, Arizona. highest percentage of female students at 30 percent. more than 2400 people in 30 countries. These online For more information, visit the Cisco Networking meetings deepen engagement and save money by For more examples of our education programs around Academy website. reducing the need for travel. the world, see the map on page E6. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback E10 < Previous View Society Healthcare The initiative has had a significant impact on patient care. According to a study by Peking University in FY12: Cisco Connecting Sichuan Data by the ICT is transforming healthcare by helping to improve Healthcare Services and Facilities End of 2011 Overview • 80 percent of physicians and directors at township efficiency and reduce costs for healthcare providers Education health centers reported that the greatest impact was and by increasing access to healthcare for people in Healthcare facilities equipped with ICT 66 > Healthcare improved quality of care for patients technologies remote and rural areas. Networking technology such as Economic Empowerment Cisco HealthPresence connects patients and doctors • 100 percent of physicians agreed that their medical Operations centers 2 regardless of distance, providing a way for localized expertise had improved through training delivered Critical Human Needs and Disaster Relief healthcare services to multiply their impact by reaching through collaborative technology Regional healthcare data centers 6 Employee Engagement more people and enabling them to increase the • 95 percent of physicians agreed that cloud-based delivery of quality healthcare services in developed and regional healthcare delivery had made their healthcare Medical insurance records supported 60 million Product Accessibility by data centers developing countries alike. practice more efficient, giving them more time to Supplier Diversity spend with patients Health records supported by data 400,000 Cisco HealthPresence1 provides “care-at-a-distance,” • 93 percent of patients were satisfied with the services centers allowing patients to interact remotely with doctors in they received from the mobile units, which include a clinical setting. Nurses working with the patients Practitioners using healthcare facilities 7000 physical checkups and telehealth services use hand-held cameras and stethoscopes to provide equipped with Cisco technologies information to physicians and specialists at the hospital, Lessons from the Connecting Sichuan initiative are Inpatients supported 15,000 while high-definition video and audio provides a highbeing used to guide our Jordan Healthcare Initiative per month quality face-to-face experience between the patient (see case study). and the healthcare provider. Outpatients supported 280,000 per month Assessing the Impact of Cisco Connected Healthcare Technology Awards and Recognition Cisco’s Connecting Sichuan three-year initiative aimed In FY12, Cisco received the Best Corporate Citizenship to rebuild and revitalize healthcare delivery following the Award from the 21st-Century Business Herald and 2008 earthquake in the Sichuan region of China. The 21st-Century Business Review for the Connecting Sichuan initiative. GBC Health, a coalition of more than initiative provided a framework for the use of cloud-based 200 companies, awarded Cisco the Application of Core networking technology to open up new opportunities for Competence Award at its Business Action on Health healthcare professionals to collaborate and share patient Awards conference. information regardless of location. 1. Cisco networking and collaboration products are not intended for use in emergency situations or for real-time patient monitoring. Cisco technology enables enhanced communications to occur across geographies; availability varies based upon regulatory status country by country. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback E11 < Previous View Cisco HealthPath Program Society The HealthPath program delivers online education and Overview training on electronic health records (EHR) for doctors and nurses who practice at small and mid-sized clinics Education in the United States. Courses help physicians and nurses > Healthcare understand and learn how to structure EHR systems to Economic Empowerment achieve meaningful use in accordance with guidelines Critical Human Needs and outlined in 2009 U.S. law. Disaster Relief Employee Engagement A number of healthcare organizations have partnered with Cisco to support online access to HealthPath Connected Healthcare at Lucile Packard his patients. In 2012, Packard Children’s partnered with Product Accessibility courses, including the Oregon Health Information Cisco to provide remote pediatric care with the help of Supplier Diversity Children’s Hospital at Stanford Technology Center, the Oregon Community Health Cisco HealthPresence1 technology. The solution connects Information Network, and the California Health Information More than 15 million U.S. children live in areas where there Packard Children’s to the Pediatric Group of Monterey, are fewer than 22 pediatricians and family physicians saving Dr. Kennedy valuable hours. He now is able to spend Partnership and Services Organization, as well as for every 100,000 kids. In Northern California, families more time with patients, and families no longer have to AmericanEHR Partners, which was developed by Cientis sometimes wait as long as nine months to see a pediatric miss significant time from work and school to receive Technologies and the American College of Physicians. specialist. Children and families who live in communities care for their children. without specialists often must travel long distances to get Packard Children’s is the first facility to use Cisco By the end of FY12, 830 clinicians from almost every the care they need. In developing countries, access to HealthPresence in a dedicated way for specialized pediatric care is even more difficult. U.S. state had registered on the Cisco HealthPath children’s care. It provides a model that has the website, including physicians, nurses, and administrators. Dr. William Kennedy, a pediatric urologist at Lucile potential to benefit children’s health in a wide range Packard Children’s Hospital at Stanford University in Palo of communities. Alto, California, routinely drove four-hour round-trips for remote patient visits and wanted a better way to serve 1. Cisco HealthPresence is not intended for use in emergency situations or for real-time patient monitoring. in Jordan. It launched in FY11, when a rural health clinic and specialists in nephrology (32 percent), cardiology began using Cisco HealthPresence1 technology to connect (28 percent), and dermatology (40 percent). At least patients and physicians at the Al-Mafraq Governmental 14 percent of the consultations were for children. Hospital in northeastern Jordan with specialists at Prince In FY12, we also completed the design and planning phase Hamzah Hospital in Amman. By the end of FY12, we were for a clinician-to-clinician collaboration project that will in the final phase of expanding the initiative to provide the connect two Royal Medical Services hospitals (a senior same services for patients at the Queen Rania Governmental specialist site in Amman and a junior doctor site in the Hospital in southern Jordan. rural south) and allow radiologists to project stored images As a result of this initiative, rural patients now have access and share patient data. We also are equipping a mobile to specialists through collaborative technology. Specialists mammography screening clinic with Cisco networking who would not have otherwise had ready access to remote and collaboration technology to enable the Jordan Breast patients have expanded their reach to deliver improved Cancer Program and the King Hussein Cancer Centre to Jordan Healthcare Initiative diagnosis and treatment plans. Physicians can spend more collaborate across the region. time with patients and can reach more people without the The Jordan Healthcare Initiative is a strategic collaboration need to travel, saving travel time and expenses. Between 1. Cisco HealthPresence is not intended for use in emergency situations between Cisco and the Jordanian government to improve or for real-time patient monitoring. Cisco HealthPresence enables June 2011 and July 2012, 286 remote consultations took consultations to occur across geographies; availability varies based upon the efficiency of and access to quality healthcare services place between patients at Al-Mafraq Governmental Hospital regulatory status country by country. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback E12 < Previous View Society Economic Empowerment is used by approximately 150 microfinance institutions and poverty-alleviation organizations in 45 countries to ICT supports economic empowerment in underserved measure their effectiveness and to tailor their products Overview communities by connecting people with workforce and services to meet their clients’ needs. The Grameen Education training, employment, and economic opportunities. Our Foundation aims to have 200 organizations serving 20 Healthcare strategy is to support organizations and initiatives that million clients using the tool by the end of 2012. > Economic Empowerment use peopleand technology-based networks to multiply Critical Human Needs and their contribution to the economic growth of communities The PPI also encourages greater transparency and Disaster Relief and countries, empower individuals by improving their accountability in the sector as a whole by helping donors Employee Engagement access to knowledge and skills, and facilitate financial and investors to understand how well poverty-alleviation inclusion. This includes technical, finance, and leadership organizations are performing in relation to their goals. Product Accessibility skills, along with links to employment opportunities, social Supplier Diversity and career networking, mentoring, and financing. Supporting Entrepreneurship Globally, Cisco supports a variety of initiatives aimed Giving more people access to the network and the at supporting entrepreneurship for micro, small-, and opportunities it provides helps to foster innovation medium-sized enterprises. The goal of these initiatives Networking Academy Student, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and encourage investment that can ultimately help is to help individual entrepreneurs become economically communities and individuals become economically self-sufficient and contribute to the economic growth of mobile technology platform, allowing the organization to self-sufficient. At the same time, we are building trusting their communities and countries. respond more quickly to the needs of local populations relationships with governments, nonprofits, and NGOs, and increase the scale, efficiency, and effectiveness of and creating new markets for our products and services. In FY12, Cisco made a cash grant to support the its network of agents. These partnerships enable us to multiply our impact, Grameen Foundation’s Social Enterprise Accelerator for reaching more individuals and communities. Mobile Microfranchising Initiative. The initiative provides Community Knowledge Centers mobile technology, capital, training, and support to Cisco has partnered with governments, Appleseeds Supporting Financial Inclusion help people start their own mobile microfranchising Academy, Inveneo, One Global Economy, and other More than 2 billion people around the world live on businesses. Launched as a pilot in late 2009, the nonprofits and NGOs to set up a network of Community less than $2 a day. The vast majority have no access program has had a significant impact on the work of Knowledge Centers across sub-Saharan Africa that to affordable, safe, and reliable financial products and social enterprises like PT Ruma in Indonesia, which has are owned and operated by local organizations such services, making it extremely difficult to save for the recruited 12,500 women entrepreneurs serving more as schools, health clinics, and community centers. future, provide for their families, or take advantage of than 1.3 million customers. Cisco’s support will help the They offer courses on ICT, entrepreneurship, and opportunities to improve their income. Grameen Foundation scale the initiative to new industry language skills, along with tailored services ranging from sectors and communities around the world, introduce telecommunications to office support. Community-based Cisco supports ICT-based solutions to help microfinance new features such as a mobile marketplace, and adapt “Beehive” websites available via the centers provide institutions and other poverty-focused organizations the solution to a cloud-based environment. locally relevant information on health, education, jobs, expand the scale, efficiency, and social impact of their and business, as well as offer access to microloans and work in underserved communities, as well as improve Also in FY12, Cisco made an initial investment in Living knowledge to improve agricultural productivity. their effectiveness by accurately measuring their impact. Goods, which operates a network of micro-entrepreneurs who sell affordable health-related products designed The project had a positive impact on local communities, Funding from the Cisco Foundation supports the to improve the health, wellbeing, and productivity of the with over 190,000 individuals using the services of 95 Grameen Foundation’s Progress Out of Poverty Index world’s poor, including clean cook stoves, mosquito nets, Community Knowledge Centers in Kenya, Rwanda, (PPI), which aims to improve the design, implementation, medicines, soap, and fortified foods. Cisco’s support Ethiopia, and South Africa by the end of FY12. and impact of programs that alleviate poverty. The PPI will enable Living Goods to develop and implement a 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback E13 < Previous View Society Measuring the Impact of Our Support for Overview Entrepreneurs in the Palestinian ICT Sector Education Political and economic challenges in the Palestinian Territories have made it difficult for the local ICT sector Healthcare to attract investors and access global opportunities. > Economic Empowerment Cisco invested $15 million from 2008 to 2011 to help stimulate long-term, sustainable growth in the Palestinian Critical Human Needs and ICT industry by promoting education, workforce Disaster Relief development, and investment through a partnership Employee Engagement with public and private organizations. Product Accessibility Beginning as a small outsourcing project between Cisco Israel and three Palestinian ICT firms to demonstrate that Supplier Diversity they have the capability to provide low-cost and highquality outsourcing support, the initiative has become self-sustaining. Most of the participating companies have seen their businesses grow and have created new business contracts with customers in the Middle East, North Africa, North America, and Western Europe. In FY12, a report by consultants Mission Measurement on the impact of Cisco’s Palestinian Investment Commitment found that: • The ICT sector in the Palestinian Territories grew from 0.8 percent of Palestine’s GDP in 2008 to 6.4 percent of • $6 million committed to the Abraaj Palestine Growth • $250,000 to support start-ups through the Olive Tree GDP in 2011 Capital Fund to support investments in ICT businesses Seed Fund • Palestinian ICT firms reported a 64 percent increase in • $5 million committed to the Middle East Venture Capital • $200,000 for monitoring and evaluation international client work from 2009 to 2012 and a 100 Fund, sponsored by Sadara Ventures, which is the first We also provided products and a cash donation of $200,000 percent increase in the number of signed contracts with venture capital fund focusing on the Palestinian Territories to connect schools and youth clubs to the Internet and to new international clients • $1 million for outsourced research and development work support up-and-coming local Internet service providers. • Firms reported a 19 percent improvement in access to provided by three Palestinian companies: Exalt, Asal Our partner Inveneo is working with local providers to design finance and international markets since 2009 Technologies, and Global Software Services, Inc. and implement low-cost Wi-Fi networks. The survey by Mission Measurement also found that 45 • $750,000 to support Tamkeen.net, a 12-month program Cisco is also leading Ma’antech, a coalition of 30 ICT percent of outsourcing buyers in the United States, Europe, providing business, marketing, human resources, and companies helping newly qualified Israeli-Arab engineers and the Middle East are aware of the ICT outsourcing leadership workshops to help nine Palestinian software find roles in the Israeli ICT sector. Arab citizens constitute capabilities in the Palestinian Territories. companies compete internationally 20 percent of the population in Israel, but make up less than 0.4 percent of the high-tech industry workforce. By the In FY12, we continued to support the Palestinian ICT sector • $250,000 to the Bedaya (Beginnings) Seed Fund that aims end of FY12, more than 380 people had been recruited by by investing venture capital and seed funding in promising to connect Palestinian entrepreneurs to a global network Ma’antech partners, exceeding our first year goal of 100. ICT opportunities. The Palestinian Investment Commitment of investors, partners, and customers and to provide The coalition’s goal for FY13 is to recruit 300 more people. included: mentoring support for 12 Palestinian start-ups 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback E14 < Previous View Society As part of our commitment to creating sustainable Critical Human Needs and Disaster Relief and replicable solutions, we have begun to transfer ownership of the program to local nonprofits, NGOs, We use our networking skills, expertise, and technology Overview and government organizations. to support nonprofit organizations that help to provide Education critical human needs including food, potable water, Healthcare We support the Community Connectors program, shelter, and disaster response. Economic Empowerment operated by One Global Economy and Appleseeds > Critical Human Needs and Academy, which trains people aged 15 to 21 in Our strategy is to support programs and solutions that Disaster Relief technology, leadership, marketing, and digital media to use the power of technology to help nonprofits and help their communities become more technologically NGOs multiply their impact by providing services more Employee Engagement literate. The skills they gain can also help them get jobs effectively and efficiently and freeing up resources Product Accessibility and pursue further education. One Global Economy to help more people in more regions. We also Supplier Diversity provide short-term cash and product grants to assist estimates that 500 Community Connectors will be trained in Kenya and South Africa by the middle of 2013. organizations in providing immediate relief following Courtesy of Feeding America natural disasters and supporting long-term recovery Supporting Jordan’s ICT Industry and rebuilding efforts. Feeding America In late FY11, Cisco announced a $10 million commitment Since 2009 Cisco has contributed $1.675 million in to making venture capital investment to support job Nonprofit and NGO Partnerships cash, products, and employee time to support Feeding creation and economic development in the Jordanian We partner with organizations that can demonstrate America, which delivers food to approximately 37 a proven commitment to using technology to scale million Americans through a network of 202 member ICT sector. food banks. The economic downturn has increased the their programs and services and multiply their impact number of people relying on food assistance, putting By the end of 2011, Jordan’s ICT industry contributed throughout the world. These include leading humanitarian the organization under increasing pressure. over 14 percent of the country’s GDP and provided relief agencies such as NetHope, CARE, Feeding Cisco-supported technology projects, such as the a significant export opportunity to boost economic America, the American Red Cross, and Red Cross Athena Technology Program, have helped to streamline growth. We expect that our investments will support affiliates throughout the world, as well as local Feeding America operations and save money across its small businesses that provide innovative products and nonprofit organizations. entire network by reducing transportation, purchasing, services. The first phase of investments is due to be marketing, and IT costs. The Transportation Optimization Water is a priority area for Cisco, and we have supported Project, funded in part by Cisco, is expected to reduce announced in FY13. transportation costs across the entire Feeding America Water.org, the Blue Planet Network, and Water For network and free staff to spend their time identifying We are also working with local ICT companies to People with technology-based solutions that improve cost-cutting measures instead of managing deliveries. realize the significant opportunities arising from our their operational effectiveness. For example, we helped Estimates suggest this could save as much as $1.5 million Jordan Healthcare Initiative (see page E11). In October the Blue Planet Network create AnalytiX, an online over five years, enough to provide 12 million meals. 2011, Cisco partnered with Jordan’s Information and database that members can use to monitor, evaluate, and Thousands of Cisco employees are also part of the Communications Technology Association (int@j) and report on project outcomes. A Cisco grant supported Feeding America network, volunteering at and donating the King Abdullah II Fund for Development to launch work to improve the database and provide field training to to member food banks nationwide. Many Feeding promote its use. AnalytiX is used by Blue Planet Network America network food banks were among the 139 Jordan’s first Healthcare ICT Task Force. The task force food and water agencies worldwide to benefit from is an open forum of Jordanian healthcare ICT companies partners in India, Vietnam, Uganda, Nicaragua, Egypt, Cisco’s 2011 Global Hunger Relief Campaign, which working to advance the country’s healthcare ICT capacity and Guatemala to upload information on more than 250 raised $4.1 million through employee contributions and promote the industry on a local, regional, and projects totaling over $3 million. and matching funds. international scale. Our goal is to help guide and support Click here to view our Feeding America video. task force programs. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback E15 < Previous View We also helped to fund the development of a Field Level Society Operations Watch (FLOW) mobile application for Water Overview for People to improve data collection and analysis during field-based research. In FY12, we worked with Water Education for People to identify Akvo, an international NGO that Healthcare uses information technology to promote international Economic Empowerment development, to scale the platform as an open source > Critical Human Needs and tool, expand its features, and make it more user friendly Disaster Relief for the 500 organizations that have expressed interest in Employee Engagement implementing the application. We have also added water Product Accessibility programs to our annual employee fundraiser, the Global Hunger Relief Campaign. Supplier Diversity Responding to Emergencies Cisco provides short-term emergency relief to support the work of nonprofits and NGOs responding to natural disasters and related humanitarian crises. This includes Supporting Sustainable and Resilient Cities Institute (PSI) to address complex issues of resource scarcity and land change. PSI and Brazil’s Ministry of employee networking and technology expertise, cash and More than half the global population lives in cities, which Science, Technology & Innovation are undertaking a product grants, employee donations, and matching gifts represent up to 80 percent of global economic power and multiyear program to track the development of Brazil’s from the Cisco Foundation. We encourage employees to growth. Cities are highly complex systems, vulnerable to National Early Warning System for Natural Disasters before problems associated with land and housing, disaster and make a difference not only through corporate giving but scaling this capability through other areas of Latin America. recovery, crime, pollution, and traffic. The exchange of also by using their skills for hands-on impact. knowledge and close collaboration between the public and In San Francisco and Amsterdam, Cisco’s Urban EcoMap the private sector is crucial to building communities that are enables citizens and businesses to compare their individual Cisco’s Tactical Operations team can mobilize resilient to these challenges. climate-relevant behaviors, creating a direct link between and respond to natural disasters when normal personal action and the overall resilience of the city. Cisco has been an active leader of innovative publicIt helps people understand the impact of their transport, communications infrastructures have been degraded private partnerships to build urban resilience. For instance, energy use, and waste, and to set goals to live more or destroyed. The team responded to the Waldo in Brazil, NASA and Cisco established the Planetary Skin sustainably. Canyon Fire in Colorado in FY12 and to the Japanese earthquake and tsunami and Queensland, Australia, flooding in FY11. Trained to work in challenging environments, the team responds with Cisco Network Emergency Response Vehicles and other satellitebased communications equipment during the acute phase of an emergency. A key part of this capability is the Cisco Disaster Incident Response Team of Cisco volunteers, who are specially trained to provide quick response and incident support during crisis situations. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback E16 < Previous View Society Employee Engagement Skills-based volunteering supports our employees’ Competition among functions and regions is encouraged, leadership development. Each Civic Council is led by with the winning function and region each receiving We encourage employees to engage with their local an executive as well as a chair and co-chair, positions $25,000 grants for the organization of their choice. Overview communities and support projects they are passionate that present opportunities to develop skills required for Education about and that align with Cisco’s CSR focus areas. Cisco’s performance framework, C-LEAD (Collaboration, We continue to measure and refine our volunteer Healthcare Volunteering on projects that use their networking program by responding to feedback from employees, Leadership, Execution, Acceleration, and Disruption). Economic Empowerment skills and enthusiasm helps employees build strong We encourage employees to include volunteering partners, and nonprofits and NGOs. Community Critical Human Needs and relationships with our communities and partners and objectives in their personal development plans, and Connection, our global matching gifts and volunteering Disaster Relief strengthens our reputation as an active corporate citizen. we encourage managers to organize service projects IT solution, helps employees find organizations to > Employee Engagement Partner organizations benefit from our employees’ as part of team-building events. support, report volunteer hours, make donations, and expertise to improve the way they operate and free request matching funds. Product Accessibility up resources. In FY12, employees volunteered 107,150 hours, Supplier Diversity We use Community Connection to track service hours compared with 166,445 in FY11. Cisco experienced Our Community Relations team works with Cisco Civic a very high rate of volunteerism in FY11 due in part to and monitor volunteering trends to align our community Councils (groups of employee leaders who champion a volunteer challenge in celebration of the company’s service program with employee interests. This online tool social investment in their local communities) to identify 25th anniversary. has helped to more than double reported volunteer hours volunteer opportunities, manage community product and and increase employee donations by 77 percent since its cash grants, and maintain partnerships with nonprofit and Increasing Participation launch in FY10. nongovernmental organizations. The Cisco Foundation In FY12, we launched Cisco Volunteer X, a yearlong matches employee contributions of up to $1000 per program that aims to encourage Cisco’s leaders to Annual Employee Volunteer Fairs at our San Jose, year per employee and volunteering at $10 per hour up support their communities and inspire volunteering California; Research Triangle Park, North Carolina; and to $1000 per year per employee (and up to $10,000 for among employees companywide. Launched at our Lawrenceville, Georgia campuses allow Cisco employees employee volunteer teams) for more than 2600 approved annual senior leader meeting in May 2012, more than to meet local nonprofits to learn more about service organizations in over 40 countries. 1000 people volunteered over 2700 hours to support opportunities. Volunteer and Civic Council of the Year 36 different projects at 20 locations worldwide. We aim Awards recognize exceptional contributions in each Cisco to reach 150,000 companywide volunteer hours and operating region. Winners receive a $5000 grant for the raise at least $1 million in matching funds by May 2013. organization of their choice. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback E17 < Previous View Society Product Accessibility The Cisco Accessibility Initiative is our program to hearing. Developments include a video interpreting conform Cisco products, websites, and documentation service allowing deaf and hard-of-hearing people to We want as many people as possible to benefit from with accessibility regulations. Accessibility plays an communicate using Cisco IP Phones fitted with video Overview the social and economic opportunities that our products important role at every stage of the product lifecycle, capabilities. Another solution is Purple Communication’s Education and services provide. Therefore, making our products from design to shipping and end use. This also applies ClearCaptions technology that displays captioned text on Healthcare accessible to people with disabilities is important to to existing products. As a result, we conduct regular Cisco IP Phones. Economic Empowerment us, and we are committed to designing and delivering product refreshes and training with product managers to Critical Human Needs and products and technologies to meet the needs of every emphasize the importance of accessibility. In FY12, Cisco joined the National Technical Institute Disaster Relief user. Designing accessible products helps us comply for the Deaf’s DeafTEC initiative to provide training to Employee Engagement with legislation and meet the accessibility requirements Furthermore, we work closely with partners, suppliers, educators and employers on how to teach and employ of many of our customers, including federal and state and customers to improve communications for people deaf and hard-of-hearing people in science, technology, > Product Accessibility governments. with disabilities through the use of our products. For engineering, and math (STEM) fields. It is one of a Supplier Diversity example, since 2010 we have partnered with Purple number of initiatives between the Institute and Cisco that Communications to provide specialized communications aim to increase the accessibility of Cisco technology for solutions for individuals who are deaf or hard of the deaf and hard of hearing (see below). Helping to Educate the Hard of Hearing ways to allow Cisco TelePresence to respond to visual communications such as American Sign Language. The National Technical Institute for the Deaf (NTID) is one of the nine colleges of the Rochester Institute of Technology Other research is exploring how smartphones and Internet (RIT). Approximately 800 deaf or hard-of-hearing students technology can be adapted to allow a person who is deaf are enrolled with the Institute, with 500 more receiving to make a 911 emergency call. Another team is designing support at other RIT colleges. Instructors use a variety a signing avatar system that can be used in educational of communication methods while teaching, including sign settings or workplaces to provide a bridge between visual language, finger spelling, printed and visual aids, and and spoken languages. real-time captioning services. Recently, two NTID students who were participating in Cisco has supported the Institute since FY10, when we a placement program with Cisco completed projects funded the installation of Cisco TelePresence technology demonstrating how to integrate text and captioning that enables staff and students to meet and collaborate with solutions into products such as Cisco Unified IP Phones other deaf community members. and Cisco TelePresence. They also scoped ways to caption Cisco TelePresence video conferences to allow persons We collaborate with the Institute to explore new and with hearing disabilities, or those operating in a second imaginative ways to incorporate features for deaf and hardlanguage, to read conversations in real time during a of-hearing users into existing Cisco technology and future video conference. products. A team of specialists, for example, is researching 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback E18 < Previous View Society Supplier Diversity Building Capability We provide additional support for diverse suppliers We established the Cisco Global Supplier Diversity through initiatives such as the Cisco Networking Supplier diversity brings competitive advantage by Business Development (GSDBD) program more than 14 Academy program. As well as providing ICT and Overview encouraging innovation and helping us develop years ago to increase diversity in our supply chain. The networking training to build suppliers’ capabilities, we Education products that meet our customers’ varied needs program identifies potential suppliers and connects them help suppliers secure new talent through job placements, Healthcare (see Supply Chain, page C10). It also supports our with Cisco functions that can use their products and mentoring, and work experience for Networking Academy Economic Empowerment social investment strategy by contributing to economic services. We organize a range of initiatives to increase students. Cisco employee resource groups such as Critical Human Needs and development in underserved communities by partnering the use of diverse suppliers in our supply chain and help Veterans Enablement and Troop Support, the Cisco Disaster Relief with minority-, women-, disabled and veteran-owned them secure new business: Black Employee Network, and the Cisco Disabilities Employee Engagement businesses as well as companies in historically Awareness Network help us create a network of diverse • Basic skills building: Since 2002, Cisco has underutilized business zones (HUBZones). suppliers and partners by working closely with external Product Accessibility sponsored 69 people from 45 diverse businesses in the Management Development for Entrepreneurs diversity organizations. > Supplier Diversity Procuring goods and services from diverse suppliers Academy. Established in 1990, the academy is a fouris a regulatory requirement in several of our markets, Australia: We are a member of the Australian Indigenous day skills development program at the University of including Australia, South Africa, and the United States: Minority Supply Council (AIMSC), which aims to support California–Los Angeles in which participants work with • In Australia, we prepare a Reconciliation Action Plan the growth and development of indigenous-owned students to develop a strategic business improvement that is designed to promote business opportunities for suppliers. The Council helps member companies meet project for their business. In FY12, only one diverse Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australians. their Reconciliation Action Plan procurement goals and business qualified for our scholarship. However, we provides a forum for companies and indigenous-owned • In South Africa, we submit information on black-owned hope that more diverse businesses will be able to suppliers to meet and network. Although we are not a suppliers in line with the government’s Broad-Based participate in this program in FY13. major purchaser in Australia, we attend supplier meetings Black Economic Empowerment initiative. • Executive Mentor Protégé Program: In FY12, seven organized by the Council, and Cisco representatives have • In the United States, our customers expect us to CEOs from diverse suppliers received mentoring spoken at the Council’s annual conference. We promote support diverse suppliers to help them meet regulatory from Cisco executives. Twenty-two companies the Council and indigenous-owned ICT partners to our obligations such as those imposed by the California have participated in the program since 2009. customers where practical. Public Utilities Commission. This requires Cisco Many of the participants credit the program with customers, including utility companies, to develop and helping them secure significant new business. For In FY12, we contributed to the development of the implement programs to increase the use of womenexample, minority-owned businesses Telamon Council’s First Steps training program, which supports owned and minority-owned businesses. Supporting Corporation and Genesis Network Telecom Services companies looking to increase their procurement from supplier diversity is also a requirement for suppliers to secured multimillion-dollar contracts with a leading indigenous-owned suppliers. We also invited indigenousstate and federal agencies. U.S. telecommunications provider following their owned ICT companies to visit Cisco to learn more about participation in the program, with mentoring support our technology and see if they would like to apply to In FY12, we responded to information requests from Cisco. become a Cisco preferred supplier. By the end of FY12, on our diverse supplier expenditure from more than we were working with two AIMSC-registered suppliers to 70 customers. In FY12 we helped develop a new national mentoring provide mentoring support. program to support diverse Cisco partners in HUBZones throughout the United States. Due to be launched in FY13, the program will act as a blueprint to support initiatives in Cisco markets internationally. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback E19 < Previous View South Africa: In South Africa, we are one of 20 members We also participated in a global business mission in Cisco is also a corporate member of WeConnect Society of the South Africa Supplier Diversity Council, which aims which U.S.-based partners and suppliers joined Cisco on International, WeConnect Canada, and the Women’s Overview to promote the development of black-owned companies. a business trip to South Africa to meet with government Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC) as The Council supports member companies in their diverse officials, local businesses, and potential partners. we seek to increase our procurement from womenEducation supplier procurement goals by providing a forum to share owned businesses. WEConnect International and its Healthcare Qivliq, a subsidiary of Alaska’s native-owned NANA best practices and meet black-owned suppliers. We global affiliates promote women-owned businesses by Economic Empowerment participate on its Management Advisory Council, and we Development Corporation and a recent graduate of connecting them with multinational companies committed Critical Human Needs and helped develop a database of certified suppliers for use Cisco’s Executive Mentor Protégé Program, attended two to increasing supplier diversity. Cisco supports events, Disaster Relief by member companies. business missions to Australia through our partnership including trade shows and conferences. Employee Engagement with the NMSDC’s Global-Link program in FY11. Qivliq’s Networking participation in our mentor program and related business Product Accessibility Cisco Partner Operations Diversity Forums provide an missions led to the opening of a new location in Perth, External Recognition for Cisco’s > Supplier Diversity opportunity for suppliers to meet with Cisco executives Australia, in FY12. Supplier Diversity Program and other Fortune 500 company representatives to The NMSDC’s Global-Link program aims to create In FY12, Cisco ranked 12th among the top 50 U.S. discuss potential business opportunities. In FY12 we companies providing multicultural business opportunities. sponsored two forums in partnership with the National and tap into a worldwide network of suppliers from It is the fourth year Cisco has been included in the Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC) and traditionally excluded groups. Global-Link marks ranking by DiversityBusiness.com, which is based on the U.S. Department of Commerce Minority Business a significant effort by NMSDC to develop nonfeedback received from more than 650,000 womenDevelopment Agency. governmental organizations in several countries that and minority-owned businesses. can provide linkages between historically excluded See more CSR awards and recognition on our website. businesses and corporate buyers. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F1 < Previous View Environment Overview  Cisco Environmental Sustainability Materials Energy and GHG Emissions Water Use Biodiversity and Land Use Non-GHG Emissions Effluents (Liquid) Waste Watch the Video! Environment We believe information and communications technology (ICT) can both improve living standards and reduce resource waste including energy. We continue to develop our understanding of the impact on the environment from our operations, our supply chain, and our products so that we can not only reduce negative externalities but create opportunities for greater efficiencies. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F2 < Previous View Innovation is at the core of Cisco’s environmental Environment Overview sustainability initiatives. With advanced products and > Overview solutions and updated business processes, we are This section gives readers an overview of Cisco’s multiplying the impact of the network to create sustainable  Cisco Environmental environmental performance, progress, key You: Cisco employees have been rapidly adopting Sustainability business models and increased economic opportunity. challenges, and objectives for FY13. We have used teleworking and remote collaboration technology to Materials reduce the frequency with which they travel and the this overview as part of our Executive Summary, Cisco is changing the way we work, live, play, and learn resulting carbon emissions. Customers, nonprofits, Energy and GHG Emissions which can be downloaded here. through innovative network technologies that create new and public sector leaders are also increasingly utilizing Water Use business and social value. One example is our remote the technology to deliver environmental and work-life balance benefits. Biodiversity and Land Use collaboration solutions. “Dematerialization,” or replacing Energy and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are the the physical with the virtual, reduces business travel Networks: Cisco’s remote working technology—including Non-GHG Emissions most important and complex issues for Cisco. The and employee commuting, which decreases costs for Virtual Office, OfficeExtend, Cisco TelePresence, and Effluents (Liquid) issue of energy consumption includes not only our own Cisco WebEx—enables desktop sharing as well as our customers, Cisco, and all of our employees. Remote voice and high-definition video sharing among multiple Waste operations but also the extended operations of our supply collaboration also increases productivity, improves locations. chain partners that we use for manufacturing, component employee work-life balance and job satisfaction, and Cisco has installed about 1400 room-based supply, and logistics. Product life cycle analyses indicate reduces GHG emissions. TelePresence units in Cisco offices in about 250 cities in that the use phase can make up about 90 percent of the 70 countries. We’ve also installed thousands of desktop carbon footprint of typical network products. In addition, At Cisco, the interplay between innovative business video endpoints and thousands of video-enabled IP we believe that through management and reduction practices and sustainability is being embedded in every phones, and we used more than 20 million hours of of our operational footprint as well as innovation in our business function. Just as we learned in the 1970s Cisco WebEx desktop conferencing in 2012 alone. products and services that promote energy efficiency and 1980s that quality must be managed as a core Over 22,000 Cisco employees telework using Cisco and waste reduction, we can help reduce GHG emissions business function, so it is with sustainability. Like the Virtual Office, which extends Cisco’s own network in other industry sectors. According to a Gartner study commitment to quality, sustainability must become part into employee homes, permitting secure access to voice, video and data; improved business resiliency; and as reported in the SMART 2020 report, ICT energy of every business practice and decision. Just as industry and reduced GHG emissions and employee costs from consumption is estimated to produce about 2%. However, discovered that improved quality ultimately benefits the commuting. through the use of ICT, GHG emissions can be reduced bottom line, Cisco believes that improved sustainability Impact x: Using Cisco’s suite of collaborative in other industry sectors, such as transportation and creates net benefits to our business, our customers, technologies, Cisco has averaged savings of over $100 buildings, or what’s been called “The 98%” (see and the planet. Our relationship with our customers million each year through reduced business travel while page F32). is now based on cost, quality, delivery, service, and improving employee productivity, speeding decision sustainability. making, and increasing employee satisfaction and retention through improved work-life balance. In addition, Cisco met its goal to reduce all Scope 1, 2, and business-air-travel-related Scope 3 GHG emissions worldwide by 25 percent absolute by 2012 (from a 2007 baseline). This 25 percent absolute reduction was accomplished even with a revenue increase of more than 30 percent over the same period, demonstrating the ability to decouple economic growth from GHG emissions. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F3 < Previous View Environment Performance Summary > Overview Key Performance Indicator FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12  Cisco Environmental Sustainability 429,411 330,989 272,880 376,141 416,927 251,672 Total contractual GHG emissions: Scope 1 and 2, metric tonne CO2e Materials Progress against reduction goal. Goal: reduce all Scope 1, 2, [and business-air-travel-related base year -23% -36% -12% -3% -41% Energy and GHG Emissions Scope 3] GHG emissions worldwide by 25 percent absolute by CY12 (CY07 baseline) Water Use Total air-travel GHG emissions: Scope 3, metric tonne CO2e 205,796 197,867 118,602 106,783 127,293 139,431 Biodiversity and Land Use Non-GHG Emissions Progress against reduction goal. Goal: reduce all [Scope 1, 2, and] business-air-travel Scope base year -4% -42% -48% -38% -32% 3 GHG emissions worldwide by 25 percent absolute by CY12 (CY07 baseline) Effluents (Liquid) Waste Product trade-in and return: Product return, metric tonne * 10,030 10,730 8,580 11,595 13,324 Product trade-in and return: Material to landfill** * 0.46% 0.44% 0.33% 0.89% 0.43% *Before FY08, Cisco reported weight of material sent to recyclers. Starting in FY08; we report weight of material received from end users, which is a more relevant metric for stakeholders. **Landfilled material consists only of nonrecyclable materials such as broken pallets, wet cardboard, and shrink wrap. Progress Toward Objectives Objective Progress in FY12 Status Scale environmental sustainability reporting by our We continue to make significant advancements in our supply chain engagement and reporting (see the Supply Chain business partners (supply chain) section of this report).100 percent of our contract manufacturers, 93 percent of global transport providers, and 80 percent of our component suppliers responded to Carbon Disclosure Project’s 2012 survey. Include partner CDP reporting status in our preferred We deployed sustainability criteria in business scorecards for all contract manufacturers, preferred component suppliers, vendor scorecards and logistics partners. Move all GHG emissions, air travel, and sustainability We are taking a phased approach to SIS rollout and have incorporated all Scope 1 and 2 source data into the SIS; along data to a new, enterprise-wide sustainability with tracking all energy and stainability related projects in Cisco’s facilities, we anticipate adding Scope 3 air-travel data in information system (SIS) the next phase of implementation. The role of the SIS has also been expanded to include financial management of energy budgets and monitoring of sub-metered energy data, which helps us identify and create solutions to reduce GHG and cost. Continue investment in the development of the Scope As a founding member of the GHGP ICT Sector Supplement, Cisco has contributed significantly to its development 3/Product ICT Sector Supplement to the Greenhouse during FY12. Additionally, as a member of the Steering Group, Cisco is co-editor of the section on transport substitution. Gas Protocol (GHGP) standards The Sector Supplement is expected to be published for the second Steering Group review in mid-November 2012. Roll out EnergyWise-enabled power distribution units In FY12, we launched the lab energy program. Installation of EnergyWise-compliant power distribution units will continue in Cisco engineering labs worldwide in FY13. To date, we have installed over 5,000 units and have identified over USD$5 million in energy savings potential. Expand the electric vehicle charging stations currently Cisco installed its first electric vehicle charging station in FY11, and by the end of FY12, it had installed a total of 23 at our San Jose, California, headquarters campus to stations. The stations are available for use by Cisco employees and guests at no cost at the following locations: other locations San Jose, California; Research Triangle Park, North Carolina; Bedfont Lakes, U.K.; Green Park, U.K.; Netanya, Israel. Achieved Ongoing 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F4 < Previous View Addressing Key Challenges Environment The key challenges for Cisco are the same for much Responsible Investor Ratings for Cisco > Overview of the ICT industry. As a sector, the carbon footprint of our operations is not large, but it is growing as Carbon Disclosure Project: In FY12, Cisco was ranked the Cisco is #2 on the Greenpeace Cool IT Challenge  Cisco Environmental Sustainability emerging markets adopt ICT and as the number of user number-one IT company in the world based on our June Leaderboard (v5), which was released in February 2012. or consumer-premises equipment increases, both in 2011 responses to the Carbon Disclosure Project 2012 Materials investor survey. We were also ranked fifth across all sectors. developed and emerging markets. We believe that our Energy and GHG Emissions products help to reduce carbon emissions, both in our Water Use own operations and globally. We intend to model this For additional information about awards Cisco received in 2012 for its corporate citizen efforts, please visit our website. Biodiversity and Land Use opportunity by using our products to support the type Non-GHG Emissions of operational and product efficiency that is needed to reduce carbon emissions globally. Effluents (Liquid) Objectives for FY13 and Beyond Waste In this year’s Environment section, we have continued to organize our reporting according to the GRI reporting We will continue rolling out EnergyWise-enabled power distribution units (PDUs) in major engineering labs worldwide, with a framework we introduced in our FY11 report. This goal to exceed 13,000 units on line and delivering energy savings. This installation will represent the largest global deployment framework defines the responsibilities of each business of EnergyWise devices and will provide use cases and demo capabilities to other users interested in reducing energy costs. function. We understand that our performance and reporting must continue to improve to meet the rising Expand the quantity and usage of electric vehicle charging stations at the San Jose campus and other global locations, expectations of our stakeholders. based on interest from employees. Complete a pilot in our European region to include electric vehicle options on employee automobile lease plans. Continue the rollout of our enterprise-wide sustainability information system to incorporate additional activity data, “I liked the focus on a great variety for example, Scope 3 emissions from air travel. of environmental issues and thought that reporting was very inclusive and transparent. There is a lot of potential for the ICT sector to drive sustainable business and help improve society, and Cisco definitely seems to be moving in this direction.” Prof. Sudhakar Yedla Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research (IGIDR), India Cisco’s 2012 Global Stakeholder Engagement Sessions 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F5 < Previous View Environment Environmental Sustainability Another aspect of the energy and GHG emissions issue Table 1: Materiality Tiers for Cisco that is highly material to Cisco is the opportunity for This section of the Cisco CSR report provides information Environment-Related Issues Overview Cisco products to help reduce GHG emissions in other on our environmental opportunities and challenges and industry sectors. > Cisco Environmental Tier Environment Topic how we are managing them. Sustainability We have focused our energy/GHG efforts on improving Materials Materiality 1 Product energy efficiency our operations, supply chain, product energy efficiency, Energy and GHG Emissions Based on input from stakeholders, results of life-cycle and technology solutions to facilitate emissions Water Use assessments (LCAs), and other analyses of Cisco reductions for our business and our customers. Energy consumption (operations) products, we prioritized environmental impact into five Biodiversity and Land Use tiers, as shown in Table 1. This materiality is based on Cisco also works to minimize the environmental impact of 2 Waste (product EOL) Non-GHG Emissions the overall impact of the ICT industry sector, which helps our products by providing comprehensive product EOL Effluents (Liquid) prioritize issues globally, as well as the impact from services for our equipment. Cisco has built a worldwide 3 Waste (product packaging EOL) Waste Cisco’s operations, the impact from our supply chain, and network of qualified recyclers. Through several programs, the use of our products by our customers. This materiality which are discussed in more detail later on, customers Water pollution (liquid effluents) ranking is unchanged from FY11; we did not receive can return any Cisco equipment for credit or for recycling comments from stakeholders or uncover new data that at Cisco’s expense. Using leading-edge recycling Transport emissions (from product logistics) required any update. We did reorder the presentation of techniques, all recyclable products and materials are Tier 3 items to highlight visually that product end-of-life directed into various commodity waste streams for 4 Waste (operational “trash”) (EOL) and packaging address essentially the same topic, processing and recovery. Our challenge is to promote although product EOL is viewed as a greater concern due awareness of our take-back and recycling programs Controlled substances to potential health impact. among our channel partners and customers. Water use Energy and GHG emissions are the most important Discussions of issues listed in Table 1 are provided under and complex environmental issues for Cisco. The issue the appropriate topic of the Environment section. Biodiversity and land use of energy consumption includes not only our own operations but also the extended operations of our supply Table 1 is structured around the Global Reporting 5 Hazardous waste chain partners because we outsource business functions Initiative (GRI) performance indicator categories. such as contract manufacturing, component supply, and Materiality is also discussed in the Introduction section Non-GHG airborne emissions transport logistics. Product energy efficiency is material and is based on research performed by SustainAbility. to Cisco because life-cycle assessment of electronic A discussion comparing these two approaches to products indicate that the use phase, depending on the environmental materiality is provided in Appendix 1. product and assumptions made, can make up more than 90 percent of the carbon footprint of typical network products. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F6 < Previous View Principles • The risk from increasing GHG concentrations in the Environmental Management System Environment Cisco policies are developed under the following Earth’s atmosphere is real and significant. Cisco An environmental management system (EMS) refers Overview governing principles for environmental sustainability: supports the reduction of global GHG emissions to the management of an organization’s environmental • Cisco integrates environmental responsibility into through improvements to our products and operations impacts and programs in a comprehensive, systematic, > Cisco Environmental Sustainability all aspects of our business while meeting customer and through the actions of our suppliers. Cisco and planned manner. It includes the organizational expectations with respect to product function, delivery, develops and uses our own products to demonstrate structure, planning, and resources used for developing, Materials quality, service, and EOL management at-scale innovative and cost-effective methods for implementing, and maintaining a policy for environmental Energy and GHG Emissions reducing GHG emissions, helping our customers to do performance, as well as for setting environmental Water Use • Cisco works with its suppliers (“extended operations”) likewise. objectives and targets. An EMS: to integrate environmental responsibility into all life Biodiversity and Land Use • Cisco uses its position as a respected global leader • Serves as a tool to improve environmental cycle phases of Cisco products Non-GHG Emissions and an industry bellwether to environmental advocacy performance • Cisco uses the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Effluents (Liquid) groups, standards bodies, and policymakers to • Provides a systematic way of managing an performance indicators to define the minimum scope effect practical and effective solutions to global organization’s environmental impacts, requirements, Waste of our environmental impact assessment, reporting, environmental challenges and programs and initiatives. All GRI indicators are accorded due diligence to support a meaningful impact assessment. • Cisco believes that the most effective leadership is • Addresses immediate and long-term impacts of an done by example. We will continue to improve our organization’s activities, products, services, and • Cisco provides complete, accurate, and public environmental impact assessment, reporting, and processes on the environment environmental reporting for our stakeholders initiatives and to encourage our supply chain and • Cisco maintains the following governance for our • Gives order and consistency for organizations to business partners to further develop best practices environmental sustainability efforts: address environmental concerns through the allocation for their own operations. of resources and assignment of responsibility, as -Cisco actively seeks out stakeholder engagement Organization well as through ongoing evaluation of practices, and analysis on materiality assessment, reporting, The EcoBoard, in tandem with business functions that procedures, and processes and their impacts and the results of our initiatives are covered by our environmental management system, • Focuses on the improvement of the system and -Our EcoBoard is an executive-level forum to ratify create and implement operational change. These teams environmental performance strategy and goals, share best practices, and promote environmental sustainability through crossprovide opportunities for employee education, Cisco seeks to decrease our negative impacts while functional collaboration and a wide-reaching network of awareness, and engagement enhancing our positive impacts on the environment, and contacts across the business, including our customers. -Cisco seeks and maintains ISO 14001 certification The teams focus on corporate-level initiatives that this concept and foundation are set out in our Corporate for sites with significant potential for environmental directly enhance Cisco’s environmental performance. Environmental Policy. This policy, in conjunction with our impact EMS, provides an environmental performance framework -Cisco uses our CSR Business Process to Performance-Based Compensation that permits us to monitor and manage the environmental govern reporting, stakeholder engagement, At Cisco, we believe that environmental sustainability can impacts that we find to be of greatest material feedback to the business, initiative prioritization, be a part of each employee’s job. Our employees can importance for our business. implementation, and metrics for environmental place environmental sustainability-related goals in our sustainability issues online performance management tool, which documents the results of the performance review process and impacts compensation and bonus decisions. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F7 < Previous View Cisco’s EMS is certified to the internationally recognized • Waste reduction and recycling (25 sites, shown Environment EMS standard ISO 14001:2004. Cisco sites for ISO in Table 2, support this initiative and report on Overview 14001 certification are selected based on a set of criteria site-specific goals within the dashboard) that includes: • E-scrap management (all sites support this initiative; > Cisco Environmental Sustainability • Facility size and lab area 20 sites report on site-specific goals within the Materials • Building headcount capacity or persons housed dashboard) Energy and GHG Emissions • Primary facility function • Energy management (all sites support this initiative; Water Use 9 sites report on site-specific goals within the These criteria enable us to apply resources to the dashboard) Biodiversity and Land Use certification of sites that we believe will make the • Environmental awareness (5 sites support this initiative Non-GHG Emissions greatest contribution to managing and reducing and report on site-specific goals within the dashboard) Effluents (Liquid) Cisco’s environmental impacts. Once a site has been • Wastewater management (1 site supports this Best Practices Waste certified, an analysis is performed to evaluate its initiative and reports on site-specific goals within the An important component of our audit process is associated environmental impacts. This includes an dashboard) identifying best practices. These are shared across the evaluation of corporate functional areas; the associated business functions through our internal EMS newsletter products, activities, or services at that location; and the In addition, Cisco has started a Corporate Green and our ISO 14001 committee meetings, which environmental impacts associated with the generation or include the ISO 14001 key partners. One best practice Initiatives section of the internal ISO 14001 dashboard use of materials, impacts on air and water, and depletion identified in FY12 is the institution of a sustainability that will begin reporting in FY13 on corporate award for preferred suppliers that includes a set criteria of natural resources. All of this information is incorporated environmental performance goals, initiatives, and metrics. and selection process. Additionally, environmental into the calculation of an environmental score, which then We use performance tracking, metrics, and governance sustainability criteria have been incorporated into the guides the prioritization of facilities and the mitigation of to track our progress toward meeting our goals and to standard template for the preferred supplier scorecard. the associated environmental impacts. This new process not only recognizes the supplier in guide us in finding ways to improve our EMS. an area important to Cisco but also internally reinforces that environmental sustainability is integrated into our All of Cisco’s ISO 14001 certified sites are audited by In addition, in FY12 Cisco modified its process to culture and business processes. an independent third party. Sites that were part of an monitor and report sustainability metrics in its internal acquisition are included in the scope of the Corporate operations by integrating a new, enterprise-wide Environmental Policy and corporate environmental sustainability information system into its network. initiatives. See Table 2, on the next page, for our ISO The frequency of these audits depends on set criteria, The SIS system helped Cisco automate and expand 14001 certification KPIs. such as the size and operational activities at the site, sustainability data collection, improve the accuracy of in addition to the results of previous year-over-year that data, and focus limited resources on more important The EMS is used to identify the most significant findings. Typically, within a three-year period, every site tasks, such as evaluating and implementing mitigation environmental impacts at each Cisco site and to set receives one onsite audit and one virtual audit. In FY12, projects. In addition, the role of Cisco’s SIS system has relevant corporate and local environmental objectives we conducted 24 site audits, and 8 of them were virtual expanded since its initial deployment to include financial or targets. Based on potential impacts, site teams adopt audits using Cisco TelePresence and Cisco WebEx. management of energy budgets, monitoring of subone or more initiatives to implement at a given site. metered energy data, and tracking of fleet fuel data. The data and processes utilized in the environmental All ISO 14001 certified sites have teams that pursue We anticipate adding Scope 3 air-travel data in the next portion of the CSR report have been incorporated in environmental goals. phase of implementation. the ISO 14001 internal audit plan for calendar year The site operational teams report on goals, initiatives, and 2012 to provide additional assurance of the validity of Audits are a key component of Cisco’s EMS, providing metrics that measure Cisco’s environmental performance the data reported. This will continue as part of the regular assessments as to whether our environmental on an internal ISO 14001 dashboard. Per the following: scope of Cisco’s ISO 14001 internal audit program. processes and commitments are implemented and how well we are improving our EMS at our certified sites. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F8 < Previous View Environment Table 2: Cisco Environmental Management System ISO 14001 Certification Overview KPI FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 Comments > Cisco Environmental Sustainability Number of Cisco sites with 25 25 27 28 30 31 Calendar year certifications assigned to fiscal year Materials ISO 14001 certification (e.g., CY12 assigned to FY12). Energy and GHG Emissions Percent of employees at sites covered by 74% 73% 73% 73% 71% 71% Headcount-based metric calculated per 2011. Water Use ISO 14001 certification Future reporting will be by real estate footprint (see next row of table). Biodiversity and Land Use Percent of real estate portfolio with 100% 100% 96% 96% 95% 95% Real estate footprint is viewed as a better measure Non-GHG Emissions ISO 14001 certification of potential environmental impact than a headcountEffluents (Liquid) based metric. Candidate ISO 14001 sites are filtered Waste by minimum size and engineering lab function. Life-Cycle Assessment To aid in performing LCA work in various areas, we utilize • Energy efficiency (minimum 80 percent efficient power Cisco focuses current LCAs on estimating GHG emissions tools and data sources such as PE International’s GaBI supply and component) associated with our products. This work is described 5.0 and ecoinvent. In addition, we use data from the • Hazardous materials (exclusion of hazardous materials in more detail in a later section on Scope 3 Life Cycle International Energy Agency (IEA), the U.K. Department based on Cisco’s Controlled Substances Specification) Emissions. LCA is a holistic approach for assessing the for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), and the • Design-for-recyclability and upgradeability environmental impact of a system, process, or product Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP). from cradle to grave. At Cisco, LCA helps us: • Recycling marking (ISO 11469, SPI codes) Design for Environment • Packaging (reduction of materials and package • Assess the materiality of various contributors to Although the largest impact of most of our products volume) environmental impact comes from energy consumption, many other factors • Facilitate more informed selection of alternative • Design-for-longevity (designing products for long related to materials, transportation, and disposal are materials that are environmentally preferable lifetimes) considered during the design stage to reduce the • Understand the impact of product power consumption environmental impact of our products. We employ • Product take-back on product environmental footprints design-for-environment principles in our product design standards. The benefits include: In FY12, approximately 96 percent of new products • Compare assembly and test scenarios to help develop incorporated design-for-environment principles through more energy-efficient manufacturing processes • Increasing the energy efficiency of our products the product requirements template. • Inform packaging and accessory kit reduction projects • Shipping our products with less material on the trade-offs of alternative materials and the • Shipping our products with a tighter packaging Employee Training environmental impact improvement of reducing footprint We have incorporated environmental design principles materials into our products, systems, and solutions. The goal is • Designing our products for ease of recycling • Understand the relative carbon efficiency of different to improve designs so that they use less raw material, modes of transport for getting our products to logistics packaging, and transportation and, at the same time, We have incorporated design-for-environment into our centers and customers to enable more effective recycling. The first step was product requirements document template, which focuses to incorporate environmental design features into our on the following areas: product requirements document. To support these 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F9 < Previous View goals, we implemented company-wide informational and Supply Chain Sustainability now represents between 5 and 8 Environment training events, such as Virtual Earth Day and video-onWe are embedding responsible supply chain practices percent of the total score (depending on supplier type), Overview demand classes. These show employees how they can into routine business processes to make sustainability alongside other criteria such as technology, cost, quality, contribute to our environmental goal of reducing carbon a key criterion in our assessment of, and ongoing responsiveness, and collaboration. Our suppliers’ > Cisco Environmental Sustainability emissions by creating new products like SmartGrid, relationships with, our suppliers. This helps us improve performance on sustainability metrics is reviewed as improving upon existing product designs, and working the effective management of our supply chain and reduce part of regular business reviews at least once a year. Materials with our supply chain to make upstream operations more the associated environmental impacts. Key components Suppliers must maintain strong scores to earn and retain Energy and GHG Emissions environmentally conscious. to these efforts are outlined in the next section; for more their status as preferred suppliers. Water Use detail see the Supply Chain section of our CSR report. Biodiversity and Land Use Cisco launched a web-based course, sponsored by By integrating sustainability into business reviews, we the Cisco engineering leadership team, targeting all Supplier Code of Conduct aim to show suppliers that Cisco takes sustainability in Non-GHG Emissions employees who have a significant role in defining product Cisco has adopted the EICC Code of Conduct for all the supply chain seriously and that they must have an Effluents (Liquid) supply chain partners and requires that they comply requirements or developing our products. Employees acceptable level of sustainability performance to do Waste who take this training learn about Cisco’s green initiatives with this Code of Conduct as part of our contractual business with Cisco. and what they can do to contribute to these efforts. In agreement. Requiring supplier compliance with the EICC FY12, this training was made available in Mandarin. The Code of Conduct helps us further weave environmental The scorecard encourages suppliers to track and web-based training has been completed by over 1400 sustainability performance into the business scorecard disclose environmental and labor impacts, helping us members of our product development community. process that we use to establish preferred supplier improve transparency on sustainability issues in the status. This Code sets expectations with regard to supply chain. The sustainability part of the score is based To further embed environmental practices as part of our social responsibility and human rights, the environment, on a range of criteria that are tailored to the type of standard business operations, Cisco offers employee ethics and governance, health and safety, and related supplier. Such criteria include: training on our business management system, which management systems. The Code is reviewed and • Providing data and setting goals on environmental includes an explanation of our EMS and environmental updated regularly so that it continues to reflect best impacts such as, GHG emissions, water and waste, policy and how it applies to each employee. practices and take account of emerging issues. In and reporting GHG emissions through the Carbon addition to the Code, suppliers must also comply with the Disclosure Project In FY12, we developed a web-based training module Cisco Controlled Substances Specification as part of our on sustainability and the Supplier Code of Conduct • Reporting data on labor issues, such as injury and compliance program with environmental regulations such for employees who engage regularly with suppliers. illness rate, working hours, and employee turnover as the EU Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive The rollout will continue during FY13 and will become (see Controlled Substances). For more information • Demonstrating commitment to sustainability by mandatory for component supplier managers. The regarding Cisco’s Supplier Code of Conduct, see the publishing a CSR report with clear goals and metrics training is based on a course developed by the Electronic Supply Chain section of the CSR report. and by participating in sustainability-related industry Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC). We have customized groups this training course to address Cisco programs and Supplier Scorecard procedures. Supplier management teams will be required In FY12, we integrated sustainability criteria into our We aim to publish more detailed data on individual to take refresher training as necessary to update them on overall business scorecard for preferred suppliers. scorecard criteria in the 2013 CSR Report. Cisco’s changes to the Code and other emerging issues. The scorecard is used to establish supplier status as Supplier Scorecard is discussed in greater detail in the preferred and to monitor their performance. Supply Chain section of the CSR Report. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F10 < Previous View Training Cisco Supplier Managers Cisco aims to raise sustainability standards throughout Non-GHG Emissions: Cisco addresses non-GHG Environment To integrate sustainability into core business processes the supply chain by working with suppliers to help them emissions in our supply chain through our Supplier Code Overview and raise awareness of our requirements among suppliers, improve their management systems and to put in place of Conduct, which states that all local environmental it is essential that our supplier management teams at similar processes to work with their own suppliers. For laws must be followed, including those governing air > Cisco Environmental Sustainability Cisco understand sustainability and communicate about more information on these efforts see Supplier Audits emissions. As we work with our manufacturing partners it confidently. For more detail on Cisco supplier manager and Capability Building in the Supply Chain section of on CSR reporting, it is our expectation that all GRI Materials training, see the Employee Training in the Environment the CSR report. performance indicators will be addressed. Energy and GHG Emissions section or Training Cisco Supplier Managers in the Water Use Supply Chain section of the CSR report. The text that follows includes supply chain–related Effluents: Effluents consist of waste that is released from Biodiversity and Land Use information for water, biodiversity, non-GHG emissions, industrial outfalls into the environment. Water quality is an Supplier Audits and Capability Building effluents, and solid waste. Supply chain GHG and energy important area of concern for our supply chain. Although Non-GHG Emissions Environmental management of our suppliers is outlined topics are discussed in the Energy and GHG section. our quantity of water discharged could be small, the Effluents (Liquid) in the Supplier Code of Conduct and is included as quality of that water is vital. We are working with industry Waste part of the audit and continuous improvement process. Water: Water quality and availability are of concern to groups like the EICC to identify water quality issues that The environmental factors that we focus on are GHG Cisco not only in its operations but also within the supply may occur within our supply chain. emissions, water use and discharge, solid waste, and chain. Water consumption in our supply chain wholly hazardous materials management. Helping suppliers depends on the type of supplier. For Cisco’s suppliers Solid Waste: We have added a solid-waste performance improve their management of environmental issues and that manufacture finished goods, water is a very small measurement to our supplier scorecard. reduce their impacts can, in turn, help us reduce the component of environmental impact. However, water overall impacts of our products throughout their life cycle. consumption may be greater for other supplier types. Employee Engagement For example, pure water requirements for semiconductor Cisco supports employee interest in the environment In FY12, we continued to engage with many of our manufacturing become stricter as wafer technologies through several efforts: preferred suppliers to communicate our sustainability advance. We work with industry groups, such as the • Virtual Earth Day: An annual activity consisting of a priorities, understand their priorities and challenges, EICC, to identify water scarcity issues that may occur series of webinars on a variety of environmental topics and identify opportunities where we can partner to within our supply chain. either specific to Cisco or of general interest to our improve overall sustainability performance. These worldwide employee base discussions helped to align priorities and better prepare We address supply chain–related water issues through suppliers to implement programs that support Cisco’s • Think Green, Act Green: An internal, quarterly the Supplier Code of Conduct, the supplier audit process, sustainability goals. newsletter summarizing Cisco environmental activities and the sustainability metrics in our preferred supplier for the period scorecard. More detail is provided on these topics in the The integration of sustainability metrics into our Supply Chain section of the CSR report. • Civic councils: Cisco sponsors more than 30 Civic scorecards and business reviews for preferred suppliers Councils at major Cisco sites around the world. These helps us identify areas for capability building. One Biodiversity: Cisco has no active programs addressing councils, discussed in more detail in the Society focus priority is to help suppliers understand how to biodiversity issues in our supply chain. As we work with section, provide a means for groups of employees allocate GHG emissions to each product or component our manufacturing partners on CSR reporting, it is our to volunteer in their local communities on social or to support their customers’ calculations of product life expectation that all GRI performance indicators will be environment-related programs cycle impacts. evaluated to determine their materiality. • Employee electronics recycling (e-scrap): Once a year, Cisco employees can bring in any used electronics to have them recycled using the same vendors and processes used in Cisco’s business 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F11 < Previous View • Employee commuter incentives: Cisco encourages Environment employee use of mass transit at some sites through Figure 1: Four Dimensions of Environmental Packaging Design Overview programs that allow eligible employees to use pre-tax dollars to purchase mass-transit passes. Cisco has  Cisco Environmental also begun installing electric vehicle charging stations Packaging Material Optimization Sustainability for our employees, discussed in more detail later in the Design a package that adequately protects the product from transport damage/waste while, at the same time, > Materials optimizing the volume of material and complying to all relevant environmental regulations. section on Scope 3 Employee Commuting. Energy and GHG Emissions Water Use Regulatory Fines Biodiversity and Land Use GRI EN28: Monetary value of significant fines and total Space Efficiency Optimization number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance Non-GHG Emissions Designing a package that optimizes space/cube efficiency during transport. with environmental laws and regulations. Effluents (Liquid) Waste Our EMS certifications provide a regular assessment of our environmental compliance. Our culture is one Optimizing Distribution of transparency and collaboration, and employees are Designing the product for distribution in order to further reduce the overall amount of packaging material used encouraged to raise concerns or report issues without and/or greenhouse gases emitted in transportation. fear of retaliation. We investigate any allegation of noncompliance to determine root causes and implement corrective actions, if needed, to prevent their recurrence. Cisco’s proactive approach and close attention to Environmentally Friendly Materials environmental requirements resulted in no significant Designing in recycled content and recyclable features. fines or penalties greater than US$10,000 in the past five years. Packaging Material and Space Efficiency Optimization suppliers of package components to verify they fall within Materials Products that are damaged in transit have both negative or below levels cited by the EU Directives. For a broader GRI EN1: Materials used by weight or volume. business and environmental impacts because they need discussion on Cisco’s efforts to use more environmentally to be disposed of and replacement products need to be friendly materials, see the Controlled Substances section. Packaging shipped. Each packaging design goes through rigorous The growing amount of municipal solid waste being drop and vibration testing to achieve the adequate level In FY12, Cisco continued to apply its latest packaging added to landfills from product packaging has become of product protection while minimizing materials usage. design strategies to new and existing products. For an area of environmental concern. To minimize Cisco’s example, our switching product lines (Catalyst 3750, impacts in this area, our packaging team designs Packages are subject to CEN13428:2004, CEN13430:2004, Catalyst 3560, Catalyst 2360, Catalyst 2300, and packages to protect against shipping damage while and CEN13431:2004 standards. Cisco packaging is Catalyst 2350) included the following updates: minimizing material usage. designed to comply with all applicable regulations, • Replacement of the legacy EPE endcaps with molded including those in the EU and Australia. In addition, our EPS endcaps, with an option to utilize recycled EPS After the basic packaging and material requirements have packaging is manufactured from nontoxic or nonhazardous endcaps in some areas been met, Cisco evaluates four additional aspects of constituents. Concentrations of heavy metals present in environmental package design (see Figure 1): packaging waste (Directive 94/62/EC) are reported by 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F12 < Previous View • Reduction of the number of corrugated packaging Environmentally Friendly Materials and software on the web. The pointer card has replaced Environment components Most of our packaging parts are made of either one large documents within accessory kits in many product material or multiple materials that are easily separable families. Overview • Introduction of the option to use 1.5 lb/ft3 or 1.7 lb/ for recycling. However, the recycled content varies from  Cisco Environmental ft3 recycled foam in regions where the material is item to item and with geographic regions. The ability Recycled Content Sustainability available of customers to recycle our packaging depends on GRI EN2: Percentage of materials used that are recycled > Materials Overall, this work contributed to an annual usage the recycling facilities in place in their region. Except input materials. Energy and GHG Emissions for antistatic bags, which make up a tiny fraction of reduction of 757,000 pounds of paper and plastic, and Water Use all packaging material, all Cisco packaging should be Packaging an increase of up to 6.7 percent in the overall packaging recyclable in most markets. This year, we have sourced, Generally, Cisco product packaging uses corrugated Biodiversity and Land Use efficiency ratios for some of our highest volume sales of qualified, and begun using a fully recyclable antistatic bag. cardboard that includes some recycled content. In Non-GHG Emissions Catalyst 3750 products. Packaging efficiency is defined We will expand the use of this new alternative in FY13. addition, thermoformed cushions that are made from Effluents (Liquid) as the total weight of the product packaging over the total 100 percent recycled polyethylene can be found on weight of the entire product (including the packaging). Waste The plastic used in Cisco packaging falls into some of our products. However, this type of cushion In FY13, Cisco will begin measuring all of its packaging categories identified by codes 1 to 7. Polyethylene is not suitable for every product, and therefore some improvement projects using this metric. (codes 2 and 4) is the predominant material. Many products use foam cushions made from virgin material or but not all of the plastic components are labeled. recycled substitutes. Cisco products also use recyclable In total, our packaging improvement projects reduced Cisco products use polyethylene bags for many polyethylene bags for protection and accessory kit 466 metric tonne of corrugated cardboard, plastic, and purposes, such as protection or consolidation of subassembly consolidation, but we are reducing the paper in our shipments in FY12. accessory kit subassemblies. Over the years, Cisco thickness and quantity of the bags we ship with our Distribution Optimization has reduced the thickness of many bags such as these products while maintaining adequate product protection. During product design, packaging engineers work with to eliminate waste while still protecting the product. the design teams to reduce protrusions and decrease Cisco’s intention is to encourage and promote the use the fragility of the product as well as to increase its Products of recyclable packaging. There are some applications compactability. These efforts aim to reduce the size of Understanding the materials that make up our products that require use of dissimilar materials joined together the product for an overall reduction in packaging use. helps Cisco identify opportunities to reduce or eliminate that cannot easily be recycled, such as metallized static waste. Over the past three years, Cisco has used shielding bags, or ESD bags, but in those cases we Configurable options also help to reduce and eliminate product dematerialization projects to identify and remove minimize the quantity and amount of material used and packaging. For many years, Cisco has been shipping unnecessary items that ship with our products. These evaluate internal reuse programs for them. An alternative primary products configured whenever possible. products include removing excess or unnecessary is to use antistatic, recyclable pink poly bags in place However, recently we have broadened the scope of this accessory kit items, such as documentation, bags, and of ESD bags where the amount and type of protection work by creating configurable options for secondary hardware, from our products. required permits. items such as cables and brackets. For example, Dematerialization projects are cross-functional, Products customers might opt not to order an RJ45 cable in their collaborative efforts that reduce the auxiliary material In addition to recycled packaging content, most accessory kit rather than it being shipped by default. This previously included with most products and also products have material that has been recycled from fulfillment strategy results in a minimum set of supporting allow for further packaging reductions. Best practices other products. Electronic products consist primarily material and eliminates items that customers may not developed on these projects have been incorporated of circuit boards, steel, and plastics. In general, the need in their installation. To understand more about into our product design cycle. One example is known as enclosures and structures of our products utilize recycled Cisco’s efforts to reduce packaging and distribution the pointer card, a small printed card that provides the materials that are consistent with safety and performance waste (multipack and electronic fulfillment), see the customer with links for accessing product documentation requirements. We use reground plastic in our IP phones Scope 3 Logistics section. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F13 < Previous View where structural rigidity is not required, and we use We have incorporated new guidelines in our design-forgoal. This goal has not changed since the original Environment recycled material in the steel that makes up enclosures environment process to help make it easier to recycle the announcement. Cisco will report its final CY12 Overview of our products. Printed circuit boards typically use materials that make up our products. For example: reduction figures in next year’s FY13 CSR Report. recycled material, such as copper, and most electronic • For ease of separation, all mechanical parts greater  Cisco Environmental components make use of recycled material that is Cisco has been recognized for our GHG reporting by Sustainability than 100 grams consist of one material reclaimed from electronics recycling. Greenpeace and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Materials • Plastic parts greater than 25 grams are designed with • In February 2012, Greenpeace rated Cisco #2 in its > Energy and GHG Emissions Our dematerialization efforts help us optimize the material coding, as per ISO 11469, so plastic material Cool IT Challenge Leaderboard (v5). We were rated Water Use amount and type of auxiliary items that we ship with types can be more easily identified at the recycler #1 in the previous iteration of the Leaderboard. Cisco Biodiversity and Land Use our products without compromising the customer • All plastic parts are free of metal inlays and can be did particularly well on reporting our GHG emissions, experience or product quality. For items that we can’t separated with common tools, improving recyclability providing ICT solutions that our customers can use to Non-GHG Emissions eliminate or minimize further, we work toward using as reduce their GHG emissions and calculating the impact Effluents (Liquid) many recyclable and recycled materials as possible. of these solutions. We scored lower on advocacy and Waste For example, recycled content documentation is a Energy and GHG Emissions dropped a position. Cisco standard. This section reviews Cisco’s environmental impacts and • In September 2011, Cisco was ranked the number-one our initiatives concerning energy and GHG emissions. IT company in the world by CDP following its analysis Many of our documentation vendors are Forest The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicator protocols of responses to its investor survey. Cisco also placed Stewardship Council (FSC) certified. Because FSC place GHG emissions under the Emissions, Effluents, in the global Top 10 (all sectors) for the first time, membership requires complete chain of custody and and Waste category. Because Cisco GHG emissions scoring 98 out of 100. Cisco was rated the numberreforestation for any materials, the environmental impact are almost all directly associated with the use of energy one IT company in the world by CDP in 2008 and of virgin paper is minimal. (typically electricity), we report GHG emissions with 2010, and it was rated the number-two IT company energy. in 2009. Cisco has been on the Carbon Disclosure Our print vendors use state-of-the-art processes to minimize their environmental impact, and we encourage Leadership Index (CDLI) each year since 2008. Cisco Cisco has made two GHG emission reduction goals: has responded to the FY13 CDP Investor survey, and our vendors to use natural inks where practical (on boxes or large print diagrams, for instance). However, • September 2006: Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) we will report those results in our FY13 CSR report. where clarity is important (safety materials, operating commitment to reduce GHG emissions from all Cisco instructions), the vendor is expected to use a type of ink business air travel worldwide by 10 percent absolute In December 2011, the Sustainability Real Estate that does not bleed or fade. (against a FY06 baseline). This CGI goal was met in Roundtable recognized Cisco’s Workplace Resources 2009, and the commitment has been closed. organization for its work on more sustainable leasing Along with documentation, Cisco optimizes the thickness • June 2008: EPA Climate Leaders commitment to strategies. and types of plastic bags shipped with our products. This reduce all Scope 1, 2, and business-air-travel allows us to use the appropriate size, type, and thickness For additional information about awards Cisco received in Scope 3 GHG emissions worldwide by 25 percent of bags for the items that they are protecting and to be 2012 for its CSR efforts, visit our website. absolute by CY12 (CY07 baseline). Refer to Table 3 as efficient as possible with the plastic bags we ship with and Table 8 for our performance against this our products. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F14 < Previous View Operations Scope 1 and 2 See Table 3 for our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions KPIs. minor errors found upon repeated review. To support Environment GRI EN3: Direct energy consumption by primary energy standardization and benchmarking across companies, Overview source. All prior-year Scope 1, 2, and 3 business-air-travel Cisco uses the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting emissions data vary to some extent from previously and Reporting Standard as the basis for our Scope 1,  Cisco Environmental Sustainability GRI EN4: Indirect energy consumption by primary energy reported values, either in the most recent CDP survey 2, and 3 business-air-travel emissions calculations. source. or in our FY11 CSR Report, because of updates to The EPA Center for Corporate Climate Leadership Materials emissions factors, methodology, structural adjustments provides additional program guidance. > Energy and GHG Emissions GRI EN16: Total direct and indirect GHG emissions by from acquisitions or divestitures, and correction of Water Use weight. Biodiversity and Land Use Non-GHG Emissions Table 3: Summary of Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions Effluents (Liquid) Waste KPI FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 Comments Total gross GHG emissions: Scope 1, 50,462 50,879 52,560 52,515 60,718 65,832 Gross is used consistent with Carbon Disclosure metric tonne CO2e Project (CDP) terminology. Gross GHG emissions do not include reductions from renewable energy purchases. Total gross GHG emissions: Scope 2, 444,684 523,560 575,555 581,252 599,528 628,164 metric tonne CO2e Total contractual GHG emissions: Scope 2, 378,948 280,110 220,320 323,626 356,209 185,840 Contractual is used consistent with CDP metric tonne CO2e terminology. Contractual GHG emissions include reductions from renewable energy purchases. Scope 1 and 2 emissions (gross) intensity, 14.2 14.5 17.4 15.8 15.3 15.1 metric tonne CO2e per million dollars of revenue Scope 2 emissions from primary data, percent 96.3% 97.0% 96.8% 98.5% 97.9% 97.9% Total contractual GHG emissions: Scope 1 and 2, 429,411 330,989 272,880 376,141 416,927 251,672 metric tonne CO2e Progress against reduction goal, percent. na -23% -36% -12% -3% -41% Cisco’s corporate GHG reduction goal was set as Goal: reduce all Scope 1 and 2, GHG emissions part of U.S. EPA Climate Leaders program, which worldwide by 25 percent absolute by CY12 required a calendar-year baseline. The Climate (CY07 baseline) Leaders program has since been discontinued. To avoid reporting both calendar and fiscal year data, Cisco is publicly reporting emissions using fiscal year data. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F15 < Previous View Cisco has reported to the CDP every year the survey Table 4 provides use-weighted electricity emission factor GRI EN18: Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Environment has been distributed. CDP is an independent, not-for(EF) KPIs for all Cisco facilities, as well as for our major emissions, and reductions achieved. Overview profit organization that holds the largest repository of data centers. As the table shows, Cisco’s average (gross) GHG emissions data in the world. The CDP questionnaire electricity emission factor for both its global facilities and GRI EN30: Total environmental protection expenditures  Cisco Environmental Sustainability and our answers provide a comprehensive view of the data centers are 14% percent and 15% percent lower and investments by type. following topics related to climate change: risks and than the global average, respectively. This is a reflection Materials opportunities, actual emissions, reduction goals, avoided of Cisco locating the majority of its facilities in grid Reducing our energy consumption and enabling a diverse > Energy and GHG Emissions emissions, and regulatory and policy activities. locations where low-carbon to no-carbon grid electricity energy supply for our facilities makes good business Water Use is available. The challenge in future years will be to sense and benefits the environment. A number of Biodiversity and Land Use Each year, Cisco has an independent third party review prevent these average emission factors from increasing energy-related programs and projects were implemented our GHG inventory, including all emissions relevant to as Cisco grows in emerging markets where low-carbon in FY12 that helped Cisco reduce its energy costs and Non-GHG Emissions our current GHG reduction goal, which includes Scope 1 and no-carbon electricity is not readily available. GHG emissions. We continue to evaluate and implement Effluents (Liquid) similar projects throughout our real estate portfolio that and Scope 2 emission sources and Scope 3 businessWaste air-travel emissions. In FY12, this limited assurance Reducing Emissions from Operations help us reduce our GHG emissions, reduce energy review was provided by WSP Environment & Energy in GRI EN5: Energy saved due to conservation and costs, and future exposure to energy price fluctuations. accordance with the ISO 14064-3 International Standard. efficiency improvements. These tactics help us stay competitive and reinforce our commitment to being environmentally responsible. GRI EN7: Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption, and reductions achieved. Table 4: Electricity Emissions Factors KPI FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 Comments International Energy Agency (IEA) world average 508.4 504.5 500.0 500.0 500.0 500.0 Calendar year per IEA. Latest 2009 EF from IEA EF, g CO2e per kWh value used for 2009–2012. Cisco, global average electricity EF (gross) 437.1 448.8 456.9 460.9 443.2 428.7 g CO2e per kWh Cisco, global average electricity EF (contractual) 375.4 246.4 182.2 262.1 266.6 126.8 g CO2e per kWh Cisco, major data center average electricity 397.5 401.3 418.8 435.4 435.0 423.0 EF (gross) g CO2e per kWh 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F16 < Previous View See Table 5 for a summary of all of our energy-related KPIs. of $1.6 million in energy conservation projects. Since Labs Environment FY09, we estimate this strategy has conserved Reducing electricity consumption is a priority for Cisco Overview Our strategy to reduce energy consumption and GHG approximately 94.3 million kWh of energy and avoided because Scope 2 emissions from electricity consumption emissions from our operations is to: 41,900 metric tonne CO2e; these projects are described make up more than 91% percent of our worldwide  Cisco Environmental Sustainability • Continue to deploy global space policy and the in more detail in the next sections. total Scope 1 and 2 emissions. Considering that over Cisco Connected Workplace, which increases the 60% percent of our electricity is used to power and Materials utilization of our office space and our ability for remote Global Space Policy and Cisco Connected Workplace cool equipment in our engineering and services labs, > Energy and GHG Emissions As a result of Cisco’s new building space policy, making our labs more energy efficient represents a large collaboration Water Use which was approved in FY11, we have expanded and opportunity to reduce GHG and energy costs. • Improve the efficiency of our buildings, with a focus will continue to expand the use of Cisco Connected Biodiversity and Land Use on our engineering labs, which are Cisco’s largest Workplace in our real estate portfolio because all We have been executing a global program to reduce Non-GHG Emissions consumer of electricity and biggest source of GHG new and renovation projects must comply with Cisco electricity consumption in our labs in three areas: Effluents (Liquid) emissions Connected Workplace requirements. By the end of FY12, • Improve the energy efficiency of the building Waste • Purchase electricity from certified low-carbon and Cisco Connected Workplace represented approximately infrastructure that supports our labs renewable sources, where available 19.5 percent of Cisco’s total office space. This is one of • Install and utilize power monitoring and control the most cost-effective GHG-reduction strategies that Through this strategy, Cisco estimates that in FY12 it technologies for our lab equipment we are deploying in our real estate operations because it conserved approximately 15.6 million kWh of energy and helps increase the utilization and limit the growth of our • Develop and execute a sustainable lab employee avoided 7,300 metric tonne CO2e through an investment office space, even as Cisco increases its headcount. engagement program Table 5: Energy Totals KPI FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 Comments Energy usage, GWh 1,249 1,404 1,500 1,491 1,613 1,750 Indirect energy usage, GWh 1,024 1,173 1,265 1,267 1,353 1,465 Indirect energy usage is electricity consumption. Direct energy usage, GWh 225 231 235 224 260 285 Direct energy consumption is the sum of Cisco’s natural gas and diesel usage for heating and back-up power generation and regular gasoline and diesel fuel used in Cisco’s fleet. Electricity usage, GWh 1,024 1,173 1,265 1,267 1,353 1,465 Natural gas usage, GWh 147 153 143 115 118 141 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F17 < Previous View This $16.8-million strategy was approved for funding environment compared with a new data center solely Environment at the end of FY11 and is now being deployed across dedicated for disaster recovery and needlessly running Overview the lab community. When completed, we expect this in standby mode. lab energy program to reduce Cisco’s electricity costs Besides being a dual-purpose data center, Cisco IT  Cisco Environmental Sustainability by approximately $9 million per year, to reduce GHG incorporated numerous features that also reduce our emissions by over 30,000 metric tonne CO2e, and to environmental impact, including: Materials provide a return on its investment of less than 2 years. > Energy and GHG Emissions • Chimney rack hot-air isolation for improved cooling Water Use Initial projects have shown that significant energy can efficiency Biodiversity and Land Use be saved through a combination of these efforts. This • Waterside economizer, used on average 41 percent program is now being deployed across the global lab of the time Non-GHG Emissions community with over $5 million of energy savings in • Variable frequency drives (VFDs) on major equipment, Effluents (Liquid) projects identified or underway. including pumps, chillers, and computer-room air Waste handler (CRAH) units Data Centers Cisco LEED Platinum–certified facility, Bangalore, India Cisco opened a new green data center in Research • Higher-voltage electrical service distribution of Triangle Park, North Carolina, in early FY12 to replace 480/277V; rack distribution of 415/230V • Incorporate efficiency into a new or significantly an existing disaster recovery facility that was rapidly • 100 kW solar photovoltaic cells on building roof renovated space by following standards in accordance approaching its limits for space, power, and cooling. with the U.S. Green Building Council LEED standards • Heat recovery from data hall for office space use Rather than build a traditional disaster recovery facility that would remain idle most of the time, Cisco IT • LED exterior lighting • Rigorously apply Cisco’s “green leasing” standards designed a data center that could support nonproduction • Low-E glass windows in selecting leased space and work with landlords to applications most of the time and be quickly repurposed improve the energy efficiency of their buildings • Reclaimed water use in cooling towers for disaster recovery, if needed. The dual-purpose • Identify and implement energy-efficiency projects • Non-chemical water treatment system throughout our global operations infrastructure costs significantly less to operate, uses much less energy, and reduces Cisco’s impact on the • Water-efficient plumbing • Occupancy sensors integrated with lighting and We have made significant progress since our first temperature controls LEED-certified building was built in August 2009 toward integrating green building standards into our real estate • Landfill diversion during construction portfolio. By the end of FY12, 26 Cisco facilities had achieved LEED certification, 17 of them Gold or Platinum The new data center is designed to achieve a Power status. These include our newest data center in Allen, Usage Effectiveness metric of 1.35 at full load and has Texas, and a renovated data center in Research Triangle achieved a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Park, North Carolina, which achieved LEED Platinum and Design (LEED)-NC Gold Certification (v2.2) from the LEED Gold certification, respectively. It also includes our U.S. Green Building Council. For more information on latest renovation project in Bangalore, India, completed in the design and construction of Cisco’s latest green data July 2012, where Cisco’s Bangalore 16 building received center, please read our full case study on the project. one of the highest-rated Platinum LEED ID+C scores in Building Energy Efficiency the world (96 points). LEED elements are incorporated Cisco takes three parallel approaches to making our real into Cisco’s design standards for every new construction estate portfolio as energy efficient as possible: or renovation project. Cisco data center, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F18 < Previous View Cisco worked closely with our outside legal counsel team to negotiate with the landlord to promote Cisco’s Onsite Power Generation: Solar Environment and real estate partner to create “green leasing” terms sustainability goals in its leased facilities to ensure they In FY11 and FY12, Cisco installed and commissioned Overview and to integrate these terms into our standard lease are healthy, efficient, and sustainable both now and solar photovoltaic (PV) systems at data centers in Allen, template in the United States and Canada in FY09. Green throughout the term of the lease. Texas, and Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. Both  Cisco Environmental Sustainability leases provide corporations with a valuable opportunity pilot systems have a capacity of 100 kW. Cisco will use to communicate and implement sustainability goals as Global Energy Management the experience gained through the use of these pilot Materials Cisco maintains a global energy management and well as to provide a foundation for measurement of the systems to assess wider implementation. In FY12, these > Energy and GHG Emissions same. We applied these standards globally in FY11. Since sustainability team that meets on a biweekly basis to systems collectively produced 270,000 kWh of electricity Water Use then, we have implemented ten green lease agreements discuss energy efficiency and onsite power generation for Cisco, saving $16,000 and avoiding 170 metric tonne Biodiversity and Land Use representing 158,714 square feet of leased office space opportunities in our real estate portfolio. This team of CO2e of GHG emissions. Cisco is actively evaluating across Cisco’s real estate portfolio. The green leasing includes Cisco employees as well as dedicated energy additional locations for installing solar PV systems, but the Non-GHG Emissions terms in our standard template vary depending on the size managers from our current facility management bulk of our effort and resources continue to be focused Effluents (Liquid) partners, CB Richard Ellis (CBRE) and Johnson Controls of the premises and the length of the lease agreement, on implementing those energy-efficiency projects that Waste but in general, the larger the premises and the longer the (JCI), which manage the day-to-day operation and have been shown to have a greater return on investment lease, the more comprehensive the green leasing terms. maintenance of our buildings. Cisco incorporated and a larger reduction of Cisco’s GHG emissions. Sample terms in the green leasing template include: energy-efficiency requirements as part of our facility management contracts. These new contracts were • Temperature controls implemented in FY10. For each year of the five-year • Sub-meters for major utilities contract, our partners are required to identify and • Building recycling program implement various energy-efficiency projects at Cisco facilities. In FY12, approximately $1.6 million in energy• No chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) used in HVAC system efficiency projects were identified and implemented in • Bicycle storage and facilities in which cycling many Cisco facilities, including: commuters can change for work • Improving lighting efficiency • Green building certification (e.g., LEED, BREEAM, • Installing LED exit signs ENERGY STAR) • De-lamping vending machines Incorporating these terms into leases up front is important • Installing variable frequency drives (VFDs) for Cisco because about half of Cisco’s real estate • Performing building and lab specific energy audits footprint is leased, and the leases are often long-term commitments. In addition, if we do not specify any green • Improving lab air distribution with blanking panels leasing requirements at the time of leasing, it can be and diffusers extremely difficult to incorporate the requirements later. • Retro-commissioning facilities Cisco solar array at the Allen, Texas, data center • Upgrading HVAC systems Not all of the terms in Cisco’s green lease template are mandatory to implement in every lease. At a minimum, the template is a tool for Cisco’s real estate 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F19 < Previous View Onsite Power Generation: Cogeneration Environment In FY12, Cisco started a project to install a 425 kW Table 7: Renewable Energy Overview cogeneration system on its campus in Bedfont Lakes, U.K. This system will become operational in FY13, and it KPI FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12  Cisco Environmental Sustainability will supply both normal and emergency power to a critical Electricity from renewable sources, GWh 110 342 469 351 358 552 lab facility on the campus as well as providing significant Materials cooling through an absorption chiller. By operating the Percent of electricity from renewable 11% 29% 37% 28% 27% 38% > Energy and GHG Emissions waste-heat recovery capabilities, the system is expected sources Water Use to reduce GHG emissions by more than 704 metric tonne CO2e per year. In addition, the team is now evaluating GHG emissions reduction from renewable 66,000 243,000 355,000 258,000 243,000 442,000 Biodiversity and Land Use energy, metric tonne CO2e using the residual heat remaining after the chiller cycle for Non-GHG Emissions under-floor heating in a planned child care center. Effluents (Liquid) Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), and we using network technologies to reduce air travel. During Waste Purchasing Renewable Energy use the grid average emission factor when calculating this time, Cisco actively participated in the development The percent of electricity purchased from renewable emissions associated with green power purchased of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) Scope 3 and energy sources for various regions is shown in Table 6. in Europe. GHGP Product accounting standards led by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Cisco participates in the U.S. EPA’s Green Power Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Table 6: FY12 Electricity Usage from Renewable Sources Partnership. As of July 2012, Cisco was listed sixteenth among the National Top 50 and eleventh among Fortune Scope 3 emissions cover a broad range of activities, and Region Percent of FY12 Electricity 500 companies in the EPA’s green power ranking. This while our Scope 3 reporting has been primarily focused from Renewable Sources ranking is updated quarterly by the U.S. EPA. on the reduction of emissions related to business air travel, we have expanded our efforts to address life Europe 62% Purchasing electricity generated from renewable and cycle emissions, including our supply chain, logistics, non-carbon sources is an important component of product use phase, and end of life. Cisco provides a United States 44% Cisco’s GHG reduction strategy. Cisco purchases comprehensive response to Scope 3 questions on the renewable power where it is available in the local power CDP Investor survey. Cisco also initiated the GHGP Global 38% market. Cisco currently purchases power from noor Scope 3/Product ICT Sector Supplement under the low-carbon sources in both the United States and auspices of the WRI and WBCSD. Europe, and it plans to support noor low-carbon energy Cisco has increased renewable power purchases since sources in other regions of the world as they become The following sections provide additional detail on our FY06 by buying Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) available in the marketplace. Cisco’s global renewable Scope 3 emissions reporting and reduction activities. and by entering into green power contracts with various electricity purchases are summarized in Table 7. A later section provides an overview of the Cisco electricity suppliers in the United States to reduce solutions that help our customers reduce their own GHG emissions from Cisco operations. In FY12, Cisco Operations Scope 3 Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions. Cisco uses many of purchased 457 million kWh of RECs certified by Green-e, GRI EN17: Other relevant indirect GHG emissions by these same solutions internally to understand, at scale, an independent auditor of renewable energy products, weight. the effect of our products on GHG emissions. We also generated by wind projects in Texas and the eGRID better understand the “soft” challenges to successful Midwest Regional Organization West (MROW) region. Cisco has prioritized its Scope 3 operations-related implementation—the necessary updates to business Cisco purchased approximately 94 million kWh through efforts on reducing our business-air-travel emissions and processes, management expectations, and employee various European green power suppliers. We continue developing business processes, management practices, behavior that are the key to widespread adoption. to follow the guidelines from the U.K. Department for information systems, and standardized methodologies for 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F20 < Previous View Scope 3 Business Air Travel This section reviews our progress meeting the EPA factors for different classes of air travel for a given Environment GRI EN29: Significant environmental impacts of Climate Leaders goal and provides additional information company. Even though Cisco is a large company, it is Overview transporting products and other goods and materials concerning our Scope 3 emissions. Cisco’s total global likely that scheduled air service has not been impacted used for the organization’s operations, and transporting GHG emissions from business air travel over the last five by our reduction in air travel, even reductions measured  Cisco Environmental Sustainability members of the workforce. fiscal years are shown in Table 8. in hundreds of thousands of flights per year. (That is, the same number of planes are still flying.) Of course, Materials Cisco believes that the global problem of climate change Because of EPA requirements, our reduction goal is as more companies adopt these network technologies, > Energy and GHG Emissions requires a significant reduction in emissions in absolute stated in terms of calendar years. To avoid potential the number of plane flights should decrease. Therefore, Water Use terms. For our operations, Cisco has made the following confusion from reporting very similar numbers for we have chosen not to complicate what is inherently a Biodiversity and Land Use public commitments that impact Scope 3 emissions: fiscal and calendar years, we report only emissions by conceptual reduction by considering class of service • September 2006: Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) fiscal year and use fiscal-year emissions internally for flown in selecting emissions factors. We use DEFRA Non-GHG Emissions commitment to reduce GHG emissions from all Cisco operational control and initiative planning. We will report air-travel emissions factors in our calculations. Effluents (Liquid) business air travel worldwide by 10 percent absolute against our CY12 EPA commitment in our FY13 CSR Waste Report. Because of rolling updates to flight data, priorOur FY12 Scope 3 air-travel emissions data and (against a FY06 baseline) year business air-travel emissions data vary slightly from calculations were reviewed by a representative of This CGI goal was met in 2009 and the commitment values previously reported in either our 2011 CSR Report WSP Environment and Energy. Our Scope 3 emissions closed with CGI. or our response to the CDP 2012 Investor survey. reporting process has been audited in the past by both Cisco’s internal audit team and our external ISO 14001 • June 2008: EPA Climate Leaders commitment to There are two reasons we have not adopted different auditor, but it was not selected for audit by either in FY12. reduce all Scope 1 and 2 and business-air-travel emissions factors for different classes of air service. First, Scope 3 GHG emissions worldwide by 25 percent Cisco’s focus is on using Cisco ICT remote collaboration Reducing GHG Emissions from Scope 3 Business Air Travel absolute by CY12 (CY07 baseline) technologies to avoid travel. Reporting reduced To replace physical travel and meet our EPA Climate emissions because a larger fraction of employees flew Leaders reduction goal, Cisco is relying on Cisco remote Cisco is on track to meet this EPA Climate Leaders goal, economy class this year compared to last year moves collaboration technologies, including Cisco TelePresence, which has not changed since the original announcement. the focus away from travel substitution. Second, we products from the acquisition of Tandberg, and Cisco are unsure of the treatment of using different emissions WebEx desktop conferencing. Table 8: Scope 3 Air-Travel Greenhouse Gas Emissions KPI FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 Comments Total Scope 3 air-travel GHG emissions, 205,796 197,867 118,602 106,783 127,293 139,431 Primary air-travel data adjusted to represent in metric tonne CO2e 100 percent of Cisco business air travel. Percent Scope 3 air-travel emissions from 98.0% 98.5% 97.9% 96.1% 98.2% 98.2% FY12 estimated; to be confirmed. primary data Percent progress against reduction goal. base year -4% -42% -48% -38% -32% FY07 base year; see prior comment on Scope 1 Goal: Reduce all business-air-travel-related and 2 portion of reduction goal. Scope 3 GHG emissions worldwide by 25 percent absolute by CY12 (CY07 baseline) 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F21 < Previous View Worldwide utilization of general-use Cisco TelePresence EBC stands for Executive Briefing Center and refers to 18 people in a single room connecting with multiple Environment units has remained steady at just under 50 percent, one of numerous regional meeting facilities that Cisco TelePresence suites of varying sizes. Up to 42 screens Overview based on an eight-hour day. Many Cisco TelePresence uses for presentations to customers. Many executives in multiple locations can be scheduled for an internal units are booked at or over 100 percent capacity. The have Cisco TelePresence units in their offices, typically meeting using the Cisco TelePresence Multipoint Switch.  Cisco Environmental Sustainability larger, three-screen Cisco TelePresence systems have the CTS-500. We also have rolled out thousands By having a range of Cisco TelePresence units available, the highest utilization rate. For example, our CTS-3200 of Tandberg, desktop, hardware-based (e.g., EX60, more types of interactions can be virtualized and more Materials series units, which seat 18 people, have a utilization rate EX90), and software-based (Movi) high-definition physical travel can be avoided, reducing travel expenses > Energy and GHG Emissions of about 65 percent based on a 10-hour day. Higher videoconferencing units in a move to make high-definition and GHG emissions. Water Use utilization of the larger Cisco TelePresence rooms is video interaction pervasive at Cisco. Biodiversity and Land Use constrained by room availability or substantial time Cisco WebEx and Cisco MeetingPlace products are differences between endpoints. Table 9 illustrates our We have installed various Cisco TelePresence models also part of the suite of solutions our employees use Non-GHG Emissions rollout of Cisco TelePresence across the company since at many locations to accommodate the different to collaborate virtually with other Cisco employees, our Effluents (Liquid) September 2006, which was in the first quarter of requirements of each site. This includes models that customers, our partners, and other stakeholders. Table Waste our FY07. accommodate anywhere from one or two users in a 10 shows that our use of these products continues to private office setting to larger group meetings of up to grow, mirroring a similar growth in the use of Cisco TelePresence. A “people-hour,” as used in the table, is one person attending a remote meeting for one hour, Table 9: Cisco-internal TelePresence Room Cumulative Deployment either by teleconference or via the web and a personal computer. Five people attending a two-hour meeting Cumulative, as of Total Number of Cisco Total Number Total Number of Countries would equal 10 people-hours. End of Fiscal Year TelePresence Rooms of Cities 2007 (general use) 72 50 20 2008 (general use) 179 109 37 2009 (general use) 369 156 44 2010 (general use) 534 214 59 2011 (general use) 601 238 67 2012 (general use) 956 254 69 2007 (private or EBC) 26 6 3 2008 (private or EBC) 53 12 7 2009 (private or EBC) 179 47 21 2010 (private or EBC) 334 73 26 2011 (private or EBC) 433 98 28 Cisco CTS-3000 TelePresence unit (6 users) with 2012 (private or EBC) 453 95 28 CTS-3200 TelePresence (18 users) 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F22 < Previous View Avoided GHG Emissions from Scope 3 Business Air Travel Cisco’s acquisition of WebEx in mid-FY06, the start Environment Table 10: Cisco WebEx and MeetingPlace Usage It is difficult to project with certainty what might of Cisco TelePresence use and our CGI air-travel Overview have happened to Cisco air-travel emissions without emissions reduction commitment in early FY07, and our Calendar Year Total Web Conferencing widespread use of these collaborative technologies. Tandberg acquisition in the second half of FY10 are also Cisco Environmental (in millions of people-hours) Sustainability However, in response to stakeholder inquiries, Cisco has shown. From FY04 to FY06, changes to GHG emissions compared changes to our actual air-travel emissions were roughly proportional to changes in revenue and Materials 2007 4.7 against changes to revenue and headcount. Revenue and headcount. This observation is consistent with the fact > Energy and GHG Emissions headcount are the two factors believed to be the primary that about two-thirds of Cisco’s air-travel emissions were Water Use 2008 7.7 drivers of air travel. In Figure 2, actual emissions on the from our sales and service organizations, both “high Biodiversity and Land Use x-axis are plotted against revenue (light green line, left touch” business functions. The more products sold and 2009 13.9 axis) and headcount (dark green line, right axis). Non-GHG Emissions the more customers Cisco serves, the more the potential for business travel. Effluents (Liquid) 2010 18.5 Waste 2011 23.0 Figure 2: Avoided CO2 Emissions from Use of Remote Collaboration Technologies (data through 2011) 2012 23.4 45 2011 Cisco TelePresence and WebEx now interoperate 40 2010 Tandberg acquisition 2008 (WebEx users see TelePresence video), expanding the (FQ3) types of remote collaboration experiences that are made 35 2009 2007 CGI commitment (FQ1) possible with our network technologies. TelePresence start (FQ1) Using Cisco TelePresence, Tandberg products, and 30 CISCO REVENUE ($US BILLION) web conferencing, Cisco has piloted and developed 2006 WebEx acquisition the business processes and management practices 25 (mid-year FQ3) for virtual company meetings, executive operational 2005 2004 reviews, department “all hands” meetings, our annual 20 sales meeting, and our annual senior leadership “offsite” 2011 60,000 CISCO AVERAGE DAILY HEADCOUNT meeting, thereby expanding the types of interactions that 2009 2008 15 can effectively be completed remotely. About a third of our global ISO 14001 site audits were performed using 2010 Tandberg 50,000 acquisition (FQ3) 2007 CGI commitment (FQ1) Cisco remote collaboration solutions. This real-world 10 TelePresence start (FQ1) experience guides product development and helps with 40,000 the rollout of supporting management practices. Use of 5 2006 WebEx acquisition and familiarity with these and related products continue (mid-year FQ3) 2005 to expand at Cisco for more functions and business 2004 0 30,000 activities. Decisions are made faster, cross-cultural 100,000 150,000 200,000 250,000 300,000 350,000 400,000 communications are improved, stakeholder and customer feedback from around the world is better disseminated GHG EMISSIONS (METRIC TONNE CO2e) within the company, and products move to market faster. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F23 < Previous View The case for collaborative technologies to reduce Cisco technologies permit flexible working environments, Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Environment physical travel and GHG emissions is unambiguous. including Cisco Virtual Office and Cisco OfficeExtend. Electric vehicles are becoming more common, Overview With a 25 percent increase in revenue and headcount Cisco Virtual Office is based on an 800-series Cisco particularly in locations where Cisco has major compared to FY07, in FY12 air-travel emissions have Integrated Services Router providing secure, wired operations, including California and North Carolina.  Cisco Environmental Sustainability dropped more than 30 percent on an absolute basis and wireless voice, data, and video service for small One of the biggest concerns that prevents people from compared to FY07, exceeding our EPA Climate Leaders commercial offices or an employee’s home. OfficeExtend purchasing electric vehicles is the limited range of the Materials goal of a 25 percent absolute reduction. In prior years, is a simpler, remote wireless access point in the vehicles and the likelihood of running out of charge. > Energy and GHG Emissions Cisco worked to first overcome upward pressure on employee’s home that provides secure communications Deployment of charging stations is progressing, with Water Use travel from business growth and then to achieve absolute to a WLAN controller at the company campus. models that include public stations, stations affiliated with Biodiversity and Land Use reductions in emissions compared to the base year. As retail outlets, and for-fee charging stations. However, a result of this earlier effort, we experienced an initial As shown in Table 11, employees have rapidly adopted because charging is still a very time-consuming process Non-GHG Emissions reduction in air-travel emissions starting in FY08. As the Cisco Virtual Office, which includes an Integrated (it takes approximately 2 hours to provide 50 miles of Effluents (Liquid) economy has slowly recovered, our travel has increased Services Router and IP phone, to effectively work charge), the workplace is a logical place for charging Waste from last year, but we are still well below our committed remotely. Although telecommuting or working in a stations. goal. The net effect of our collaborative technologies has flexible office space does not directly reduce air travel, been a reduction in travel, carbon emissions, and travel it does afford opportunities to become more proficient Providing charging stations on our campuses for costs and an increase in employee productivity and workin using collaborative technologies. This proficiency can employees and guests has a few key benefits for Cisco. life integration while at the same time maintaining and be applied directly to business activities where remote As an employee service, it can assist with employee growing the customer relationships needed for continued collaboration does reduce air travel. satisfaction, recruiting, and retention. Supporting electric revenue growth as the worldwide economy improves. vehicle adoption also aligns with Cisco’s Environmental Sustainability strategy and can help reduce Scope 1 Table 11: Cisco Virtual Office Installations in emissions related to Cisco’s fleet operations. Cisco Replacing business air travel with remote collaboration Employee Homes requires more than just installing more technology. installed its first electric vehicle charging station in FY11. Business processes, management practices, and By the end of FY12, the company will have installed a As of End of Total Installations culture need to be adapted to take full advantage of total of 23 stations available for use by Cisco employees Calendar Year (Cumulative) these new network technologies. As experience with and guests at no cost at several campus locations, remote collaboration technologies increases, both within including: 2005 1,467 Cisco and among our customers and partners, remote • San Jose, California interactions have progressed from being the exception of 2006 5,006 • Research Triangle Park, North Carolina a few years ago to becoming standard practice currently within Cisco, and we anticipate they will be expected • Bedfont Lakes, U.K. 2007 8,234 behavior worldwide in the future. • Green Park, U.K. 2008 9,214 • Netanya, Israel Scope 3 Employee Commuting Teleworking The employee skill sets developed to reduce business 2009 13,457 air travel and the accompanying business processes and management practices are also used to reduce 2010 16,449 employee travel between home and work, as well as between buildings at a Cisco site. The wide availability 2011 20,487 of sophisticated collaboration tools within Cisco permits employees to become well versed in integrating these 2012 (through July) 22,767 technologies into their daily business activities. Several 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F24 < Previous View ISO 14040:2006 provides the principles and framework Environment for life-cycle assessment as part of environmental Overview management.  Cisco Environmental Sustainability Cisco has adopted the five product life cycle stages defined by the GHGP in its 2011 Product Life Cycle Materials Accounting and Reporting Standard, which is based on > Energy and GHG Emissions the ISO 14040-series standards: Water Use 1. Material acquisition and preprocessing Biodiversity and Land Use 2. Production Non-GHG Emissions 3. Distribution and storage Effluents (Liquid) 4. Use Waste 5. End of life Employee bicycle sharing at Cisco (San Jose, California) Cisco is committed to shaping our industry in this area Employee Bicycle Sharing through two avenues: In FY12, Cisco started a pilot employee bicycle sharing • Internal research to develop our capabilities program at its Research Triangle Park campus. The • Industry engagement program provides a quick, easy, and healthy way for Cisco employees and badged contractors to get around Our internal LCA studies have focused on our the RTP campus. It also gives our employees a way to most common products, including IP phones, standalone Electric vehicle charging at Cisco (San Jose, California) reduce their individual GHG footprint while supporting switches/routers (which cover a substantial portion of Cisco’s goal to reduce its overall GHG emissions. Users our product line), and Cisco TelePresence. For many of Additional stations and sites are planned and funded must first register for the program, and then they can our products, we have determined that the use phase for FY13. Cisco has directly contributed to saving 4415 use their mobile phones to check out a bike whenever accounts for between 80 and 90 percent of the carbon gallons of fuel, $11,204 in fuel costs, and 23,622 pounds they want to use one. Cisco will evaluate the program life cycle impact. (There may be as much as a 25 percent of CO2e in GHG emissions as a result of employees and throughout FY13, and the company hopes to expand uncertainty in these values due to variation in assumed guests using these stations in FY12. These figures are the program if employee participation remains high and product use.) Global emissions factors can vary by a expected to increase as electric vehicles become more program feedback is positive. factor of three, which impacts emissions factors and prevalent in society and as Cisco expands the number of use phase emissions. charging stations in its real estate portfolio. Scope 3 Life Cycle Emissions Cisco’s general use of life-cycle assessment (LCA) techniques was discussed in an earlier section. Carbon footprinting, the LCA specifically focused on the environmental impact from GHG emissions, is the subject of multiple standards activities as well as increasing numbers of channel partner, service provider, and enduse customer inquiries. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F25 < Previous View Environment Figure 3: General GHG Emissions Breakdowns of Cisco’s Most Common Products Overview IP Phone Chassis-Based Switch Small Access Router  Cisco Environmental -0.2% End of Life -0.4% End of Life -0.2% End of Life Sustainability 0.2% Transport 1% Transport 1.45% Transport Materials 19.5% 6% 5.95% Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing > Energy and GHG Emissions Water Use Biodiversity and Land Use Non-GHG Emissions Effluents (Liquid) Waste 80.5% Use 93.4% Use 92.8% Use Large Chassis Router Mid-Level Ethernet Switch -0.2% End of Life -0.5% End of Life 3.2% Transport 3% Transport 4% 8.5% Manufacturing Manufacturing 93% Use 89% Use This analysis used a global average electricity emissions Tools have been developed to speed up the bill-of• GHGP Scope 3/Product ICT Sector Supplement factor based on unit shipments. Larger-core routers and materials analysis portion of the electronic components of (Cisco is a founding member and chapter editor and switches are even more heavily weighted to the use our products by 90 percent through automated analysis is participating in the European Commission’s pilot for phase. For lower-power devices, especially consumerof our design files and standardized life cycle models ICT Footprint) premises equipment (CPE) that might have a shorter while maintaining accuracy with manual analyses. • European Telecommunications Standards Institute lifetime and might often be turned off or in a lower-power, (ETSI) LCA assessment of telecommunication nonoperation mode, the percentage of emissions from Cisco actively participates in ICT industry efforts that equipment and service, DTS/EE-00014 the use phase is lower. are working toward a common approach to assessing environmental impacts of products, including: • International Electronics Manufacturers Initiative (iNEMI) In addition, Cisco has been increasing its capability to Eco-Impact Evaluator Project to develop a simplified • GHGP Scope 3 and previously referenced product balance the complexity and time of performing LCAs. LCA tool for ICT products (Cisco is co-editor) accounting and reporting standards 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F26 < Previous View • Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) PAIA and useful methodologies to assess the GHG emissions to report to CDP. In February 2011, Cisco asked Environment (Product Attribute to Impact Algorithm) program, which impact of our products. approximately 1500 suppliers to report to CDP. It is Overview is developing a simplified, top-down carbon footprint Cisco’s objective for preferred suppliers to: methodology and is sharing data and best practices Scope 3 Extended Operations Emissions (Supply Chain)  Cisco Environmental 1. Report carbon emissions through CDP annually with iNEMI Cisco receives numerous inquiries from stakeholders Sustainability (with 100 percent of suppliers reporting by FY13) concerning supply chain emissions. This interest is Materials • Sponsorship of Stanford University civil engineering 2. Set a GHG emissions reduction goal (by FY15) properly founded on the concern that GHG emissions graduate program project and MIT internship on > Energy and GHG Emissions “disappear” from Cisco’s Scope 1 and 2 reporting when 3. Report Cisco’s share of the supplier’s GHG emissions sustainability Water Use a business function, such as manufacturing or component (by FY15) Biodiversity and Land Use In FY12, Cisco has participated and presented in many supply, is subcontracted to a business partner. Cisco subcontracts the assembly of our final products and also A follow-up communication to suppliers was sent in April Non-GHG Emissions forums on LCA, including: relies on a worldwide network of component suppliers of 2012 as one of our Cisco Supplier and Manufacturing Effluents (Liquid) • iNEMI Eco Impact Evaluator Article in onBoard Partner newsletters. An example of this communication and logistics providers. These business partners, in turn, Waste Technology magazine that contains relevant excerpts is available in Appendix 2. rely on additional supply chain partners to support their • Presented a lecture on LCA types and approaches for respective contributions to Cisco’s products. electronics for the University of Wisconsin at Madison We recognize that not all partners can complete all We ask our manufacturing partners and logistics three objectives in their first year of reporting. As such, • Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) providers to give us information regarding our share of we are currently tracking, via a subscription to CDP’s International Symposium on Sustainable Systems, their GHG emissions to help us understand the impacts Reporter Services software, what percentage of Cisco 2012, Boston, “Life-Cycle Assessment of a Modular related to our products and help suppliers reduce these, expenditures is with suppliers that report to CDP. Router: Analysis, Uncertainty and Applications” but currently fewer than half of our preferred component • MIT Global Leaders in Environmental Assessment We currently are tracking CDP reporting KPIs from three suppliers are able to provide this data. To address this and Performance, 2012, Boston, “Embracing Product categories of suppliers, as shown in Table 12. information gap, Cisco utilizes life-cycle assessment Sustainability” techniques and software, discussed in the previous section, to understand the relative contributions of the We want to continue to push this approach to GHG The collective intent of these efforts is to build and share reporting accountability to other categories of business various phases of product life. knowledge, apply life cycle concepts to our product partners. We will also start measuring against Cisco’s design and operations, build engagement with academia, objectives for preferred suppliers, which we outlined To target supply chain emissions, we are using our and support the ICT sector in working toward practical earlier in this report. business relationships to encourage our suppliers Table 12: Supply Chain Partners Reporting to CDP KPI FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 Comments • Contract manufacturing, na 63% 82% 100% 100% 100% Tier 1 partner. by percent of spend Goal: 100% (met). • Approved Vendor List (AVL) components, na 54% 59% 69% 69%* 80% *F Y11-specific metric unavailable; Tier 2 partner. by percent of planned spend Goal: 80% (met). • Global transportation, na na na 50% 50%* 93% *F Y11-specific metric unavailable; Tier 1 partner. by percent of spend Goal: 90% (met). 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F27 < Previous View Scope 3 Logistics estimated to have saved over 46 metric tonne of GRI EN26: Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Environment Logistics, or the delivery of new products to our material (paper, CDs, and packaging) in FY12 alone. products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. Overview customers, is part of the transportation sector and • In FY12, Cisco kicked off a massive effort to optimize includes shipment from our manufacturing sites to As global energy use has risen, so have GHG emissions.  Cisco Environmental transportation methods used for products traveling customers. This may encompass how products are While the ICT industry accounts for only “2%” of the Sustainability in between our global facilities. A careful refinement packaged and delivered. The largest impact to Scope 3 world’s GHG emissions, its proportion is growing as Materials of our demand and supply practices on some of our emissions in product logistics comes from shipping by adoption and use of technology expands globally. highest-volume product lines led teams to convert air> Energy and GHG Emissions air. To minimize our impact from product delivery, we are Product energy efficiency (or reducing our products’ based shipments to sea-based shipments whenever Water Use taking the following approach: wasted energy usage) is a big issue for Cisco because possible. The result was a staggering 96 percent Biodiversity and Land Use of the number and type of energy-consuming products • Where possible, Cisco uses a volume or multipack reduction in CO2 emissions for the impacted products. that we sell each year. Some of these devices are Non-GHG Emissions (“eco-pack” or “bundle pack”) packaging solution, • We are engaging with our transport and logistics replacements; others are additive, contributing to the Effluents (Liquid) which continues to gain traction on several of our highpartners to set expectations for sustainability emissions from IT equipment. Throughout their life cycle, volume products. Multipack has been shown to reduce performance, and we regularly measure and score our Waste our products consume the largest proportion of energy, total packaging weight by up to 2 percent compared partners on environmental performance. Our transport and release the most GHG emissions, during the use to its equivalent single-product packaging option. partners have led the industry in sustainable solutions, phase. Product energy efficiency has emerged as a key For volume products like our branch routers, where it which includes fleet upgrades and the introduction of design criterion in our products in light of our increasing is estimated that we ship over 4.5 million pounds of biofuels. Our primary logistics partners with activities awareness of climate change issues. packaging each year, this can make a big difference. in North America are all U.S. EPA SmartWay-certified. • We work closely with our transport logistics partners Customers and regulators are increasingly requiring Cisco’s Aironet products are a great example of multipack to develop more efficient means of transporting products that minimize energy costs and GHG emissions. success. In FY12, 40 percent of the Aironet products our products. This includes packaging reduction, Every year, the number of environmental sustainability– that offered multipack shipped with this option. This which leads to package volume reduction and higher related inquiries from analysts, customers, shareholders, translates to an estimated 172 tons of avoided packaging shipping efficiency, and also provides opportunities for and NGOs continues to increase. Cisco tracks the use. In FY13, Cisco has committed to working with our shipping consolidation, which leads to fewer trips and energy-use regulations and certification programs of all customers to further improve this adoption rate, not the opportunity to use alternative modes of transport. countries in which we do business. Table 13 provides a only for the existing Aironet multipack but for all existing broad overview by country of mandatory and voluntary multipacks. For more information on Cisco’s packaging To promote sustainability in our supply chain, we need to energy-efficiency requirements and standards for efforts, see the Materials section: have strong partnerships with our suppliers, and we must products relevant to Cisco. • We continue to expand our electronic fulfillment (or support them with public reporting and setting reduction “e-Delivery”) capabilities on our software and licensing goals. In the second half of FY11, we began scoring For these reasons, improving product energy efficiency products to enable software, document, and license suppliers on providing sustainability performance data represents more than just a regulatory requirement download options and to reduce materials included and any important initiatives that have led to reduction in for Cisco; it is a significant opportunity for us to help in packages sent. By the end of FY12, 76.9 percent the environmental impact of delivering our products. For customers save on energy costs, reduce global energy of total software and licensing order lines were more information on sustainability in supplier scorecards, demand, and lower GHG emissions, in addition to making fulfilled electronically, representing 67 percent of their see the Supply Chain section. our products more competitive. Product energy efficiency revenue, an increase of 34 percent and 37 percent is a key part of all product design and generation respectively year over year. Electronic adoption of Scope 3 Product Use Phase (Energy Efficiency) improvements at Cisco (see Design for Environment). products offered both electronically and physically also GRI EN6: Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or rose 6 percent year over year, ending FY12 at 87.6 renewable energy–based products and services, and percent of the total available market. Of our top 50 reductions in energy requirements as a result of these customers in this space, 96.7 percent of their orders initiatives. were fulfilled via e-Delivery. Overall, it is conservatively 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F28 < Previous View Advocacy and Standards Development believes that product energy-efficiency standards can Cisco engages with regulatory and standards bodies, Environment Cisco actively engages with governments and standardpromote innovation by being performance-based; by directly and as part of industry groups, to influence the Overview setting bodies around the world to monitor and influence taking into account product functionality; and by relying development of standards and requirements that are the development of emerging product energy-efficiency on objective criteria, real-world data, and system-level clear and effective. This engagement includes Cisco’s  Cisco Environmental Sustainability requirements, particularly around climate change. Cisco efficiency. engineering, suppliers, facilities, compliance, regulatory Materials > Energy and GHG Emissions Table 13: Relevant Worldwide Energy-Efficiency Standards Water Use Cable Data Display EPS Horizontal Mobile PC & Routers & Servers Set Top Box Biodiversity and Land Use Modem Center & TV & BC Standard Tablet Switches Non-GHG Emissions Effluents (Liquid) Argentina Waste Australia California Canada Chile China Europe Hong Kong Israel Japan South Korea Mexico New Zealand Russia Switzerland Thailand Turkey USA Vietnam Mandatory requirements currently in effect Voluntary standard or new standard under development Brazil and India are also delveloping their energy efficiency regulations 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F29 < Previous View affairs, government affairs, and corporate affairs teams. Environment We believe that these regulatory and standards activities, Table 14: Energy Efficiency–Related Initiatives and Organizations Overview when done properly, bring clarity and consistency to the global marketplace and create predictable requirements Organization Area/Issue of Engagement  Cisco Environmental Sustainability and a level playing field that reduces risk. Alliance for Telecommunications Cisco is an active member of ATIS and engages with other member organizations to Materials Industry Solutions (ATIS) develop standards relevant to the telecom industry. In 2010, Cisco took a lead role in the Improving Product Energy Efficiency > Energy and GHG Emissions development of the Telecommunications Equipment Energy Efficiency Rating, or ATIS TEER, Cisco is working to qualify its most efficient products standard for the measurement of product energy efficiency. Water Use with the U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR program. To date, the Biodiversity and Land Use focus has been on set-top boxes: cable, satellite, Internet Minimum Energy Performance Energy performance requirements and maximum power consumption of standby modes. protocol, or other devices whose primary function is to Standards—MEPS (Australia Non-GHG Emissions receive television signals from a specific source and and Korea) Effluents (Liquid) deliver them to a consumer display or recording device. Waste ENERGY STAR–qualified set-top boxes are at least European Telecommunications Cisco is engaged with ETSI in the development of standards for energy efficiency. 40 percent more efficient than conventional models. Standards Institute (ETSI) According to the EPA, if all set-top boxes in the United States met ENERGY STAR requirements, consumer Electronic Industry Citizenship Cisco is a major contributor and signatory to the Broadband Code of Conduct. energy cost savings would grow to about $1.8 billion Coalition (EICC) each year, reducing GHG emissions equivalent to those from more than 2 million vehicles. ENERGY STAR– EU/EuP (Europe) Cisco is an important stakeholder that helps with the development of energy using product (EuP) regulations and voluntary agreements for Europe. qualified set-top box products are listed on the program website. Additionally, Cisco has been providing feedback International Cisco is a major contributor to the ITU-T SG5 Lead Study Group on ICTs and climate change. to the U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR program regarding their Telecommunication Cisco presented to ITU the ATIS TEER methodology, which was then incorporated into ENERGY STAR specification for computers. Union—ITU (worldwide) Measure L, energy-efficiency metrics and measurement for telecom equipment, creating the opportunity for a single worldwide metric. In 2009, Cisco was co-editor for several of the Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS) Ministry of Economy, Trade Minimum energy efficiency requirement for networking router and switch product groups. standards and Energy Efficiency of Telecommunications and Industry—METI (Japan) Equipment: Methodology for Measurement and Reporting standards, and specifically those regarding: U.S. Department of Energy Cisco has been actively working with the EPA to define ENERGY STAR standards for (DOE), Environmental networking equipment. Cisco provided the initial framework about four years ago. Since • Server and server blade (ATIS-0600015.01.2009) Protection Agency (EPA), then, Cisco has actively worked with Lawrence Berkeley National Labs, the EPA technical • Transport/network systems (ATIS-0600015.02.2009) Green Grid arm, on measurement methodologies and metrics. Cisco routinely provides feedback to these organizations on best practices, draft standards, and actual power measurement • Router and Ethernet switch products procedures for relevant products. (ATIS-0600015.03.2009) 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F30 < Previous View These ATIS TEER standards created a framework for Environment measuring product energy usage that takes into account Figure 4: Energy Efficiency Performance Improvements Between Two Generations Overview product functionality and uses real-world loads to of Cisco Integrated Services Routers determine energy efficiency. This is important because Cisco Environmental 1000 Sustainability it allows companies like Cisco to compare energyCisco ISR G2 2009 Products usage design improvements from product generation to Materials 900 generation, and it helps consumers make more informed 2901 > Energy and GHG Emissions 3945 purchasing decisions. 800 Water Use 2911 Biodiversity and Land Use Cisco is in the process of applying the router and switch 3925 700 2951 standard to develop energy profiles for products within Non-GHG Emissions ATIS TEER (NORMALIZED BITS/WATT) the enterprise and ISP router and switch product family Effluents (Liquid) 600 2921 categories. Representative models have been tested Waste from each of the product families listed in Table 15. 500 Table 15: Cisco Product Families Tested Using the 400 3825 3845 ATIS TEER Methodology 300 CRS1 Catalyst 2800 2851 2821 200 CRS3 Catalyst 2900 2801 2811 GSR Catalyst 3800 100 Cisco ISR G1 2004 Products ASR 9000 Catalyst 4500 0 15454 Catalyst 6000 Nexus 7000 Catalyst 6500 The products tested make up approximately 90 percent yet been released in other product lines. The results Catalyst 1900 of Cisco products in ATIS TEER scope. In 2010 and show that across the products measured, there was 2011, we collected baseline performance data for a roughly a threefold increase in normalized bits-per-watt representative product from each category listed in performance between the two generations of products. Table 15. The goal is to measure products as new generations are released to gauge improvement between From 2006 to 2010, Cisco was a major force behind generations. Energy Efficient Ethernet (IEEE 802.3az), which specified an industry standard protocol to allow networked Figure 4 presents performance improvements per devices to save energy based on utilization. In 2011, watt consumed from a selected sample set of Cisco Cisco proposed and initiated a project to add a similar products for which firstand second-generation energy efficiency protocol for ultra-high-speed network energy performance was measured using the ATIS interfaces within the project for enhanced 100Gbps TEER standard. This is the same data used in our 2011 operation (IEEE P802.3bj). CSR Report, as next-generation products have not 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F31 < Previous View Cisco is working to reduce energy demand by cutting would not draw the power needed to manage 48 ports Power supply efficiency addresses only a portion of the Environment the power used by the Application-Specific Integrated when it is placed in a 24-port switch. problem. Often in the electronics industry, power supplies Overview Circuits (ASICs) found in most Cisco products. ASICs • Voltage scaling: To compensate for the performance are not designed for the specific operating parameters of are designed for a particular application in a particular variation inherent in manufactured products, Cisco is individual products. Thus, the power supply is operating  Cisco Environmental Sustainability product. Lower-cost, higher-volume products that Cisco scaling, or adjusting, the energy consumed by ASICs at a low utilization, and products end up using power sells use off-the-shelf OEM-designed ASIC chips. For to achieve performance standards and minimize supplies that manage and use more energy than the Materials the enterprise and data center switches (Cisco Nexus energy consumption. Cisco is adjusting the ASIC chip products require. Cisco sees this as an opportunity to > Energy and GHG Emissions and Cisco Catalyst series), Cisco designs its own ASIC specify the actual range of power demands for a given energy requirement (up and down) to compensate for Water Use chips. As shown in Figure 5, ASICs consume a significant product and then design the power supply to manage any manufacturing variation in performance. Biodiversity and Land Use percentage of board-level energy consumption. and provide power within this range. Members of Cisco’s • Adaptive power management: This enables an ASIC Non-GHG Emissions product design teams are engaged in efforts, such as to actively manage the energy it requires based on the the Climate Savers Computing Initiatives within the Green Effluents (Liquid) load of work it is processing Figure 5: Example of Board-Level Energy Grid industry consortium, to identify the best approaches Waste Consumption by Function These ASIC energy-management mechanisms will to resolving these problems. soon be available to designers to drive down the energy Miscellaneous Scope 3 Product End of Life requirements for devices. These refinements have been The last product life cycle phase defined in the GHGP CPU shown, in lab tests, to reduce energy consumption Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard between 10 and 30 percent. Memory is end-of-life (EOL) management. There are minimal emissions associated with this life cycle phase, and Cisco has included a requirement in our product most of them are connected to the transport of the ASIC requirements document that power supplies be at least returned product and the recycling process. The largest 85 percent efficient. Power supplies are the devices opportunity for reduction of GHG emissions from that power computers, servers, and other electronic recycling is in reducing upstream emissions. devices. They convert AC power from electrical plugs FPGA into DC power typically used by ICT equipment. In FY12, As Cisco introduces initiatives to increase the return all new power supply awards that fall within the scope of used or EOL products, we will need to study the of the 80 PLUS certification were rated silver or higher. relative environmental impact of earlier or later product Cisco is developing energy savings approaches for these The 80 PLUS performance specification requires multiretirement. Energy efficiency improves with each product chips that include: output power supplies in computers and servers to have generation, so earlier product retirement can decrease 80 percent or greater energy efficiency at 20 percent, • Feature-based energy management: ASIC chips are overall emissions since the use-phase emissions 50 percent, and 100 percent of their rated load. As an often developed to be rich in features and capability dominate the product life cycle. However, creating new example, improving the efficiency of the power supply so they can be used in a large number of product products introduces other environmental impacts. A for our Cisco Catalyst 6500 Series Switch from 80 to 90 models. Cisco is developing new ASIC chips that are similar dynamic exists in the auto industry. Overall, is it percent can provide an annual savings of more than 3500 configurable to the specific features within the product better to retire a relatively new 30-mpg car for a 50-mpg kWh. For more details on how we cut power use for the using such ASIC chips. As an example, such a chip car? We will use LCA techniques to inform our strategy in Catalyst 6500 Series, see the Cisco website. this area. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F32 < Previous View Benchmarking GHG Emissions Reduction Goals The Enabling Effect—The 98% services can be used to achieve reductions in GHG Environment Figure 6 places our 25 percent reduction goal in the In the previous sections, we provided an overview of our emissions in other industry sectors. For example, Overview context of the 80 percent goal for developed countries Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions from our own operations high-definition videoconferencing (ICT sector) can be highlighted by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate and offered metrics for addressing the emissions of used to simulate face-to-face interaction and avoid air Cisco Environmental Sustainability Change (IPCC). our supply chain as well as other phases of the product travel (transportation sector), or energy monitoring and life cycle. An additional consideration when assessing control of IP-enabled devices (ICT sector) can be used Materials To estimate Cisco’s 1990 emissions levels for Figure 6, the carbon footprint of a product or service over its to reduce energy consumption in buildings (real estate, > Energy and GHG Emissions we assumed the average worldwide rate of emissions life cycle is the so-called enabling effect. The term industrial sectors). Water Use growth from 1990 to 2007 and calculated a generic 1990 “enabling” is used where ICT sector products and Biodiversity and Land Use baseline. Cisco’s actual 1990 energy consumption data is not available because it was not collected, and it would Non-GHG Emissions be unrealistic to use this data as a baseline given how Figure 6: Idealized Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Model Effluents (Liquid) rapidly our business has grown. Our FY1990 revenue Waste was only 0.2 percent of FY09 revenue. More discussion 600,000 will be needed in FY13, informed by COP17, to better 2007 understand how emissions allocations for developed and emerging countries will affect expectations for Cisco’s 5% 25% Reduction 500,000 next reduction goal. Per Year Idealized 1990 2012 Emissions Cisco will continue to develop products that GHG EMISSIONS (CO2 e METRIC TONNE) leverage network technologies and implement the 400,000 recommendations of the SMART 2020 report. Roughly IPCC Guidance: 75 percent of energy-related GHG emissions are from Developed Country buildings and transportation. By advancing the Cisco 300,000 4.1% Per Year 80% Reduction solutions discussed in this section, we are well positioned to reduce not only our own building and transportation emissions, but also the aggregated emissions of our 200,000 customers. 100,000 Idealized 2050 Emissions 0 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 YEAR 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F33 < Previous View According to data from the International Energy sector was projected to be responsible for only 3 percent • Offering low-carbon ways to avoid business travel and Environment Agency (IEA) and U.S. Energy Information Agency of global emissions in 2020. Potential abatements are employee commuting: Customers are rethinking their Overview (EIA), summarized in Figure 7, about 75 percent of concentrated in the areas of transportation, buildings, behaviors and finding innovative, network-enabled energy-related GHG emissions are from buildings and power/energy, and industry. Innovative application of alternatives, such as web-based collaboration as an  Cisco Environmental Sustainability transportation. network technologies promotes change through our alternative to travel, and teleworking as an alternative solutions, our products, and our operations. to daily commuting. Materials Although the use of ICT products such as computers, • Providing connected energy management: Customers > Energy and GHG Emissions data center devices, and network equipment consumes The GHGP Scope 3/Product ICT Sector Supplement can employ the network to measure, monitor, report, Water Use energy, there is substantial opportunity to use ICT mentioned previously is intended to fully develop this and plan for greater energy efficiencies. Biodiversity and Land Use products to reduce global energy-related GHG emissions methodology for use by practitioners in the field. and make the world more energy efficient. In FY09, At Cisco, we are developing solutions for both mitigating Non-GHG Emissions Cisco sponsored and contributed to the SMART 2020 Cisco customers are looking for ways to reduce Effluents (Liquid) and adapting to climate change. We are looking for ways report, which identified opportunities for the ICT their energy-related costs and their carbon footprint. to increase energy productivity and energy efficiency, Waste sector to develop and apply network technologies to This creates market opportunities for Cisco. Cisco is which helps reduce avoidable emissions by slowing reducing annual GHG emissions by 15 percent, which researching, developing, piloting, and delivering network growth in energy demand and reducing the rate of is a substantial positive impact considering that the ICT technologies that can help reduce GHG emissions by: increase in global GHG emissions from increasing energy use. Cisco data center virtualization technologies, for example, significantly reduce the number of data center Figure 7: Industry Sector Breakdown of Greenhouse Gases from Energy Use components. Using fewer components means less electricity is used to operate both the ICT equipment and U.S. Energy Information Agency (EIA 2009) International Energy Agency (IEA14 2004) the HVAC equipment used for data center cooling. Using few components also reduces emissions due to the manufacture of underutilized equipment. 26% 26% 26% Passenger Cisco recognizes that the application of technology alone Industrial Manufacturing Transport 34% will not result in a drop in emissions. Changes in culture, Transportation management practices, and business processes are also needed to achieve the full potential of the technology. However, this evolution to collaborative technologies, smart buildings and work spaces, and connected energy management creates additional benefits, including faster decision-making, improved cross-cultural 14% 19% 11% communications, broader dissemination of information Buildings, Buildings, Freight around the world, and increased ability to efficiently Services Commercial deploy scarce internal resources. 21% Buildings, Residential 22% Buildings, Household 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F34 < Previous View Subsequent sections of this report highlight Cisco depiction on the right side of the figure shows a campus specified with an ENERGY STAR label. Cisco ENERGY Environment customer solutions and research and development with fewer buildings, augmented by employees working STAR servers will meet these criteria. Additionally, Overview programs that not only address the key sources of from home or from nearby satellite offices used by one or equipment like the Cisco EnergyWise management energy-related GHG emissions shown in Figure 7, but more companies. system can also help achieve credit in multiple rating  Cisco Environmental Sustainability also address the challenges associated with adapting systems if it can be shown to contribute to overall energy to climate change. Several calculators have been released to estimate the savings at a building level. For example, if a customer Materials enabling effect of Cisco solutions. Cisco has developed uses the EnergyWise software and calculates that it > Energy and GHG Emissions Transportation calculators for Remote Collaboration, Cisco Virtual Office/ contributes to an 18 percent cost savings, those savings Water Use There are two use cases that employ Cisco remote Telecommuting, Connected Buildings, and Connected can be included in an Energy Model, which is required Biodiversity and Land Use collaboration technologies: avoiding business air travel Workplace. We’ve collected these interactive calculators in the LEED NC rating system for New Buildings. Those and avoiding employee commuting. into a single PowerPoint file. Each calculator has eight savings would also potentially improve the ENERGY STAR Non-GHG Emissions or nine tabs at the top that are accessible when in fullscore of an existing building, which helps achieve a LEED Effluents (Liquid) The figure in Appendix 3 depicts the business-as-usual screen mode and are divided between inputs (on left) EB (Existing Buildings) rating. Waste meeting (requiring travel) and the remote collaboration and results (on right). Results are net emissions. The meeting (utilizing ICT) that provides voice, desktop input tabs and the provided DOMANI validation letters Virtualization and Cloud Computing sharing, and high-definition video among multiple provide an explanation of assumptions. There is also According to a Forrester Consulting study commissioned locations. a web implementation of the telepresence tab of this in 2009 by VMware, firms initially deployed virtual servers spreadsheet. An additional standalone web-based to improve hardware utilization. Today, these firms cite The increasing interoperability of our remote collaboration calculator for telepresence has also been released for improved power and cooling efficiency as the motivation products, such as Cisco TelePresence, Cisco WebEx, mobile phones and web browsers. to adopt virtualization technology. Cisco data center and Tandberg, further extend the potential for remote solutions achieve resource savings of up to 70 percent collaboration. For instance, Tandberg devices and Cisco Because of the need for additional, dedicated equipment, through virtualization. TelePresence products can both be endpoints in a Cisco carefully studied the energy/GHG cost of the single meeting.1 WebEx can be connected to a Cisco Cisco TelePresence operation. Most of this cost is from At the Cisco Efficiency Assurance Program website, TelePresence meeting so that WebEx attendees who may operation of end-user equipment (screens, lighting, and information on power consumption can be found in the not be near a Cisco TelePresence room can participate local electronics), the local HVAC system, and vampire “planning” box, and the calculators and planning tools in the meeting. Cisco TelePresence exchanges, similar to loads. Several orders of magnitude less power is used by are midway down the list of choices. A tutorial on the telephone switchboards, are now in place with partners network aggregation and backbone functions, as shown calculator is available. A product-specific calculator for such as AT&T, BT, and Tata so that Cisco TelePresence in work partly sponsored by Cisco (IEEE, UCSB). the ASR 1000 Aggregation Services Router for service calls can be made both within a single company and providers is also provided. between companies through the exchanges. Buildings LEED Accreditation In FY11, Cisco opened a green data center in Allen, The figure in Appendix 4 depicts the second use case Where Cisco products can be shown to save energy, Texas, with an architecture deploying Cisco’s entire for transport substitution: business-as-usual employee provide an innovative solution to an energy problem, data center technology portfolio spanning computing, commuting (requiring travel) and teleworking using many or both, these products can contribute to achievement switching, and data storage access to support Cisco’s of the same technologies used to avoid business travel of LEED credits under certain LEED rating systems. internal private cloud. All of these technologies are (plus high-definition, video-capable broadband in the For example, under LEED v3 Commercial Interiors, available to our customers to improve the efficiency of home). The left side of the figure depicts car, bus, and rail EAc4.4 Optimize Energy Performance, Equipment and their data center operations. commuting to a multi-building campus. The teleworking Appliances, credit is given to appliances if they are 1. Cisco has combined all videoconferencing equipment under the Cisco TelePresence name. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F35 < Previous View This data center incorporates numerous features to simple, scalable, and highly secure and to deliver any Cisco EnergyWise won the Best of Interop 2009 award in Environment reduce environmental impact: application across to any location, within the data center, the Green category for leadership in improving corporate Overview • The uninterruptible power supply (UPS) room in the 5 across data centers, and to the cloud. energy efficiency and for lowering operational costs with MW data center (expandable to 10 MW) uses rotary its energy-management architecture. For the average Cisco Environmental Cisco EnergyWise sized Cisco customer, EnergyWise has the potential to Sustainability flywheels, which require little energy to continue in Cisco EnergyWise is an energy management technology reduce energy usage by 20 percent in the first phase Materials motion, to start the diesel generators in case of power that allows organizations to report and reduce the energy of deployment and to realize significant cost savings. A loss, instead of the hundreds of batteries typically used > Energy and GHG Emissions use of all IP-enabled equipment. Cisco EnergyWise is calculator for estimating energy savings is available on in older data centers. Water Use embedded in our switching and routing portfolio and the Cisco website. • The data center is cooled by an air-side economizer helps improve operational efficiency and to reduce Biodiversity and Land Use design that reduces the need for mechanical chilling energy costs and GHG emissions across the corporate As part of Cisco’s commitment to open standards and Non-GHG Emissions by using ambient air when the outside temperature infrastructure, potentially impacting any powered energy savings, Cisco has led a new working group Effluents (Liquid) is low. Cisco calculates the facility can use filtered, device. EnergyWise is a part of Cisco IOS software, but within the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) to Waste unchilled outdoor air 65 percent of the time, saving an interfacing hardware is upgraded to enable the hardware apply the principles used in EnergyWise in an open expected $600,000 per year in cooling costs. to understand EnergyWise commands. The purpose and interoperable manner that may be used without • A lagoon captures rainwater to irrigate the indigenous, of EnergyWise is to control power-over-Ethernet at the restriction by any developer in the industry. drought-resistant landscape plants switch or, if the end-user hardware device has also been upgraded, at the end-user device itself. Examples of EnergyWise product footprint, partnerships, • Solar cells on the roof generate 100 kW of power for and implementation growth in FY12 are: the office spaces in the building Brunel University in West London and the Council Rock • As of FY12, there are 30 EnergyWise partners actively • Cisco received LEED Gold certification for the data School District in Newtown, Pennsylvania, were both selling the product center in early FY12 outfitted with SMART technologies, including Cisco EnergyWise. EnergyWise was used to control switches, • In FY12, we created a program to make the benefits of The data center is designed to achieve a Power Usage WAPs, IP phones, PCs and laptops, IP cameras, IPEnergyWise more easily accessible. With the purchase Effectiveness metric of 1.35. This metric was developed enabled projectors, and electronic whiteboards. Through of Cisco Catalyst 4500, 3750, or 3560 series switches, by the Green Grid industry consortium to measure the the use of EnergyWise-enabled products, these an EnergyWise software license is provided for use efficiency of data center facility design. An interview institutions were able to save $140,000 and $200,000 with Joulex, Nimsoft (CA Technologies) or Verdiem showing various features of the data center was done by annually in energy costs. This kind of reduction is thought software. Data Center Knowledge in June 2011. The data center to be possible in most buildings (and homes). • Cisco partnered with Xerox to develop a simple is paired with a second one in Richardson, Texas, to network management protocol (SNMP) translation to form what we call a Metro Virtual Data Center. Together, Through our developer network, Cisco has partnered control printers using EnergyWise and any SNMPthe data centers form a virtualized, dynamic IT services with several vendors of EnergyWise-compliant power capable device cloud, and they serve as backup sites for one another. distribution units (PDUs). Each plug of the PDU is This enables both data centers to run real-time critical individually addressable for EnergyWise instruction and applications, such as Cisco WebEx, simultaneously in for power monitoring. Because almost every energyWatch the Video! Cisco EnergyWise both places for world-class business resiliency. using device has a power cord, EnergyWise-compliant gives companies a global view of energy management. Energy use can PDUs are a universal means for power monitoring This next-generation data center tightly integrates Cisco be controlled through the network, and device control, regardless of vendor or date of delivering economic and environmental Unified Fabric, Unified Computing, and Unified Network manufacture. savings. Services into a holistic data center fabric designed to be 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F36 < Previous View • Cisco partnered with Joulex and NuLeds to In the electricity industry, the pace of change and Improved network infrastructure will help utility Environment demonstrate LED lighting control via EnergyWise opportunity for disruption is accelerating. Thirty years companies optimize power supply and demand by Overview • Cisco launched an energy-optimization service (EoS) of energy policy and industry structural changes are routing power more efficiently and by allowing demandin advanced services to allow customers to get energy combining with accelerated social and technological side management and two-way, real-time information Cisco Environmental Sustainability services (audits and controls) directly from Cisco using evolution. This is creating significant pressure for exchange with customers. This information is critical EnergyWise fundamental changes in the design, operation, structure, for implementing dispersed renewable generation and Materials and regulation of the electric industry. Strategies to adding plug-in hybrid and electric vehicles to the utility > Energy and GHG Emissions • Internally we launched the lab energy services using aid these changes require alignment among policy, grid. An Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) report Water Use EnergyWise on PDUs to monitor the energy of labs economics, and technology in what Cisco calls projects the role of both technologies in the low-carbon across Cisco Biodiversity and Land Use Gridonomics. electricity mix through 2030, as shown in Figure 8. Non-GHG Emissions Cisco Connected Workplace Effluents (Liquid) Cisco Connected Workplace is a flexible work environment designed to support employee mobility and Figure 8: Contribution of Renewables and Plug-in Electric Vehicle (PEV) Waste improve collaboration by providing a variety of workplace to Projected Future Energy Supply Low-carbon generation enables electrification and CO2 reductions in other sectors of economy settings and enhanced technology tools. The initiative takes advantage of the fact that workplaces today are 3500 vacant up to 60 percent of the time because people are working away from their desks, collaborating formally and informally in person, and using rich remote technologies 3000 such as Cisco WebEx and Cisco TelePresence. U.S. ELECTRIC SECTOR CO2 EMISSIONS Efficiency 2500 Cisco Connected Workplace case studies show reduced Renewables costs associated with real estate, furniture, workplace services, and IT infrastructure. Such environments 2000 Nuclear typically support 30 percent more employees than a (MILLION METRIC TONS) Fossil Efficiency traditional layout, thereby substantially reducing footprint CCS demands and associated costs. 1500 PEV Utility/Smart Grid Electro1000 Technologies Energy-related carbon dioxide emissions from the generation of electricity are about 40 percent of total energy-related GHG emissions. That is, industrial 500 processes, buildings, and some transportation are powered directly by electricity and total about 40 percent 0 of all energy-related emissions. Therefore, efficiency 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 improvements in delivering electricity have significant potential to reduce GHG emissions. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F37 < Previous View Renewables and plug-in electric vehicles (PEVs) are environmental sustainability to our customers around the land-water-energy-food-climate nexus. The second Environment seen to constitute a significant part of the projected the world. Cisco’s Smart+Connected Communities is trend is data abundance, which is created by an increase Overview generation mix in 2030, but only if enabled by smart grid a global initiative that uses the network as the platform in low-cost sensor networks and network-enabled data technologies. to transform physical communities into connected collection systems, the explosion of social media data,  Cisco Environmental Sustainability communities that are run on networked information. The and data mining capabilities. Planetary Skin Institute (PSI) Combined with smart meters and time-of-day pricing, initiative is leveraging the network to deliver integrated aims to address the challenge posed by the first trend Materials customers will see how power is being used to influence offerings across real estate, transportation, safety and with the opportunity presented by the second. > Energy and GHG Emissions behavior to reduce energy consumption or shift security, utilities, health, education, and government to Water Use demand in time to permit use of lower-carbon sources improve community management, economic growth, PSI is a global nonprofit research and development Biodiversity and Land Use of electricity. Pilot projects, including a 2010 report citizen quality of life, and sustainable development. organization, initially incubated by Cisco and NASA, that sponsored by the U.S. Department of Energy Pacific aims to improve the lives of millions of people around the Non-GHG Emissions Northwest Laboratory, have shown a 10 to 15 percent A range of additional material is available on our Internet world by developing riskand resource-management Effluents (Liquid) reduction in household energy use with smart grid Business Solutions Group website concerning the role of decision services. PSI collaborates with research and Waste technologies. Cisco is partnering with General Electric, the network in creating sustainable cities. A Forbes article development partners to incubate replicable and scalable Florida Power & Light, and Silver Spring Networks on provides an overview of the potential impact of IT on city innovations that can significantly increase the resilience Energy Smart Miami, a pilot for a comprehensive smart development and living. of communities; increase food, water, and energy grid deployment. Cisco is participating in the Pecan security; and protect key ecosystems and biodiversity. Street Project to make the city of Austin, Texas, a test Planetary Skin bed for clean energy and smart grid goals. Cisco is also Two powerful trends are reshaping the world. The PSI aims to support the efforts of communities, a member of the GridWise Alliance, advocating for the first trend is resource scarcity, which is the result of governments, businesses, think tanks, international adoption of smart grid technologies. an explosive growth in demand for resources (water, funding organizations, academic institutions, and other energy, food, fiber, minerals) as growing populations stakeholders by creating open-platform capabilities and Integrated Solutions with rising incomes push against increasing constraints tools that meaningfully advance the world’s resourceSmart+Connected Communities on the supply of these resources due to environmental and risk-management capabilities. PSI is committed to Cities currently account for a significant percentage of degradation, land use change, increasing variability the development of global public goods that address the world’s GHG emissions. Cisco has launched the of weather conditions and resource productivity, and the resource scarcity challenge, reduce the complexity Smart+Connected Communities initiative globally to the threat of catastrophic climate change. Further of the water-food-energy-land nexus, and address the take advantage of the leadership, ideas, and solutions complicating this trend are the complex trade-offs in and increasing impact of weather extremes. See more details incubated by the Connected Urban Development between the different resource classes embedded in on the Planetary Skin Institute website. program and to promote economic, social, and 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F38 < Previous View Environment Water Use Information System (SIS) that has greatly improved our • Using recycled water for irrigation and fountain ability to track water consumption data for the majority of displays GRI EN8: Total water withdrawal by source. our real estate operations. Given the size and geographic Overview • Installing variable-frequency drives in our cooling dispersion of our operations, this has been a challenging towers  Cisco Environmental GRI EN9: Water sources significantly affected by Sustainability task, as many of the locations where Cisco shares a withdrawal of water. • Installing two-way valves for toilets, sink aerators, building with other tenants do not have water sub-meters Materials low-flow shower heads, and pre-rinse spray valves installed. In FY12, we were able to increase the collection Energy and GHG Emissions Because our headquarters are located in California, for kitchen sinks of water data to 71 percent of our total real estate > Water Use where water rights and usage are a significant issue, • Converting decorative fountains into landscaped beds portfolio by area, as shown in Table 16. Cisco has always been conscious of water use in our planted with native drought-resistant plants Biodiversity and Land Use operations. Since FY07, Cisco has been collecting water We are minimizing our water impacts through innovative Non-GHG Emissions • Replacing turf with planter beds that require little water, data for our major campus locations. Using the World strategies for reduction and reuse. Although our efforts and installing drip irrigation lines to improve irrigation Effluents (Liquid) Business Council for Sustainable Development water tool, to date have recognized the importance of a locally efficiency Waste we believe that three of these sites are located in waterrelevant approach to water management, we are now scarce areas and that two sites are in water-stressed • Utilizing a water harvesting system at our Bangalore, acting to institutionalize water management systems. areas. Key objectives of Cisco’s water management India, campus to capture rainwater for filtering and use Wherever appropriate, Cisco reduces water consumption program are to: within the operation of its buildings and uses reclaimed We mitigate our impacts in water-scarce areas by • Identify and respond to site-level water conservation water for landscaping and similar applications. Over the incorporating resource constraints into our local office opportunities for our operations years, we have been able to make many changes to building and data center development plans. Cisco • Work with partners such as local governments, water our landscaping practices while creating attractive and seeks to site our operations in areas where we can utilities, and owners of our leased buildings to pursue inviting landscapes for our customers, employees, and most successfully serve our customers while minimizing and replicate best practices in our operations and our surrounding communities. negative environmental impacts. beyond Throughout our campus locations in FY12, we have It is important to note that because the production of Cisco’s primary water impacts come from office building continued to support and maintain a number of water electrical power is one of the largest uses of fresh potable water and sanitation, landscaping, and cooling conservation initiatives that were started as early as water worldwide, the largest opportunity for Cisco to towers. In FY12, we have continued measuring our FY08, including: reduce our impact on water resources is by continuing to water use so we can better understand the impact of • Utilizing irrigation controllers throughout the San Jose make our operations, our suppliers’ operations, and our our programs, and we integrated a new Sustainability main campus products more energy efficient. Table 16: Water Use KPI FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 Comments Total water use, m3 1,725,618 1,570,831 1,690,348 1,753,269 1,763,536 1,908,953 Includes irrigation (where used) and potable water Real estate portfolio covered by water reporting 59% 58% 65% 67% 68% 71% 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F39 < Previous View Environment Biodiversity and Land Use At Cisco, land use for facilities and office-based a protected habitat for the burrowing owl (ICUN Redlist operations represents our primary impact on biodiversity. Category Least Concern) and a rare plant species GRI EN11: Location and size of land owned, leased, Cisco mitigates our impact by reducing the demand for (Congdon’s Tarplant). Protection activities that Cisco has Overview managed in, or adjacent to protected areas and areas of physical office space. Cisco employee telework programs implemented on this land include the following:  Cisco Environmental high biodiversity value outside protected areas. and other support solutions, such as Cisco Connected Sustainability • Developing and implementing a wetland mitigation Workplace, Cisco Virtual Office, and OfficeExtend, plan that created 0.77 acres of wetlands in the habitat Materials GRI EN12: Description of significant impacts of activities, are instrumental to our strategy. The flexibility of preserve area and establishing a five-year monitoring Energy and GHG Emissions products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas Cisco Connected Workplace and Cisco collaboration program and maintenance program Water Use and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected technologies reduces the demand for office space areas. • Implementing a rare plant species mitigation plan to > Biodiversity and Land Use by more efficiently using existing space and enabling protect Congdon’s Tarplant. This plan requires seed Non-GHG Emissions employees to work remotely while remaining productive. GRI EN13: Habitats protected or restored. collection and replanting within the habitat preserve As mentioned previously, a space using Cisco Connected Effluents (Liquid) area and ongoing maintenance over a five-year period. Workplace could accommodate approximately 30 Waste GRI EN14: Strategies, current actions, and future plans for percent more employees compared to a traditional office • Implementing a burrowing owl mitigation plan that managing impacts on biodiversity. layout, substantially reducing office space and land required preconstruction surveys for burrowing owls use requirements and the associated impacts on the and the installation of 12 artificial burrows in the GRI EN15: Number of International Union for Conservation environment (see Table 17). habitat preserve area, habitat maintenance measures of Nature (IUCN) Red List species and national to encourage owls to relocate to and remain in conservation list species with habitats in areas affected Cisco actively evaluates the biodiversity and land-use the preserve area, monitoring during construction by operations, by level of extinction risk. impacts of potential facility sites through environmental activities, and a permanent perimeter fence around the impact assessments required for permitting. In addition, preserve area GRI EN25: Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity Cisco generates an annual biodiversity summary report • Locating grazing cattle on this habitat preserve area as value of water bodies and related habitats significantly that summarizes GRI EN11-15 and EN25 for all existing a method of weed abatement and soil compaction to affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of Cisco owned land and property. For example, in Alviso, help facilitate wetlands establishment water and runoff. California, Cisco has a 20.4-acre parcel of land that is Table 17: Biodiversity and Land Use KPI FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 Comments Percent of real estate portfolio with biodiversity not not not 65% 63% 61% Includes International Union for Conservation of assessment reported reported reported Nature (IUCN) Red List and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations. Owned property. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F40 < Previous View Environment Non-GHG Emissions Table 18 summarizes other airborne emissions: VOCs, not use any mechanical equipment, such as gasolineNOx, SOx, and particulate matter. NOx and SOx powered lawn mowers, after 11 a.m. on designated Spare GRI EN19: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by emissions originate from the combustion of fossil fuels the Air days, when air quality is poor in San Francisco Bay Overview weight. in vehicle engines, boilers, or emergency generators Area. In addition, we have instituted Summer Saturday  Cisco Environmental Sustainability that are occasionally tested onsite. These emissions are Shift Work, which reduces equipment emissions due to GRI EN20: NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions calculated based on fuel consumption collected in the improvements in maintenance staff productivity. Over Materials by type and weight. past three fiscal years. As Cisco is working on reducing the course of 32 weeks, we saved 44 hours per week of Energy and GHG Emissions overall GHG emissions, we expect a proportional grounds crew time as a result of increased efficiency. Water Use Because most of Cisco’s production is outsourced to reduction of NOx and SOx emissions across our supply chain partners, our global operations primarily In accordance with the 1987 Montreal Protocol on Biodiversity and Land Use operations. consist of standard office activities and research labs. Substances That Deplete the Ozone Layer, we have > Non-GHG Emissions This limits our non-GHG emissions to volatile organic The actual quantities of VOC-based chemicals are worked with our supply chain partners to phase out Effluents (Liquid) compounds (VOCs) from occasional use of cleaning minimal, and therefore monitoring is not required. ozone-depleting substances (ODS) in their manufacturing Waste products, nitrous oxides (NOx) and sulfur oxides (SOx) processes. from onsite fuel combustion, and the subsequent At locations across Northern California, Cisco complies development of ozone from the photochemical reaction with California Air Resources Board requests and does of NOx. Table 18: Non-GHG Emissions KPI FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 Comments Volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions negligible negligible negligible negligible negligible negligible Because most of Cisco’s production is outsourced to supply chain partners, Cisco’s global operations primarily consist of offices and research labs, which may require the occasional use of cleaning products containing VOCs. Quantities of VOC-based chemicals are minimal and are not required to be monitored. NOx, metric tonne 177 167 164 241 339 381 SOx, metric tonne 0.67 0.71 0.73 0.84 1.05 1.11 Particulate matter negligible negligible negligible negligible negligible negligible 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F41 < Previous View Environment Effluents (Liquid) Cisco seeks out partners, such as local governments reported and phased out, and substances to be watched and utilities, that can provide support and share bestfor potential inclusion on the restricted substances list. GRI EN10: Percentage and total volume of water recycled practices to help reduce water use (and effluents). We These include controlled substances associated with Overview and reused. count on these experts and leaders as a resource in applicable global regulations such as Restriction of  Cisco Environmental Sustainability our own operational efforts. Cisco participates in the Hazardous Substances Directive (RoHS) and Registration, GRI EN21: Total water discharge by quality and California Environmental Dialogue Longview Committee, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals Materials destination. a forum for frank and honest discussion about California’s (REACH). Two examples of substances outside the Energy and GHG Emissions long-term strategic environmental, economic, and current scope of global regulatory requirements that Water Use GRI EN23: Total number and volume of significant spills. resource management issues. Table 19 shows Cisco’s Cisco monitors for reduction and substitution in the Biodiversity and Land Use KPI for liquid effluents. manufacturing of its electronics are brominated flame We seek to site our operations in areas where we can Non-GHG Emissions retardants (BFRs) and polyvinyl chloride (PVC). successfully service our customers while minimizing > Effluents (Liquid) our negative environmental impacts. Operations siting Waste Cisco has been working with our research and > Waste is an especially important consideration with our data development teams, manufacturing partners, industry centers. We currently cool most of our data centers by Controlled Substances standards technical committees, and academia to air movement. However, as equipment becomes more As a global supplier of electronic equipment to validate proposed alternatives for BFRs and PVC in our compact and consumes more power per unit area, we consumers and industry, Cisco is responsible for the products. We have continued to identify, confirm, and need to identify more efficient cooling mechanisms, and management of materials within our products. Global endorse alternatives for plastics containing BFR and one of the options we are considering is water-based environmental regulations and Cisco’s interest in reducing PVC that are used in our products. Over the last 2 to cooling. the impact of the materials used in the manufacturing of 3 years, we have performed material assessments, our products and in our supply chain have helped spur surveyed suppliers, and identified the areas within our We also work closely with the owners of our leased the development of products that use environmentally business where we could have the greatest influence and spaces to incorporate environmentally sound practices preferable materials. Cisco has established substance success transitioning to BFRand PVC-free materials. into lease agreements. Our green lease terms incorporate requirements for products in our controlled substances This issue is most relevant to Cisco as it relates to printed LEED criteria, allowing us to negotiate requirements such specification. The purpose of this specification is to circuit boards, Cisco-designed plastic parts, and cables. as water use measures into new leases as well as those communicate Cisco’s substance use and reporting Findings from these efforts for each area are described in up for renewal. Given the nature of office buildings, these requirements to suppliers and manufacturers. The the following sections. changes often benefit all tenants and frequently provide specification outlines the restricted substances, cost savings to the landlord. exemptions to these restrictions, substances to be Table 19: Effluent Spills and Discharges KPI FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 Comments Spills and discharges none none none none none none In FY12, there were no reportable spills or discharges to the environment from Cisco facilities or operations worldwide. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F42 < Previous View BFRs in Printed Circuit Boards (PCBs) compounds (by part volume) used in Cisco products BFRs. The cost, design flexibility, and performance of Environment In 2011, Cisco performed its own reliability and signal use resins that are BFRand PVC-free. Those Ciscothese qualified BFR-free laminates makes them attractive Overview integrity testing of new laminate alternatives by way of designed components that do contain BFR or PVC are for a growing percentage of Cisco products, and we are new material qualification processes. As a result, Cisco generally small in mass (less than 25 grams) and are actively encouraging our business units and suppliers  Cisco Environmental Sustainability qualified new PCB laminate materials that do not have used in products with relatively low sales volumes. Cisco to select BFR-free laminates for new designs. Thus, we halogenated flame retardants for use in new products will continue to research and propose BFRand PVC-free expect to see increasing use of these BFR-free materials. Materials in the high-end switching and routing spaces. In 2012, alternatives in our products and as part of the designEnergy and GHG Emissions Cisco continued to qualify more halogen-free PCB for-environment guidelines; the use of BFRand Separate from the efforts just mentioned, lead-based Water Use laminate materials and has increased the use of these PVC-free alternative materials in plastics is solder has been a key component of circuit boards Biodiversity and Land Use materials on many new products. Cisco will continue recommended for all new designs. and other electronic parts. Although lead solder is to research new laminate materials as they become currently exempt from the RoHS Directive for networking Non-GHG Emissions available and will continue to apply them to new products PVC in Cables infrastructure equipment, product conversion and testing Effluents (Liquid) Cisco is helping to lead reductions in cable PVC content where performance requirements can be met. efforts have allowed Cisco to make significant progress > Waste through the iNEMI PVC Alternatives Project, which toward removing lead assembly solder from Cisco Cisco supports the International Electronics Manufacturers is focused on conducting cradle-to-grave life-cycle products. For the transition, we have developed a leadInitiative’s (iNEMI) industry efforts focused on BFR assessment of PVC and non-PVC jacketing in cables free solder specification for components, interconnects, reduction. Cisco is an active member of the HFR-Free to better understand the environmental trade-offs of and printed circuit board reliability. We have also PCB Materials Project (HFR stands for halogenated flame standard, non-halogen, and bio-based cable jacketing. implemented lead-free data management systems, retardant; bromine is a halogen), which was chartered to Cisco also is monitoring the industry for PVC-free cabling assessed supplier capabilities, tested the reliability study whether alternative materials meet performance materials and has invited cable manufacturers and resin of alternative substances, and developed a product requirements concerning delamination, plated throughsuppliers to present on industry updates and challenges. conversion roadmap. In the interests of protecting hole reliability, pad cratering, and solder joint reliability. Cisco will continue its efforts to identify, test, and product quality, we are working with global industry We also are actively participating in the HFR-Free Signal implement PVC-free cabling as opportunities arise. associations to develop highly reliable lead-free solder. Integrity Initiative to similarly evaluate material options. Cisco co-chairs the HFR-Free Signal Integrity Project, Cisco is an active member of the High-Density Packaging Product Take-Back, Reuse, and Recycling which focuses on the critical electrical parameters of the Users Group (HDPUG) BFR/PVC-Free Cables and Wires GRI EN27: Percentage of products sold and their alternative laminates. Project, which is comparing the electrical, mechanical, packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. performance, and manufacturability requirements of BFRs and PVC in Cisco-Designed Plastic Parts alternative materials with existing options; designing Our trade-in and take-back programs are designed to Cisco is monitoring the plastic resins used in Ciscoand manufacturing test samples; and conducting bring back to Cisco any item that Cisco or our acquired designed plastics. In FY12, we continued to gather performance evaluations. companies has put on the market. Cisco recycles 100 information on the presence of BFRs and PVC in Ciscopercent of the electronics sent to our e-scrap recyclers. designed plastic parts provided to or manufactured for Cisco has recently qualified several BFR-free laminates All commodity fractions go to downstream recyclers to Cisco. Our research found that over 75 percent of resin that can now be used in place of materials containing be made into new products. Table 20 contains Cisco’s reduce, reuse, and recycle KPIs. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F43 < Previous View Environment Table 20: Product Trade-in and Return Overview KPI FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 Comments  Cisco Environmental Sustainability Product return, metric tonne * 10,030 10,730 8,580 11,595 13,324 *Before FY08, Cisco reported weight of material sent Materials to Cisco’s recyclers. Using process improvements Energy and GHG Emissions started in FY08, we are now reporting weight of material received from end users, which is the metric of primary Water Use concern to stakeholders. Biodiversity and Land Use Non-GHG Emissions Refurbish, resell, and reuse rate, percent – – – – 17% 25% Data unavailable prior to FY11 Effluents (Liquid) Returned material sent to landfill * 0.46% 0.44% 0.33% 0.89% 0.43% *See comment above. > Waste Landfilled material consists only of non-electronic waste materials, such as broken pallets, wet cardboard, and shrink wrap, accompanying Cisco product returned by customers for recycling. During FY12, Cisco’s Reverse Logistics Group refurbished, resold, or reused over 3328 metric tonne of products Table 21: Cisco Take-Back, Reuse, and Recycling Programs returned to Cisco, a 25 percent reuse rate. This represents a 45 percent increase from our FY11 reuse rate. Category Material Stream Information regarding all Cisco e-scrap recycling and Customer programs • Cisco Technical Migration Program (TMP) our recycling programs is provided in the following • E xceptional Pick-Up Program (EPUP) description and supplemented by our reverse logistics • Take-Back and Recycle Program recycling web portal.1 Programs for companies producing or repairing • Scrap/Reuse Program Cisco has nine different reverse-logistics recycling Cisco products • Global Scrap Program programs to support our independent producer responsibility efforts. These fall into three categories, Internal programs for Cisco • eBin/Lab Scrap Program as shown in Table 21. • Cisco Data Center Server Recycling Program • Non-Genuine Brand Program • E-scrap events 1. Cisco Connection Online registration required. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F44 < Previous View A flow diagram of these reverse-logistics material streams Environment is shown in Figure 9. Note that the Cisco Technical Figure 9: Reverse-Logistics Material Sources and Flow of Materials for Reuse and Recycling Overview Migration Program and the Exceptional Pick-Up Program are combined in one box in the upper left of this figure. Cisco Environmental SOURCES OF REVERSE Sustainability Each program or process is formally documented and Cisco End Cisco End Contract Contract Repair eBin & Lab Data Center Recycle IT Non-Geniune Materials Customer Trade-In Customer Manufacturers Manufacturers Server Recycling Brand Protection is part of the contracting process with each of our Program Take-Back & Scrap/Reuse & RFDs—Global Scrap Program Program Events Program Program (Internal, (Internal) (Internal) LOGISTICS MATERIALS Energy and GHG Emissions contracted recyclers. (TMP/EPUP) Recycle Program Program Scrap Program (Internal) Not Public) Water Use Biodiversity and Land Use Cisco has trade-in programs for customers who are purchasing new equipment and have qualifying Non-GHG Emissions equipment to upgrade. Eligible customers receive an Cisco RL Value RL RECEIVING Cisco Reverse Cisco Reverse Recovery NonEffluents (Liquid) additional discount for returning working used equipment Logistics Logistics Value Proprietary Parts Value Recovery Recovery Reuse CENTER Components Receiving Center Program > Waste to Cisco for possible reuse. These programs are the Resale single largest flow of materials back to Cisco’s reverselogistics programs. And the trade-in programs provide REFURBISH, the newest and best-quality used equipment with the Cisco Capital Cisco Capital Cisco Service Cisco Service Remarketing Remarketing Supply highest potential for refurbishment and reuse. Supply Reuse to REUSE, RESALE Refurbishment Resale to Refurbishment Customer or RFD Vendor Customer Vendor Engaging with our reuse/recycling programs is easy and straightforward. Customers go to the web portal, RECYCLERS select the program that applies to them, and submit a REVERSE LOGISTICS RECYCLERS pick-up request form. Cisco then contacts the customer to arrange the pick-up and work out the logistics for returning the materials to the appropriate location. The trade-in items are routed to a returns receiving center for analysis of each item to evaluate its reuse Reuse is always the first priority. In FY12, Cisco reused The number and location of Cisco authorized recyclers or refurbishment potential, and take-back and recycled over US$286 million of Cisco equipment, calculated at continue to expand based on the growth in our business material is routed directly to a recycler. standard cost. This amount has been above US$200 and the requirements of local regulations. million for each of the last three fiscal years. If an item Customer Programs does not qualify to be reused, it goes to one of our Programs for Companies Producing or Repairing Cisco Products Our two customer trade-in programs are the Cisco authorized recyclers. The Cisco manufacturing Scrap/Reuse Program takes all Technical Migration and the Exceptional Pick-Up excess, obsolete, or damaged materials from our contract Program. All trade-in materials are routed to a receiving The Take-Back and Recycle program is focused on Cisco manufacturers, MPAs, OEMs, ODMs, and proprietary center where each item is analyzed for possible reuse. branded items that do not qualify for either of our two component suppliers. First, each load is reviewed by the If there is demand for the specific product being trade-in programs. This program also accepts competitor Cisco Value Recovery group for possible reuse or resale. received, it is refurbished before being sent for reuse equipment that has been displaced in the customer’s If Value Recovery determines it is not economically viable to Cisco Capital Remarketing, Cisco Service Supply, network by newly purchased Cisco items. Take-back to reuse or resell the materials, the materials go to Ciscoor an internal Cisco lab. and recycle equipment is typically old and has no reuse approved e-scrap recyclers. value, or it is damaged. These materials go to the closest Cisco-approved recycling site. Currently, there are 29 recycling locations around the world, as shown in the map. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F45 < Previous View Cisco’s contracted repair manufacturers and distribution Internal Programs for Cisco materials are collected for recycling. Smaller labs may Environment depots use the Global Scrap program for their excess, The largest of Cisco’s internal programs is the eBin/Lab have only one eBin, and large labs may have more than Overview obsolete, or damaged materials. Again, the Cisco Value Scrap Program. The eBin program began at our San a dozen. Each bin has an owner, and when the bin is full, Recovery team reviews all items and retains any for Jose campus, where 185 labs produce a large amount of the owner visits our recycling web portal and fills out a  Cisco Environmental Sustainability which they have customers, sending the remainder to e-scrap. The eBins are green plastic rolling bins where pick-up request. The recycler responds to arrange the our approved recyclers. date and time of pick up and to deliver empty eBins. Materials Energy and GHG Emissions Water Use Cisco Reverse Logistics Global Supply Base Locations Mouse over 4 region names below for enlarged views Biodiversity and Land Use Non-GHG Emissions North America Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Effluents (Liquid) Cisco Reverse Logistics Global Footprint > Waste Sweden Netherlands Russia United Kingdom Belgium Germany Switzerland France California Nevada Canada Italy California Japan Arizona South Carolina California Hong Kong Shanghai, China Florida Taiwan, Republic of China Mexico Hong Kong India Thailand Costa Rica Venezuela Colombia Malaysia Singapore Peru Brazil Chile Buenos Aires, Argentina Cisco Contracted Recycler Location Current Warehouse/Disassembly Location Recycler Subcontracted Partners Location SCFO Receiving and Reuse Operations 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F46 < Previous View The Cisco Data Center Server Recycling Program serves Each contracted recycler provides us with monthly using the local recycling stream. This is primarily because Environment data centers in 12 countries. When a data center no longer reports delineating all cases opened and processed on packaging material logistics are significant, and thus Overview needs a server, it is offered to other Cisco data centers a lot by lot basis. When each lot is processed, the report packaging creation is local to the point of shipment. for possible reuse. When one of these servers reaches includes a mass balance showing the weight as received Therefore, Cisco takes the approach to design our  Cisco Environmental Sustainability the end of its useful life, it is recycled, with all parts being and the weights of each fractional commodity separated packaging to be easily separable and as recyclable as shredded. Because these servers have sensitive data from the lot. possible so it can be easily absorbed into local packaging Materials residing in their memory, they are not reused. material recycling programs. Energy and GHG Emissions Cisco holds quarterly business reviews with each of the Water Use The Non-Genuine Materials Program handles items that four contracted recyclers to review the past quarter’s Solid Waste from Operations (Trash) Biodiversity and Land Use we occasionally receive in service returns which are results and to go over all action items that were to be GRI EN22: Total weight of waste by type and disposal non-genuine Cisco products. Non-genuine items worked during the quarter and the focus areas for the method. Non-GHG Emissions also come to Cisco through law enforcement actions next quarter. Cisco also does random spot site audits Effluents (Liquid) GRI EN24: Weight of transported, imported, exported, or that seize fake Cisco equipment. When non-genuine of the recycling facilities. > Waste equipment is found, we use a special witnessed protocol treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the whereby the collected materials are properly destroyed. E-Scrap Recycling Process Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage Each load of e-scrap is weighed in on calibrated scales of transported waste shipped internationally. We hold annual e-scrap events called Recycle IT Days upon arrival. Next, each unit is demanufactured, and for our employees. Cisco employees and contractors a high-level sort into “commodity fractions” separates Cisco’s Waste Reduction and Recycling Program is a can bring in their e-scrap from home and have Cisco the steel, aluminum, cardboard, plastic, wire/cable, and key component of Cisco ISO 14001 certification and our pay to have the materials recycled properly. Any Cisco printed circuit boards. Certain fractions may then be global environmental policy. We routinely collect and office location can host a recycling day event. In April shredded. Some Cisco printed circuit boards contain a recycle waste streams, including batteries, CDs and 2012, we held our 17th e-scrap event, with 128 Cisco rechargeable battery that is removed prior to shredding. diskettes, beverage containers, trash, wood and pallets, sites around the world participating and over 193 metric After the shredding, an additional hand sorting is done cardboard, mixed paper, confidential waste, packaging tonne of used electronics collected. Since Cisco started to pull off any loose pieces of the commodity fractions. materials, toner cartridges, compost, polyurethane holding e-scrap events, our employees and contractors All fractions are sent to downstream or second-level foam, landscape waste, mobile phones, food waste, and have helped recycle over 1810 metric tonne of used recyclers to be made into new products again. Shredded construction waste. Electronic waste collection programs electronics. printed circuit boards go to a secondary smelter where are described in the previous section. as many as 19 metals are harvested from the boards. E-Scrap Recyclers These harvested metals re-enter the metals markets to Table 22 shows our solid waste KPIs. Note that Cisco currently has four contracted e-scrap recyclers. make new products. Any batteries or packaging materials operational waste recycling performance depends on Each recycler has several company-owned facilities. sent to recycling facilities are also sent to downstream both Cisco performance and the availability of supporting Each recycler also has several subcontracted recyclers recyclers. services by local waste hauling and disposal vendors. to assure global recycling coverage. Cisco contracts In FY12, Cisco continued implementation of a global, require the recycler to enforce our strict recycling Product Packaging End of Life enterprise sustainability information system (SIS) to processes upon subcontractors doing Cisco work. Cisco The environmental impact, including transportation improve completeness and quality of sustainabilitymust approve of each prospective recycling company and emissions, from a packaging take-back program related data, as well as calculated metrics and public and each recycling location prior to sending any Cisco outweighs the potential benefits when compared with reporting. equipment for processing. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F47 < Previous View We encourage all Cisco facilities to take steps to reduce Environment their operational waste and recycle any materials that Figure 10: Recycling Rates for Solid Waste from Major North American Operations (Trash) Overview can be recycled in each location. For example, initiatives 100% at our San Jose headquarters are leading the way by  Cisco Environmental Sustainability diverting 78 percent of all waste streams in FY12. 90% Materials A breakdown of our waste stream for our San Jose site is Energy and GHG Emissions provided in Figure 11 as an illustration of our key sources of 80% Total Water Use operational waste, the complexity of proper waste stream segregation, and the need for local recycling services. San Jose Biodiversity and Land Use 70% Boxborough Non-GHG Emissions In addition to specific initiatives at individual facilities, Effluents (Liquid) RTP Cisco has implemented programs at multiple sites that 60% > Waste address the following kinds of waste streams: Richardson 50% Food waste: In addition to lessening the impacts of our office environments, we strive to reduce the environmental impacts of our cafeterias. Cisco 40% partners with Bon Appétit Management Company, a leader in sustainable food service, to provide Cisco 30% employees in North America with healthy, sustainable, and socially responsible food options. Our sustainable 20% food purchasing initiatives date back to 1999 with the establishment of Bon Appétit’s Farm to Fork program, an initiative to purchase food locally. This program promotes 10% local farming and supports sustainable farming and harvesting techniques. 0% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 FISCAL YEAR Table 22: Solid Waste from Operations (Trash) KPI FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 Comments Total operational waste generated, metric tonne 7156 7409 6246 4845 4643 4524 Percent real estate portfolio covered by 53% 53% 48% 46% 51% 58% Includes all U.S. and Canada Cisco campuses. waste reporting Total operational waste recycled, metric tonne 4633 5023 4250 3443 3345 3119 Operational waste recycled, percent 65% 68% 68% 71% 72% 69% Cisco added a new site with lower diversion rates to its recycling portfolio, reducing the corporate average. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback F48 < Previous View Composting: Cisco campuses in San Jose, California, Environment Figure 11: Breakdown of Solid-Waste Streams (Trash) at San Jose, California, and other North American locations host programs for Overview Headquarters Campus composting and recycling food wastes where municipal facilities are available to process these materials. During  Cisco Environmental Sustainability 1% Special Projects 1% Cans & Bottles FY12, the food waste separation program at Cisco’s 1% Foam <1% Media San Jose campus diverted more than 713 metric tonne Materials 2% Mixed Recycling of food waste that otherwise would have been sent to Energy and GHG Emissions local landfills. The waste was then turned into compost 2% Recycled Construction Waste Water Use 3% Surplus Donation and made available by the municipality for purchase Biodiversity and Land Use by gardeners. In addition, Cisco’s facilities in San Jose Non-GHG Emissions 6% Mixed Paper and Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, recycle 32% Compost waste vegetable oil. This vegetable oil is converted into Effluents (Liquid) biodiesel fuel used to power traditional diesel vehicles. > Waste 7% Confidential Paper Bottled water: In FY08, Cisco’s North American offices disposed of 13.7 million plastic water bottles. In FY09, we ran a pilot water filtration program in Boxborough, Massachusetts, and several San Jose campus buildings that reduced our plastic water bottle consumption level 8% Wood to 11.6 million units. After fully implementing the water filtration program and a new beverage vending program throughout North America, the total plastic beverage units consumed at Cisco’s facilities was substantially reduced. Through FY12, both of these programs are still in place at Cisco facilities, and as a result, each year we prevent millions of plastic bottles from entering landfills 14% Cardboard globally. 23% Landscape Waste 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback G1 < Previous View GRI Index Strategy and Analysis Performance: Economic GRI Index  Performance: Environmental  Performance: Labor Practices and Decent Work  Performance: Human Rights Performance: Society  Performance: Product Responsibility Global Reporting Initiative Index The Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines are a set of internationally recognized indicators covering a company’s social, economic, and environmental impacts. The table in this section covers the GRI G3.1 indicators found in our 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report, 2012 Annual Report, and company website. It includes all of the G3.1 core indicators, including those that we do not report against. We have only included additional indicators if we report against them. Based on an internal review, Cisco determines this to be a B level report against the GRI G3.1 guidelines. 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback G2 < Previous View GRI Index GRI G3.1 Guideline (continued) Location > Strategy and Analysis Strategy and Analysis Performance: Economic 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization CEO Letter  Performance: and its strategy Environmental  Performance: Labor 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Introduction/Materiality, Governance & Ethics Practices and Decent Work Profile Performance: Human Rights 2.1 Name of reporting organization Cisco Systems, Inc. Performance: Society  Performance: Product 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Products & Services Responsibility 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures Corporate Overview 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Worldwide Contacts 2.5 Number of countries where organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are Worldwide Contacts specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Restated Articles of Incorporation of Cisco Systems, Inc. 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) Worldwide Contacts, FY12 Annual Report, Cisco Overview 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization including: Cisco Overview, FY12 Annual Report • Number of employees • Net sales • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity • Quantity of products or services provided 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership, including: Corporate Development, Cisco FY12 Earnings, • Location of, or changes in, operations, including facility operations, closings, and expansions FY12 Annual Report • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period CSR Awards and Recognition, Diversity Awards Archive Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided Introduction/About This Report 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 2011 CSR Report 3.3 Reporting cycle Cisco FY12 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents csr_report@cisco.com (continues on next page) 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback G3 < Previous View GRI Index GRI G3.1 Guideline (continued) Location > Strategy and Analysis Report Scope and Boundary Performance: Economic 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: Introduction/Material Issues,  Performance: • Determining materiality Governance & Ethics/CSR Management Environmental • Prioritizing topics within the report  Performance: Labor • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report Practices and Decent Work 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers) Introduction/About This Report Performance: Human Rights 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Only as noted in report Performance: Society  Performance: Product 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can Cisco reports on all operations Responsibility significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations Introduction to Acquisitions 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations Introduction, Environment applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information in the report 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions restatement 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report Introduction, Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard disclosures in the report This table Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report Introduction/Assurance accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also, explain the We continue to explore the viability of external relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider. assurance for the entire CSR report. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for Corporate Governance specific tasks such as setting strategy or organizational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, state his or her function Corporate Governance within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement) 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that Corporate Governance are independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for stakeholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body Governance & Ethics/CSR Management, Our People/Working Together, Share Your Concerns 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including Compensation and Management Development departure arrangements) and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance) Committee Charter (continues on next page) 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback G4 < Previous View GRI Index GRI G3.1 Guideline (continued) Location > Strategy and Analysis 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure that conflicts of interest are avoided Corporate Governance Performance: Economic 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the Corporate Governance  Performance: organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics Environmental  Performance: Labor 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, Governance & Ethics/Ethics, Code of Business Conduct, Practices and Decent Work environmental, and social performance, and the status of their implementation Supplier Code of Conduct Performance: Human Rights 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, Governance & Ethics, Corporate Governance, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with Code of Business Conduct, Supply Chain Performance: Society internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles  Performance: Product Responsibility 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, Corporate Governance environmental, and social performance Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization Governance & Ethics/Governance, Environment/The Enabling Effect 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization Governance & Ethics/CSR Management subscribes or endorses 4.13 Members in associations and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: Environment/Advocacy and Standards Development, • Has positions in governance bodies Society, Governance & Ethics/CSR Management, • Participates in projects or committees Governance & Ethics/Privacy and Data Protection, • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues Supply Chain/Working with Industry Groups • Views membership as strategic Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Governance & Ethics/CSR Management 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Governance & Ethics/CSR Management 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group Governance & Ethics/CSR Management 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded Governance & Ethics/CSR Management, to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Introduction/Material Issues (continues on next page) 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback G5 < Previous View GRI Index GRI G3.1 Guideline (continued) Location Strategy and Analysis Performance: Economic > Performance: Economic Disclosure on management approach Governance & Ethics, Society,  Performance: FY12 Annual Report/Letter to Shareholders Environmental  Performance: Labor Economic Performance Indicators Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Economic Performance Performance: Human Rights EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations FY12 Annual Report Performance: Society and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments  Performance: Product Responsibility EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change Environment/The Enabling Effect EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations FY12 Annual Report EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government Cisco does not receive financial government support Aspect: Market Presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of We provide competitive levels of compensation above operation local minimum wage requirements EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers at significant locations of operation Not material: nearly 100% of our manufacturing is outsourced EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of Not material: nearly 100% of our manufacturing is significant operation outsourced Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through Society/Overview, Society/Education, commercial, in-kind, or pro-bono engagement Society/Healthcare, Society/Economic Empowerment, Society/Critical Human Needs and Disaster Relief EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Society/Overview, Society/Education, Society/Healthcare, Society/Economic Empowerment, Society/Critical Human Needs and Disaster Relief (continues on next page) 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback G6 < Previous View GRI Index GRI G3.1 Guideline (continued) Location Strategy and Analysis Performance: Environmental Performance: Economic Disclosure on management approach Environment/Principles > Performance: Environmental Environmental Performance Indicators  Performance: Labor Aspect: Materials Practices and Decent Work Performance: Human Rights EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Environment/Materials Performance: Society EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Environment/Materials/Recycled Content  Performance: Product Aspect: Energy Responsibility EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Scope 1 and 2 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Scope 1 and 2 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Scope 1 and 2/Reducing Emissions from Operations EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Scope 3 requirements as a result of these initiatives Product Use Phase (Energy Efficiency) EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption, and reductions achieved Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Scope 1 and 2/Reducing Emissions from Operations Aspect: Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Environment/Water Use EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Environment/Water Use EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Environment/Effluents (Liquid) Aspect: Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, or managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use outside protected areas EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use EN15 Number of IUCN Red List Species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use level of extinction risk (continues on next page) 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback G7 < Previous View GRI Index GRI G3.1 Guideline (continued) Location Strategy and Analysis Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste Performance: Economic EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, by weight Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations > Performance: Scope 1 and 2 Environmental  Performance: Labor EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions, by weight Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Practices and Decent Work Scope 3 Performance: Human Rights EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and reductions achieved Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Scope 1 and 2/Reducing Emissions from Operations Performance: Society  Performance: Product EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances, by weight Environment/Non–GHG Emissions Responsibility EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions, by type and weight Environment/Non–GHG Emissions EN21 Total water discharged, by quality and destination Environment/Effluents (Liquid) EN22 Total weight of waste, by type and disposal method Environment/Waste/Solid Waste from Operations (Trash) EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Environment/Effluents (Liquid), Environment/Waste/Solid Waste from Operations (Trash) EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Environment/Waste/Solid Waste from Operations (Trash) Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff Aspect: Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Scope 3 Product Use Phase (Energy Efficiency) EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed, by category Environment/Waste/Product Take-Back, Reuse and Recycling Aspect: Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental Environment/Materials/Regulatory Fines laws and regulations Aspect: Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations operations, and of transporting members of the workforce Scope 3/Scope 3 Business Air Travel Aspect: Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Scope 1 and 2/Reducing Emissions from Operations (continues on next page) 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback G8 < Previous View GRI Index GRI G3.1 Guideline (continued) Location Strategy and Analysis Performance: Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance: Economic Disclosure on management approach Our People/Working Together, Our People/A Safe and  Performance: Healthy Work Environment, Our People/An Open and Environmental Diverse Culture, Our People/Employee Opportunities, > Performance: Labor Our People/Rewarding Our People Practices and Decent Work Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators Performance: Human Rights Performance: Society Aspect: Employment  Performance: Product LA1 Total workforce, by employment type, employment contract, and region Our People Responsibility LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover, by age group, gender, and region Our People/An Open and Diverse Culture LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations Our People/Rewarding Our People Aspect: Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Zero LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements We meet all applicable laws, regulations, and standards where we do business Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help Not reported monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities, by region Our People/A Safe and Healthy Work Environment LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, Our People/A Safe and Healthy Work Environment, or community members regarding serious diseases Our People/ Rewarding Our People/ Cisco Employee Benefits LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Not reported Aspect: Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee, by employee category Our People/Employee Opportunities LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist Our People/Employee Opportunities them in managing their careers LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender Our People/Employee Opportunities Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority Our People/An Open and Diverse Culture group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women, by employee category Not reported (continues on next page) 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback G9 < Previous View GRI Index GRI G3.1 Guideline (continued) Location Strategy and Analysis Performance: Human Rights Performance: Economic Disclosure on management approach Governance & Ethics/Ethics,  Performance: Governance & Ethics/Human Rights, Supply Chain Environmental  Performance: Labor Human Rights Indicators Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Investment and Procurement Activities > Performance: Human Rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights, clauses or that have Not reported Performance: Society undergone human rights screening  Performance: Product Responsibility HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken Governance & Ethics/Ethics, Supply Chain HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to Governance & Ethics/Ethics operations, including the percentage of employees that are trained Aspect: Nondiscrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination, and actions taken Not reported Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant Supplier Code of Conduct, risk, and actions taken to support these rights Supply Chain/Partnering with Suppliers to Improve Performance and Build Capability Aspect: Child Labor HR6 Operations identified as having a significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the Supplier Code of Conduct, elimination of forced or compulsory labor Supply Chain/Partnering with Suppliers to Improve Performance and Build Capability Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to Supplier Code of Conduct, the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Supply Chain/Partnering with Suppliers to Improve Performance and Build Capability Aspect: Security Practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights Not material: Nearly 100% of our manufacturing is that are relevant to operations outsourced Aspect: Indigenous Rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people, and actions taken Not material: Cisco’s operations do not uniquely impact indigenous people (continues on next page) 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback G10 < Previous View GRI Index GRI G3.1 Guideline (continued) Location Strategy and Analysis Aspect: Assessment Performance: Economic HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments Not material: Nearly 100% of our manufacturing is  Performance: outsourced Environmental  Performance: Labor Aspect: Remediation Practices and Decent Work HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Not reported Performance: Human Rights Performance: Society > Performance: Society  Performance: Product Disclosure on management approach Society Responsibility Society Performance Indicators Aspect: Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on Governance & Ethics/CSR Management, communities, including entering, operating, and exiting Society, Society/Employee Engagement Aspect: Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption Governance & Ethics/Ethics/Code of Business Conduct SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures Governance & Ethics/Ethics/Code of Business Conduct SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Governance & Ethics/Ethics/Code of Business Conduct, Governance & Ethics/Ethics Aspect: Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying Global Policy and Government Affairs (GPGA), Governance & Ethics/Public Policy SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions, by country Governance & Ethics/Public Policy Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices, and their outcomes FY12 Annual Report, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Legal Proceedings Aspect: Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and FY12 Annual Report, Notes to Consolidated Financial regulations Statements, Legal Proceedings SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities Zero SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on Not material: Cisco does not have operations with local communities significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities (continues on next page) 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback G11 < Previous View GRI Index GRI G3.1 Guideline (continued) Location Strategy and Analysis Performance: Product Responsibility Performance: Economic Disclosure on management approach Governance & Ethics/Human Rights,  Performance: Environment/Life-Cycle Assessment, Environmental Environment/The Enabling Effect  Performance: Labor Practices and Decent Work Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Performance: Human Rights Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Performance: Society PR1 Lifecycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and Not reported > Performance: Product percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures Responsibility PR2 Total number of incidents of non compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of Zero products and services during their lifecycle, by type of outcomes Aspect: Product and Service Labeling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and service Not reported subject to such information requirements PR4 Total number of incidents of non compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service Zero information and labeling, by type of outcomes PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Annual Customer Satisfaction Survey Aspect: Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including Marketing communications are regulated by national advertising, promotion, and sponsorship and international law and are also subject to voluntary codes. Cisco’s marketing communications are also governed by our Code of Business Conduct and by additional guidelines and best practices. PR7 Total number of incidents of non compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning market communications, Zero including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Aspect: Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Zero, Governance & Ethics/Privacy and Data Protection Aspect: Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of FY12 Annual Report, FY12 Cisco Form 10-K products and services 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback H1 < Previous View Appendix  1. C  omparison of SustainAbility Materiality Matrix and Table 1 of Appendix Environment Section 2. Global Supplier Management Letter 3. C  omparison of BAU and ICT Solution for Remote Collaboration  4. Comparison of BAU and ICT Solution for Teleworking 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback H2 < Previous View Appendix 1. Comparison of SustainAbility Materiality In general, there is general agreement between the two voluntary action, and not simple legal compliance. We Matrix and Table 1 of Environment Section materiality assessments: therefore treat issues of legal compliance, such as > 1. C  omparison of • Energy/GHG emissions—related both to operations and RoHS, REACH and WEEE, separately to mainstream SustainAbility Materiality our products, product EOL, and packaging are most sustainability initiatives. Matrix and Table 1 of Table 1: Materiality Tiers for Cisco Environment-Related Issues material in both presentations • SustainAbility rank land use, biodiversity, and water use Environment Section • Hazardous waste in the SustainAbility assessment is lower in relevance to Cisco. These issues are similarly 2. Global Supplier Tier Environment Topic ranked more highly than Cisco’s original ranking (from placed in the lower Tier 4 as defined by the GRI Management Letter 2011 and updated slightly for 2012). We interpret performance indicators. 3. C  omparison of BAU and ICT Solution for 1 Product energy efficiency the underlying concern of survey respondents to Materiality is the foundation upon which Cisco’s Remote Collaboration be the same for hazardous waste and product sustainability strategy and initiatives are built. 4. Comparison of BAU Energy consumption (operations) EOL. However, we place issues controlled by legal and ICT Solution for requirements in Tier 5 since compliance is a given. If you have comments or need further clarification, please Teleworking 2 Waste (product EOL) Stakeholder feedback has consistently indicated that a send us an email. company’s commitment SustainAbility EnvironmentaltoMateriality sustainability is measured Assessment 3 Waste (product packaging EOL) Water pollution (liquid effluents) SustainAbility Environmental Materiality Assessment High Mouse over circles below for alternative views Transport emissions (from product logistics) High Degree of Control 4 Waste (operational “trash”) Operational Energy & GHGs Controlled substances Land Use/Biodiversity High Control Water use Water Use Product Energy & GHGs Biodiversity and land use Societal Concern Product End-of-Life Societal Concern Moderate Control 5 Hazardous waste Non-GHG airborne emissions Hazardous Waste Packaging Low Control SustainAbility’s assessment of materiality, discussed in the Introduction section and reproduced on this Operational Waste page, was organized around issue categories whose boundaries don’t correlate exactly with GRI performance indicators. Cisco’s materiality ranking, discussed in the Environment section and reproduced on this page, uses GRI performance indicators as part of our standardization Low of our CSR reporting. Low Impact/Relevance for Cisco High Low Low Impact/Relevance for Cisco High 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback H3 < Previous View From: ciscosuppliercomms(mailer list) <ciscosuppliercomms@cisco.com> Date: February 23, 2012 6:23:27 AM EST To: ciscosuppliercomms(mailer list) <ciscosuppliercomms@cisco.com> Appendix 2. Global Subject: Supplier CDP Survey Management Letter submission 1. Comparison of SustainAbility Materiality Thank you for your ongoing support of Cisco’s business. Matrix and Table 1 of Environment Section Regards, nd February 22 , 2012 > 2. G  lobal Supplier Management Letter Your Cisco Global Supplier Management team Informational Update from Cisco Global Supplier Management __________________________________________________ 3. C  omparison of BAU and ICT Solution for Dear Valued Supplier Partner, REFERENCES Remote Collaboration Cisco is committed to reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In 2008, Cisco made a public CDP 2012 questionnaire. Companies are encouraged to answer all CDP survey questions. The minimum  4. Comparison of BAU commitment to reduce Cisco’s worldwide Scope 1, 2, and Scope 3 business-air-travel GHG emissions by question set to meet Cisco requirements is highlighted in the following markup of CDP’s survey. and ICT Solution for 25 percent absolute by calendar year 2012 (against a calendar year 2007 baseline). Cisco's stakeholders Teleworking and customers are concerned about GHG emissions not only from Cisco's products and operations, but also from the operations of our business partners. Therefore, for the third year, we again invite our CDP reports summarizing 2011 responses: business partners to report to CDP. Global 500: https://www.cdproject.net/CDPResults/CDP-G500-2011-Report.pdf The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) formally released the 2012 edition of their investor survey on th st February 9 , 2012. Responses are due May 31 , 2012. Cisco is requesting that each of our suppliers S&P500: https://www.cdproject.net/CDPResults/CDP-2011-SP500.pdf respond to the CDP survey as outlined below, making your response publicly available via an option in CDP's Online Response System (ORS). Other reports are available at: https://www.cdproject.net/en-US/Results/Pages/All-Investor-Reports.aspx Cisco's long-term objective is for all business partners to: Guidance to respond to the CDP survey: 1. Report to CDP annually. https://www.cdproject.net/Documents/Guidance/2012/FirstTimeResponderGuidance.pdf and https://www.cdproject.net/Documents/Guidance/CDP2012ReportingGuidance.pdf 2. Make your responses publicly available (credit will be given only for submittals made publicly available through CDP). Guide to CDP's Online Response System (ORS): https://www.cdproject.net/Documents/Guidance/2012/GuidanceORS.pdf 3. Have an objective third party review and verify your GHG emissions data collection, analysis and reporting. 4. Set a GHG emissions reduction goal (absolute reduction goals are preferred). 5. Request that your business partners also report to CDP in accordance with this email. If you have not received an invitation from CDP to respond to CDP’s survey as part of their investor, public Cisco Confidential Internal Distribution only procurement, or supply chain programs, please contact CDP via email respond@cdproject.net and This message contains confidential information of Cisco Systems, Inc., Cisco Systems International BV and their request an account on their system at no cost to you. Although the questionnaire is distributed as a PDF respective affiliates, and may be used only by the intended recipient(s) of this communication for the purpose set forth file, your CDP submittal is made online through CDP's Online Response System (ORS). and in a manner consistent with your agreements with Cisco Systems, Inc. and Cisco Systems International BV to preserve their confidential information. Please report your GHG emissions directly to the Carbon Disclosure Project (www.cdproject.net). Cisco will obtain your reporting status and emissions information via an analytics package offered by CDP. You © 2011 Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliated entities should not send your emissions information to Cisco. Several useful references are provided at the end of Cisco.com | Privacy Statement | Trademarks this email. If you have any questions about Cisco's or your company's carbon reporting, please contact Cisco’s Environmental Sustainability team at (cisco-cdp-questions@cisco.com). 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback H4 < Previous View Appendix 3. Comparison of BAU and ICT Solution for Remote Collaboration (Avoiding Business Travel)  1. C  omparison of SustainAbility Materiality Matrix and Table 1 of Environment Section 2. Global Supplier Management Letter > 3. C  omparison of BAU and ICT Solution for Remote Collaboration  4. Comparison of BAU and ICT Solution for Teleworking 2012 Cisco CSR Report 2012 Cisco CSR Report Website How to Use This Report We Welcome Your Feedback H5 < Previous View Appendix 4. Comparison of BAU and ICT Solution for Teleworking (Avoiding Employee Commuting) 1. Comparison of SustainAbility Materiality Matrix and Table 1 of Environment Section 2. Global Supplier Management Letter 3. C omparison of BAU and ICT Solution for Remote Collaboration > 4. Comparison of BAU and ICT Solution for Teleworking Americas Headquarters Asia Pacific Headquarters Europe Headquarters Cisco Systems, Inc. Cisco Systems (USA) Pte. Ltd. Cisco Systems International BV Amsterdam, San Jose, CA Singapore The Netherlands Cisco has more than 200 offices worldwide. Addresses, phone numbers, and fax numbers are listed on the Cisco Website at www.cisco.com/go/offices. Cisco and the Cisco Logo are trademarks of Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. A listing of Cisco’s trademarks can be found at www.cisco.com/go/trademarks. Third party trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company. (1005R)
