United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress Jeju free-international-city Development Center (JDC) Jeju Science Park, Elite Bldg. 3F Cheomdanro 213-4, Jeju city Jeju Special Self-Governing Province, Republic of KOREA First published in KOREA by JDC 2013 Original Copyright ⓒ JDC 2013 Text Copyright ⓒ JDC 2013 Documented by Yeongtae Han ( Deputy Manager of Performance Evaluation & Innovation, JDC ) tel +82-64-797-5653 fax +82-64-797-5501 All rights reserved; no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retriveal system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise, without the prior written permission of JDC. 0. Intro. 1. What JDC is ?  Jeju-free-international-city Development Center (JDC)  Mission Creating the perfect Jeju-free-international-city for the high life values which people deserves.  Function To develop Jeju into a free-international-city where people, capital, and products can move easily without any restrictions, then circulations of these three factors facilitate the growth of Jeju as well as KOREA.  History ▪ Established in 2002 (by the Korean government's Special Act on Jeju Free International City) ▪ New CEO came Up ! His Brief Profile • Name : KIM, HAN WOOK • Nationality : KOREA (Jeju) • the 6th CEO of JDC • the former head of National Archive of Korea • the former deputy governor for Jeju 2. What JDC does for People?  Core Development Projects Free International City JEJU  Project Fundings  Funding 1 : the attraction of investments Public Relations and Marketing activities has been going on for investment attractions to fund the core development projects internationally and locally .  Funding 2 : the revenue of JDC DFS Korean government gave the patent on a duty-free-storebusiness as a indirect subsidy, so that JDC has been running JDC DFS and uses its revenue to fund the projects. 3. COP on the 1 st Principle  Principle 1 : HUMAN RIGHTS “Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.”  Performance in 2012 JDC carried out the below activites to support the 1st principle  Supporting Ceremony for the UNGC 10 Principles Last August, JDC had the resolution ceremony for the UNGC 10 principles. All the JDC employers and employees took the oath that they were wiliing to support the universal principles. For the ceremony, Chul-ki Joo, the president of Global Compact Network Korea, sent a video message in order to support and celebrate the strong decision of JDC. 4. COP on the 2 nd Principle  Principle 2 : HUMAN RIGHTS “And make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.”  Performance in 2012 JDC carried out the below activites to support the 2nd principle  Revising the JDC Ethics Charter Since JDC proclaimed supporting the 10 principles, they revised their own ethics charter overall. Last September, all of JDC employees agreed to change every sentences on the charter; they believe that it would be better to compose a new ethics charter with the pricinples of UNGC. The charter reflected the universal 10 principles so that it must expedite the progress of the human right expansion. 5. COP on the 3 rd Principle  Principle 3 : LABOUR “Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.”  Performance in 2012 JDC carried out the below activites to support the 3rd principle  The Organization of Labour Union Last Spring, most of employees used of the right to organiz themselves into unions; they formed JDC union labour for the workplace improvement. Aproximately 60% of JDC workers has now joined the union. They have been making an effort to protect the right of public workers who are under huge public pressures. They also try to find the way how JDC becomes the best examplar of Great Work Place(GWP). 6. COP on the 4 th Principle  Principle 4 : LABOUR “The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour.”  Performance in 2012 JDC carried out the below activites to support the 4th principle  Encouraging Flexible Workplaces JDC has been encouraging the policy of Flexible Workplaces so that people working in JDC becomes more satisfied with their work places. 2011 2012 variation The Number of Flexible Workers (%) 17 (7.2%) 22 (9.3%) 129.4%  Encouraging Using Every Types of Leaves All of JDC employees feel free to use any types of leaves. JDC has never restrained their own workers spending leaves they deserve to use. 2011 2012 variation Regular The Everage Percent Workers 58.2 % 64.5 % + 6.3 % p of spending Annual Leaves Non-Regular 49.7 % 59.3 % + 9.6 % p Workers 7. COP on the 5 th Principle  Principle 5 : LABOUR “The effective abolition of child labour”  Performance in 2012 JDC carried out the below activites to support the 5th principle  Improvement in the Rights of the Child JDC is strict with child labour. They have never hired a child in every work place. They even never dealt with any products produced by child labour in Duty Free Store business. That is the crucial rule in the way of business JDC has forever. Not only JDC supports the aboilition of child labour, but they also focus on improving the right of the child. For instance, JDC had the great contest for children who are strongly interested in the reinforcement of ethics. JDC believes that this type of performance must facilitate an improvement of child competence to figure out which’s right or not. It will cultivate the child self reliance and rights as well. 8. COP on the 6 th Principle  Principle 6 : LABOUR “The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation”  Performance in 2012 JDC carried out the below activites to support the 6th principle  Blanced Equal Opportunity of Employment Fair Blanced The Numbers of Fair Employees Beneficiary factors 2011 2012 variation Academic High School Background Graduates 0 6 +6 Gender Women 100 114 114% Physical Handicapped the Disabled 3 10 333% Short-term (Internships) 20 29 145% Regionality Long-term (Part-times) 58 62 107%  Blanced Equal Opportunity of Employees Fair Blanced Full-Time Workers Part-Time Workers factors 2011 2012 Perks Available N/A Became Available Bonus Available N/A Became Available Job Trainning Available N/A Became Available 9. COP on the 7 th Principle  Principle 7 : ENVIRONMENT “Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.”  Performance in 2012 JDC carried out the below activites to support the 7th principle  Certificated in Environmentally Friendly Business JDC has been globally certificated by ISO (International Organization for Standards) because of its eco-friendly business system. Following every single standard of ISO 14001 leads JDC to the high-advanced ethical company fully understood environmental responsibility. To maintain ISO 14001, JDC acquired an another certification named GMS. It stands for Green Management System, the one of Korean national standards about environmental business management from KSA (Korean Standards Association). It shows that the eco-friendly principle is a key factor of management’s most important duties for JDC. 10. COP on the 8 th Principle  Principle 8 : ENVIRONMENT “Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility”  Performance in 2012 JDC carried out the below activites to support the 8th principle  Regular Anouncing Environ-Information Publicly JDC anually goes public with Green-Information. They open to public that how much energies and resources they use, and what tones of CO2 they emit. They also show how well they recycle wastes. Everyone can check them out on the following adress : http://www.jdcenter.com/doc/sub6/sub6522.jsp 11. COP on the 9 th Principle  Principle 9 : ENVIRONMENT “Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies”  Performance in 2012 JDC carried out the below activites to support the 9th principle  Realization of Value-Engineering Technically, JDC is a developer; it basically means they have site development businesses. Recently, one of them becomes a majority, Jeju Aero Space Museum(JASM). The museum is supposed to open to people next year; however, it amazingly receives an authoritative award, Valued Engineering Award(VEA) even it is now under construction now. VEA was a prize for the construction project which applys social values such as an acompanied growth with minor partners, a cost reduction for profit sharing and so on. Korean Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport gave the prize to JDC who improved those values when it comes to building the museum. 12. COP on the 10 th Principle  Principle 10 : ANTI-CORRUPTION “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.”  Performance in 2012 JDC carried out the below activites to support the 10th principle  The Campaign Be Clear and Clean Last year, JDC had the huge campaign, Be Clear and Clean. They passionally carried out 38 sub-unit activities; one of them was so high-lightened as a best practice in Korean society. That is a mobile application called Be Clear and Clean Anytime. Its function is an 100% protection of whistle blowers; no one can figure out who reports any corruption if JDC might have. The application made all JDC workers face one serious question every time: working with coworkers and partners in what way I should take? That was the key of taking a moral stand against the latent corruptions as an important precondition for effective anti-corruption policy. 13. Performance Reviews  Outcome 1 : Increasing Sustainability Management Index ▪ Evaluation Model : KoBEX SM Index (Korean Business Ethics Index Sustainability Management) ▪ Assessor : Korean Government (Ministry of Knowledge Economy) ▪ Result +2 AAA A 2011 2012 Comparison with the Previous Year Comparison with the Others 13. Performance Reviews  Outcome 2 : Increasing Integrity Index ▪ Evaluation Model : Public Intergrity Index ▪ Assessor : Korean Government (Anti Corruption & Civil Right Commission) ▪ Result +2 Level 3 Level 1 2011 2012  Outcome 3 : Increasing Anti-Corruption Index ▪ Evaluation Model : Public Anti-Corruption Index ▪ Assessor : Korean Government (Anti Corruption & Civil Right Commission) ▪ Result +2 Level 4 Level 2 2011 2012 13. Performance Reviews  Outcome 4 : Increasing Customer-Satisfaction Index ▪ Evaluation Model : Public Customer-Satisfaction Index ▪ Assessor : Korean Government (Ministry of Strategy and Finance) ▪ Result +1 Level 2 Level 1 2011 2012  Outcome 5 : Increasing CSR Index ▪ Evaluation Model : Public Management Assessment (CSR part) ▪ Assessor : Korean Government (Ministry of Strategy and Finance) ▪ Result “C” class +1 “B” class 2011 2012 The End of COP
