Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 01 CONTENT DOĞUŞ GROUP STRUCTURE 02 OPERATIONAL MAP 04 OUR GROUP 06 Company Profile 06 Awards & Recognitions 07 Strategic Partnerships & Memberships 13 CHAIRMAN’s MESSAGE 14 CEO MESSAGE 16 CSR and SUSTAINABILITY at DOĞUŞ GROUP 18 CSR Strategy 18 CSR Management 19 Doğuş Group CSR Policies 20 Materiality 27 Stakeholder Engagement 27 ECONOMIC ENGAGEMENT 30 Responsible Business 30 Corporate Governance 30 Responsible Earning 31 Responsible Investment 33 Local Employment 33 Supply Chain Management 35 Community Development Programs 35 Public Policy Contributions 43 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 46 Open Communication 47 Employee Health and Safety 49 Performance Management 50 Training and Development Programs 51 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 54 Business Ethics 64 Customers 66 Human Rights 68 ENVIRONMENTAL ENGAGEMENT 72 Environmental Awareness Programs 72 Energy Efficiency 75 Waste Management 76 Water Consumption 77 PERFORMANCE DATA 79 ABOUT THIS REPORT 92 REPORTING CONTENT INDEX 94 INDEXES 95 GRI APPLICATION LEVEL CHECK 108 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 Doğuş Group Structure Banking& Financial Automotive Construction Media Services TV RADYO Corporate Responsibility 02 03 Real New Tourism&Services Estate Energy Entertainment Initiatives Doğuş Energy Doğuş Energy Artvin HEPP Use Light Logo 9 mm and over cap height see opposite Antalya PLAZA Doğuş Energy Electricity Whole Sale Co. Use Bold Logo under 9 mm cap height see opposite. This Logo can be used on screen or for embroderie etc. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 OperatIonal Map 1 Romania Garanti Bank Romania-Headquarters & 78 Branches SC Motoractive Credit SA Ralfi IFN SA Domenia Credit SA 2 Bulgaria Doğuş Construction&Trade Inc. 3 The Netherlands GBI-Headquarters 17 4 UK 3 4 5 Garanti Bank-Representative Office 7 Doğuş Int. 13 9 1 5 Germany 15 Garanti Bank-Representative Office 2 GBI Branch 6 16 10 6 Italy 12 Capri Palace Hotel Partnership 8 7 Luxemburg 11 Garanti Bank-Branch 20 14 8 Morocco 21 Doğuş ES-Branch&Doğuş SARL 9 Switzerland GBI-Representative Office D-Auto Suisse SA-Lausanne Doğuş SA-Geneva 10 Malta Garanti Bank-Branch 11 Libya Doğuş Construction Libya-Branch 12 Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus Garanti Bank-5 Branches 13 Ukraine GBI-Representative Office Doğuş Construction&Trade Inc. 04 05 18 14 Dubai Doğuş Management 19 Services Ltd. 15 Croatia D-Marin Marinas Group 16 Greece D-Marin Marinas Group Partnerships 17 Russia GarantiBank Moscow-Headquarters 18 Kazakhstan Doğuş Kazakhstan Branch Doğuş L.L.C. 19 China Garanti Bank-Representative Office 20 Qatar Doğuş Construction L.L.C. 21 Oman Doğuş Construction Oman L.L.C. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 OUR GROUP Company Profile Founded in 1951, Doğuş Group has become one of the largest conglomerates in Turkey, and has the vision of being a regional leader in the services sector. Doğuş Group is active in eight core businesses1: financial Its name is a source of attraction for the international investors services, automotive, construction, media, tourism and who are interested in Turkey. The Group has contributed to services, real estate, energy and entertainment. this process by creating a synergy with global giants including the following: BBVA (Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A.) in Behind the success of Doğuş Group there lies a customerfinance, Volkswagen AG and TÜVSÜD in automotive, CNBC, focused and productivity-centered management style. This MSNBC and Condé Nast in media and Hyatt International Ltd. style is not only formed through material gains, but it also and HMS International Hotel GmbH (Maritim) in tourism. In embodies a strong corporate citizenship approach from which addition, Doğuş Group goes ahead full speed with its various the whole society can benefit. The Group implements several investments in the new business lines. Doğuş Group and global corporate social responsibility and sponsorship projects, with a sports, fashion and entertainment company IMG Worldwide special focus on child development, education, environment, signed an agreement to form a joint venture company in culture & arts and sports. Turkey. The Group has also become strategic partners with one of the South Korea’s largest conglomerates, SK Group Doğuş Group has around 180 companies2 and a workforce and in entertainment sector, the Group signed a partnership of nearly 35 thousand which enables it to offer high level agreement with İstanbul Doors Group and International Azumi technology, quality brands and dynamic human resources to Group. Most recently, Doğuş Group underscored its ambitious its customers. The Group seeks to maximize the value of its standing regarding the marina operations sector with the brands, not only in Turkey but also in the regional and global partnership agreements it signed with Lamda Development context. The Group carries the vision of becoming a regional which is a part of Latsis Group and MedMarinas S.A., which leader especially in the services sector. is a part of Kiriacoulis Group in Greece and with the Adriatic Croatia International (ACI) Group in Croatia. Doğuş Group always provides its services based upon the principles of customer satisfaction and trust. As a result of this With its experience and network enabling it to keep up with approach, the Group has created reputable brands with global the changes in the world, Doğuş Group remains as one of the standards and has been representing our country worldwide. leaders of transformation in Turkey. 1 Doğuş Group of Companies’ product and services details with the market presence details of 2012 can be found in Doğuş Group 2012 Annual Report (http://www. dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/83-337-1-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/investor_relations/reports/annual_reports). For more information please visit the Group’s corporate web site. 2 Sectoral activites of Doğuş Group companies can be found in Doğuş Group 2012 Annual Report at http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/83-337-1-1/dogus_grubu_-_ en/investor_relations/reports/annual_reports 06 07 Awards & Recognitions Doğuş Holding • ‘Corporate Social Responsibility Communication and Reporting Award’, CSR MarketPlace 2012, CSR Association of Turkey • ‘Quality Award-ISAQ’, Platin Category, International Star Award 2012, Business Initiative Directions (BID) • ‘Classical Music Event of the Year Award’ for D-Marin Turgutreis International Classical Music Festival, Donizetti Classical Music Award 2012 • ‘Consumer Information Award’, Bronze Category for Doğuş Group’s Corporate Website, Horizon Interactive Awards Ayhan Şahenk Vakfı • Mobile Healthcare Units Project, ‘Prof. Dr. Nusret Fişek Community Health Services Award’, İstanbul Chamber of Physicians • ‘Contribution to Education Award’, Medal of Appreciation of the Turkish Republic Banking and Financial Services Garanti Bank • ‘2012 Turkey-Carbon Performance Leadership Award’, Carbon Disclosure Project • ‘Best Bank in Turkey’ (for the 3rd time), The Banker, Financial Times Group • ‘Best Local Media Award’, ‘Best Use of Cinema Award’, ‘Best Use of Open-Air Media’, ‘Outstanding Success Award’, ‘Best Use of Ambient Media Award’, 7th MediaCat Felis Awards • ‘Best Internet Bank in Turkey Award’ (for the 9th time), Europe Category, Global Finance Awards • ‘Best Online Deposit, Credit and Investment Product Offerings in Internet Banking in Europe Award’, ‘Best Integrated Consumer Internet Banking Website in Europe Award’, Global Finance • ‘The Garanti Calendar Site Silver Award’, Entertainment Category, Horizon Interactive Awards • ‘Gold Certificate’, Human Resources Category, International Quality Standards Certificate of Investors In People (IIP) • ‘Best in 2012 Award’, Talent Management Category, Peryön Human Management Awards DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 GarantiBank International N.V. • ‘Best Trade Bank in Soft Commodities Award’, Trade & Forfaiting Review • ‘Best Trade Finance Bank in Structured Trade Finance in the World’, Global Rank #2, Trade & Forfaiting Review • ‘Best Forfaiting Institution in the World’, Global Rank #2, Trade & Forfaiting Review • ‘Best Soft Commodity Finance Bank Silver Medal’, Trade Finance Magazine • ‘Best Overall Commodity Finance Bank Bronze Medal’, Trade Finance Magazine • ‘Best Forfaiting Institution in the World’, Global Rank #3, Trade Finance Magazine Garanti Bank SA • ‘Best Contributing Team Award’, Volunteer for Better 2012 Global Campaign, Western Union & Habitat Romania • ‘Best Bank Award’, Finmedia Publications • ‘Best Banking Strategy Award’, Financial Leaders’ Hall of Fame 2012 Awards, Business Arena Magazine • ‘Highest Increase of the Global Number of Transactions in 2012, The Most Constant Increase of the Transaction Values in 2012 Awards’ (both for individuals and legal entities), Finmedia Publications • ‘The Complexity of the Transactions Performed by the Clients and Non-Clients, both with Card and without Card at Garanti Bank’s Smart ATMs Awards’, Nine O’Clock Publication • ‘Retail Bank of the Year’, Piata Financiara Publication • ‘The Complexity and Innovation in the Romanian Market’ for Bonus Card, Finmedia Publications • ‘The Highest Growth Rate in Transactions Number’ for Internet Banking, eFinance Publication Garanti Securities • ‘Best Investment Bank Award 2012’, Euromoney • ‘Best Equity House Award’, EMEA Finance Magazine Garanti Leasing • ‘Most Admired Leasing Company in Turkey Award’, Capital Magazine • Financial Services Category, ‘Excellency Award’, 2013 Communicator Awards for www.garantileasing.com.tr, International Academy of Visual Arts Garanti Factoring • ‘Most Admired Factoring Company in Turkey Award’ (for the 4th consecutive time), Capital Magazine 08 09 Garanti Pension & Life • ‘Gold Award’, Non-English Annual Report Category Insurance/Financial Services Area, Annual Report Competition (ARC) Awards • ‘Honorable Mention’, Interior Design Category, ARC Awards • ‘Best Non-English Annual Report Award’ (among all the participating annual reports in all areas), ARC Awards • ‘Respect for Humanity Award’, Kariyer.Net Garanti Payment Systems • ‘Best Special Passenger Program Credit Card’, Freddie Awards • Garanti Cep-T Paracard, ‘Best Global Prepaid Innovation Award’, Prepaid Awards • Money Visa, ‘Best Customer Experience Award’, Contactless & Mobile Payments Awards, Contactless Intelligence • ‘Best Use of Contactless NFC Technology – Esparacard’, Contactless and Mobile Awards 2013 • 5th Effie Awards 2013, Bronz Effie in Payments Category for ‘Bonus Kafa’ Garanti Mortgage • ‘Award of Excellence’, Financial Services Category, Communicator Awards 2012 for www.garantimortgage.com, International Academy of the Visual Arts (IAVA) • ‘Stevie Award’, 3rd Winner in Financial Services Category, International Stevie Awards 2012 Garanti Technology • ‘Bronze Award’, Best Customer Service Department of the Year Category, International Stevie Awards 2012 Garanti Culture (SALT) • SALT, ‘1st Place in Architectural Transformation’, ‘2nd Place in Culture and Art Structure’, Most Successful Real Estate Investors Research 2012 • SALT, ‘Corporate Social Responsibility – Art and Culture Award’, 11th Golden Compass Public Relations Awards, Public Relations Association of Turkey (TÜHİD) • Teaching Academy Foundation, ‘Special Jury Prize’, 11th Golden Compass Public Relations Awards, TÜHİD • SALT Galata, ‘Elle Style Venue’, Elle Style Awards 2012 Garanti Yatırım Ortaklığı • ‘International Star Award for Quality-ISAQ’, International Star Award 2012, Business Initiative Directions (BID) DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv • Traffic is Life!, ‘Jury Incentive Awards’, CSR MarketPlace 2012, CSR Association of Turkey • Traffic is Life!, ‘Exemplary Educational Program Awards’, CSR MarketPlace 2012, CSR Association of Turkey • Doğuş Otomotiv, ‘Nominated Company with Highest Growth in Corporate Governance Rating’, Corporate Governance Association of Turkey • Doğuş Otomotiv, ‘The Distributor of the Year Award’, VW AG • Doğuş Otomotiv, ‘Most Admired Company in Automotive Sector’, Capital Magazine • VW Passenger Cars, ‘Crystal Apple Award 2012’, The Crystal Apple Awards • VW Amarok, ‘Achievement Certificate of the Best Press Advertisement in Commercial Vehicles Category’, Kırmızı The Bests in Press Awards • VW Amarok, ‘Magazine Advertisement of the Year’, ODD Gladiator Selling and Communication Awards • Audi, ‘2nd Place in 2012 Audi Twin Cup After Sales Competition’, Audi Twin Cup 2012 • Doğuş Oto, ‘The Service World Championship World’s 2nd’, Audi Twin Cup 2012 • SEAT Turkey, ‘Worldwide Original Spare Parts Award’, 2nd International Sales Conference, Portugal • Bentley, ‘The Brand With Largest Growth in 2012’, ODD Sales and Communication Awards, 2012 Gladiators • Thermo King Turkey, ‘Platinum Sales & Platinum Service Dealer Award’, OEM • Skoda, ‘Turkey Rally Champion’, Fabia S2000 • vdf Insurance, ‘Company with the Most Overall Commission Increase’, Volkswagen Financial Services International Insurance Conference • vdf Insurance, ‘Fastest Growing Country’, Volkswagen Financial Services International Insurance Conference Construction Doğuş Construction • ‘Quality Summit Award’, Golden Category, Business Initiative Directions (BID) • ‘Bulgaria’s Best Building of the Year 2012 Award’, Sofia Metro Project for ‘Lion Bridge’ and ‘Serdika II’ stations, Gradid Media Group 10 11 Media Doğuş Media Group • Approximately 835 awards to date for broadcasts and social responsibility campaigns • 75 awards in various areas from ministries, organizations, associations and foundations, professional chambers, universities and high schools in 2012 Tourism and Services Doğuş Tourism Group Grand Hyatt İstanbul • ‘Hotel Greening Project’ Award, Bureau Veritas, for Energy, Water, Inner Air and Waste Management and Recycling Efforts Park Hyatt İstanbul-Maçka Palas • ‘The Certificate of Excellence’, Trip Advisor 2012, Trip Advisor LCC D-Hotel Maris • ‘Best Beach Resort’, Marusya Cup (Luxurious Boutique Agency Owners & Travel Consultants), 2012 Maritim Hotel Grand Azur • ‘The Blue Flag’ (since 2004), TYHA (The Yacht Harbour Association) • ‘Marque of Excellence 2012’, Thomas Cook • ‘Expedia Best YoY Growth 2012 Regional Turkey’ • ‘The Certificate of Excellence’, Trip Advisor 2012 • ‘Quality Hotel Award’, 2012 Holidaycheck.de Maritim Hotel Club Alantur • Holiday Check Quality Selection 2012 • Tripadvisor Highly Recommended 2012 • Zoover Highly Recommended 2012 D-Marin Marinas Group D-Marin Turgutreis • ‘The Blue Flag’, ‘Five Gold Anchor Award’ (since 2004), TYHA • ‘The Most Successful Marina Enterprise Award’, Eurobank Tekfen, Economist, Capital Magazine and Tourism Investor Fellowship Cooperation • 2004 Skal Tourism Investor Award • 2007, 2008, 2010 Skal Marina Operator Award • 2009 Skal Harbour & Marina Operator Award • Skalite Award for D-Marin Turgutreis International Classical Music Festival, Turkish Regional Clubs Category, Skalite Tourism Awards 2012, Skal International DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 D-Marin Didim • ‘The Blue Flag’, ‘Five Gold Anchor Award’ (since 2010), TYHA • The First ‘5 Anchor Marina License’ authorized by Turkish Ministry of Tourism and Culture D-Marin Göcek • ‘Five Gold Anchor Award’ (since 2000), TYHA • ‘Best Quality Marina Management’, Quality Management Awards • ‘1st Place Award’, Best Marina Category, Skalite Tourism Awards 2012, Skal International D-Marin Mandalina • ‘Five Gold Anchor Award’ (since 2011), TYHA D-Marin Dalmacija • ‘The Blue Flag’ (since 2000), TYHA Real Estate Doğuş Real Estate/Gebze Center • 1st Gebze Book Days, ‘Marketing Campaign of the Year’, Shopping Centers Category, AMDP New Initiatives Bonubon • Bonubon.com, ‘2nd Best New Web Initiative Award’, ‘6th Best Group Shopping Web Site Award’, Webrazzi 2012 Awards 12 13 Strategic Partnerships & Memberships In 2012, Doğuş Group had memberships in the following organizations either on a corporate or individual basis: • ASTD – American Society for Training and Development • CDP – Carbon Disclosure Project • DEİK – Foreign Economic Relations Board • DenizTemiz TURMEPA – Turkish Marine Environment Protection Association • EFAMA – European Fund and Asset Management Association • FERMA – Federation of European Risk Management Association • Finans Kulüp – Finance Professionals’ Foundation of Turkey • FODER – Financial Literacy and Inclusion Association • Forum İstanbul • KİD – Corporate Communications Association • KRYD – Enterprise Risk Management Association • ÖSGD – Corporate Volunteer Association • Para Durumu (Turkey’s first financial literacy initiative) • PERYÖN – Personnel Management Association of Turkey • TBCSD – Turkish Business Council for Sustainable Development • TEİD – Ethics and Reputation Society • TİDE – The Institute of Internal Auditing, Turkey • TKYD – Corporate Governance Association of Turkey • TÜBİYAD – Finance & IT Executives Association • TÜFİDER – Financing Institutions Association • TÜSİAD – Turkish Industrialists’ and Businessmen’s Association • UNEP FI – United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative • UNGC – United Nations Global Compact • UNPRI – United Nations Principles for Responsible Investments • WEF – World Economic Forum • WWF – Green Office Program DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 ChaIrman’s Message We are very well aware that we owe much to the society we operate in. We have always worked hard to do our best in terms of service quality, highest standards, innovative and customized business approach and constructive engagement with our clients on an ongoing basis. Dear Stakeholders, 2012 was a year of further expansion for Doğuş Group with new projects, new partnerships and new investments. Our efforts to give back to the society, the environment and all our stakeholders also increased parallel to our active investment strategy and strong growth. We maintained our hard work to add value to our respective communities through sustainable business models and engagement programs. In other words, our efforts have been increasingly focused on becoming a better “corporate citizen”. We live in times where stakeholder engagement is of critical importance for all corporations. Transparency, accountability and responsiveness have become the defining concepts in the way of doing business and the decision-making mechanisms. Doğuş Group has always given utmost priority to its stakeholders. We are very well aware that we owe much to the society we operate in. We have always worked hard to do our best in terms of service quality, highest standards, innovative and customized business approach and constructive engagement with our clients on an ongoing basis. Our dedication and hard work have paid off and Doğuş Group has become one of the leading groups of Turkey. 14 15 We see corporate responsibility as contributing to the society We will continue to operate with a view to develop better and the environment as well as building and keeping active approaches and vision to our existing and new sectors, by communication lines with all stakeholders. In line with this further institutionalization, better working environment, standing, we have been working hard to excel our existing increased attention to customer health, safety and structure regarding corporate responsibility. Under the environmental standards. leadership of Doğuş Holding and with the participation of our Group companies, we transformed our corporate responsibility We hope that our 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report will approach into a Group strategy in 2012. Furthermore, we have be a valuable reference guide for all our stakeholders. I would also outlined our policies regarding working standards, human like to take this opportunity to thank our Group companies, rights, product and service responsibility, community and the employees and all other stakeholders for their efforts and environment. I strongly believe this new structure will further valuable contributions. strengthen and standardize our corporate responsibility related initiatives by acting as a guideline for our current and prospective Group companies. It has been five years since we participated in the United Nations Global Compact. We are among the leading groups in Turkey in this regard. We are pleased to share our fifth Ferit F. Şahenk corporate responsibility report in line with our commitment to Chairman of the Board of Directors align our operations and strategies with universally accepted Doğuş Group principles. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 Ceo Message At Doğuş Group, our goal is to become the Dear Stakeholders, leading group in all sectors in which we The vision and the values of Doğuş Group have been the major operate, in terms of creating responsible guiding principles leading us to act, to make decisions, to invest and to move forward since the day of our foundation. The United and competitive companies. Nations Global Compact that we signed in 2007, and then our fifth Corporate Responsibility Report published this year, have ranked our Group among the pacemaker companies in this field. Doğuş Group’s social and ecological performance within its economic aspects, in line with the basic principles of the corporate responsibility, aims to contribute to all stakeholders and to the environment. Conducting corporate responsibility in such a vein, major investments of Doğuş Group has been approximately US$ 3.9 billion in the last five years and exceeded US$ 4.3 billion in the last ten years. 15% of our main investments have been made abroad while the rest has been domestic. Doğuş Group has made the concept of corporate responsibility a part of its strategy and has started to share this strategy with the Group companies in a systematic manner. The Corporate Responsibility Policies of Doğuş Group, which are published in this report, were prepared by our Corporate Responsibility Team with the participation of unit directors of the Holding company, at the workshops organized through the year. Along with these policies, social, ecological, economic and ethical matters that we focus on in medium and long-term were determined and shared with all of our companies. We hope that this framework of strategy and policies of Doğuş Group, will serve as a guide to lead the Group companies. Another important development in the past year, in which our Group is deeply involved, was the launch of the “Equality at Work Platform” in regard to the participation of women in the economy, for the purpose of fighting against gender-based social inequalities and reducing the gender gap in Turkey’s economic realm to a minimum. Supported by the Ministry of Family and Social Policies and with Mr. Ferit Şahenk, Doğuş Holding Board Chairman, cochairing the initiative, the Platform has started its efforts to change the current balance of male-dominated working life to secure more female participation in business and create opportunities 16 17 and resources that encourage equal benefits for the genders. I am development. In September 2012, we also founded Doğuş Agro pleased to report that the ratio of women employees constitutes Projects and R&D Services to contribute to the agriculture sector, more than 51% within our Group. In addition, along with our new which we believe has increasing importance for sustainable initiatives, creation of new employment opportunities became development, and to support regional agriculture with advanced one of our major investments, at the heart of the concept of research. corporate social responsibility. We will continue contributing to the social life of the regions, in At Doğuş Group, our goal is to become the leading group in all which we operate, in terms of economy, employment, and the sectors in which we operate in terms of creating responsible and environment, by providing the perfect synergy created with nearly competitive companies. 2012 was an important year for our Group 35,000 employees. We will continue to pursue new investments in this respect. Among our Group companies, Doğuş Otomotiv, and create new opportunities. which distinguished itself by releasing the first Corporate Responsibility Report in its segment in Turkey and around the I would like to thank all the Group companies, our employees, world published its second report, and the leader in Banking and all of our stakeholders who share and support this vision and sector in Turkey, Garanti Bank, has become the first Turkish bank work with us to provide a better, more livable world for the next to receive A level rating from Global Reporting Initiative with its generations. first comprehensive Sustainability Report. Additionally, Doğuş Construction and Ayson individually joined the United Nations Global Compact, thereby adding value to Doğuş Group globally with respect to corporate responsibility. Our Group companies also sustained their community Hüsnü Akhan engagement programs in 2012. Among these projects were; Chief Executive Officer Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra and Turkey’s first financial Doğuş Group literacy initiative ‘Para Durumu’ of Doğuş Holding, Garanti Bank’s ‘No Limit in Teaching’ project and SALT, Garanti Pension and Life’s ‘Back to School: Educating, not Employing Children’ project, Garanti Factoring’s support to ‘Mother Kid Education Foundation’ project, ‘Traffic is Life!’ platform of Doğuş Otomotiv, TÜVTÜRK’s support to ‘Traffic Responsibility Action’, and ‘Engage with Disadvantaged People’ of Doğuş Real Estate/Gebze Center. Regarding Doğuş Group’s corporate responsibility efforts, our basic goals include, in the medium and the long-run, capturing a 10% growth in all business lines every year. Furthermore, we aim at being the leading company in Turkey in employee loyalty, creating new business areas, maintaining high management standards, and responding to the expectations of the key stakeholders to be a driving force of economic and social DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 CSR and Sustainability at Doğuş Group CSR CSR Strategy Management Materiality Stakeholder Engagement CSR Strategy At Doğuş Group, we have a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) into consideration our stakeholders’ concerns and requirements Strategy that defines the structure of the CSR and sustainability as well as profitability. programs of the Group companies. With the intention of being a regional leader in the services sector, we have set up our CSR As sustainability is the key driver to innovation and for stakeholder policies to coordinate and manage sustainability performances. trust, we rely on responsible business models. We have found that, encouraging the Group companies this way has enhanced Being one of Turkey’s leading business groups, we strive to our most valuable assets in which we have invested since our conduct all our business operations in a responsible way, taking foundation. Doğuş Group’s CSR Strategy To support economic, social and environmental development and increase the level of prosperity by creating innovative and sustainable business models in every sector and region in which we operate as a Group. 18 19 CSR CSR Strategy Management Materiality Stakeholder Engagement CSR Management Since Doğuş Group is a multi-business conglomerate with global and encouraging CSR awareness within the Group companies. and local presence in several sectors, we believe that including Our Group’s participation to the United Nations Global Compact CSR related issues into management and decision processes in 2007 was an important step in the progress toward the CSR is crucial to achieve excellence in management. Our CSR approach and management vision, and we are very proud that Management approach depends on stakeholder inclusion; their Doğuş Otomotiv, Doğuş Construction and Ayson also signed and concerns and requirements are important measures for all our joined the initiative individually, Doğuş Otomotiv in 2010 and the operational decisions. Doğuş Group Board of Directors is fully latter two in 2012. responsible for CSR related issues, the implementation processes Doğuş Group CSR Management Model Group CSR Strategy Group Group Ethical CSR Policies Principles Group Holding CSR CSR Commitments Companies’ CSR Performances and Targets Performances DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 Doğuş Group CSR Policies CSR Management System is very intensively part of our Risk Management economic, environmental and social responsibility policies. In Doğuş Group companies, which operate in the new global 2012, we organized six workshops to determine Doğuş Group’s environment, need to devise systematic means for dealing with CSR policies, with the attendance of key directors of the Holding the challenges they pose. We frame on these challenges as company. These policies include our Group’s CSR point of view, “social and environmental risks” as CSR programs are effective commitments to and targets for the coming years. Doğuş Group means to provide strategic intelligence for managing social and lays emphasis on the importance of these policies and aims to environmental risks. Stakeholder engagement through CSR arrange one-on-one meetings with each of the Group companies programs provides us an invaluable source of information about to raise awareness on the Group’s CSR policies in 2013. social and environmental risks. Doğuş Group Economic Responsibility Policy Responsible Investment Doğuş Group’s Economic Responsibility Policy is set to manifest Responsible investment for Doğuş Group refers to the efforts of Group companies, enabling them to manage their economic our Group companies to incorporate environmental, social and impact, taking stakeholder benefits into consideration. This policy economic responsibility issues into investment decisions and to is a guiding principle for all Group companies. actively engage with the third parties to encourage improved CSR Doğuş Group: practices. We disclosed detailed information on the responsible • Fulfills its responsibilities, while proceeding its investments investment approach of Doğuş Group companies in the related towards sustainable growth targets, considering the Group’s topic. direct and indirect economic impact. • Ensures that the Group companies manage their operations Local Economic Development and strive for the highest economical benefit within their Doğuş Group companies provide services in several sectors and value chain, aware of being important actors of economic take active roles in increasing the social wealth of the community development in their sectors. by supporting local employment and improving trade. Economic • Evaluates, monitors and manages its contribution to economic development in Turkey and in other regions where we operate, is development under the principles of Risk Management, a natural result of our operations and positively impact even the Responsible Investment and Local Economic Development. smallest units of the community as well as the local authorities. Key elements of our economic responsibility policy include encouragement of local employment, infrastructure investments and use of local suppliers, with social and environmental consciousness. 20 21 Local Supply Climate Change Contribution to Infrastructure Awareness Local Economy Investments Local Employment Climate Change Awareness Global warming, engendering climate change, has been accepted with potential impact on existing operations of Doğuş Group. The as a financial and social risk by all global governments, companies operational and financial risk analysis of the Group include climate and communities for over a decade. Besides the local community change effect as part of our economic responsibility policy. programs which we support, climate change and the issues Raising awareness through our value chain and among the Group it triggers are acknowledged as financial and operational risks companies will be among our initial policy targets. Carbon Market Global Climate Precaution Warming Change Mechanisms Natural Disasters Economic Responsibility Commitments Targets Local Supply Encourage all Group companies regarding local supply policy; institute a data gathering system for determining the Group’s local supply financials Local Employment Establish mechanisms to encourage local employment and support local vocational school programs Infrastructure Investments Establish a stakeholder feedback mechanism to monitor and assess the results of current local infrastructure investments Climate Change/Risk Management Set a climate change policy and awareness programs within the Group DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 Doğuş Group Environmental Responsibility Policy At Doğuş Group, we acknowledge that environmental • Communicates its expectations surrounding business responsibility is directly related to the change of communities’ decisions and actions to be taken with environmental consumption trends and culture, and therefore has a very powerful consciousness to its employees, and strives to create effect on human rights. Doğuş Group monitors the environmental environmental awareness. performances of the Group companies with care, and supports their efforts to minimize the current and potential negative environmental impacts of its products and services within the ecologic and social environment. Doğuş Group is committed to Investment behave in alignment with its environmental policy and encourages Processes all Group companies to follow suit. Compliance The key elements of the environmental responsibility policy are Waste Management stated below. Doğuş Group: • Commits to comply with regulatory and voluntary codes and Employee plans its business processes with environmental consciousness. Environmental • Requires environmental management approach from its Awareness Impact business partners and supply chain. Supply Chain • Analyzes the environmental impact of its investment and supply chain processes, and pursues new technologies in order to minimize potential negative impacts. • Builds systems and supports awareness programs in order Paper to decrease paper consumption, and encourages the use of Consumption recycled paper. Reduction • Operates in accordance with environmental management Inefficient systems which shape our consuming behavior, waste Logistics management processes and ensures effective logistics management. Environmental Responsibility Commitments Targets Investment Processes Include environmental requirements in the investment and audit processes Waste Management Encourage Group companies to pursue and employ waste management and reuse systems Employee Awareness Develop and deploy employee awareness programs within the Group Supply Chain Awareness Support energy efficiency and environmental consciousness programs among the supply chain and include environmental policy statement into the supplier agreements Reduction of Paper Consumption Encourage programs for reduction of paper consumption within the Group Effective Logistics Support programs for logistics optimization and establish collaboration with the Group companies 22 23 Doğuş Group Employee Responsibility Policy Doğuş Group believes that its success is directly linked to the Dialogue Group’s culture of valuing and empowering its employees. One of the key principles of our Employee Responsibility Policy is being a Feedback great place to work for the employees. Transparency Doğuş Group: • Encourages its employees to work under the umbrella of Doğuş Group for the duration of their professional life. Hence Training it strongly supports employment and rotation within the Group and actively provides opportunities toward career variety to its successful employees. • Seeks employee feedback with open and transparent Employee Life-long Health & Safety communication mechanisms. Engagement Improvement • Provides the best working conditions. • Pays attention to the balance between business and social life of its employees, and supports their professional and Processes personal development through training programs, mentoring and coaching. • Takes precautions and provides solutions for employees’ Career Variety in physical and mental health and safety. Group • Values equal opportunity employment, and requires the same Equal level of awareness and practices from its business partners and Opportunities Encouraging supply chain. Women Employment Employee Responsibility Commitments Targets Dialogue Maintain an open door policy; improve in-house communication support programs Transparency Share the results of feedback with employees and establish new feedback mechanisms accordingly Training Support training programs and improve the training processes with regards to employee needs and global standards Life-long Improvement Establish life-long improvement programs including voluntary and community work initiatives Health & Safety Processes Implement international standards and encourage employee awareness within the processes Career Variety in Group Reduce employee circulation rate and improve employee satisfaction Encouraging Women’s Employment Collaborate with community initiatives and support all activities to include and sustain women in the workforce DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 Doğuş Group Human Rights Policy Doğuş Group manages its operations in compliance with local laws and regulations. United Nations Global Compact principles lead the Group’s Human Rights Policy. Our Human Rights Policy also refers to the main principles of United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and its protocols, United Nations Convention of International Covenant on Civil and Political Policy & Rights, United Nations Convention of International Covenant Strategy on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, ILO Declaration on Value Chain Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the Vienna Dialogue Declaration and Program of Action. Human Rights Platforms Awareness Doğuş Group: • Gives special importance to establishing dialogue platforms Training & regarding human rights while operating its businesses and Employees Awareness Programs managing their continuum. • Takes precautions to protect the rights of local communities. • Requires the human rights approach from every business partner, including suppliers. • Conducts and encourages training and awareness programs regarding human rights in its value chain and among employees. Human Rights Commitments Targets Policy & Strategy Disseminate the Group’s Human Rights Policy within the value chain Dialogue Platforms Highlight the importance of human rights and effectively communicate Group’s approach Training & Awareness Programs Organize human rights e-learning training among employees and promote awareness programs with the support of community initiatives about women 24 25 Doğuş Group Product and Service Responsibility Policy Doğuş Group monitors all processes among the Group companies in order to reach absolute customer satisfaction. The Group supports all Group companies in examining customer concerns, analyzing feedback and responding. Compliance Doğuş Group: • Gives top priority to customer satisfaction and performs its Ethical Marketing business in full compliance with laws and regulations. Product • Analyzes risks to customer health and safety with expert & Service teams and ensures business processes and configurations are Customer Information Satisfaction being designed and deployed accordingly. • Complies with laws and regulations regarding customer Customer health and safety, and strives to enhance its products and Risk Analysis Health & Safety service quality. • Acknowledges that full and accurate information regarding products and services is crucial for ethical business, and Training secures necessary precautions and audit processes by the Group companies. • Complies with international voluntary codes and responsible marketing principles, and requires the best responsible and ethical performance from its employees and third parties. Product & Service Responsibility Commitments Targets Compliance Include responsible marketing principles to audit processes and monitor the third parties’ performances Product & Service Information Study on Group’s Ethics Code and include responsible marketing principles Customer Health & Safety Risk Analysis Encourage Group companies to comply with international standards on customer health and safety, and include the principle in audit processes Customer Health & Safety Training Provide tools to communicate information on customer health and safety to all employees and collaborate with community initiatives DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 Doğuş Group Community Responsibility Policy Doğuş Group strives to support the development of communities and contributes to both local and regional growth and new employment opportunities. Doğuş Group: Support • Internalizes the ethical investment principles both for the Community community and its business. Development Community • Analyzes the concerns of the community and wants people Engagement to be part of the decisions which may have the potential impact Compete on their social life and well-being. Responsibly • Gives top priority to be responsive to the needs of the Ethical Business community. • Monitors business processes for anti-corruption and Anti-corruption Compliance complies with respective laws and regulations, and Doğuş Policies Group believes that the primary responsibility of a company is doing its business ethically for the community’s well-being. • Encourages its business partners and Group companies to establish necessary monitoring mechanisms in order to prevent and detect potential corruption risks. • Aims to be a role model to its stakeholders with its ethical business approach and executes awareness programs in order to extend Group’s approach among its suppliers and other third parties. Community Responsibility Commitments Targets Community Development Engage with community initiatives related to business impact Responsible Competition Comply with international competitiveness strategies and codes Anti-corruption Policies Study Group’s Code of Ethics, lead and manage the Group companies accordingly, encourage third parties to sign Group’s ethical principles 26 27 CSR CSR CSR Strategy Management CSR Strategy Management Materiality Stakeholder Materiality Stakeholder Engagement Engagement Materiality Stakeholder Engagement Materiality is the most significant principle of CSR related For Doğuş Group, stakeholder engagement is at the heart of standards. It represents economic, social and environmental our sustainability and stakeholder strategy and policies. We priorities of the companies with respect to stakeholder concerns. encourage our Group companies to consider the environment Since Doğuş Group’s main CSR Strategy takes materiality in which they operate and to meet the requirements of the as the baseline, the suggested focus areas for every sector in stakeholders affected by their operations while achieving their which Doğuş Group operates were included in the 2011 Doğuş objectives successfully3. Group CSR Report. The most material areas of the Doğuş Group companies were analyzed by CSR experts according to their most Doğuş Group Stakeholder Engagement Approach common performances and general stakeholder concerns. For raising awareness on materiality and CSR relationship, Doğuş Group’s Corporate Communications Team, together with the CSR consultants, organized 12 meetings with the top executives of Inform Consult Involve Collaborate Empower Doğuş Holding and Group companies. The presentation included Doğuş Group CSR Strategy and the results of the materiality analysis of the sectors, which were delineated in the Group’s 2011 CSR Report. Feedback from the company executives Stakeholder Dialogue in Group Companies was evaluated for 2012 Doğuş Group CSR Report, and the performances were included accordingly. In Doğuş Group companies, stakeholder dialogue platforms are very much related to their key stakeholders’ needs and concerns. In 2010, the methodology used for defining the material issues for Every Doğuş company pays careful attention to stakeholders’ Doğuş Group was based on GRI key performance indicators and requirements. Stakeholder engagement is among the pillars the sectoral priorities of Doğuş Group companies. Benchmarking of their corporate strategy. Several stakeholder engagement with peers brought us a prioritized analysis of industrial issues. processes are managed by the Group companies in order to In 2011, this study was enlarged to a Corporate Responsibility ask, learn, analyze and respond to their expectations. Customer Strategy Study with the establishment of a CSR Working satisfaction surveys, employee loyalty surveys, partner and Group, created by representative members from all Doğuş supply chain meetings and surveys, investor meetings and Group companies. In 2012, the CSR Team studied the Group’s presentations, in addition to many online information tools, are social, environmental and economic responsibility policies and the main dialogue platforms which each and every Doğuş Group determined the material focus areas accordingly. company utilizes annually. 3 Doğuş Group Stakeholders List and Dialogue Platforms are published in 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/83-337-11/dogus_grubu_-_en/investor_relations/reports/annual_reports DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 28 29 Economic Engagement DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 EconomIc Engagement Our corporate responsibility approach is very directly integrated in Doğuş Group’s growth and financial strategies, and involves every stage of the product and service life cycle. Responsible Business Doğuş Group’s responsible business approach has four business activities, we have fully integrated globally-accepted main pillars: Corporate Governance, Responsible Earning, principles of responsible business conduct. The stakeholders Responsible Investment and Local Employment. We agree have been informed of these actions. that corporate responsibility is a business management approach essential to gaining stakeholder trust. An integrated Upholding these principles and high ethical standards is not CSR approach, which engages with the business processes is limited to our own business dealings; we also require that the the focus area of our responsible business strategies. same approach is followed by all stakeholders, both national and international. We embrace the principle of “not being Corporate Governance involved” with any party that acts contrary to globally-accepted standards and that cannot provide reliable disclosure with Doğuş Group’s corporate governance framework is the regards to its actions. widest control mechanism, both internally and externally, for stimulating the proper and efficient use of corporate resources Much attention is paid by us to the disclosure of our financial and and simultaneously requiring accountability for those resources. non-financial information to Group’s stakeholders. We make all We believe that our Group companies cannot be run without relevant information available on our website, and inform the the contributions of the stakeholder groups (customers, public about our corporate strategy, activities and new fields employees, suppliers) in response to the ecologic environment of investment via Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility and the community of which they are a part. Therefore when Reports and periodic press releases and conferences. decisions are to be made, Doğuş Group companies’ are encouraged to take into account how their decisions impact all Our financials are drawn up quarterly in accordance with these constituents. International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Independent semi-annual and year-end audit reports are shared with the public. CSR itself is a complex process of self-regulatory codes, especially with supply chains and multi-stakeholder business All Doğuş Group affiliated companies listed on the Borsa İstanbul models. Corporate governance for Doğuş Group is a precursor to (BIST) have their individual Investor Relations departments CSR which both enables CSR performance and encapsulates it. that are able to effectively manage the flow of information to their stakeholders in line with national regulations. The fields Transparency and Accountability of activity and performance of the Group’s publicly-floated At Doğuş Group we adhere to strict business ethics that companies are disclosed in conformity with principles of include transparency and accountability in an environment their respective companies by the Capital Markets Board of where all stakeholders, from large corporations to individual Turkey (CMB). In terms of public disclosure requirements, the customers and from employees to society in general, are BIST Material Event disclosures are the responsibility of the affected by each other’s actions. In all of our operations and Holding’s Finance Department. 30 31 Governance Structure Doğuş Holding’s Board of Directors consists of 11 members Responsible Earning and they meet at least on a quarterly basis and, if necessary, at Our corporate responsibility approach is very directly integrated other pre-determined times. There are two committees which in Doğuş Group’s growth and financial strategies, and involves directly report to the Board: The Risk and Audit Committee every stage of the product and service life cycle. Beginning and the Human Resources Coordination Committee. There is from the supply chain, all operational processes are intentionally also a Legal Advisory Council. At the Group level, there are planned and managed, paying particular attention to stakeholder twelve departments: of which ten are presidencies and two are concerns. division managements. There are no independent members on the Board of Directors. Risk Management Doğuş Group’s risk management framework forms an integral Every two months, the individual sector company and Holding part of the management and board processes. Doğuş Group Risk Management Division (Holding Risk) present their seeks to achieve its business plans, meet expectations of its analysis and risk-related issues to the respective Risk and stakeholders and embed a risk culture across its entities and Audit committees for discussion. There is a risk and audit functions where material existing and emerging risks are actively presentation and discussion at the Board of Directors meetings identified and effectively managed on the principles of Enterprise that covers risk and audit matters at the Group level as well as Risk Management. Each sector company has a designated team at the individual sector company level. responsible for risk that performs scheduled and ad-hoc activities including risk analysis and reporting as guided by the Holding Detailed information on the Board and committees, the Code Risk. Holding Risk also provides expertise on specialty subjects of Ethics and the audit processes can be found in the Group’s as needed. Risk functions operate under an enterprise risk web site and in the Annual Report4. management structure that encompasses financial and strategic risks as well as operational and emerging risks. Plus, there are top-down and bottom-up risk identification processes in place. Doğuş Holding Risk Management Division One of the key drivers of the Holding Risk is the continued and bottom up risk identification processes. Awareness and embedding and strengthening of the risk culture across training programs are delivered. the organization. In addition to the regular reports that are presented and discussed at various committees, ad hoc Holding Risk Management Division as well as the individual analysis and reporting are also carried out. Holding Risk companies operate under an Enterprise Risk Management guides the individual risk teams of the sector companies and structure that encompasses financial and strategic risks as supports the implementation and/or execution of top down well as operational and emerging risks. Credit Processes of Garanti Bank Garanti Bank deals with the environmental and social impacts policies, the Bank runs the “Environmental and Social Impact of activities for which it has provided financing, under a Assessment Process” (ESIAP) that was designed within two separate topic called “indirect impacts”. The Bank initially set years with the support of an independent consulting firm, as up the Environmental and Social Loan Policies (ESLP) in order well as the “Environmental and Social Impact Assessment to minimize the indirect impacts of loans granted by the Bank Model” (ESIAM) which is a part of the ESIAP. In 2012, prior and put them into practice in 2011 without any monetary to the Rio+20 United Nations Conference on Sustainable limit, following approval by the Bank’s Board of Directors. Development, Garanti made the commitment to officially Environmental and Social Loan Policies constitute the implement the ESIAP procedure from the beginning of 2013, environmental and social principles governing the extension thus demonstrating its determination to support sustainable of loans at Garanti Bank. Within the framework of these development in the financial sector. 4 http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/82-277-1-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/investor_relations/corporate_governance_principles/responsibilities_to_our_stakeholders DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 Climate Change Risks Climate change risks are being monitored as one of the longinsurance program buying process, the essential clauses are term risks in Doğuş Group’s risk spectrum. The risks related included and defined within the scope of assurance. to climate change also affect our insurance programs. Thus especially catastrophic climate changes and related possible Our real estate business lines are projecting progress in general impacts are being monitored and analyzed by Doğuş Holding’s expenses with the green building approach and have improved Risk Management Division. evaluation systems. In the construction and real estate sectors, our Group companies are paying more attention to climate In the Group’s insurance related business lines, the climate change related issues during the planning, construction and change risks priced accordingly. During the elementary maintenance phases of the projects. Garanti Bank “Carbon Performance Leader” Garanti Bank first announced its greenhouse gas emissions As part of Garanti Bank’s commitment to product and in 2010 under the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). In 2012, service innovation, Garanti is a leader in meeting the needs Garanti Bank was honoured with “2012 Turkey Carbon of the growing low-carbon economy. These efforts have Performance Leadership” Award in performance category been influenced by a belief in the future market potential by CDP, with its 3rd CDP disclosure, among 32 companies as well as the high likelihood of future regulations regarding that managed to integrate climate change factors into their greenhouse gases. In 2012, Garanti has increased the total business strategies and processes. Additionally, Garanti financing provided to the WPPs and HEPPs to more than Bank published “101 Preventive Actions” brochure for its US$ 3 billion, which is nearly half of the amount allocated to employees to explain how to behave correctly in the face of energy projects. Also, Garanti Bank provided US$ 60 million changing climate factors. in funds to SMEs within the scope of the “Turkey Sustainable Energy Finance Facility” (TurSEFF) loan program, as per the Garanti Bank views climate change5 as a strategic issue end of 2012. Aiming to raise efficiency in SMEs’ operations, deserving full integration into the core business. This includes the loan program is primarily offered to the enterprises owned operations and the indirect impact created by the seeking to cut costs by reducing the consumption of energy customers and suppliers. during production and invest in energy efficiency and heat insulation. Garanti Bank has numerous mechanisms in place to ensure that climate change influences the business strategy at the Finally, since 2009, the Bank has offered customers a company-level and for individual units: Green Auto Loan, a low-interest package specifically for hybrid vehicles. Garanti seeks to provide customers with (a) communication to senior leadership and relevant convenient, uninterrupted service, which aligns with the departments by the Sustainability Team, which has primary Bank’s desire to reduce emissions from the value chain and responsibility for identifying and assessing climate change minimize the impact from climate-driven weather events. risks and opportunities, First, Garanti is the market leader in utilization of Alternative (b) company-wide communication for specific efforts (e.g., Delivery Channels, which includes advanced ATMs and branch and office energy efficiency opportunities), internet/mobile banking. These channels reduce the use of (c) a company-wide emissions reduction target set by the energy, paper and other resources associated with operations Sustainability Committee, and customer travel. Second, Garanti has a comprehensive (d) the regular tracking and reporting of performance by the program for ensuring business continuity. This includes plans Sustainability Team and Construction Department to the for minimizing disruption at branches and maintenance of data Sustainability Committee. functions. 5 Detailed information about Garanti Bank’s strategy, policies and performances can be found in Garanti Bank 2012 Sustainability Report (http://www.garanti.com.tr/ en/our_company/sustainability/developments/reports.page?) 32 33 Actions to address climate change naturally align with to get ahead of future regulations that could increase energy Garanti’s commitment to operational efficiency and effective prices. To further drive progress against this opportunity, cost management, essential for a large, facility-intensive Garanti has set a company-wide CO2 reduction goal. Specific company. In particular, the Bank is committed to increased related efforts include retrofit of branches (including lighting energy efficiency across all operations. This priority is and AC units), virtualization of data centers, and promotion influenced by a clear business case for cost optimization, of e-learning and virtual meetings in lieu of in-person events industry best practices, emerging technology and a desire which require travel. Doğuş Otomotiv6 studies in the Company are also opportunities. In 2012, Doğuş Otomotiv recognizes climate change and related Doğuş Otomotiv included three Authorized Sales and After natural disaster risks among the financially coefficient risks. Sales Service companies in the awareness programs on Climate change risk has been included among operational climate change and economical risks, and published their risks, within the economic responsibility policy announced in energy consumption data in 2012 Corporate Responsibility 2011. Doğuş Otomotiv agrees that awareness and efficiency Report. Responsible Investment We believe that companies, which demonstrate powerful actualized in foreign countries, the majority of the investments and transparent corporate governance and have sustainable of the Group (85%) have been realized in Turkey. business polices, generate financial benefits in addition to enhancing value to brand reputation and gaining the trust of The new investments policy of our Group is to strengthen our stakeholders. Effective environmental, social and economic current business lines and to increase our market share. It is very management systems and policies ensure that companies important for us to enhance our product and service portfolio have credibility and sustainability because of a reliable risk by entering into new business sectors. Our new investment management. Our investment policies actively encourage Group decision mechanisms are grounded on several market and companies to improve their business standards by integrating sector scenarios, in addition to Doğuş Group’s short and longthe corporate responsibility approach to their management term targets and vision. All the investment decision processes systems, monitoring their social and environmental impact, include the corporate responsibility strategy. Economic, social and addressing corporate responsibility as a business case and and environmental aspects of the Group’s growth process are risk management system. analyzed by the related divisions and experts. The crucial goal of the responsible investment approach of Doğuş Group is to ensure that current and newly partnered Local Employment companies’ managements align their business targets with the Doğuş Group’s corporate responsibility strategy fully intends to long-term social, economical and environmental concerns of ensure the well-being of the communities where we operate, the stakeholders. and the Group’s vision and values also support this target. Beginning from the local supply chain, Doğuş Group has a We have made investments about US$ 3.9 billion in the last strong economic impact on the local communities and high five years (total investments in the past 10 years have reached business standards that contribute to public policy platforms US$ 4.3 billion). While 15% of these investments have been besides providing employment. 6 Doğuş Otomotiv 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report covers all detailed data about the Company’s performance. Report can be found at the corporate web site at (http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/en/corporate-responsibility/corporate-responsibility-reports.aspx) DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 Garanti Culture (SALT): A Social Entrepreneurship Model Garanti Bank’s autonomous cultural and research institution Garanti Culture Center, library and research services are Garanti Culture (SALT) is a newly established non-profit open to public free of charge. company, which concentrates on cultural activities. In the Doğuş Construction: Indirect Economic Impact Doğuş Construction employed 4,645 people in 2012 for Doğuş Construction prefers to collaborate with local its infrastructure and superstructure projects in Turkey suppliers in the project regions. In 2012, local purchasing and other countries. The local employment percentage in for the local shipbuilding sites amounted to TL 110 Artvin Dam and HEPP Project, were 50%, and 40% for million that was 51% of the total purchases of Doğuş Üsküdar-Ümraniye-Çekmeköy Metro Project. Construction. Ayson Geoteknik ve Deniz İnşaat A.Ş.: High Local Employment Rate Ayson employed 450 people in 2012 projects. The local 30%, and for Üsküdar-Ümraniye-Çekmeköy Metro Project employment percentage for Artvin Dam and HEPP Project is 25%. is 30%, for Adana Kavşak Bendi Dam and HEPP Project is D-Marin Marinas Group In 2012, D-Marin Marinas Group was established to and sustainable. D-Marin Marinas Group will provide Doğuş provide executive leadership to the growing network of Holding and other marina owners/operators with wellmarina destinations flagged under the D-Marin brand. The structured due diligence for new investments, accurate Group’s aim is to create a sustainable business model market intelligence and create quantifiable feasibility that allows for international expansion while continuing studies to ensure long-term viability of investments. to focus on improving the existing marinas’ financial and operational performance. Through the creation of the D-Marin Marinas Group, the operational goal for 2012 was to commence standardizing D-Marin Marinas Group identified that marinas play the method in which the marinas do business. The Group a vital role in providing the critical community-based established a framework that effectively supports the infrastructure for promoting and supporting the growth business functions of individual marinas. This will ensure of yachting. Marinas also provide managed access to the that all policies, procedures and initiatives are monitored, coastline and foreshore areas for the whole community, so assessed and improved. Through standardization and it is imperative for the long-term health of the marina and consolidation, the marinas will increase their ability to yachting industry that all marina investments are feasible provide consistent service to yacht owners and to the communities using the facilities. Doğuş Agro Projects and R&D Services: A New Investment To bring a strategic and visionary approach and to provide important support to regional production processes and added value to the agriculture industry, Doğuş Group agricultural development by advanced level agricultural established a new company in September 2012. Doğuş research. Agro Projects and R&D Services Corporation will subsidize 34 35 Supply Chain Management Doğuş Group believes that the Group’s supply chain plays an regarding sustainable practices. We acknowledge that the value of important role in the decisive factors of the stakeholders and supply chain service and quality have direct and recognizable impacts represents an essential resource to achieve the Group’s strategic on our Group’s product and service quality, so we support any kind of goals. Our Group companies give utmost importance to their supply improvement within the supply chain systems, such as assessments, chain management systems and encourage those business partners awareness programs, audits, social and environmental issues. Doğuş Holding: Occupational Health and Safety in Supply Chain Doğuş Holding is committed to improve health and safety and requires the same awareness and implementations at work, and seeks to ensure the health and safety of all from third parties. Doğuş Holding intends to be a leader Doğuş Group employees and other related parties including in Occupational Health and Safety and to go beyond its supply chain. Doğuş Holding complies with all laws requirements and legislations in this regard. and regulations regarding Occupational Health and Safety, Garanti Bank: Spreading Environmentally Friendly Practices Throughout Supply Chain Management Garanti Bank took its first step for an environmentally that the Bank’s sensitivity regarding its supply chain was friendly supply chain by adding a binding article in supplier comprehensively adopted. In 2012, Garanti Bank ensured contracts in 2012 concerning full compliance with the EMS. that its subcontractors complied with the EMS, particularly in the areas of cleaning and catering. Articles that aim to protect the environment were included in the purchase processes in EMS procedures, ensuring Doğuş Otomotiv: Supplier Evaluation Principles Doğuş Otomotiv studied supplier election and evaluation management and employee health and safety in 2013. ISO principles in 2012. Child employment and environmental and OHSAS certification requirements are also helping to responsibility criteria were added to the evaluation increase the supplier standards. process. The audit of the supply chain will cover waste Community Development Programs The communities where we do business are important combination of CSR initiatives, employee volunteerism, social stakeholders for Doğuş Group. We promise to make our development programs and sponsorships as community communities better places, and we are committed to that engagement programs. promise. Our community engagement is comprised of a Doğuş Holding Doğuş Kids (Doğuş Çocuk) Established in December 2004, Doğuş Kids is the Contributing to the development of young children through community development platform of Doğuş Group, based education, entertainment activities, and projects since its on the perspective that our future will be largely shaped by inception, Doğuş Kids aims to create a more conscious today’s children. We believe that this perspective should be and responsible society in the areas of child development, given utmost importance today by all players including the education, and culture and arts. business sector. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 With this objective in mind, Doğuş Kids engages in to create a communication platform among the orchestra partnerships with other institutions including nonmembers, and it also aims to inform and educate young governmental organizations, international organizations, people about classical music. state and governmental bodies. All of these other institutions share the Doğuş Kids’ vision of cultivating social change Send Me to School Campaign (Baba Beni Okula Gönder) through our children. Since 2006, Doğuş Holding has been providing scholarship for the education of 50 female students annually through In 2012, Dr. Erdal Atabek, Social Psychologist and Mentor the Send Me to School Campaign, a joint effort with Milliyet of the Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra, conducted three newspaper and the Association in Support of Contemporary seminars which were held in public and private schools with Living (ÇYDD). the support of Doğuş Holding. Seminars were organized with his participation on the relationship between music and D-Marin Turgutreis International Classical Music Festival child development. Doğuş Group continues to contribute to and provide support for the development of classical music. The Group strives Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra to ensure its access to a wider section of the population The Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra was established and help Turkish artists produce world-class pieces. Since in 2006 as Turkey’s first national, permanent children’s 2005, Doğuş Group has been organizing the D-Marin symphony orchestra. The Orchestra is comprised of Turgutreis International Classical Music Festival in Bodrum. conservatory students between 11 and 18 years of age from This Festival highlights the support that is required for the different regions of Turkey, and introduces the wonder of development of diverse forms of music. symphonic music to Turkish children as performed by their peers. D-Marin Turgutreis International Classical Music Festival is a member of the European Festivals Association (EFA) In 2012, Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra performed a which is the umbrella organization for festivals across concert with the Choir of the General Directorate of Child Europe. For more than 50 years, the Association has grown Services in cooperation with the Republic of Turkey Ministry into a dynamic network representing more than 100 music, of Family and Social Policies. The Orchestra performed in dance, theatre and multidisciplinary festivals, national Konya within the events of the National Sovereignty and festival associations and cultural organizations from about Children’s Day. In addition to this project, the Orchestra 40 (mainly European) countries. also performed four concerts, one in the D-Marin Turgutreis International Classical Music Festival with the world On its eighth anniversary, the Festival took place on July renowned guitarist José Maria Gallardo Del Rey and famous 14 – 15 and 17 – 18, 2012 hosting many gifted artists and Spanish dancer Antonio Marquez, and the others in Niğde, well-known orchestras from Turkey and other countries, Konya, and Kayseri. They reached an audience of 5,200. including the world-renowned Turkish pianist Fazıl Say and Concert proceeds were donated to the TOHUM Autism famous operatic tenor José Carreras. Festival proceeds Foundation. were donated to the TOHUM Autism Foundation to be used for educational materials at the Foundation’s private school Additionally, in 2012 the book, “The Music Calls You,” in for children with autism and for the training of teachers which the story behind the establishment of the Doğuş Kids specialized in this area. Some of the proceeds were also Symphony Orchestra is told by Dr. Atabek, was republished. used for providing professional skills to the mothers of handicapped children with the cooperation of the Bodrum Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra Website Health Foundation. Having reached its target member number of 100,000 in less than five years, the Doğuş Kids website was replaced The Festival has already attracted a loyal audience of its by the Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra website in July own which increases each year. In 2012, a total of 20,500 2010. The Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra website aims fans followed the Festival, which was joined with nearly 300 36 37 artists at seven concerts during the four days. The Festival In 2012, the Orchestra visited Isparta-Süleyman Demirel, was recognized as “Classical Music Event of the Year” in Afyon-Kocatepe, Denizli-Pamukkale, Burdur-Mehmet Akif the Donizetti Classical Music Awards 2012 by the classical Ersoy, Aydın-Adnan Menderes and Muğla universities and music magazine, Andante. reached a total audience of 6,350. Presidential Symphony Orchestra of Turkey-Symphony At the end of three years, the Project reached around 14,000 on Campus people in 14 cities. The Symphony on Campus Project will The Presidential Symphony Orchestra of Turkey, established continue, covering many more universities in the future. in 1826, has been one of the few special orchestras in the world that has managed to survive. In November 2007, Leyla Gencer Voice Competition Doğuş Group signed an agreement with the Ministry Since 2006, Doğuş Holding and Garanti Bank have been of Culture and Tourism to become the main sponsor of the sponsors of the Leyla Gencer Voice Competition. This the Orchestra for a period of three years and to start the international voice competition was started by Ms. Gencer “Technical Improvement Project” of the concert building of herself in 1995 and has supported several young opera the Orchestra. The renovation of the entire inner building singers from all over the world throughout their career paths. and the concert hall, the landscaping and the renewal of the orchestral and office furniture, were completed in less than In 2012, the 7th Biennial Leyla Gencer Voice Competition a year and finished in October 2008. In line with its main was held in İstanbul on 20 September. Fatma Said, a young sponsorship of the Presidential Symphony Orchestra of soprano from Egypt, won both the first prize in addition Turkey, which was renewed in early 2012 for another three to the Doğuş Audience Prize in the competition and will years, Doğuş Holding initiated a new corporate sponsorship be performing in the 9th D-Marin Turgutreis International project in 2009, “Symphony on Campus.” The objective of Classical Music Festival in August 2013. this Project is to take the Orchestra on a tour covering state universities in Anatolian cities where the Orchestra has Santral İstanbul never visited, to promote classical music among university In cooperation with İstanbul Bilgi University, Doğuş Group students and regional communities. In 2009 and 2010, the became the strategic founding partner of the International Project covered the universities of Konya-Selçuk, Niğde, Modern Art Museum and Cultural Center, Santral İstanbul in Gaziantep, Kars-Kafkas, Erzurum-Atatürk, Rize, Giresun and 2006. Opened in September 2007, Santral İstanbul, the first Trabzon-Black Sea Technical universities reaching a total power station in the Ottoman Empire, recently became one audience of nearly 8,000. of the main attractions in İstanbul in terms of culture & arts. Ayhan Şahenk Foundation Since its establishment in 1992, the Ayhan Şahenk Foundation its founder, Ayhan Şahenk, the Foundation continued to has undertaken initiatives in the areas of education, health implement significant projects in 2012 for the benefit of the and environment, and offers social aid to those living in people and community with a responsible perspective to help disadvantaged areas. With the vision and philosophy of the government in fulfilling its social welfare duties. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 Equal Opportunity in Education In 2012, a 24-classroom industrial and technical highconceived at the request of the Honorary Chairman of school was completed and handed over to the Ministry of Doğuş Group, Mr. Ayhan Şahenk, who thought that patients Education in the city of Şanlıurfa. Within the campus of living in underserved regions, where immigration rates are this high-school, a 200-student dormitory building for the high, should be provided with good quality general health male students, a multifunctional meeting room and four and ophthalmology services, both in terms of treatment and workshop laboratories in two separate buildings were built preventive healthcare. Mobile health caravans equipped with as well. These additional units were aimed at raising the modern technology medical devices as well as specialized quality of education in this technical school. physicians and nurses supply this service in coordination with primary schools and local municipalities. Another project completed by the Foundation in 2012 was the refurbishment and maintenance of Ayhan Şahenk This project was awarded “Professor Dr. Nusret Fişek Public Secondary School. Because it was originally built as a Health Award” in March 2012, selected by professionals primary school, the School required many changes to be from the Turkish Medical Association, Public Health used as a secondary school. Many changes were made in departments of universities, and the Ministry of Health. the science lab, the computer lab, and the gym by renewing This important award underlined the foresight of Mr. Ayhan them with up-to-date technical equipment. In September Şahenk, while making a big encouragement for the years 2012, Ayhan Şahenk Secondary School in Zeytinburnu to come. opened its doors to its new students with its new look – painted, refurnished and built up to the new standards as Social Aid a secondary school. As a part of the Foundation’s ongoing commitment to providing social aid to the underprivileged, the Ayhan Şahenk In 2012, the Ayhan Şahenk Foundation gave scholarships Foundation provided clothing, boots and hygienic products to a total of 40 students. Of these, 26 attended primary to 1,075 students and food supplies to 3,205 families in schools, one attended high school, six attended universities 2012. and seven attended universities abroad. During the month of Ramadan in 2012, the Foundation Mobile Healthcare Units served “iftar” dinners to nearly 2,000 people per day, In 2012, the number of people who benefited from the hosting a total of 53,000 people. “Mobile Healthcare Units” project totalled more than 20,000 patients, reaching a cumulative number of 414,000 For detailed information about the Foundation and its patients since its establishment in 1997. This project was projects, please refer to www.ayhansahenkvakfi.org.tr. 38 39 Garanti Bank Teachers Academy Foundation (Öğretmen Akademisi Vakfı) Having supported education through the Deniz Yıldızları These workshops are administered by 13 full-time expert (Sea Stars) project since 1999, Garanti Bank began in 2007 educators and nearly 400 part-time educators in over 50 working on a long-term corporate responsibility initiative in provinces who joined the Foundation after the Educator the field of education that would bring a new voice. Rather Trainings, first administered in August 2009 and then again than targeting infrastructural issues such as scholarships, in January 2010 and February 2011. All educators work donations, construction of schools, the Bank instead chose to under the Teachers Academy Foundation. focus strategically on value-creating programs related directly to teachers, those who determine the quality of education. Through the eKampus website, developed as a permanent finishing platform, teachers participating in “No Limits in In 2008, following the completion of preparatory work, Teaching” have the opportunity to continue their personal the Teachers Academy Foundation was founded. Based and professional development. Over 55 million people use in İstanbul, with the intention of contributing to the eKampus. implementation of an education model based on thinking, questioning, and research in the country, the Foundation For further information concerning the “No Limit in Teaching” commenced work on the “No Limit in Teaching” project, project, please visit www.ogretmeninsiniriyok.com. again developed and implemented by Garanti Bank. For further information concerning the “Teachers Academy Foundation,” please visit www.orav.org.tr. The main goal of the Foundation is to make a contribution to the needs of teachers committed to educating young İstanbul Modern Education Program people who are conscious of their individual and societal Since 2005, Garanti Bank has been supporting the education responsibilities, capable of research, able to think critically and program of Turkey’s first and only modern art museum, analytically, self-confident and always give importance to selfİstanbul Modern. The program aims to supplement development, identify themselves with universal values, and classroom education and foster creative and inquisitive are capable of embracing the country’s cultural heritage. individuals who are familiar with, and actively participate in arts. Through the ongoing Garanti-sponsored İstanbul No Limit in Teaching (Öğretmenin Sınırı Yok) Modern training program, more than 466,034 children and Within the scope of the “No Limit in Teaching” project, the teenagers have participated in the program to date. Bank signed a five-year contract with the Ministry of National Education to arrange training activities aimed at the personal The Genç Hayat Foundation and professional development of 100,000 teachers. Since Since 2009, Garanti Bank has been supporting the Genç the program’s launch in the 2008-2009 academic year, Hayat Foundation’s Anatolian Teacher High-Schools Social Garanti Bank has allocated funds totaling TL 15 million. Events and, accordingly, supports the Renk Çemberi (Color Circle) project. The program aims to enable the The program’s face-to-face training sessions began in May students of Anatolian Teacher High Schools to gain 2009 and had reached a total of 73,349 teachers in 78 awareness of themselves and their environment, develop provinces by 2012, spreading nationally within a brief period essential communication skills, and shape attitudes and of time. Any administrator, teacher or inspector working in behaviors conducive to a sense of individual and social primary education can participate in the training sessions responsibility. on a voluntary basis and without charge. The trainings, administered in the teachers’ own schools, cover topics under Open Academy (Açık Akademi) the rubrics of Classroom Management, Communication Skills In January 2011, Turkey’s first free-of-charge, open-to-all and Evaluation. Teachers participating in the trainings are software school was opened with the support of Garanti Bank, presented with a MEB-approved certificate. contributions from the Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 and Communications, and the cooperation of Microsoft. The SALT Open Academy, with three different educational levels, is of With the intention of creating cultural awareness and benefit to those wishing to develop their application and/or public memory, Garanti Bank, identifying the social need software skills and to software development professionals. for a cultural environment able to recognize research and Since January 2011, 15,367 people have received a total of creation as an opportunity, has set itself the goal of forming 32,918 certificates of participation and 1,898 people have a cultural institution that is unique, autonomous and, most graduated from the program. importantly, able to develop interactively with its users. “Çocukların Gözüyle Van” (Van from the Viewpoint of With this in mind, the cultural associations Platform Garanti Children) Contemporary Art Center, Ottoman Bank Museum and Following the October 2011 Van earthquake, a photo Garanti Gallery, operating within the Bank and having been workshop entitled “Van from the Viewpoint of Children,” successful in their own fields, have been restructured as involving a total of 250 children, accompanied by photography one independent institution under the name of SALT. teachers, from İstanbul, Diyarbakır and Van, was held in Van over 10 weeks between June and September 2012 with SALT, set up in Beyoğlu, Galata and Ulus on the basis of the support of Garanti Bank. The point of the workshop was “three buildings-one program,” is a cultural institution which twofold: To create a space for the children who had been implements a number of programs in diverse fields such as suffering for the previous years in exceptionally difficult contemporary art, social and economic history, architecture, conditions to be able to breathe freely and be creative, and design and urban living. Entrance to SALT, which develops to show the consequences of the Van earthquake through innovative programs aimed at experimental thinking and the eyes of children. The workshop was carried out by research and evaluating critical subjects such as visual and the Photography Academy, Photography Foundation, Nar material culture, is free-of-charge. In this regard, SALT is an Photos and the Galata House of Photography, coordinated institution with its doors truly open to society as a whole. by Anadolu Kültür. Following the workshop, the children’s photographs were exhibited and published in book form for “SALT Research,” administered under SALT Galata, art-lovers. serves as a valuable resource for students, academics and researchers. Its library of approximately 100,000 printed Garanti Jazz Green publications under 40,000 titles and its archive enable Garanti has been sponsoring İKSV, the organizer of the access to over 1,600,000 digital documents. İstanbul Jazz Festival, without interruption for 15 years. With the aim of introducing jazz to a larger audience, Garanti Since commencing activities in 2011, SALT Beyoğlu, SALT also holds other concerts at the venues it supports under Galata and SALT Ulus have authored six comprehensive the brand “Garanti Jazz Green.” publications and held 28 exhibitions. In tandem with these exhibitions, 280 events and 92 student-oriented guided Mini Bank Children’s Movie Festival tours and workshop activities have been held. During this Since 2004, Garanti has been co-organizing the first time, a total of 515,000 people have visited SALT Beyoğlu, children’s film festival in Turkey, the “Mini Bank Children’s SALT Galata, and SALT Ulus. Movie Festival”, together with TURSAK (The Turkish Foundation of Cinema and Audio-Visual Culture). The Lycian Way The Lycian Way is a 500 km-long walking road stretching Through this festival, approximately 70,000 children, in nine between Fethiye and Antalya. Garanti took on the task of different provinces (many of which several have very limited organizing guided walks along the Lycian Way and placing access to cinemas) such as Kars, Ordu, Mardin, Konya and road signs to make navigation easier for hikers and a Lycian Aksaray, were given the opportunity to become familiar with Way guidebook, prepared in 2006, has contributed to the art of cinema. tourism in the region. 40 41 The Arykanda Excavations The Bonus Snow Masters The excavation of the ancient city of Arykanda has been Sponsored principally by Bonus for 11 years, the Bonus receiving support from Garanti Bank for 18 years; led by Snow Masters races are formed from the İstanbul Provincial Dr. Cevdet Bayburtluoğlu. The principle of protecting and Championships. The winners of this race are awarded excavating the archaeological heritage, along with the overseas skiing holidays. The winners of the Bonus Snow excavation work supported by Garanti, serves universal Masters Open, for six years open also to unlicensed culture in a significant way. sportspeople, are also rewarded with overseas holidays and various other prizes. 12 Giant Men and Pixies of Basketball Garanti has been the main sponsor of 12 Giant Men (Turkish The American Express Sailing Regatta National Men’s Basketball Team) since 2001 and of Pixies The American Express Sailing Regatta, sponsored with the of Basketball (Turkish National Women’s Basketball Team) American Express brand, aims to spread the love of the since 2005. sport of sailing among the public. The races are continuing with the 12-year support of the Garanti Payment Systems Athletics (GÖSAŞ). Over 140 boats and more than 1,200 sportspeople Garanti began its support for the national athletes, Gülcan participated in the races, consisting of the Bosphorus, Mıngır and Aslı Çakır Alptekin, at the time of their preparation Turgutreis and Göcek stages. for the London Summer Olympics. Aslı Çakır Alptekin brought Turkey its first Olympic gold medal, in the women’s The American Express İstanbul Challenger 1,500 meter finals. The İstanbul Challenger, under its other name, the TED Open, constitutes the İstanbul stage of Challenger tournaments’ National Football Team Sponsorship which began to be organized globally with the support of Joining the main sponsors of the National Football Teams in American Express in 1979. Another special tournament for 2008, Garanti began supporting sports on the green pitch. American Express cardholders has been held for four years under the aegis of the tournament, the American Express Equestrian Sports İstanbul Challenger, where winners receive both the Garanti Masters Private Banking has been the official privilege of playing against world-renowned tennis players sponsor of the Turkish Equestrian Federation since 2008. as well as the opportunity to attend one of the world’s major final’s matches. Ladies European Tour The Garanti Masters Pro-Am Golf Tournament unites amateur golfers with famous professionals. In May 2012, 36 teams have participated at the Turkish leg of the Ladies European Tour, the Turkish Airlines Ladies Open Garanti Masters Pro-Am, organized in several countries of the world. Garanti Factoring Mother Kid Education Foundation (MKEF) Garanti Factoring supports the “Mother Kid Education by MKEF with creative techniques each week, contributing Foundation” (MKEF) Project which aims to contribute to to the development of children and changing their reading the social, emotional and mental development of children. habits as well. Volunteers read books which are conscientiously chosen DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 Garanti Pension and Life Support for Mobile Healthcare Units Since 2005, Garanti Pension and Life has been a permanent Health” and “Children’s Health.” Health services are offered supporter of the “Mobile Healthcare Units Project” carried free of charge to those who have no social security and/or out by the Ayhan Şahenk Foundation. The Project has been limited financial income. Children attending primary schools implemented in modern health vehicles designed particularly in underserved districts are given priority. to render service in the fields of “Visual Health,” “General LeasePlan Community Support Programs LeasePlan contributes to education through the organizations Contemporary Living (ÇYDD) for each LeasePlan participant of Doğuş Group and the Ayhan Şahenk Foundation. Also who attended to Eurasia Marathon. LeasePlan made contributions to Association in Support of Doğuş Retail Group Visual Product Management Trainings Doğuş Retail Group collaborates with the İstanbul Fashion supports fashion retail employees with coaching and courses Academy regarding visual product management. The Group in its shops for three training periods. D-Marin Marinas Group D-Marin Mandalina The Dalmatian Chanson Festival is one of the best and most this kind of sponsorship is to contribute in development of respectable festivals in Croatia. The Festival is broadcast in the rowing club and to encourage young people to get to prime time on Croatian national television. know this kind of sport. Since rowing activities are held in the the Bay of Sibenik, it was meaningful for the Marina to International Children’s Festival is one of the most interesting support a local water sport. D-Marin Mandalina has seen that and popular children’s festival in the world. This festival also publicity of all above mentioned support and sponsorships promotes the brand of D-Marin Mandalina among the Sibenik are much appreciated by the local community. society and has contribution to community engagement. Doğuş Group is also the main sponsor of one of the oldest Krka Rowing Club is a local sport which is very popular in basketball teams of Croatia, the GKK Sibenik. Thanks to the Croatia, embedded in the country’s rich history. Indeed, it support of our Group, GKK Sibenik managed to complete is among the main sports activities of the country, and now the season by promoting to the first league. needs to be supported for revival. The primary purpose behind Doğuş REIT Dudullu Cultural Center Doğuş REIT intends to contribute to the social, cultural, most significant example of these projects is the Company’s artistic and economic development of communities in financial support of the Dudullu Cultural Center, which aims which it operates. The Company has been implementing to support the social and cultural development of the area several social responsibility projects to achieve this. The in tandem with the Evidea Residential Project in Çekmeköy. 42 43 Doğuş Real Estate 2nd Gebze Book Days The second “Gebze Book Days” fair, in which an award A photograph exhibition named “Masculinity is an was granted by AMPD association in the category of the Exceptional Case,” organized by the association of social “Marketing Campaign of the Year” within the scope of the volunteer youth for the purpose of highlighting issues such 14th AMPD awards program, took place in January. Many as women’s rights, violence against women and sexual authors, including Murathan Mungan, Mehmet Coşkundeniz, discrimination, opened on Women’s Day, 8 March, and Ali Karaçam, Ceyhun Yılmaz, Toprak Işık, Süleyman Bulut, remained open until 13 March. Vahdettin Engin and Sinan Yağmur attended for book signings and conversations between 13 and 22 January. A fifth exhibition of original works named “Drops from the During the fair, which was organized with the support of Eye to the Heart” was realized by Hayrullah Sözen, popular the district governorship of Gebze, District Directorate of through his articles published in the newspaper “Düzce National Education of Gebze and the municipality of Gebze, Posta” for many years. It was presented to art lovers 20,000 books were offered to everyone including students between 16 and 19 February. who attended the fair, free of charge. Additional exhibitions organized by the schools in the vicinity, Photograph Exhibitions exhibitions belonging to İSU (Kocaeli Water and Sewerage Gebze Center continued providing services to the people of Administration General Directorate), GESMEK (Gebze the region in the field of culture through exhibitions organized Municipality Arts and Vocational Training Courses) and KOduring the year. It hosted numerous exhibitions during 2012. MEK (Kocaeli Metropolitan Municipality Vocational and Art Training Courses) and exhibitions of numerous painters and A mixed photograph exhibition named “The Witnesses photographers were organized throughout the year. of Life: Asia” telling stories of witnessing life, was held between 27 February and 7 March. Public Policy Contributions As one of the leading conglomerates of Turkey, we are aware community engagement programs, payments to trade of our responsibility to enhance communities in which we associations and taxes to governmental bodies are approved operate and our important role on the public policy processes, by the Board of Directors to ensure the relevance of policies. which has an impact on our business sectors. Doğuş Group companies engage with several different councils Doğuş Group companies are among the major economic actors and associations related to their business and sectors. They in Turkey’s economy with employment, investments, taxes all have active roles in those communities to act as important and community development programs. We comply with all actors of their industries. Related information can be found on applicable legal laws and regulations regarding our businesses. the corporate websites of the companies. Doğuş Holding’s public policy contribution efforts including DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 44 45 Employee Engagement DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 Employee Engagement We uphold our moral and legal responsibilities in order to provide a safe and healthy work environment for our employees. For Doğuş Group, employee engagement is a business to confront the future with clear evidence of trust. We are approach to ensure that the employees are motivated to also committed to extending and developing our employee contribute to the Group’s success and are able to enhance their engagement strategies, which we believe are fundamental to own well-being. We believe that only companies engaged with the Group’s future success. their employees have values strong and sustainable enough Doğuş Group Employee Engagement Approach Open Innovation Communication Efficiency Feedback Personal Business Growth Well-being Employee Customer Engagement Improvement Satisfaction 46 47 Open Communication Our employee engagement policy is based on establishing a innovative business lines. Since engagement is strongly linked culture of open and honest dialogue among our employees to positive business outcomes, it is important to encourage and increasing the percentage of actively engaged employees best practices regarding open communication. in the future for sustainable growth and more efficient and Doğuş Holding Open Communication Strategy • Encourage Employees to Engage Doğuş Holding’s human resources management system uses all communication tools to be responsive to employee is actively encouraging employees to engage, and also concerns. regular meetings with other dialogue platforms are being established to keep the dialogue flowing. • Explain the Corporate Values, Mission and Strategy Clearly • Promote Accountability Doğuş Holding attaches great importance to sharing its Business ethics and being accountable to every stakeholder values, mission and strategy with its employees and are Doğuş Holding’s main corporate values. Doğuş Holding assuring that they have full knowledge of corporate culture informs its employees about its business decisions and as employees are the Company’s most important assets. Doğuş Holding: Intranet System Employee Loyalty Survey Besides time saving, communication promoting, productivity, Employee Loyalty Survey is conducted biennially in Doğuş. reducing costs, incorporated and distributed computing The 2011 employee engagement percentage was 80/100. environment, and increasing collaboration, Doğuş intranet The online survey was managed by an independent system also promotes equal corporate culture in information company and the action plans are coordinated by the human viewing. The system helps to maintain good communication resources department according to the results. The next between different departments and also facilitates an survey will be conducted in 2013. immediate update of operations and information. In 2012, Doğuş worked on some improvements toward renewing Employee Suggestion System network infrastructure, client/server applications, internet Doğuş employees can directly convey their suggestions output speed and increasing network speed in different about the company processes, business lines and any locations of the organizations. other business related cases via intranet. Doğuş executive team and managers give great importance to employee suggestions and business opinions. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 Garanti Bank: “Önersen” Customer Suggestions System Garanti Bank employees are encouraged to share their suggestions reached the platform. “Garanti Payment” was opinions about the company processes and any kind a product inspired from an “Önersen” suggestion by a of their concerns. Garanti Bank established a platform Garanti Bank employee. called “Önersen” and in 2012 more than 2,000 employee Garanti Pension and Life: “Fikirler Fora” (Opinions Unfurl) Platform All the Garanti Pension and Life employees can share their authors of the suggestions chosen for implementation opinions through “Fikirler Fora” platform. A committee are announced on the intranet system entitled “Opinion evaluates the suggestions collected by the platform. The Captain” and are recognized. Doğuş Media Group: Communication Committee Doğuş Media Group Communication Committee is a The Committee works for collaborative approach between formal platform which is established to build an open and Doğuş Media Group Board and the employees. transparent dialogue in Doğuş Media Group. Doğuş Tourism Group: Grand Hyatt International and Park Hyatt İstanbul-Maçka Palas/HyattTalk Meetings HyattTalk meetings are a standard for international Hyatt lines employees attend HyattTalk meetings monthly, Hotels’ employee engagement strategy. The General listening to the employees’ concerns and suggestions and Manager, Human Resources Manager and all the business trying to find solutions all together. Employee Compensations and Period of Notice At Doğuş Group, Turkish Labor Law and Regulations are applied the Turkish Labor Law (The legally approved period is eight for employee approbations and period of notice. We also apply weeks before the delivery and eight weeks after, 16 weeks paid maternity and breast-feeding leaves in compliance with in total). Garanti Bank: Defined Benefit System Garanti Bank has implemented a defined benefit plan for 15.5% per employee while the share of the employee is employees, a pension system funded by the Bank and the 10%. Also Garanti Bank pays 6% special health insurance employees together. Garanti Bank’s share in the fund is share while employees’ share is 10%. GarantiBank International N.V.: Defined Benefit Plan and Staff Loan GarantiBank International N.V. has implemented a defined (managers), and Euro 35,000 (executive directors) for a benefit plan for all employees. At this moment, the Bank is maximum duration of five years and for an interest rate of fully compensating this for the employees. 3%. When an employee becomes ill, the Bank compensates the salary for 100% for the first year and 70% for the second GarantiBank International N.V. employees can apply for year. a staff loan up to Euro 15,000 (employees), Euro 25,000 GarantiBank Moscow: Pension Payments GarantiBank Moscow provides pension payments according The payments paid by the Bank were around US$ 600,000 to the Russian law. for 2012. 48 49 Employee Health and Safety Doğuş Group always ensures employee safety and health as a Group’s commitment to strengthen a safety and health oriented universal value. Doğuş Group Employment Policy outlines the culture for the mental and physical well-being of employees. Doğuş Holding: Health and Safety Council Other Health and Safety Activities at Doğuş Holding in All the processes to establish Doğuş Group Employee 2012 Health and Safety Council were completed in 2012 and * Smoking Cessation Seminar the Council will begin its active duties in 2013. All Doğuş * Risk analysis studies for emergency case management Holding business units and Holding subsidiaries will be * Fire prevention and training plans represented in the Council. Health and safety committees * First aid cabinet on every floor at the headquarters will report to the Council periodically. The percentage of * Ambulance service for 12 hours/5 working days the total workforce represented in formal health and safety committees is 7%. The Council will monitor and advise occupational health and safety programs at Doğuş Group. GarantiBank International N.V.: Workplace Safety and Emergency Planning A safety and health policy covers the workplace safety balance of the Bank. GarantiBank International N.V. also has and emergency planning, the ergonomic and healthy work a rescue team, licensed to act when work-related injuries environment in line with the core values, mission, vision, occur. communication channel, confidentiality, and work/life Doğuş Construction: Occupational Health and Safety Policy • Compliance with the current occupational health and • Developing and submitting to employers’ projects which safety and environmental management legislation and have optimum use of natural resources and minimum regulations of the home country adverse impacts on the environment during execution and • Recognition of continual improvement as the basic commissioning principle in all operations • Prevention of hazardous conditions which can lead to • Attention given to the views and expectations of all accidents and elimination of the existing hazardous interested parties, including employers, in implementation surroundings of occupational health and safety and environmental • Preparation for and anticipation of emergency situations management systems • Ensuring the subcontractor’s observance of legislation • Attributing significance to the re-cycling of waste, providing and the procedures and principles of Doğuş Construction the processing and evaluation of waste in source Health and Safety Program • Avoiding over-consumption of energy and natural resources Awareness for Serious Diseases Doğuş Group gives utmost importance to the well-being of its internal communications channels and other tools available to employees and their families. We organize seminars, utilize the raise awareness on the importance of healthy living. Garanti Bank: Employees’ Well-being Garanti Bank organized seminars on cancer, prophylaxis another training on “Ergonomics in Office Conditions” were from flu or related illnesses, health and well-being for its arranged for more than 10,000 employees. employees in 2012. A two day seminar on first aid and DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 A Sound Working Environment We uphold our moral and legal responsibilities in order employees. Furthermore, we maintain our operations without to provide a safe and healthy work environment for our placing the wider community at risk of injury or illness. Doğuş Holding: Workplace Wellness Doğuş Holding employees, working at the head office, arranged according to comfort levels and healthy workplace mostly spend their time at the office premises. Since the conditions. major issue for office workers is sitting in front of computers for hours, we pay attention to healthy and comfortable There also exists a workplace doctor at the Doğuş Holding posture, without overloading the musculoskeletal system. premises during the office hours, to whom each employee is To achieve this, we choose adjustable ergonomic furniture entitled to consult for any kind of health matters. Employees as far as applicable. The office planning includes sufficient are also informed periodically on healthy living subjects space on work surfaces for documents and ideal leg including regular sports practices and balanced diet. Menus room. Lighting levels and air-conditioning standards are all in the dining hall are arranged accordingly. Mother-Baby Policy Employees who are new mothers, continue to enjoy certain In 2011, Doğuş Holding organized a seminar for new mothers rights after returning to work. Being aware of changing life about how to return to work. We make agreements with conditions for new parents, we support them with a private, nursery schools for discounts to Doğuş Group employees. healthy and safe nursing room in addition to other maternity All the information on mother-baby policy is available on the leave and pay rights. intranet system. Performance Management Doğuş Group is committed to the principle that a good performance of employees to ensure achievement of the performance management system works toward the overall organizational ambitions and goals. improvement of organizational performance, managing the Doğuş Holding: Performance Management System Doğuş Holding Performance Management System plays a very Performance reviews of employees were completed for 66% important role in business success by ensuring that employees of the staff in 2011, and 70% in 2012. 28 new people were understand the importance of their contributions to corporate hired in 2012; half of them are women. 11 employees were goals and objectives. The system primarily aims to facilitate a promoted; four of them were women. The ratio of standard transparent relationship between the employee and the line entry level wage compared to local minimum wage in Doğuş manager based on trust and empowerment. Holding is 53%. Doğuş Tourism Group: Performance Management System In 2012, Doğuş Tourism Group revised the performance help the employees’ engagement. The new performance management systems covering all business lines. The management system will be actualized in January 2014. Human Resources Department organized seminars to explain the system to all employees. Distance learning Grand Hyatt İstanbul and Park Hyatt İstanbul-Maçka Palas and webinars were prepared to launch the system and to conduct regular performance management evaluations. 50 51 Training and Development Programs Doğuş Group considers it crucial to train and develop its employees’ performance and motivation, and enhance their employees in order to be a sustainable and innovative company. ability to make more effective decisions both about their The training and development programs thereby increase professional and personal lives. Doğuş Holding: Training Catalogue Training Programs for Doğuş Holding Employees in Every year Doğuş Holding employees complete forms 2012: regarding the training needs during their performance • Turkish Code of Commerce Training reviews. Those forms are analyzed by the Human Resources • Body Management Department and a training catalogue, which includes • Writing Skills both personal and professional development programs, is • Emotional IQ prepared. Training programs abroad, or special courses for • Financial Maths foreign languages, can be arranged for employees. • Coaching Sessions for Career Plans • Personal Image Techniques During the year, employee satisfaction regarding training, • Mediation and Breathing Techniques and further development suggestions, are monitored by • MS Office Trainings the related department. Attendance at leadership programs • Discussion Skills in English/Turkish is encouraged for the employees; Doğuş Holding seeks to • Outdoor Activities (Leadership Skills) provide discounts for advanced degree programs, and for • Presentation Skills foreign language courses, in coordination with universities. • International Financial Reporting Standards In 2012, coaching sessions for career planning of seven • English Speaking Classes employees were provided. The coaching program will continue about their career planning according to the results Training Programs for Supply Chain and Security Staff from performance interviews and surveys. In 2013, the in 2012 coaching sessions will include the chosen employees within Doğuş Holding offers and expects proficiency from its third the leadership programs. Doğuş Holding employees also parties, and organizes periodic audit visits. The quarterly have the chance to use the rotation program within Doğuş audits include the general appearance of the staff, the Group. assessment of the employee’s competence, training hours and hygiene. In 2013, priority was given to the training of Each Doğuş Holding employee received, on average, 43.45 the security staff in the fields of first aid and human rights. hours of training in 2012. Garanti Bank: Talent Management The main target of Garanti Bank’s Talent Management Garanti Management Improvement Programs include personal Process is to expedite the improvement of talented improvement as well as professional training. The process is employees. The key component of the Bank’s strategy managed by both in-house and outsourced to internationally of talent management is Garanti Management Academy certificated coaches with particular areas of expertise. (GYA). In-class training, rotation orientations, coaching Employees may also attend university master classes for and e-learning platforms are being provided; the talent advanced levels of expertise about various proficiencies. management system begins with one-on-one coaching and The Bank organized around 16 person/hours of training for consultancy. security staff in 2012 on subjects including Secure Driving, Sustainability, and Ethical Principles. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 52 53 Community Engagement DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 Community Engagement At Doğuş Group, we pursue highest ethical standards in all aspects of our business, and ethical business principles and implementations, audits with monitoring systems are crucial assets that we encourage for the Group companies. Community engagement for Doğuş Group is a planned process are the tools that can be used to build more trustworthy with the specific purpose of working with identified groups of relationships with the community and the related stakeholder people, connected by geographic location where the Group groups. These can lead to identification of mechanisms for operates, and with special interest in how its businesses building community’s license to operate for businesses and have direct impact on them. Effective engagement processes other stakeholders in dealing with complex issues and change. The 6 C’s of Successful Community Engagement7 Capability Members are capable of dialogue Commitment Mutual benefit beyond self interest Contribution Members volunteer and there is an environment that encourages members to “have a go” or take responsibility/risks Continuity Members share or rotate roles and, as members move on, there is a transition process that sustains and maintains the community corporate memory Collaboration Reliable interdependence, a clear vision with members operating in an environment of sharing and trust Conscience Embody or invoke guiding principles/ethics of service, trust and respect that are expressed in the actions of the community Doğuş Group’s Community Engagement policy8 also includes Doğuş Group contributed TL 80,581,449 in total for community the engagement principles of the Group companies. The levels engagement and development programs in 2012. of community engagement processes can be identified as: • Providing information from the community (Learn their concerns about our business impact) • Consulting (Feedback mechanisms) • Deciding together (Responsiveness) • Acting together (Collaboration) 7 Brown, J & Isaacs, D (1994) ‘Merging the best of two worlds the core processes of organisations as communities’ in P Senge, A Kleiner, C Roberts, R Ross & B Smith (eds.) The fifth discipline fieldbook: Strategies and tools for building a learning organization, Doubleday/Currency Publications. 8 All the policies are disclosed in the CSR and Sustainability at Doğuş Group section. 54 55 Equality at Work Platform The “Equality at Work” Platform was established as part The term has gained much importance all around the world, of the efforts of a task force formed under the umbrella of as each person and household is the base of economic the World Economic Forum (WEF) and supported by the sustainability in a country. Para Durumu, Turkey’s first private Ministry of Family and Social Policies, against gender based media and interaction-based financial literacy initiative, social inequalities. The aim of the Platform is to reduce the reaches out to the public via a multi-platform weekly TV show, gender gap in Turkey’s economic realm to a minimum. With a page in the most widely circulated national newspaper, two leading businesspersons co-chairing the initiative –Güler Posta, as well as the weekend section of Hürriyet, another Sabancı, Chairman of Sabancı Holding, and Ferit Şahenk, prominent newspaper. Para Durumu is also published in the Chairman of Doğuş Group– the Platform started its efforts monthly women’s magazine, ELELE, actively uses social to change the current balance of male-dominated working media channels such as Facebook and Twitter, and operates life to secure more female participation in business, alter a very popular blog and website at www.paradurumu.tv. decision-making mechanisms to ensure the effectiveness of women in the workplace and create opportunities and Para Durumu, recognized as a Turkish financial literacy resources that encourage equal benefits for the genders. initiative by the OECD, is spearheaded by Doğuş Holding Executive Vice President of Strategy Özlem Denizmen at The goal of the 3-year project is to increase the participation Doğuş Holding. The Company empowers and encourages of women in the business work force in Turkey and to Mrs. Denizmen in her capacity as a social entrepreneur in reduce the gender gap in Turkey’s economic contributions this important effort for promoting sustainable change in and opportunities by 10 percent. Turkish society. As a result of this initiative, Mrs. Denizmen was honored by the White House Entrepreneurship Summit The groundwork for the “Equality at Work” Platform and as a Young Global Leader 2011 at the World Economic began in June 2012 in an attempt to coordinate efforts Forum. to raise the country’s score in the Economic Participation and Opportunities Index. In the time that has elapsed, the Para Durumu has already become an address where people institutional structuring of the initiative has been completed and seek solutions and guidance on personal finance problems, the steps, that organizations will follow as part of the project, financial products, saving for a house, budget decisions, have been identified: determining current status, extracting investment choices, credit card issues, and more. It has commitments, producing and distributing a “manual” that become a popular (and only) venue for people to “talk about will delineate the steps and exemplary models that can be money” in public. used in ensuring gender equality in corporations, follow-ups, spreading/dissemination, and performing impact analysis. Financial Literacy for Women: İSMEK The financial literacy partnership with İstanbul Metropolitan Doğuş Group’s commitment under the Platform is as follows: Municipality began in 2010 and continued during 2012 Starting from this year, as Doğuş Group, we are committed to with İSMEK (İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality Art and develop and provide private mentorship and coaching for our Vocational Training Courses) training sessions. By the end of female employees in order to improve their performances the year, the program reached a total of 14,500 women with and support their development in the work place. great success. The goal to reach 20,000 women is expected to be achieved by mid-2014. Para Durumu for Financial Literacy (Turkey’s first financial literacy initiative reaches out to the “Cebinde Mucize Yarat” (Make Miracles in Your Pocket) public) Özlem Denizmen’s book, “Cebinde Mucize Yarat” (Make Miracles in Your Pocket), was published in 2012. In previous Financial literacy is an individual’s ability to make informed years, as many as 3,500 women attended seminars in judgments and effective decisions about the use and Bursa, Ankara, İzmir and Gaziantep for launching events and management of his/her money. Thus, financially literate signing days. Doğuş Holding has sponsored the publication consumers manage their income, save and invest wisely and of 2,000 books in order to reach out, mainly to women and avoid fraudulent practices. youth. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 National Strategy on Financial Literacy: Financial Literacy and Inclusion Association FODER, the Financial Literacy and Inclusion Association, was The first phase of the project starts in the pilot city İstanbul, founded in November 2012 with the aim of being the civil where the aim is to reach 50 elementary schools and 25,000 voice on research, policy, practice and general coordination by the end of May 2013 and a total of 50,000 by the end of for financial literacy. In this pursuit, Mrs. Denizmen, as the 2014 educational year. The student sessions are specially Founding Chair, has regularly visited top executives of the considered for maximum efficiency. A brand new practice of Ministry of National Education, Ministry Responsible for teaching creative drama method is being introduced to the Women and Family Affairs, Ministry of Finance, and relevant program. Besides training presentations and creative drama exercises, supportive materials were prepared to solidify financial regulatory institutions such as the Capital Markets financial literacy education for children. Prior to student Board, Borsa İstanbul, Inter Card Center, Credit Bureau, training sessions, families and teachers are informed as to Banking Regulatory Institution and the Central Bank of why financial literacy is essential. An educational framework Turkey for a national level financial literacy policy. was designed for adults to build a stronger base for student sessions and sustainability of the cause. “Kırmızı Kumbara” Project Doğuş Group supports the ‘Kırmızı Kumbara’ project, which The ‘Kırmızı Kumbara’ project is planned to span over to was initiated in 2012 by Para Durumu in collaboration with 2016. Following the initiation in the pilot city of İstanbul, the Ministry of Education, within the scope of the ‘Okullar the plan is to widen the reach by expanding to 7 schools Hayat Olsun’ project led by the Ministry. The project aims in each of the 7 regions of Turkey, thus totaling 49 schools. to promote and expand financial literacy and inclusion By the end of the 2014 educational year the plan is to reach by educating children between the ages 9-11 regarding a total of 75,000 students. The project will expand to 81 the concepts of money, money management, savings cities across Turkey between the years 2014-2016 via the awareness and budgeting. educators that the program is training. Garanti Bank Community Volunteers Foundation (Toplum Gönüllüleri Vakfı) Garanti Bank supports The Community Volunteers program aimed at contributing to the personal development Foundation (Toplum Gönüllüleri Vakfı), a transformational of students in disadvantaged regions, periodic summer project aimed at turning the energy of young people into a projects consisting of educational support, and summer social positive benefit for society. activities both nationally and internationally, and the Five Key Trainings aimed at creating awareness in youth of fundamental The Community Volunteers Foundation (TOG) was formed concepts such as civil society, projects and volunteerism. in December 2002 with the aim of fostering social peace, solidarity and change with its pioneering youth and adult Support to Women Entrepreneurs guidance. By enabling youth to participate in volunteerism Garanti Bank sees supporting the women entrepreneurs and social responsibility work, the Foundation contributes as a major responsibility for Turkey’s social and economic to their personal development and encourages their social development. Apart from extending funds to women participation as volunteers. entrepreneurs, the Bank also supports activities encouraging entrepreneurship and educational projects. Young Community Volunteers, organized in clubs, groups or gatherings in their universities, execute sustainable, socially In its sixth year of Turkey’s Woman Entrepreneur responsible initiatives according to the perceived needs of Competition, organized with the aim of supporting and their communities. Among the projects carried out, with the encouraging women in business, the Bank received over support of the Bank, were the Voluntary Education Support 6,000 applications. 56 57 Through the Women Entrepreneurs Gatherings, organized University Lifelong Learning Center. Under the program, in collaboration with the Women Entrepreneurs Association women entrepreneurs in Ankara, İstanbul and İzmir of Turkey (KAGİDER), Garanti Bank aims to contribute to received instruction from Bosphorus University academics the personal development of women in business, informing on subjects such as innovation and sustainable company them on fundamental business issues and encouraging administration. them to create new opportunities in their own businesses. The Third International Women Entrepreneurship and In 2012, the Women Entrepreneur Gatherings were held in Leadership Summit, which has been sponsored by Garanti the provinces of Antalya, Denizli, Antakya, Mardin and Muğla Bank since its inception, was held 8-9 November 2012. with the participation of around 1,000 businesswomen. The event’s theme was “The Rising Power of Women in the New World Order” and included participation by expert In 2012, the Women Entrepreneur Executive School speakers and leaders from around the world. program was opened in conjunction with Bosphorus Garanti Bank SA Voluntary Programs Garanti Bank SA believes that business goes hand in hand Union Foundation, in collaboration with Humanity Romania, with social responsibility. Corporate philosophy of social by building houses in Preajba village, and helping to fulfill the responsibility in Garanti Bank SA is communicated internally dreams of three families in need. Another initiative involving by the CSR programs in which employees engage. In midstaff was a Blood Donation Action, organized twice in July 2012, Garanti Bank SA employees participated in the 2012. Garanti Bank SA employees’ enrollment rate in these “Volunteer for the Better” program organized by Western programs realized at about 70%. Garanti Pension and Life Back to School: Educating, not Employing Children (İşimiz Okumak) Since 2010, aiming to lure secondary school age working institution to include Creative Drama as one of the personal children (most particularly the ones on the streets) back to development activities in the project beginning with the school on a full time basis, Garanti Pension and Life has 2012-2013 academic year. been carrying out a project called “İşimiz Okumak” (Back to School: Educating, not Employing, Children) in collaboration Since the beginning of the project, seven percent of the with İstanbul Provincial Directorate of National Education students who were followed under the project stopped and Bosphorus University. As a part of the project, about working completely. Compared with similar projects in 3,100 children from 32 primary schools in İstanbul have the world, this marks considerable success in taking been taught how to enhance their achievements and many children off the streets and out of work. Moreover, increase their school loyalty. a significant improvement in school success of these children was observed, and the children’s parents now view In addition, nearly 450 Garanti Pension and Life employees education in a more positive light. Garanti Pension intends have participated in school activities, volunteering on to spread the project to other schools soon so as to let more weekends and in individually sponsoring activities such as children benefit from the project. going to cinema, theatre, museum, etc. The interaction between the children and volunteers was remarkable. In Support to Cappadocia Vocational School light of its aim to continually improve the project, Garanti Since 2008, Garanti Pension and Life has been collaborating Pension reached an agreement with a professional theatre with the Cappadocia Vocational School to prepare students DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 for the professional world. The Company executives several children’s education and personal development give lectures on the private pension system and the life projects carried out by the Community Volunteers Foundation. insurance sector, help students to obtain the Private Pension By donating a specific percentage of its monthly sales to Intermediary License, and share their experiences with the the Foundation, Garanti Pension and Life supports many students. Garanti Pension and Life also supports students projects carried out by the young Community Volunteers, in preparation for business life, offering them summer including repairs in village schools, helping working children internships and job opportunities. The Company continued and street children, tutoring students of limited means for its support to the school throughout 2012. their high school and university entrance exam preparations, teaching literacy skills, and providing computer courses at Support to Community Volunteers Foundation youth centers. Since 2006, Garanti Pension and Life has been supporting Garanti Factoring “CO-OP” Cooperative Education CO-OP” (Cooperative Education) is an integrated educational Garanti Factoring has cooperated with CO-OP Project model of university study and the business world. COfor three years, offering students internships via “The OP is based on the work of the student during his or her World of Receivable Finance” lessons. Undergraduate undergraduate education. The goal is to integrate education students from any faculties of the university who wish and business. For students who have taken advantage of to work through CO-OP apply to the CO-OP Directorate. the CO-OP opportunity, the transition into their workplace Submitting an application doesn’t necessarily mean that a after graduation has been much easier and smoother. student will be selected for CO-OP. A high academic record, recommendations and other required criteria are necessary It is a continuous process, completed in a single block of for the CO-OP application. A student accepted into the COtime: a minimum of 3 months and maximum 9 months. OP program is called a CO-OPer. Doğuş Otomotiv “Traffic is Life!” In connection with its area of activity, Doğuş Otomotiv has Doğuş Otomotiv Employees Come First been engaging in public awareness projects under the Doğuş Otomotiv aims to educate all segments of society framework of its “Traffic is Life!” platform on traffic safety on the issue of traffic safety, starting from inside this since 2004. Within the scope of this platform, Doğuş Otomotiv organization. In 2011, the Company completed training in aims to engender cultural change in society, intending to safe driving and first aid with regard to traffic, targeting touch all segments of society and creating positive change the primary stakeholders (employees) to engender and in traffic-related behavior through public awareness activities. strengthen a corporate traffic culture. Then, in 2012, they Doğuş Otomotiv continues to improve education-focused started to extend their training ventures to employees of efforts related to traffic safety, at the center of the Company’s other companies in the private sector. corporate social responsibility policies, under the leadership of trained spokespersons. The “Traffic is Life!” platform rests “First Aid in Traffic” training exposes participants to basic on raising awareness and consciousness of the concept of theoretical and practical information in relation to potential traffic, while expanding and deepening this consciousness for incidents and accidents. Doğuş Otomotiv plans to bring the company. The activities of Doğuş Otomotiv are structured similar training, developed by experts and academics with in such a way as to touch and benefit all segments of society differing content depending on the group targeted, to through sustainable programs. different organizations throughout Turkey. 58 59 Doğuş Otomotiv’s Corporate Traffic Principles cities in 2013. Doğuş Otomotiv is continuing to work on After the completion of all in-company training activities, the integration of this training into the curriculum, with the Doğuş Otomotiv determines the corporate traffic principles cooperation of the Ministry of National Education. by reviewing them together with the company’s employees. Doğuş Otomotiv expects to put into practice corporate “Traffic is Life!” Platform with Virgin Radio and High traffic safety principles in the form of an “Employee Pledge” School Students and to continue efforts by guiding employees to abide by In 2011, Doğuş Otomotiv started raising the awareness of the notion of respect for life in traffic and prompting them to traffic safety amongst high school students who will become serve voluntarily as role models on this issue. drivers in the near future; these activities continued in 2012. Slogan competitions were held with the cooperation of Children and Young People in “Traffic is Life!” Platform İstanbul Provincial Directorate for National Education, Doğuş The “Traffic is Life!” platform aims to create continuing Otomotiv, Doğuş Media Group, and one of Doğuş Media awareness of traffic safety among children and young Group’s radio stations popular among high school students people, the drivers of the future. Parallel to this, in 2012 in İstanbul, Virgin Radio Turkey. Doğuş Otomotiv visited Doğuş Otomotiv launched various activities based on the Şişli Terakki High School, İstek Kemal Atatürk High School, philosophy of training which targets youth. The Şişli Science Nişantaşı Işık High School, Açı Schools, Notre Dame de Sion Center, run by the Turkey Science Center Foundation French High School, and Beşiktaş Anatolian High School with established in September 2011, is visited by around 400 the objective of raising traffic safety awareness amongst high children each day and gives information to pre-school and school students. On the one hand, these awareness-raising elementary school children on the subject of traffic safety. activities conveyed entertaining messages about traffic safety Designed with the cooperation of expert academics and the to high school students, and on the other hand, students exhibition’s curator, plays and visual presentations in the used their creativity to come up with slogans, which were exhibition area are designed to direct children’s perceptions broadcast live on Virgin Radio Turkey. Instructive materials of traffic safety towards correct behaviour. Approximately including positive messages about traffic were distributed to 80,000 children visited the Traffic Safety Exhibition, which the students. remained open until September 2012. “Traffic is Life!” Platform with University-Pirelli In addition, Doğuş Otomotiv contributes to the “Doğuş Fair Cooperation Day & Doğuş Champions League Awards” by targeting Doğuş Otomotiv has also been working on schemes to children every year. Children are provided with information give traffic safety training targeting university students. For on a range of topics from compliance with traffic signals to instance, the 3-credit elective Traffic Safety Course, part of using seat belts and pedestrian crossings for traffic safety the Distance Education System, provides content along with including instruction given on specially prepared roads. In useful information on safe driving and first aid techniques. addition, children are introduced to the “Traffic Pledge” on The pilot scheme of this project was put into effect at this special, traditional day. Kocaeli University through the cooperation of the University administration and Pirelli, one of the leading organizations Doğuş Otomotiv’s Traffic Safety Training in Elementary of automotive sector; 588 students selected the course. School This project will become more widespread, reaching various Traffic safety training targeting 2nd grade elementary school universities and wider audiences in 2013. children is another project that started in 2012 by Doğuş Otomotiv. This training is planned to be incorporated into the “Traffic is Life!” at the Autoshow Fair Social Studies Lesson currently part of the Elementary School With “Traffic is Life!” platform, Doğuş Otomotiv also Curriculum. Initially, 30,000 students received training under participated in the biennial Autoshow Fair in TÜYAP, which the rubric of teachers’ training put into effect in İstanbul, is attended by thousands of visitors. The Company set up Kocaeli, Bursa, Ankara, and Niğde with the cooperation of a stand involving several activities at the fair on November the Provincial Directorates for National Education. Doğuş 1-11, 2012. The emphasis was on the first aid approach to Otomotiv plans to expand these training activities in additional traffic awareness and theoretical safe driving in traffic. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 In addition, Doğuş Otomotiv also gave social media improvement activities within the scope of “Traffic is Life!” integrated traffic safety messages and taught children traffic platform. Meanwhile, different projects of the platform rules via tablet and mobile games applications. were recognized in various categories. Doğuş Otomotiv participated in the “Corporate Social Responsibility Solutions Highway Traffic Safety Symposium Marketplace” activity with its “Traffic is Life!” platform, Additionally, the Highway Traffic Safety Symposium and organized by the Corporate Social Responsibility Association Exhibition, organized by the Security General Directorate, of Turkey to enable companies internalizing corporate social took place for the third time on May 16-18, 2012. This responsibility as part of their corporate culture to share their activity brought together public and private sector solutions with the public. organizations, trade bodies, and universities working to improve highway traffic safety on a single platform. Doğuş Doğuş Otomotiv, which was the first organization to prepare Otomotiv participated in this important meeting with its a corporate responsibility report in its sector in Turkey, was corporate social responsibility platform “Traffic is Life!” awarded two prizes – the Corporate Social Responsibility aimed at engendering a positive cultural shift in all segments Exemplar Training Application Award and the Jury’s of society. The Security General Directorate provided Special Award. In addition, the Automotive Distributors information about program activities in the information Association (ODD) Sales and Communication Awards, booklet prepared for the Symposium. 2012 Gladiators, which was first organized by the Turkish Automotive Distributors Association in 2010, evaluates “Traffic is Life!” in the Media each communication product developed throughout the Doğuş Otomotiv, with public support, has prepared TV and year on the basis of concrete criteria. Doğuş Otomotiv was radio public spots with the cooperation of the Security General recognized for its “Traffic is Life!” platform in the Social Directorate and Radio and Television Supreme Council (RTÜK). Responsibility Project category of 2012. Doğuş Otomotiv Seven radio public spots prepared by the Company were will continue its activities in the direction of disseminating broadcasted free with the cooperation of the Security General “Traffic is Life!” program to society as a whole, thereby Directorate and Radio and Television Supreme Council. engendering change on the issue of safety in parallel to Meanwhile, one TV public spot that Doğuş Otomotiv prepared the Company’s sustainability strategy thanks to the pride it with the cooperation of the Security General Directorate is takes in all these remarkable recognitions. being broadcasted on television. Doğuş Otomotiv continues to work on producing new public broadcast spots. Volkswagen Laboratories at Vocational High Schools Doğuş Otomotiv continued training activities at the The Company has been carrying out awareness-raising Volkswagen Laboratories of Vocational High Schools and efforts concerning traffic safety through several radio at other institutions in 2012. The third Volkswagen Training channels including Virgin Radio’s radio spot activities in Laboratory was opened at Ankara Gazi Industrial Vocational Turkey, Radio Eksen’s DJ talks on the topic of traffic, and High School following those in Şişli and Samandıra. Doğuş Kral FM’s radio spot activities on the subject of traffic safety. Otomotiv supported the school with physical improvements Furthermore, Doğuş Otomotiv shares information about and equipment, material, and hardware as per the protocol the “Traffic is Life!” website and the activities appearing signed with the Ministry of National Education. on written and visual media through social media channels (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube), conveying awareness-raising Doğuş Otomotiv chose 24 technicians for the training of messages to society. Doğuş Otomotiv also uses “Traffic is teachers. The total number of schools supported reached Life!” logo, along with other corporate logos, in sponsorship 108. 87 students were granted internships, 42 students projects generated in different areas including sports, arts, graduated from the laboratories, and 20 of students were education, and sales marketing activities, thereby continuing employed. The total number of graduates reached 206, to deliver traffic safety messages to society. the number of students in training reached 166, the total number of those employed reached 66. Doğuş Otomotiv Awards for “Traffic is Life!” also sponsored the E-VIWO (Education in the Virtual World) Several respected organizations have also drawn attention to project conducted jointly by Finland, Scotland, and Turkey. 60 61 vdf Group vdf’s Community Engagement vdf supported Community Volunteers Association in 2012 with TL 18,000 donation. TÜVTÜRK Traffic Responsibility Action partners of the project are Ministry of Transport, Maritime A Part of Turkey’s National Road Safety Action Program Affairs and Communications, General Directorate of Basic In consideration of its vision, scope and achievements in Education (Ministry of National Education) and TÜVTÜRK. three years, the Traffic Responsibility Action was included in By training the trainer and providing additional materials the National Action Plan for Road Safety pioneered by H. E. on traffic safety, the project aims to raise awareness and Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, himself. improve the notion of individual responsibility in traffic. Stakeholder Engagement 4) Youth’s Action in Traffic addresses high school students. The project is based on the fact that it is possible to produce According to data provided by the World Health Organization, permanent and sustainable solutions to the problem road accidents rank first among the causes of death for of safety of life in traffic only by engaging the relevant the age group 15-29. As such, the project aims to raise stakeholders. Among the stakeholders of the project are six awareness among high school students on safety in traffic ministries, five universities, two metropolitan municipalities, and individual responsibility. The partners of the project are public institutions, NGO’s and occupational organizations. Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs and Communications, These stakeholders play a vital role in the project as they General Directorate of Secondary Education (Ministry of not only share their experiences and expertise in order National Education), TÜVTÜRK and Goodyear Tires. This to improve the project, but they also steer the project on project is especially noteworthy as it enables two private the grounds of the feedback received from the field and sector entities to collaborate under the same umbrella. target audiences. Some stakeholders, such as the General Directorate of Basic Education, also cooperate with the As of May 2013, the following outputs and results have Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs and Communications been achieved under the sub-projects: and TÜVTÜRK as partners for sub-projects designed in order to reach particular target groups. Safe Vehicle Action reached more than 225,000 citizens and 3,000 commercial vehicle drivers in 36 cities. Multiple Projects Management Responsible Citizen Action reached 3,200 teachers and Traffic Responsibility Action consists of four sub-projects: more than 65,000 citizens in 31 cities. Bosom Buddies’ Action reached 3,200 teachers, 100,000 1) Safe Vehicle Action aims to raise awareness in commercial students, 200,000 parents, and 6,000 school bus drivers in vehicle drivers, in particular, and the public, in general. The 36 cities. project is carried out thanks to cooperation with the Turkish Youth’s Action on Traffic reached 10,000 high school Drivers and Vehicle Owners Association. students, 20,000 parents, and 500 school bus drivers in 10 cities in its first year. 2) Responsible Citizen Action aims to reach the public by benefiting from the mechanism of Public Training Centers. Traffic Safety Platform and the Corporate Traffic Safety The project is executed through the cooperation by the Declaration Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs and Communications, Another initiative of the Traffic Responsibility Action is the General Directorate of Lifelong Learning (Ministry of National Traffic Responsibility Platform. Pioneered by the Ministry Education) and TÜVTÜRK. of Transport, Maritime Affairs and Communications, the platform seeks to encourage public and private entities to 3) Bosom Buddies’ Action’s target groups are primary school contribute to traffic safety through internal and external teachers, students, parents and school bus drivers. The activities for their stakeholders. The platform further DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 envisages encouraging these entities to incorporate traffic to convey duties of the employees regarding traffic safety safety into their corporate policies, enabling coordination and and to provide them with information about the corporate cooperation for activities on traffic safety to be carried out by principles and procedures for monitoring and supervising different entities, and developing, adopting and extending a them in terms of traffic safety. Within the framework of this framework for corporate traffic safety principles. Developed handbook, the employees at the headquarters received onefor such purposes, the first concrete output of the Traffic day training on traffic safety and the importance of individual Responsibility Platform has become the Corporate Traffic responsibility in traffic. Safety Declaration. Developed in collaboration with the representatives from various private and public entities, the Communication Activities Corporate Traffic Safety Declaration aims to set a framework In addition to such activities and in order to reach the general for the roles that corporations can assume voluntarily in order population through mass media, eight introductory films to increase traffic safety; to determine the priorities that were shot and broadcasted on television with messages corporations can address for the solution to the problems about individual responsibility in terms of traffic safety. in traffic; and to encourage signatories to carry out activities These films were supported by several celebrity volunteers on traffic safety with voluntary commitment. Pioneered by such as Kenan Işık, Kenan İmirzalıoğlu, Grup Hepsi. On the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Transport, the other hand, TV celebrities from national channels also Maritime Affairs and Communications, the declaration supported the project through voluntary clips. The project’s was opened for signature at the opening ceremony of 4th films and clips were broadcasted on national and local Highway Traffic Safety Symposium and Exhibition on 8 May television channels and watched at least once by 80% of 2013. Top executives of 18 corporations from the private the population. Prize-competition programs on radio and sector and occupational organizations signed the Corporate radio spots also played a vital role in reaching the target Traffic Safety Declaration. The signatories are supposed to groups, because some of the target groups are always on come together every year and present an annual report to the the road, which makes them accessible only through radio. Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs and Communications Additionally, Traffic Responsibility Action keeps traffic safety about their corporate works and activities on the issues always on the agenda by sharing the latest developments included in the declaration. about the project through its social media platforms, interacting with the social network users on traffic safety, The initial corporations and federations that signed the and organizing prize competitions with questions on declaration are as follows: traffic safety. The project has received 45,000 likes on Aviva, BP, Brisa, Ford, Goodyear, Mercedes-Benz Türk, Facebook and has attracted more than 7,200 followers Michelin, Pirelli, Renault, Shell, Toyota, Vodafone, General on Twitter. Within the scope of the project, two internet Bus Federation, Turkish Bus Federation, Private Bus Union, pages were also developed: www.trafikhareketi.org and Turkish Association of Motorists and Drivers, International www.candostlarihareketi.com. Transporters Association. Local and national media were also interested in the project. Internal Traffic Safety Procedure and Trainings Many national TV channels brought the field activities on When the first steps were taken for the Corporate Traffic screen during news bulletins 40 times. On the other hand, Safety Declaration, TÜVTÜRK felt the urge to develop and the press took greater interest in the project activities, publish a corporate traffic safety handbook. Benefiting from making nearly 500 stories about the project. the workshops held for the declaration, TÜVTÜRK drafted its corporate traffic safety handbook. And before the signing of Thanks to the wide stakeholder engagement, very effective the declaration, it was published and put into practice. This opportunities of collaboration were used. In collaboration corporate handbook pointed at a vital need of corporations: with the Turkish Football Federation, all teams came to adopt and execute a consistent and fair system to monitor to the field with a banner bearing the project’s slogan: and control the employees using vehicles and to provide “Act responsibly in traffic, all the time!” through this them with a standard guide on traffic safety. By setting basic collaboration, it has been possible to convey the message corporate rules and principles, the handbook made it possible to millions of people. On the other hand, in collaboration 62 63 with the Metropolitan Municipality of İstanbul, the subway TÜVTÜRK has also been contributing through field activities trains were decorated with projects visuals, conveying the of Traffic Responsibility Action. slogan of the project and special messages to thousands of people every day. In addition, thanks to the collaboration Support to Animation Film Contest with Migros, the biggest retailer chain in Turkey, messages Turkish National Police has been running film contests of the project reach thousands of people every day while targeting for two years. TÜVTÜRK has been supporting such they are paying at the cash. contests in an attempt to contribute increasing awareness in the target group on pedestrian safety, crossing, safety in All the materials needed for the project were developed shuttle busses, bicycle riding and safety, safe skateboarding, through cooperation with the stakeholders: posters, etc. within the context of Traffic Responsibility Action. leaflets, reminders, booklets, etc. These materials bear special messages on traffic safety. Through cooperation Design Contest with the stakeholders, these materials were distributed or Recently, Advertisement Creators’ Association collaborated exhibited at the premises of the stakeholders. 1,000,000 with the Graphic Design Magazine in order to bring social Safe Vehicle Cards were distributed during the trainings and issues to the cover of the magazine. The cover of the field activities. magazine is open to the participants who compete by presenting their work on the grounds of the brief on a social Traffic Safety Symposium issue. Among the submitted works, one is selected by a jury The first Highway Traffic Safety Symposium and Exhibition to be used in the cover of the magazine. In the second issue was organized four years ago. Apart from supporting this with such a theme, Traffic Responsibility Action was chosen activity, TÜVTÜRK has been actively participating and and the subject was determined as individual responsibility meeting with professionals and public for two years now. in traffic. In the end of the competition, Sevcan Sertel’s Along with the TÜVTÜRK stand at the exhibition field, work was chosen to be used on the cover of the magazine. Doğuş Construction: Donations to Community Initiatives Doğuş Construction supports the communities where it Gül University Foundation, TL 150,867 to Ayhan Şahenk operates through donations. In 2012, Doğuş Construction Foundation and around TL 125,000 to different associations invested TL 1,563,500 to İstanbul Bağcılar Public High and foundations. School Construction and donated TL 200,000 to Abdullah Doğuş Tourism Group: Philanthropy Practices • Grand Hyatt İstanbul arranged an iftar dinner for LÖSEV • Alantur gives moral and material support to Ayhan Şahenk (Children’s Leukaemia Foundation) kids and their families in primary school. Ramadan for 120 people. As a new-year gift for customers • D-Hotel Maris supports the neighborhood Hisarönü Village and other contacts, 1,200 mugs from WWF-Turkey were Primary School (most of the employees are residents of distributed. Every year, hotel employees participate in Red the village). Hotel employees celebrated 23rd April Children Crescent Blood Donation campaigns. Festival with the school students and the village community. • Park Hyatt İstanbul-Maçka Palas supported the neighboring • D-Hotel Maris also provided the infrastructure for the 5 km Maçka Akif Tuncel Anadolu Public High School with road from Marmaris-Datça highway to the Hotel. plantings and landscaping, and the Hotel management team • D-Marin Resort Göcek supports the education of university visited Darülaceze, purchasing home-made products of the students at Kocatepe University, Akdeniz University, Celal residents. The Hotel donated six bicycles to the children Bayar University, and Dokuz Eylül University through TL cared by LÖSEV. 10,000 donation. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 Doğuş REIT: Hand Craft Ateliers in Doğuş Center Maslak In Doğuş Center Maslak, drawing and hand craft ateliers open and free of charge for every attendant and the children are opened for the neighborhood children to support their are monitored by supervisors who are educated about educational and personal development. The ateliers are pediatric development in the related universities. Doğuş Real Estate: Engagement with Disadvantaged People Gebze Center supported disabled and orphaned students, Pictures and works reflecting their manual skills were on enabling them to exhibit their hand works, photographs display. Students had fun in the entertainment areas of and shows in exhibitions organized inside the shopping the shopping center free of charge and had the chance to mall, thereby helping them to participate in social life. exhibit their shows to crowds of people. Business Ethics9 Business ethics is one of the important and vital principles and ethical business principles and implementations, audits of Doğuş Group values and strategies. At Doğuş Group, we with monitoring systems are crucial assets that we encourage pursue highest ethical standards in all aspects of our business, for the Group companies. Commitments Compliance Committed to comply with all laws and regulations Management Establish and maintain a Group Code of Ethics and related procedures Assessment Periodic risk assessments and due diligence Communication Engage and open dialogue with all parties Transparency Transparent and trustworthy operational procedures Auditing Include ethical risks in all auditing processes Training Employees, suppliers and third parties Doğuş Holding: Anti-corruption Processes The main responsibility regarding Doğuş Holding’s ethical Anti-corruption risks are included in the risk assessment performance is vested in the Audit Committee, which processes of Doğuş Holding10, and in any concern with regard reports directly to the Board of Directors. The Internal Audit to the Group companies’ operations, the Audit Department Department is responsible for auditing the Group companies’ is informed by the related parties. As a part of the assurance effectiveness in internal control systems. Furthermore, activity, the potential risk channels are monitored, the audit the internal auditors are important actors with regard to mechanisms’ effectiveness is evaluated and improvement consulting, assurance, collaboration, suggestions, monitoring suggestions are made. Audits are made for the Group and the investigation processes of anti-corruption cases. companies every three months. 9 Doğuş Group ethical principles can be found at http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/82-278-1-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/investor_relations/corporate_governance_%20 principles/code_of_ethics 10 Doğuş Group Corporate Risk Management details can be found at http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/82-280-1-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/investor_relations/ corporate_%20governance_principles/corporate_risk_management_ 64 65 Garanti Bank: Anti-corruption and Risk Management System Garanti Bank reports its ethical principles online via the Anti-corruption training, which is mandated by the Turkish corporate website; all audit processes include the evaluation Banking Law, was given to 96% of Garanti Bank employees of ethical compliance. There are several control mechanisms in 2012. Ethical Principles and Code of Conduct courses for risky processes, which are also reviewed periodically were finished by 95% of the Bank employees in the by the audit departments of the Bank. Members of the reporting period. Committee of Inspection give seminars on Operational Risk Management, Forgery and Secure Operations to relevant employees during the year. GarantiBank International N.V. GarantiBank International N.V. is compliant with all applicable GarantiBank International N.V. only accepts clients subject laws and regulations relating to the prevention of money to satisfactory completion of client identification procedures laundering and terrorism finance; these are implemented (including, where necessary, identification of directors and and enforced in the Bank according to written policies and major shareholders) in compliance with applicable laws and procedures, and supervised by Garanti Bank’s Compliance regulations, customer due diligence and KYC (Know Your Committee and Compliance Officer. All employees of Garanti Clients) requirements. The Bank adheres strictly to the Bank follow the e-learning module ‘Compliance and Integrity’, Anti-money Laundering and Counter Terrorism Financing which includes Garanti Bank’s anti-corruption policies and Policy, and therefore transactions which do not satisfy the procedures. Additionally, the front officers follow the e-learning requirements of the mentioned policy are refused without module ‘Customer Due Diligence Investigation’. exception. Garanti Bank SA: Code of Conduct Trainings Garanti Bank SA Code of Conduct has specific provisions Program regarding the company provisions. They also attend regarding the Company’s anti-corruption policies. All the Annual Compliance Training, also mandatory by law, employees get training at the Induction Compliance Training regarding financial institutions in Romania. Doğuş Otomotiv: Code of Ethics11 Doğuş Otomotiv has established a Code of Ethics Committee Ethics, with the Board of Directors’ approval, was disclosed to make preparations for a Corporate Code of Ethics. These to the employees and the public. Doğuş Otomotiv Code of include real case studies from the automotive retailing Ethics is the first corporate ethics code in Turkey which was and services sector and complied with international ethics not adopted from international samples and which includes standards in 2011. The Committee members worked on the local and sectoral case studies. code for one year and in 2012, the Doğuş Otomotiv Code of LeasePlan: Anti-corruption Practices There is a compliance officer employed only for ethics risk communicate with the Board of Directors directly. In 2012, management who reports directly to General Manager Leaseplan activated its new “Whistle Blowing Procedure” at LeasePlan. Every LeasePlan employee must read and and the employees were trained about the system. 85% of sign the Ethical Principles of the Company according to the employees attended these trainings. employee agreements. LeasePlan has a system of Fraud Policy and Response Plan; according to this system, any LeasePlan Supplier Evaluation Process includes compliance employee, who has concerns regarding corruption, can with LeasePlan Anti-corruption Business Principles. 11 Doğuş Otomotiv Code of Ethics can be found on the corporate web site at http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/tr/kurumsal-sorumluluk/etik-kod.aspx DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 Doğuş Tourism Group: Grand Hyatt İstanbul and Park Hyatt İstanbul Maçka Palas Anti-corruption and bribery trainings prepared by Hyatt Group attended those trainings. Furthermore, both hotels also are mandatory for all Grand Hyatt İstanbul and Park Hyatt have corporate anti-corruption and bribery policies. İstanbul Maçka Palas employees; 100% of the employees Customers Our Group is committed to the well-being, satisfaction and, Furthermore, we expect from all third parties, including the health and safety of its customers as well as all the stakeholder supply chain companies, to comply with all related laws and groups within the value chain of our Group companies. Doğuş regulations besides encouraging all efforts to increase the Group conducts its business in compliance with all product customer satisfaction in each of its business lines. and service and customer health and safety regulations. Doğuş Group Commitments on Customer Well-being • Supply Chain Audits • Employee Training Programs • International Health and Safety Standards • Functional Customer Grievance Systems • Monitoring and Following the Public Policies and Regulations • Customer Information Security12 • Collaboration with Experts and Engage with Customers Garanti Bank: Justified Customer Line and Customer Satisfaction Act Garanti Bank was certified with 10002:2004 Complaint consumed banking services to the customers. It is Management System by British Standards Institution important to inform customers on every detail which may (BSI) in 2006. Garanti Bank is the first Turkish bank which impact them through the life cycle of Garanti Bank services, internationally certifies its approach to customer satisfaction. and to encourage them to think and decide objectively. The Customer Satisfaction Constitutional Act of the Bank The main target of Garanti Bank’s customer satisfaction assures that the customer has the right to expect timely policy is to present easily accessible and consciously direction to the right person through the right channel. KOBİLGİ (SME Informative) Meetings Garanti Bank organizes seminars, conferences and industrysimultaneously play a major role in the consolidation of based informative meetings with the aim of helping to customer loyalty. increase the information levels of SMEs. Commencing at 2011, the KOBİLGİ Meetings consist of a series of seminars These training sessions, explaining in technical detail not only enriched with examples and practical activities, delivered by the latest regulations but also the most recent developments experts on such subjects as developments in regulations, in areas such as marketing and sales, were held in six different marketing and sales. Open to all SMEs, the meetings also provinces and attended by approximately 1,000 people in 2012. Anatolian Meetings to evaluate regional and international opportunities, discover Celebrating its 10th year in 2012, the Garanti Anatolian potential business areas, and create solutions together Meetings (GAS) brings together SMEs and the for their local problems. Since the commencement of the representatives of local administrations from various program, 83 meetings have been held in 61 provinces, provinces in Turkey. By discussing changes in the economy bringing together 25,000 representatives from SMEs. In and market conditions with professionals who are experts 2012, approximately 2,000 SMEs came together in eight in their field, Garanti enables SMEs and local administrators provinces. 12 Doğuş Group companies are totally committed to the security of their customers’ personal information and internationally certificated systems are being used in all companies through the product and service life cycle. 66 67 GarantiBank International N.V.: Rescue Team GarantiBank International N.V. has a Rescue Team at safety of employees and customers, including fire the Bank responsible for the health of employees and extinguishers, exit signs, pressure control in server room, customers in the case of emergency incidents. Besides, all periodic control of electrical instruments and heaters. Bank premises have necessary controls and standards for Garanti Bank SA: Customer Care Unit In order to address customers’ written requests and complaints, with the relevant departments. According to the Romanian Garanti Bank SA has implemented a Customer Care Unit that law and internal procedure, the Bank provides comprehensive handles these cases and prepares specific answers, together responses within the required legal response time. Garanti Pension and Life: Hobby Clubs In 2008, Garanti Pension and Life initiated the Hobby Clubs benefit from discounts up to 50% on hobby courses, Clubs project with the goal of keeping customers happy by training and hobby equipment they use in their different providing pleasant moments not only after their retirement hobby fields. The Hobby Clubs website, hobimlemutluyum. but also during the wealth accumulation phase. Currently, com, gives members the opportunity to discover the the project covers 19 different hobbies ranging from arts different aspects of their hobbies and share their thoughts to sports and is implemented with the participation of 200 and accomplishments with other members. New events partners, all of which are leading institutions in their fields. are organized every month to allow members the opportunity to develop their social lives and communities Garanti Pension and Life members participating in Hobby concurrently. Garanti Technology: Cisco Silver Certified Partner Garanti Technology is very proud to announce that it has the other several lines. Globally renowned Cisco Silver been named a “Cisco Silver Certified Partner” after a detailed Certificate is only given to technology companies after all audit process of the Company’s network departments and departments are inspected in detail. Doğuş Otomotiv: Customers and “Traffic is Life!” Targeting society as a whole, Doğuş Otomotiv launches ability to drive safely. Throughout Turkey, sales employees activities aimed at raising the awareness of the customers relay accurate and useful information to over 100,000 within the framework of the “Traffic is Life!” platform. customers on traffic safety during the vehicle buying Doğuş Otomotiv firmly believes that its responsibility is not process, and they continue their efforts in this regard. only to sell vehicles to customers but also to enable them to In addition to the above-mentioned activities, Doğuş travel in a secure way. Otomotiv has at the same time added items concerned with traffic safety to renewed vehicle delivery procedures. Accordingly, in 2011 the Company prepared special-content From now on, each customer receive its vehicle only after training sessions under the guidance of expert instructors. being reminded about Seat Belts, Child Safety Seats, The Company has put into practice an online training program Safe Following Distances and other similar serious safety including topics such as Safety Culture in Traffic, Factors issues. Affecting Traffic Safety, Safe Driving, Communication, and Automobile Maintenance. This online training program The Indicator Project provides intranet-based computer services and remote As part of the “Traffic is Life!” platform, the Indicator access throughout the country to the employees in charge Project was displayed at Doğuş Otomotiv’s authorized of the brands for which Doğuş Otomotiv conducts sales and dealers. The project was effective but not dynamic, hence marketing activities. Doğuş Otomotiv decided to improve the project by keeping it continuously up-to-date through the use of multimedia Through the Company’s authorized dealer network and technology instead of physical material only; and by making sales employees, Doğuş Otomotiv aims to contribute to it available to its customers at all times. customers’ increased awareness of traffic safety and their DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 LeasePlan: Customer Loyalty Survey and Responsible Marketing LeasePlan conducts customer loyalty surveys and driver Procedures; suppliers are chosen from the companies satisfaction surveys every year. In 2012, the Customer which have had responsible marketing approaches. Loyalty Survey result of LeasePlan was 91% the best score in LeasePlan Operation Regions. The Driver Satisfaction “The Best Fleet Manager of the Year” Award Survey result increased by 16 points compared to the LeasePlan collaborated with Ekonomist Turkey magazine, previous year the greatest increase anywhere. and in February 2012 announced the awards via www. filoodulleri.com website. The awards will be given to the LeasePlan complies with LeasePlan Compliance Principles in fleet managers who have demonstrated environmental every marketing activity. Additionally, the LeasePlan supplier and social awareness with efficiency and security approach evaluation process includes the Permitted Marketing while choosing the fleets for their companies. Doğuş Tourism Group: Certifications In the hotels of Doğuş Tourism Group, customer health and made by internationally well-recognized third parties. safety management is a mandatory practice. International D-Hotel Maris aims to implement new standards and hygiene standards for kitchens and hotel rooms are practices in 2013 such as ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004, implemented in all hotels. The kitchen hygiene audits are ISO 22000 and ISO 18001. Human Rights In 2012, Doğuş Group established its Human Rights Policy business decisions made by each company within our Group. and disclosed it with this report to all our stakeholders. Since Since Doğuş Group is a participant of the United Nations its foundation, Doğuş Group has shared a set of core values Global Compact, it is committed to align its operations and based on integrity, understanding, excellence, creativity, unity strategies with the 10 universally accepted principles in and responsibility. These values continue to guide and drive human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Doğuş Holding: Human Rights Policy Doğuş Holding’s commitment to respecting human rights support the implementation of the policy, Doğuş Holding is embodied in United Nations Global Compact principles provided an updated human rights training program to the together with the Doğuş Group Human Rights Policy, security staff, and will continue to develop useful new disclosed in 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report. To corporate tools in 2013. Garanti Bank: Human Rights Trainings Garanti Bank begins to an online e-learning module in 2012 The mandatory biannual training, with regard to crime covering the Ethical Principles and Code of Conduct which revenues, was given to 13,700 employees totalling 20,500 included human rights principles of the Bank. 84% of the hours in 2012. employees have taken the e-learning module including the security staff in 2012. 68 69 GarantiBank International N.V. GarantiBank International N.V. has a human rights policy provisions for individuals with disabilities and choices with respect to gender discrimination, sexual harassment, regarding religion. Doğuş Otomotiv: Human Rights Policy Doğuş Otomotiv publicly disclosed its Human Rights policy 100% of the security staff was given human rights training. in 2011, the first CSR Reporter and UNGC signatory in its Engagement of third parties, including the supply chain, to sector to do so. Furthermore, all Doğuş Otomotiv employees the Company’s Human Rights Policy will continue in 2013. attended an e-learning module regarding human rights and Doğuş Tourism Group: Human Rights Trainings 100% of the Grand Hyatt İstanbul and Park Hyatt İstanbultrainings. This training is mandatory for all new employees, Maçka Palas employees have attended human rights and continuing employees also have the training once a year. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 70 71 Environmental Engagement DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 Environmental Engagement We believe that our employees’ approach about sustainable environment will ensure the progress of our business in environmental engagement issues. We recognize that the most powerful asset of the Group is our employees, who carry the company forward. Therefore, Environmental Awareness we believe that the responsible approach about sustainable Programs environment of our employees will ensure the progress of our Doğuş Group’s environmental awareness approach business in environmental engagement issues; Doğuş Group’s mainly depends on employees as an important part of the environmental strategy’s key components are, therefore, implementation processes because it is their engagement that employee awareness and training. will increase the probability of a successful implementation of all kinds of environmental practices. Employees are an We have disclosed our Environmental Responsibility Policy important source of knowledge, expertise, and ingenuity when and targets including the commitments in 2012 Corporate it comes to the company, its procedures and its equipment. Responsibility Report and will share and distribute the policy details with Group companies in 2013. In addition, community awareness also should be the part of the environmental awareness approach as progress towards a more sustainable approach to business is essential if we are to compete in a reality of limited resources and interlinked ecological systems. We believe in this double effect of awareness to reach successful and effective results regarding environmental awareness. Employee Awareness Community Awareness Increased Environmental Efficient Operations Demand Cost Saving Brand Preference Sustainable Environment Doğuş Holding: DenizTemiz Foundation Since 2007, Doğuş Holding has been one of the corporate aim of protecting the seas and the 8,333 kilometer coast members of the DenizTemiz Turmepa Foundation. line that stretches around most of Turkey from Hopa to the DenizTemiz Foundation was founded on 8 April 1994 by İskenderun region. leading business institutions and the marine sector with the 72 73 Ayhan Şahenk Foundation: Forests of Endearment In the context of Ayhan Şahenk Forests of Endearment (Ayhan trees, will be maintained for five years, and any saplings Şahenk Sevgi Ormanları) which was founded with the aim of which have not rooted properly in that time will be replaced. leaving a healthy and clean environment for future generations, Other Forests of Endearment in Marmaris, Bodrum, Niğde more than 550,000 trees have been planted to date in areas and İstanbul are still being maintained this year by the which were previously destroyed by fire, mining, or erosion. Foundation in accordance with a protocol signed with the Ministry of Environment and Forestry. Fences and gates In 2012, the Ayhan Şahenk Foundation formed a new forest surrounding the forests are all renewed where necessary in within an area of 11 hectares nearby Silivri. This region, line with this protocol. which benefited from the planting of 11,000 adult pine Garanti Bank: WWF-Turkey (World Wildlife Foundation Turkey) As the main sponsor for 20 years of WWF-Turkey, is making a In additional to its regular, systematic support, Garanti Bank major contribution to the sustainable use and conservation of also in February 2012 supported the Report on Turkey’s nation’s natural resources with the slogan “Garanti for Nature.” Ecological Footprint, prepared by WWF-Turkey, which With its work on conserving biological diversity and ensuring investigated the consumption patterns and their impact on the sustainable use of natural resources, with the intention of natural resources. building a future where humanity co-exists harmoniously with nature, the WWF is an international NGO supporting 2,000 Trainings on Sustainability conservation projects around the world. With nearly 4,000 Garanti Bank sees training and awareness raising programs employees, it is the world’s largest environmental organization. as key issues to embed sustainability in its corporate culture. The Foundation carries out projects in around 100 countries Acting on this fact, the Bank designed a Sustainability in the main areas of climate-change, forest conservation, E-Learning program for all Bank personnel, with the aim fresh water, protecting the seas, endangered species and of raising awareness on the issue. The Bank also added sustainability. its view of the concept of sustainability to its orientation training, spelling out its expectations of employees on this Due to its long-term support for WWF-Turkey’s nature issue. Additionally, the Bank developed a variety of training conservation projects, Garanti Bank was recognized in 2008 and awareness raising programs which either target all bank for the second time with the Golden Panda award. Having personnel or some selected teams, on various topics such as received the same award in 2001, Garanti retains its status as Climate Change, the Carbon Markets and environmental and the only Turkish Company to have won a Golden Panda award. social risk management in lending operations. Garanti Bank SA: Save the Virgin Forests in Romania In 2012, a part of the funds, collected through the certification.” It aims to identify and preserve forests with partnership developed with WWF-Romania were directed high conservation value, as well as to inform relevant target to the “Save the Virgin Forests in Romania!” project. The groups of the concept. campaign, launched by WWF-Romania in October 2011, alongside ambassadors and supporters, aimed to put under Garanti Bank SA gives special importance also to Recicleta, protection the few remaining virgin forests in the country the project developed with VisitorPlus Organisation, the and among the last in Europe. Over 80% of virgin forests in Company’s CSR partner, as the first carbon neutral project in Romania are not currently under any form of protection and Romania. Through this project, the organization aims to collect are in danger of being legally destroyed. Another program office waste paper for recycling. Paper collection is provided for which funds are being raised through the WWF Bonus by some cargo-bikes, unique in Romania, propelled by poor Card is “Forests with high conservation value and forest people, thereby creating jobs. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 Garanti Factoring: “TÜBİTAK Nature Festival” Garanti Factoring donated saplings to Aegean Forest Foundation-Nil Buket Gülergin Forest for supporting organ donation. Doğuş Construction: Biodiversity Impact Management Doğuş Construction collaborates with the Ministry of Doğuş Construction project processes include biodiversity Forestry and Water Affairs and National Parks Directorate in risk evaluations. All projects are managed according to all projects about the preservation of natural life. Artvin Dam environmental principles and audits are initiated hereunder. and HEPP Project employees were trained to preserve and protect the wildlife in Çoruh River. Doğuş Media Group: NTV-Green Screen Since 2008, NTV’s summer line-up has been mainly composed organic diets, green holidays etc. in a variety of formats. of nine environmental programs called the “Green Screen.” This project calls attention to environmental problems and The project is being supported by the other brands of raises public awareness on related issues, responding to the Doğuş Media Group as well, and the Group has been questions and correcting common misunderstandings about awarded prizes by NGOs and academic institutions for its “green” issues including global warming, renewable energy, efforts and contributions made to environmental issues. Doğuş Tourism Group: Green Team Grand Hyatt İstanbul and Park Hyatt İstanbul Maçka Palas thoughts about raising the environmental performance of the employees have attended environmental awareness hotels. The results of the meetings are shared with the other trainings. There is a “Green Team” practice at the hotels and employees using communication tools such as e-mails or the team members organize monthly meetings to share their hotel announcement boards. Maritim Hotel Grand Azur: HP Planet Partner Maritim Hotel Grand Azur has collaborated with HP for an Maritim Hotel Grand Azur aims to have “Green Star” and environmental awareness program. The HP Planet Partners believes that environmentally friendly hotels should pay program helps the Hotel to recycle its empty original HP more attention to employee awareness about the subject. print cartridges. With HP’s closed loop recycling process, the Hotel employees also attended to environmental awareness recovered plastic is used to manufacture new HP cartridges trainings in 2012 and they will continue in 2013. with the same quality and reliability. D-Marin Marinas Group: Biodiversity Impact Management With the Blue Flag project by TÜRÇEV (Türkiye Çevre D-Marin Turgutreis has been organizing environment-related Eğitim Vakfı) and as the member of Turmepa-DenizTemiz events in cooperation with DenizTemiz Foundation/Turmepa Association, D-Marin Turgutreis employees are organizing with the aim of raising awareness among its employees, the activities about environmental awareness, underwater local residents of Bodrum, Turgutreis and the guests of the cleaning and natural habitat conservation facilities. Marina. One of the most remarkable events of this kind is the Environmental awareness meetings are also organized in International Coastal Cleanup (ICC) Campaign that takes place primary schools in Turgutreis by D-Marin staff. annually, on the International Coastal Cleanup Day. D-Marin employees and guests participate to the event. 74 75 Doğuş Real Estate: The Sea Animals Exhibition Gebze Center realized an activity called “The Exhibition of the environment. All information supplied by the international Sea Animals” within the scope of the National Sovereignty instructors was presented to children with the support of and Children’s Day on 23 April, a first of its kind in Turkey. TÜDAV experts. Students were instructed through the replicas In this activity for children, sea life was portrayed by means of sea animals and also had fun by playing games. This event, of the replicas of mother and nestling whales, big white held April 21-29, fulfilled its purpose by attracting the interest sharks, seals, turtles, porpoise and dolphins. This event was of visitors from all age groups. organized to recognize live creatures in sea life and to protect Energy Efficiency With our environmental responsibility policy, we commit At Doğuş Group, we lead and promote energy efficiency to procure and use energy efficiently, cost-effective and programs to ensure that the Group companies do their responsibly. Doğuş Group expects from all Group companies business in accordance with our environmental responsibility to use energy efficiently at their facilities, to preserve current policy. natural resources, reduce carbon emissions and support all energy efficiency programs. Garanti Bank: Server Virtualizations In 2007, Garanti began to consolidate and “virtualize” 300 servers Environmental Management System in such a large area and in its data centers. This effort elevates real time computing power context in Turkey. per server, reducing total server needs and associated electricity use as well as the tremendous cooling demand that servers require. In its recently opened or renovated branches, Garanti Bank began Per square meter of property, data centers emit the greatest total using air-conditioning units which work with R410 gas, which is amount of carbon across all bank properties. The average annual not contributing to ozone depletion like R22. Additionally, Garanti electiricity savings compared to pyhsical servers were 6,403,153 has a refurbishment program for existing branches intended to kWh over the past five years, and the savings are expected to give them a ‘greener’ profile: replacing air-conditioning units with increase by 20% each year henceforth. Additionally, Garanti has systems that are up to 40% more efficient and reducing the significantly increased the level of information sharing and training, overall electricity consumption of a typical branch by 10%. using different training technologies: webex, web-based trainings, live broadcast portal and video portal. In 2012, e-learning increased The Pendik Technology Campus architectural and engineering to 28% as a percent of total education. construction projects are all planned to comply with green building standards and LEED certification requirements have been placed in Rotaban the construction processes. According to data provided by the US Rotaban is a practice that aims to reduce fuel consumption in Garanti Green Building Council, although investment costs of buildings with Bank’s personnel service buses in İstanbul. Route optimization is LEED certificate are 2% higher than similar buildings without the performed through an online service in personnel services buses, certificate, the total energy consumption in buildings with the LEED which are used in many locations in İstanbul. Within the scope of certificate is 18-39% lower. Garanti Bank has launched a number this service, the Bank has aimed to reduce the total annual distance of practices at different points of its organization, aiming to save travelled by its personnel service buses in İstanbul by 603,000 km, by energy in its lighting systems: always determining the shortest routes between any two locations. The fossil fuel savings from Rotaban program is estimated to cut an • The Bank launched a number of initiatives at its head office, like average of 287 tons of CO2 equivalent greenhouse gas emissions motion sensors and LED systems that increase lighting efficiency. per year. The Bank also began to use LED systems for the lighting of the outer front of its head office. Other Energy Efficiency Initiatives at Garanti Bank • LED lighting systems are used for band lighting at ATMs. Within Garanti Bank’s Environmental Management System13 was certified the same program, the Bank switched advertising boards in its to ISO 14001 following audits performed in October 2012 by branches to the LED system, achieving significant energy savings. TÜVSÜD, a German independent audit agency. In 2012, Garanti • Astronomical time clocks, adjusted according to sunrise and brought a total of 23 centers, including its Zincirlikuyu Head sunset times, are used in the outer fronts of all ATMs and branches. Office, the Güneşli Blocks, the Dikilitaş Training Center and as • The Bank plans to begin using LED lighting in 2013 in new branches well as certain branches and regional head office buildings into that will be opened soon or in branches that will be renovated, in line its Environmental Management System. With this result, Garanti with feasibility studies performed with the purpose of replacing old Bank has been recognized as the first bank that operates an light bulbs with energy-saving LED lighting. 13 Detailed information on Garanti Bank’s environmental performance can be found in the Bank’s 2011-06/2012 Sustainability Report (http://www.garanti.com.tr/en/ our_company/sustainability/developments/reports.page?) DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 • The Bank focuses on ensuring the maximum use of daylight (natural at its branch fronts. lighting) in new branches that will be opened soon or in branches that • Garanti Bank has examined possible saving opportunities by will be renewed. As well as enabling the Bank to benefit from lower reducing energy costs in the maintenance and use of its head energy expenses, greater use of natural lighting will provide a healthier office building. As a result of these efforts, the Bank aims to render environment by supporting its employees’ motivation. the building energy efficient and to obtain its energy performance • The Bank aims to prevent energy losses by installing heat insulation certificate. LeasePlan and vdf: Green Building The new building of LeasePlan and vdf at Kağıthane OfisPark identifying and implementing practical and measurable green has a LEED Certification by US Green Building Council. LEED building design, construction, operations and maintenance is an internationally recognized green building program that solutions. provides building owners and operators with a framework for D-Marin Marinas Group: Energy Efficiency D-Marin Marinas Group has been working on the minimization through automatic control systems and drip irrigation systems of water and energy consumption at the office premises for maximum water saving. D-Marin Turgutreis has also through energy saver lighting systems as well as photocell been using processed and purified sea water for household operated water and electricity systems. Furthermore, the consumption and irrigation at the marina facilities. The water green areas in the tourism and services facilities are irrigated is periodically tested before and after the purification process. D Energy Generation & Investment Co. The main policy of the world’s governments against global hydroelectric power plant investor, considers the renewable warming is to increase the development and use of renewable energy as substantial resource and efficiency figure for the energy sources. In this context, D Energy being three utilization of local resources. Waste Management Doğuş Group is active in eight core businesses: financial Measurement Waste produced from the direct operations services, automotive, construction, media, tourism and Understanding Global waste management processes services, real estate, energy and entertainment. With around Goals Reduce the generation of wastes 180 companies and nearly 35,000 employees, Doğuş Group Management Remove, reduce, reuse, recover, recycle has a strong effect on communities and the related areas Processes Consider waste minimization of responsibility. Every sector in which Doğuş Group does Engagement Employees, suppliers, customers business has various impacts on the environment, and each of the companies has its own strategy to manage its Doğuş Group companies14 have outlined waste management impact. Waste management is one of the core elements of and disposal processes, according to their products and environmental responsibility. The general strategy and progress services. All Group companies comply with the laws and on waste management for Doğuş Group is: regulations concerning waste management. Doğuş Group: New Headquarters at Ayazağa Recycled Paper Operation Approximately 30% of recycled material was used in the Doğuş Holding and other Group companies manage their construction of Doğuş Group’s new building; all the ceiling and paper consumption and recycling operations in collaboration floors are veneer made from renewable sources. The lighting with the Ayhan Şahenk Foundation. In 2012, Doğuş Holding equipment and taps have been rated for efficient energy and collected 6,696 kg of waste paper and sent it to recycling water consumption. Employees can control the building lights through the Ayhan Şahenk Foundation. Approximately seven and air-conditioning systems from their office phones. tons of paper used for recycling helps to save 119 trees. 14 Garanti Bank and Doğuş Otomotiv waste management performances and processes are included in their CSR and Sustainability Reports and can be found online (http://www.garanti.com.tr/en/our_company/sustainability/developments/reports.page?) and (http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/en/corporate-responsibility/ corporate-responsibility-reports.aspx) 76 77 Doğuş Construction: Zero Waste Target Doğuş Construction gives training to new employees demonstrations are given to employees in every project site. about environmental awareness. The Company prepared The Company has a target of zero waste ended projects and an “Environment Hand Book for Employees” (ÇİÇEK) for looks forward to collaborate with related associations and this purpose. Furthermore, environmental training and third parties in the future. Ayson Geoteknik ve Deniz İnşaat A.Ş. Ayson has established an integrated management system 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007 standards. comprising Quality, Occupational Health and Safety and Environmental Management Systems in 2009 and achieved Furthermore, Ayson has signed the United Nations Global certificates from LRQA (Lloyd’s Register). Management Compact in 2012 and committed to 10 global social and systems are established on the basis of ISO 9001:2008, ISO environmental principles. D-Marin Marinas Group: Sustainable Yacht Tourism For sustainable yacht tourism, environmental issues are D-Marin Turgutreis has also attended the Blue Card Waste crucial and must be well-managed. D-Marin Marinas Group Management System of Ministry of Environment and Urban gives utmost importance to environmental awareness and Planning. The system provides the Ministry with officers to practices within its operations. There is a waste site in the monitor and audit the waste volume of marinas. D-Marin Turgutreis where customers can leave waste for appropriate disposal. Water Consumption Doğuş Group companies use water in every step of the life Measurement Water use and waste water discharge cycle of product and service operation. We disclose our impact Understanding Global water scarcity risks for processes on water and commit to minimize the water usage related Goals Reduce the water consumption to our products and services. To ensure reduction of water Technology Maximize efficient use of water consumption, Doğuş Group requests the following actions Processes Consider reducing water consumption from Group companies and related third parties: Engagement Employees, suppliers, customers Garanti Bank: Reduction in Water Consumption Measures aimed at saving water have been implemented Furthermore, mains water is treated and used as drinking at the Bank’s existing service points, as well as its new water at the head office building. This practice eliminates branches. In this context, Garanti Bank aims to keep daily use of plastic bottles and the greenhouse gas emissions water consumption under control through the use of new caused by their transport. faucets with a lower flow rate. The Bank also treats and collects the rainwater from the roof of the head office building, using it in landscape irrigation. Doğuş Otomotiv: New Water Management System Doğuş Otomotiv manages a strategic water consumption integrated water management system achieved 0.66 m3 reducing program since 2011. Water consumption water consumption per car sold in 2011 and the ratio reached assessments showed that the majority of consumption 0.59 m3/per car sold in 2012. arose from car washing at the authorized services. The newly DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 Doğuş Construction: Water Purifying System Doğuş Construction has implemented waste water purifying Compared to the Boyabat Dam and HEPP Project, substantial systems in every project site. The purified water is used for amount of water is saved. road irrigation or tire washing purposes. Doğuş Construction gives trainings to site employees toward reducing water As Doğuş Construction is certificated with ISO14001 consumption; all the water system controls are inspected Environmental Management System by Lloyds Register, all periodically. In the Artvin Dam and HEPP Project, washing the processes are audited twice a year. processes are minimized because of the rock structure. Doğuş Tourism Group: Reverse Osmosis System Reverse Osmosis System is being applied in Grand Hyatt Doğuş Tourism Group has also placed paper collection bins İstanbul Hotel. Used water is purified by a reverse washing at the work place and at its facilities. The Group has been system and this water is used for gardens. Also with working in close cooperation with the related municipalities “Conserve” awareness program practiced in all hotels, for the recycling of the collected material. customers can elect to have towels washed every other day. D-Marin Marinas Group: Environmentally Friendly Practices Within the sector of tourism and services, Doğuş Group The Marina management has also taken precautions to pays special attention to the issues of waste management minimize the effects of pesticide treatments around the and environmental protection. Waste management is strictly facility and has contracted with a licensed company which followed in all tourism-related facilities operating under the uses environmentally friendly pesticide material. Swimming Group. pools, available for the use of marina guests, are also cleaned through ionization for the minimization of chemical materials D-Marin Turgutreis is especially important in this respect and that are used for purification. several precautions have been taken to minimize environmental pollution in the surrounding region. D-Marin Turgutreis has Another marina investment of Doğuş Group, D-Marin Didim also placed paper collection bins at the work place and facility has been built with the same environmentally friendly areas and has been working in close cooperation with the technology as the D-Marin Turgutreis, and incorporates the related municipalities for recycling purposes. The Marina has same environmental protection measures. also been maintaining activities in this area in cooperation with DenizTemiz Foundation, one of the leading environmental Furthermore, D-Marin Göcek has been carrying out a water organizations in Turkey. consumption reduction project since 2011. To reduce the consumption, water pistols are obligatory for yacht washing Other waste management practices applied at the Marina, purposes, revisions have been made in garden irrigation under waste management systems, include the following: systems and controlled taps are used for sanitary purposes. the establishment of water circulation systems inside the Although the yacht traffic increased in 2012, 6,607 m3 of harbour, collection and refinement of household water, solid water saved in the Marina. waste collection points, bilge water collection services and waste motor oil collection points. The waste collection points All three marinas have been awarded the “Blue Flag”, which are licensed by the Ministry of Environment and Forestry and is an international environment award given to beaches managed by the marina. Further, sea barriers were built into and marinas that possess the requirements concerning the marina for the prevention of petroleum spills, and other environmental protection and sustainability measures. fuel oil outflow, in case of an accident at the marina. 78 79 Performance Data15 Key Financial Indicators (TL Thousand) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total assets 37,894,960 42,923,044 49,285,930 50,970,721 56,085,148 Total shareholders’ equity 5,556,161 6,728,866 7,701,796 9,864,793 10,801,229 Revenues 6,950,442 7,819,616 8,654,592 9,929,164 11,000,016 Net profit for the year 437,145 782,887 966,015 2,691,764 744,003 Gross profit 1,982,175 2,667,310 2,744,273 2,551,956 2,790,710 EBITDA 1,177,524 1,329,406 1,667,054 3,737,556 1,300,874 General Administration 965,799 1,028,810 1,153,172 1,189,808 1,351,433 Expenses Selling, Marketing and 181,680 143,407 204,878 242,626 294,942 Distribution Expenses Principle Performance Ratios (%) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Gross Profitability 29 34 32 26 25 Net Profitability 6 10 11 27 7 EBITDA Margin 17 17 19 38 12 ROA Return on Assets 1 2 2 5 1 ROE Return on Group Equity 8 12 13 27 7 15 All detailed financial information, tables and independent assurance report for financial data, and shareholder structure can be found in 2012 Annual Report of Doğuş Group (http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/83-337-1-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/investor_relations/reports/annual_reports) DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 LOCAL ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION DATA 2012 Doğuş Group Local Purchasing (TL) 57,428,112.26 Community Investment (TL) 80,581,449 Company Local Purchasing (TL) % Percentage of Total Purchasing Banking & Financial Services Garanti Bank SA 19,500,000 Euro (VAT inclusive) 85 Garanti Pension & Life 5,455,382 5 Garanti Asset Management 8,682,397.29 93 Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv 180,912,345.77 98 Construction Doğuş Construction 110,000,000 51 Ayson Geoteknik ve Deniz İnşaat A.Ş. 14,000,000 35 Energy Boyabat HEPP16 56,395 1 Aslancık HEPP17 158,038 100 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT DATA COLLECTIVE BARGAINING TABLE Company Collective Bargaining Agreement % of Employees Covered Banking & Financial Services GarantiBank International N.V. Yes 95 Tourism & Services Maritim Hotel Grand Azur Yes 71,03 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur Yes 78,21 16 D Energy holds a 34% share in Boyabat HEPP. 17 D Energy holds a 33% share in Aslancık HEPP. 80 81 PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT Company Total Employee Performance Viewed % Total Workforce Doğuş Holding 78 70 Banking & Financial Services Garanti Bank 16,062 93 GarantiBank International N.V. 158 70 Garanti Bank SA 829 100 GarantiBank Moscow 80 100 Garanti Pension & Life 706 81 Garanti Leasing 150 95 Garanti Asset Management 55 100 Garanti Securities 109 100 Garanti Factoring 218 100 Garanti Mortgage 63 79 Garanti Payment Systems 595 88 Garanti Technology 994 100 Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv 557 100 vdf Group 110 88 LeasePlan 64 100 Construction Technical Engineering and Consultancy Inc. 14 100 Tourism & Services Grand Hyatt İstanbul 266 100 Park Hyatt İstanbul Maçka Palas 116 100 Doğuş Retail Group 121 100 D-Gym 68 100 Real Estate Doğuş Real Estate 29 85 Energy D Energy 10 100 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 NEW EMPLOYMENT and PROMOTION18 Women New Women Total Employee Company Employment Employment New Promotion Promoted Doğuş Holding 28 14 11 4 Banking & Financial Services Garanti Bank 2,355 1,423 2,950 1,816 Garanti Pension & Life 487 348 164 101 Garanti Leasing 27 10 8 6 Garanti Asset Management 10 4 2 0 Garanti Securities 28 6 8 3 Garanti Factoring 35 17 38 19 Garanti Mortgage 26 4 9 3 Garanti Payment Systems 430 187 56 19 Garanti Fleet Management 28 15 1 1 Garanti Technology 204 68 220 80 Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv 59 10 46 16 Doğuş Oto 221 54 7 1 vdf Group 40 23 10 5 TÜVTÜRK 9 6 0 0 LeasePlan 18 10 4 2 Construction Doğuş Construction 23 10 9 3 Ayson Geoteknik ve Deniz İnşaat A.Ş. 2 1 0 0 Media Doğuş Media Group 240 100 29 20 Tourism & Services Doğuş Tourism Group 11 4 2 0 Grand Hyatt İstanbul 39 17 31 8 Park Hyatt İstanbul Maçka Palas 35 15 11 3 D-Hotel Maris 367 113 29 8 D-Marin Resort Göcek 70 16 2 2 Maritim Hotel Grand Azur 146 58 9 2 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur 52 3 0 0 Antur 10 4 1 0 Doğuş Retail Group 44 23 5 3 D-Marin Marinas Group 12 4 0 0 D-Marin Turgutreis 6 0 2 0 D-Marin Didim 15 2 2 0 D-Marin Göcek 7 2 1 0 D-Marin Mandalina 7 2 0 0 D-Marin Dalmacija 3 1 0 0 D-Marin Borik 3 1 0 0 D-Gym 86 33 1 1 D-Life 9 2 0 0 Körfez Havacılık 5 0 0 0 Real Estate Doğuş REIT 0 0 2 1 Doğuş Real Estate 4 1 2 0 Energy D Energy 11 1 0 0 Artvin HEPP 10 0 0 0 18 GarantiBank International N.V., Garanti Bank SA and GarantiBank Moscow are excluded as their local employment is from their operational regions. 82 83 EMPLOYEE LOYALTY SURVEY Company Survey Result (%) Frequency Doğuş Holding 80 (2011)19 Biennially Banking & Financial Services Garanti Bank 56 Every year Garanti Pension & Life20 47 (2011) Every year Garanti Factoring 88 (2012) Biennially Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv 62.6 (2012) Biennially TÜVTÜRK 58 Biennially vdf Group 88 Every year LeasePlan 76 Every year Tourism & Services Grand Hyatt İstanbul 84.8 Every year Park Hyatt İstanbul Maçka Palas 76 Every year Real Estate Doğuş Real Estate 87.5 Every year EMPLOYEE HEALTH and SAFETY COMMITTEES Health and Safety Total Workforce Company Committee Represented in H&S Committees (%) Doğuş Holding Yes 7 Banking & Financial Services Garanti Leasing Yes 18 Garanti Factoring Yes 15.34 Garanti Fleet Management Yes 20 Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv Yes 1.09 vdf Group Yes 5 TÜVTÜRK Yes 6.5 LeasePlan Yes 10 Construction Doğuş Construction Yes 5 (For Head Office), 2 (For the projects) Ayson Geoteknik ve Deniz İnşaat A.Ş. Yes 4.5 Media Doğuş Media Group Yes 2.5 Tourism & Services Grand Hyatt İstanbul Yes 5 Park Hyatt İstanbul Maçka Palas Yes 10 Maritim Hotel Grand Azur Yes 5 19 The 2011 employee engagement percentage was 80/100. 20 2012 survey result has not been disclosed yet. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 TRAINING21 Man/Hour Man/Hour Company 2011 2012 Doğuş Holding 28.73 43.45 Banking and Financial Services Garanti Bank 50.56 51.02 GarantiBank International N.V. 18.6 18.8 Garanti Bank SA 19.60 9.43 GarantiBank Moscow 5.96 4.44 Garanti Pension & Life 57 50 Garanti Leasing 34.8 30.4 Garanti Asset Management 5.31 11.33 Garanti Securities 6.7 15.4 Garanti Factoring 7.77 44 Garanti Mortgage 6.5 6.4 Garanti Payment Systems 8 8 Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv 52 47.5 Doğuş Oto 24.88 38.8 vdf Group 30 30 TÜVTÜRK 2 52 LeasePlan 14.51 29.83 Construction Doğuş Construction22 3.79 4.14 Ayson Geoteknik ve Deniz İnşaat A.Ş. Artvin Dam and HEPP Project – 2,303.25 Üsküdar – Ümraniye – Çekmeköy Metro Project – 2,469.25 Artvin Dam and HEPP Project – 5,015.47 Adana Kavşakbendi Dam and HEPP Project – 866.66 Media Doğuş Media Group 4.5 1 Tourism & Services Doğuş Tourism Group 11.84 Grand Hyatt İstanbul 2.41 3.43 Park Hyatt İstanbul Maçka Palas 4.22 9.75 D-Hotel Maris 0.20 Maritim Hotel Grand Azur 0.13 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur 2 1 Antur 10.72 Doğuş Retail Group23 15 D-Marin Marinas Group 27 40 D-Gym 32 36 D-Life 1.45 Körfez Havacılık 37 25.5 Real Estate Doğuş REIT 12 15 Doğuş Real Estate 3.25 2.80 Energy D Energy 17.3 12.5 21 The data is excluded Garanti Fleet Management because data gathering system has not been established during the reporting period. 22 Doğuş Construction’s Head Office, Construction Site, and Occupational Health and Safety Management trainings are included. 23 Doğuş Retail Group was established in 2012. 84 85 WAGES24 (%) Female/Male (%) Female/Male Company 2011 2012 Doğuş Holding 0.62 1.58 Banking & Financial Services Garanti Bank 0.91 0.94 GarantiBank International N.V. 0.47 0.4261 Garanti Bank SA 1.29 1.49 GarantiBank Moscow 1.03 1.04 Garanti Pension & Life 0.59 0.62 Garanti Leasing 0.70 0.71 Garanti Asset Management 0.43 0.32 Garanti Securities 0.40 0.41 Garanti Factoring 0.81 0.76 Garanti Mortgage 1.43 1.5 Garanti Payment Systems 1.06 0.01 Garanti Technology 1.05 1.04 Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv 0.95 0.93 Doğuş Oto 0.91 0.91 vdf Group 0.95 0.79 TÜVTÜRK 0.57 0.78 LeasePlan 0.84 0.89 Construction Doğuş Construction (Head Office) 0.63 0.52 Ayson Geoteknik ve Deniz İnşaat A.Ş. 0.84 0.89 Media Doğuş Media Group 1.03 1.06 Tourism & Services Doğuş Tourism Group 0.50 0.60 Grand Hyatt İstanbul 0.97 1.09 Park Hyatt İstanbul Maçka Palas 0.94 1.04 D-Hotel Maris 0.86 0.90 D-Marin Resort Göcek25 0.74 Maritim Hotel Grand Azur 0.92 0.89 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur 0.86 0.86 Antur 1.06 0.98 Doğuş Retail Group26 0.99 D-Marin Marinas Group27 0.47 D-Marin Turgutreis 0.70 0.74 D-Marin Didim 0.49 0.51 D-Marin Göcek 0.60 0.55 D-Marin Mandalina 1.10 0.80 D-Marin Dalmacija 0.88 0.91 D-Marin Borik 0.79 0.60 D-Gym 0.4 0.94 D-Life 1.88 1.75 Körfez Havacılık 0.33 0.35 Real Estate 0.80 0.77 Doğuş REIT 0.35 0.35 Doğuş Real Estate 0.80 0.77 Energy D Energy28 0.36 Artvin HEPP 0.13 0.03 24 The data is excluded Garanti Fleet Management because data gathering system has not been established during the reporting period. 25 D-Marin Resort Göcek was established in 2012. 26 Doğuş Retail Group was established in 2012. 27 D-Marin Marinas Group was established in 2012. 28 D Energy was a part of Doğuş Holding in 2011. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 TURNOVER RATES29 Employee Turnover Employee Turnover Company Rate (%) 2011 Rate (%) 2012 Doğuş Holding 7 19 Banking & Financial Services Garanti Bank 11.98 13.03 GarantiBank International N.V. 14.35 7.35 Garanti Bank SA 7.54 9.36 GarantiBank Moscow 14 22 Garanti Pension & Life 38 47 Garanti Leasing 16.4 15 Garanti Asset Management 0.30 0.09 Garanti Securities 20.72 27.52 Garanti Factoring 24.39 23 Garanti Mortgage 45 29 Garanti Payment Systems 0.28 0.29 Garanti Technology 6 7 Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv 9.07 8.97 Doğuş Oto 14.05 14 vdf Group 18 14 TÜVTÜRK 34 13 LeasePlan 6 19 Construction Doğuş Construction 6.5 10.2 Technical Engineering and Consultancy Inc. 8.5 8.7 Ayson Geoteknik ve Deniz İnşaat A.Ş. 4 5 Media Doğuş Media Group 21 13 Tourism & Services Doğuş Tourism Group 20 38 Grand Hyatt İstanbul 15 18 Park Hyatt İstanbul Maçka Palas 38 29 D-Hotel Maris 34 47 D-Marin Resort Göcek30 57 Maritim Hotel Grand Azur 55 55 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur 21 21 Antur 23 11 Doğuş Retail Group31 53 D-Marin Turgutreis 22.39 7.87 D-Marin Didim 31.3 13.79 D-Marin Göcek 14.49 15.38 D-Marin Mandalina 17.39 7.54 D-Marin Dalmacija 0 3.49 D-Marin Borik 0 8.7 D-Gym 37 28 D-Life 43 43 Körfez Havacılık 5 0 Real Estate Doğuş REIT 0 0 Doğuş Real Estate 5 2 Energy D Energy32 0 Artvin HEPP 0 12.5 29 The data is excluded Garanti Fleet Management because data gathering system has not been established during the reporting period. 30 D-Marin Resort Göcek was established in 2012. 31 Doğuş Retail Group was established in 2012. 32 D Energy was a part of Doğuş Holding in 2011. 86 87 TOTAL WORKFORCE Female Female Workforce Workforce Male Workforce Male Workforce Total Workforce Total Workforce Company 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Doğuş Holding 66 62 51 50 117 112 Banking & Financial Services Garanti Bank 9,548 9,808 7,227 7,475 16,775 17,283 GarantiBank International N.V. 97 96 126 127 223 223 Garanti Bank SA 532 588 246 241 778 829 GarantiBank Moscow 57 60 22 20 79 80 Garanti Pension & Life 569 620 233 253 802 873 Garanti Leasing 78 75 80 83 158 158 Garanti Asset Management 20 20 31 35 51 55 Garanti Securities 46 44 65 65 111 109 Garanti Factoring 87 111 90 107 177 218 Garanti Mortgage 24 26 41 54 65 80 Garanti Payment Systems 359 324 319 350 678 674 Garanti Fleet Management 7 22 22 34 29 56 Garanti Technology 306 329 613 665 919 994 Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv 170 156 392 401 562 557 Doğuş Oto 211 229 1,006 1,041 1,217 1,270 vdf Group 74 98 63 71 137 169 TÜVTÜRK 15 18 58 55 73 73 LeasePlan 24 25 37 39 61 64 Construction Doğuş Construction (Head Office) 48 52 106 104 154 156 Technical Engineering and 14 11 3 3 17 14 Consultancy Inc. Ayson Geoteknik ve Deniz İnşaat 4 5 14 15 18 20 Media Doğuş Media Group 488 481 887 944 1,375 1,425 Tourism & Services Doğuş Tourism Group 20 15 30 25 50 40 Grand Hyatt İstanbul 67 66 165 200 232 266 Park Hyatt İstanbul Maçka Palas 24 30 90 86 114 116 D-Hotel Maris 40 129 106 342 146 471 D-Marin Resort Göcek33 16 54 70 Maritim Hotel Grand Azur 41 84 135 92 176 176 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur 42 50 160 174 202 224 Antur 15 23 15 24 30 47 Doğuş Retail Group34 41 53 56 68 97 121 D-Marin Marinas Group 53 58 229 247 282 307 D-Marin Turgutreis 8 6 58 55 66 61 D-Marin Didim 8 8 47 51 55 61 D-Marin Göcek 9 11 38 46 47 57 D-Marin Mandalina 8 10 10 20 18 30 D-Marin Dalmacija 18 21 67 65 85 86 D-Marin Borik 2 2 9 10 11 12 D-Gym 14 25 31 43 45 68 D-Life 12 12 11 16 23 28 Körfez Havacılık 4 4 17 22 21 26 Real Estate Doğuş REIT 5 5 6 6 11 11 Doğuş Real Estate 11 12 20 22 31 34 Energy D Energy35 6 5 11 Artvin HEPP 2 1 6 15 8 16 33 D-Marin Resort Göcek was established in 2012. 34 Doğuş Retail Group was established in 2012. Previously, Group’s stores were operated by Arena, some of which resources were transferred to the Retail Group in December, 2012. Therefore, some of the data for 2011 have been prepared on the basis of records of Arena, if available. 35 D Energy was a part of Doğuş Holding in 2011. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE DATA ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS Company Total Amount (TL) Banking & Financial Services Garanti Factoring 1,800 Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv 42,000 Construction Doğuş Construction 53,223 Ayson Geoteknik ve Deniz İnşaat A.Ş. 22,350 Tourism & Services Park Hyatt İstanbul-Maçka Palas 13,800 D-Marin Resort Göcek 3,510 Maritim Hotel Grand Azur 10,600 D-Marin Marinas Group 3,961,426 D-Marin Turgutreis 171,040 D-Marin Didim 143,247 D-Marin Göcek 810,175 D-Marin Mandalina 2,980,455 D-Marin Dalmacija 17,069 Energy Artvin HEPP 21,759 Aslancık HEPP 17,000 ENERGY CONSUMPTION Company Electricity Consumption kWh % Saving Doğuş Holding 571,400 Banking & Financial Services Garanti Bank 123,056,46536 GarantiBank International N.V. 611,758 9.51 Garanti Bank SA 1,071,247 GarantiBank Moscow 246,102 Garanti Leasing 1,050 Garanti Asset Management 4,040 Garanti Securities 4,040 Garanti Factoring 175,000 Garanti Fleet Management 233 Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv 3,221,646 vdf Group 10,500 TÜVTÜRK 13,500,000 LeasePlan 87,400 36 Consumption amount includes all Garanti Bank branches, ATMs, Garanti Payment Systems, Garanti Pension & Life, Garanti Technology and Garanti Mortgage data. 88 89 Company Electricity Consumption kWh % Saving Construction Doğuş Construction Head Office – 5,840 5 Artvin Dam and HEPP Project – 4,456,000 Boyabat Dam and HEPP Project – 22,068,000 Üsküdar – Ümraniye – Çekmeköy Metro Project – 362,198 Ayson Geoteknik ve Deniz İnşaat A.Ş. Head Office – 389 5 Üsküdar – Ümraniye – Çekmeköy Metro Project – 205,290 Artvin Dam and HEPP Project – 3,253,773 Adana Kavşakbendi Dam and HEPP Project – 711,740 Media Doğuş Media Group 9,408,98637 Tourism & Services Doğuş Tourism Group 166,000 Grand Hyatt İstanbul 7,017,859 Park Hyatt İstanbul Maçka Palas 3,708,985 D-Hotel Maris 6,954,534 D-Marin Resort Göcek 686,573 Maritim Hotel Grand Azur 2,691,161 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur 1,691,232 Doğuş Retail Group 1,826,902 D-Marin Marinas Group 13,412,105 D-Marin Turgutreis 4,029,995 D-Marin Didim 3,408,658 3 D-Marin Göcek 1,567,985 7 D-Marin Mandalina 1,779,107 10 D-Marin Dalmacija 2,626,360 D-Gym 1,437,251 D-Life 4,524 Körfez Havacılık 76,575 Real Estate Doğuş REIT 3,818 Doğuş Real Estate 52,390 Doğuş Gebze Center 17,621,965 Doğuş Center Maslak 2,091,114 Energy Artvin HEPP 4,892,182 Boyabat HEPP 220,656 Aslancık HEPP 106,501 37 Only Maslak building is included. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 WATER CONSUMPTION38 Water Consumption – m3 Water Consumption – m3 Company 2011 2012 Doğuş Holding39 304 377 Banking & Financial Services Garanti Bank40 191,630 222,396 GarantiBank International N.V. 2,440 19,028 Garanti Bank SA 2,387 2,450 GarantiBank Moscow 606 795 Garanti Leasing 3,841 3,000 Garanti Asset Management 1,347 1,014 Garanti Securities 1,347 1,014 Garanti Factoring 395 434 Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv 16,940 19,044 vdf Group 1,234 1,200 TÜVTÜRK 26,106 25,000 LeasePlan 20.9 480 Construction Doğuş Construction 1,110,880 1,171,817 (Reuse Water) + 12,500 Ayson Geoteknik ve Deniz İnşaat A.Ş. 226,000 + 13,400 (Reuse Water) Media Doğuş Media Group 12,000 12,301 Tourism & Services Doğuş Tourism Group 996 1,095 Grand Hyatt İstanbul 63,818 75,139 Park Hyatt İstanbul Maçka Palas 23,077 20,941 D-Hotel Maris 99,432 112,568 D-Marin Resort Göcek41 9,231 Maritim Hotel Grand Azur 60,000 69,766 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur 88,768 34,750 Doğuş Retail Group42 6,228 D-Marin Marinas Group 276,746 300,240 D-Marin Turgutreis 80,176 82,677 D-Marin Didim 71,861 84,831 D-Marin Göcek 53,320 46,713 D-Marin Mandalina 17,534 29,529 D-Marin Dalmacija 52,227 53,782 D-Marin Borik 1,628 2,708 D-Gym 9,818 12,250 D-Life 2,220 3,263 Körfez Havacılık 411 Real Estate Doğuş REIT 131 121 Doğuş Gebze Center 53,637 55,992 Doğuş Center Maslak 11,022 14,739 Energy Artvin HEPP 523,922 Boyabat HEPP 581 Aslancık HEPP 302 38 The data is excluded Garanti Fleet Management because data gathering system has not been established during the reporting period. 39 The data includes D Energy data. 40 Consumption amount includes all Garanti Bank branches, ATMs, Garanti Payment Systems, Garanti Pension & Life, Garanti Technology and Garanti Mortgage data. 41 D-Marin Resort Göcek was established in 2012. 42 Doğuş Retail Group was established in 2012. 90 91 PAPER CONSUMPTION43 Company Waste Paper (kg) Recycled Paper (kg) Banking & Financial Services GarantiBank International N.V. 1,850 1,000 Garanti Bank SA 2,800 2,000 Garanti Pension & Life 1,268 423 Garanti Leasing 6,662 5,000 Garanti Asset Management44 930 1,472 Garanti Securities 2,340 1,472 Garanti Factoring44 751 822 Garanti Technology 541,000 47,000 Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv 712,748 299,354 vdf Group 800 715 TÜVTÜRK 4,750 750 LeasePlan45 459 Construction Doğuş Construction Head Office – 1,450 Head Office – 1,450 Artvin Dam and HEPP Project – 2,190 Artvin Dam and HEPP Project – 2,100 Boyabat Dam and HEPP Project – 4,500 Boyabat Dam and HEPP Project – 4,500 Üsküdar – Ümraniye – Çekmeköy Metro Üsküdar – Ümraniye – Çekmeköy Metro Project – 15,800 Project – 15,000 Ayson Geoteknik ve Deniz İnşaat A.Ş. Head Office – 250 Head Office – 140 Üsküdar – Ümraniye – Çekmeköy Metro Üsküdar-Ümraniye – Çekmeköy Project– 1,549 Metro Project – 650 Artvin Dam and HEPP Project – 700 Artvin Dam ve HEPP Project – 230 Adana Kavşakbendi Dam and HEPP Adana Kavşakbendi Dam and HEPP Project– 486 Project – 320 Media Doğuş Media Group 25,350 Tourism & Services Doğuş Tourism Group45 1,331 Grand Hyatt İstanbul45 48,300 Park Hyatt İstanbul Maçka Palas 13,640 10,050 D-Hotel Maris 2,000 D-Marin Resort Göcek 1,000 500 Maritim Hotel Grand Azur 1,337 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur 120,000 9,555 Doğuş Retail Group 800 300 D-Marin Marinas Group44 14,860 17,380 D-Marin Didim 3,000 2,500 D-Marin Göcek44 180 3,200 D-Marin Dalmacija45 11,680 D-Gym 96 96 D-Life 500 200 Körfez Havacılık 1,000 800 Real Estate Doğuş REIT45 815 Doğuş Gebze Center 240,000 200,000 Doğuş Center Maslak45 17,240 Energy Artvin HEPP 100 (Artvin Office) 90 (Artvin Office) Boyabat HEPP 1,500 60 Aslancık HEPP 397 20 COLLECTED PAPER by AYHAN ŞAHENK FOUNDATION (kg) 2007 322,770 2008 353,800 2009 354,920 2010 376,845 2011 469,130 2012 295,972 43 The data is excluded Garanti Fleet Management, Garanti Mortgage and GarantiBank Moscow because data gathering systems have not been established during the reporting period. 44 In the Company, newspapers, magazines, and carton paper materials are also recycled. The recycled paper figures of the Company include also these kind of printed materials. 45 All waste paper is recycled. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 About ThIs Report Unless otherwise stated, Doğuş Group 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report covers all businesses, including the subsidiaries, of Doğuş Group companies’ corporate responsibility performance, in line with the Group CSR Strategy. The reporting period for this, Doğuş Group’s 5th Corporate Responsibility Report, is the calendar year 2012. As mentioned in our first Corporate Responsibility Report (2008), we remain committed to report our CSR performance annually. All our reports are uploaded in the public domain on our company website. We continue to follow the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Reporting Guidelines, the most widely adopted non-financial reporting framework throughout the world, used to help communicating sustainability performance, in addition to encouraging transparency and accountability. Starting from 2012, we have reported at C Application Level of GRI. In 2012 Doğuş Group reviewed our Corporate Responsibility management approach and policies and commitments, and scaled up our application level to B. This year we also used the international corporate responsibility standard ISO26000 requirements to check our corporate responsibility performance, and included the ISO26000 index to our report as well. In the preparation of this report, all Doğuş Group companies were covered and the information used in the report was consolidated from surveys prepared according to GRI G3.1 Reporting Guidelines, filed by the reporting teams in each Group company. In each section, best practices among the Group companies have been selected and shared throughout the report. Doğuş Group very proudly announces that the Group’s companies have begun to report their own Corporate Responsibility performances according to GRI G3.1 Framework. Although the leader is Doğuş Otomotiv, which has reported since 2009 (and since 2010 at B application level), in 2012 Garanti Bank further enhanced Doğuş Group with its first GRI Report of A application level. All the detailed information about Doğuş Group companies can be found in their own reports separately. We encourage and appreciate feedback from all our stakeholders, both internal and external. Your suggestions are vital and help us to improve both the quality of our reporting and the quality of our products and services. Please e-mail your suggestions/views/opinions to: Başak Gürtuna Koçer Corporate Communications Assistant Manager bkocer@dogusgrubu.com.tr Location of the Group’s Headquarters: Doğuş Holding A.Ş. Huzur Mahallesi, Maslak Ayazağa Cad. No: 2, 34396 Şişli / İstanbul Phone : +90 212 335 32 32 Fax : +90 212 335 30 90 Web : http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr 92 93 GROUP COMPANIES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTS Garanti Bank Sustainability Report 2012 http://www.garanti.com.tr/en/our_company/sustainability/developments/reports.page? Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/en/corporate-responsibility/corporate-responsibility-reports.aspx DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 Reporting Content Index GRI INDEX In presentation of this year’s report, the reporting project team used the GRI indicators, submitting them to the related departments of the Group companies through sector specific questionnaires. The team prepared the report content by consolidating the findings of the questionnaires collected from each sector. Since Doğuş Group operates with around 180 companies in eight different sectors, every GRI indicator could not be applied to the entire group. The responses gathered from different sectors and Group companies were not always comparable and combinable, therefore limiting the number of indicators to be used reporting. Response Status Explanations Full The indicator is fully addressed in the referenced pages of the report and other sources Partially The indicator is partially addressed in the referenced pages of the report due to lack of data and/or information covering the entire group 94 95 INDEXES Performance GRI G3.1 Profile ISO 26000 UNGC Information and Links Reference Pages Indicators 1. Strategy and 6.2 Analysis Senior 1.1 / Full 6.2 Chairman’s Message 14-15 Management Declaration CEO Message 16-17 Basic effects, risks 1.2 / Full 6.2 Chairman’s Message 14-15 and opportunities 6.6.6 6.8.3 CEO Message 16-17 CSR and Sustainability at 18-19 Doğuş Group CSR Policies 20-26 Risk Management 31-32 2. Corporate Profile Corporation Name 2.1 / Full About This Report 92 Brands, products 2.2 / Full Our Group 6 and services Detailed information about Group companies’ operations can be found at http://www.dogusgrubu. com.tr/web/71-211-1-1/ dogus_grubu_-_en/general/ navigation/sectors Operational 2.3 / Full 6.2 Our Group 6 structure of the corporation Governance Structure 31 Headquarters 2.4 / Full Our Group 6 About This Report 92 Countries in which 2.5 / Full Our Group 6 the corporation operates Operational Map 4-5 Detailed information about Group of Companies operations can be found at http://www.dogusgrubu. com.tr/web/71-211-1-1/ dogus_grubu_-_en/general/ navigation/sectors Ownership 2.6 / Full Our Group 6 properties and legal state More of information is available online in Doğuş Group’s Annual Report 2012. http://www.dogusgrubu. com.tr/web/83-337-11/dogus_grubu_-_en/ investor_relations/reports/ annual_reports DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 Markets serviced 2.7 / Full Our Group 6 Operational Map 4-5 Detailed information about Group of Companies operations can be found at http://www.dogusgrubu. com.tr/web/71-211-1-1/ dogus_grubu_-_en/general/ navigation/sectors Corporation scale 2.8 / Full Our Group 6 Performance Data 79 Important changes 2.9 / Full Our Group 6 in size, structure and ownership More of information is situations available online in Doğuş Group’s Annual Report 2012. http://www.dogusgrubu. com.tr/web/83-337-11/dogus_grubu_-_en/ investor_relations/reports/ annual_reports Awards 2.10 / Full Awards&Recognitions 7-12 3. Report Profile Reporting period 3.1 / Full About This Report 92 Date of previous 3.2 / Full About This Report 92 report Reporting 3.3 / Full About This Report 92 frequency Contact 3.4 / Full About This Report 92 information about report Report contents 3.5 / Full Materiality 27 Stakeholder Engagement 27 About This Report 92 Report contents 3.6 / Full About This Report 92 limits Reporting Content Index 94 Report scope 3.7 / Full About This Report 92 and contents limitations Reporting Content Index 94 Reporting 3.8 / Full About This Report 92 principles on joint ventures and Reporting Content Index 94 other subsidiary companies Data assessment 3.9 / Full CSR and Sustainability at 18-19 techniques Doğuş Group and calculation methods About This Report 92 96 97 Reasons for the 3.10 / Full About This Report 92 repetition of information in the No previous information is previous report repeated in 2012 Report. Whenever necessary; related links and footnotes are provided for the readers about the information. Important changes 3.11 / Full About This Report 92 in the report scope No important changes. and contents GRI Index 3.12 / Full Indexes 95-107 Report supervision 3.13 / Full 7.5.3 No independent assurance. 4. Governance, Liability and Sharing Practices Corporation 4.1 / Full 6.2 Principle 10 More of information about governance the governance structure, structure including the committees under the Board of Directors is available online in Doğuş Group’s Annual Report 2012. http://www.dogusgrubu. com.tr/web/83-337-11/dogus_grubu_-_en/ investor_relations/reports/ annual_reports Autonomy of the 4.2 / Full 6.2 Index disclosure The Chairman of the Board Chairman of the of Directors is not an Board executive officer in Doğuş Group. Number of 4.3 / Full 6.2 Index disclosure There is no independent Independent member in Board of Members in the Directors of Doğuş Group. Board of Directors Stakeholders’ 4.4 / Full 6.2 Stakeholder Engagement 27 and employees’ 6.8.3 involvement in Stakeholder Dialogue in management Group Companies 27 Employee Engagement 46 Open Communication 47 Employee Suggestion 47-48 System Full stakeholder list is available online in Doğuş Group’s CSR Report 2011. http://www.dogusgrubu. com.tr/i/assets/ contentfiles/Dogus_Group_ Corporate_Responsibility_ Report_20111.pdf (Pages; 74-75) DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 Linkage between 4.5 / Full 6.2 Corporate Governance 30-31 compensation of the executives and CSR Management 19 the sustainability performance Processes 4.6 / Full 6.2 Transparency and 30 preventing Accountability conflicts of interest More of information is available online in Doğuş Group’s Annual Report 2012. http://www.dogusgrubu. com.tr/web/83-337-11/dogus_grubu_-_en/ investor_relations/reports/ annual_reports CSR Management 4.7 / Full 6.2 CSR Strategy 18 Strategy of the corporation CSR Management 19 CSR Policies 20-26 Materiality 27 Corporation’s 4.8 / Full CSR Strategy 18 rules of mission and behaviour CSR Management 19 regarding CSR performance CSR Policies 20-26 Materiality 27 CSR performance 4.9 / Full CEO Message 16-17 and the supervision of its CSR Management 19 risks by senior management Self-check 4.10 / Full Chairman’s Message 14-15 of senior management about CSR Management 19 CSR performance Risk management 4.11 / Full Principle 3,4,5,6 Chairman’s Message 14-15 attitude of the corporation in CEO Message 16-17 fields related to CSR CSR and Sustainability at 18-19 Doğuş Group CSR Policies 20-26 Risk Management 31-32 Foreign enterprises 4.12 / Full Principle 1,2 Chairman’s Message 14-15 and activities in areas regarding CEO Message 16-17 CSR CSR Management 19 Human Rights 68-69 About This Report 92 Union and 4.13 / Full Strategic Partnerships & 13 association Memberships memberships 98 99 Stakeholders list 4.14 / Full Stakeholder Engagement 27 Stakeholder Dialogue in 27 Group Companies Full stakeholder list is available online in Doğuş Group’s CSR Report 2011. http://www.dogusgrubu. com.tr/i/assets/ contentfiles/Dogus_Group_ Corporate_Responsibility_ Report_20111.pdf (Pages; 74-75) Key stakeholders 4.15 / Full Materiality 27 determining process Stakeholder Engagement 27 Stakeholder Dialogue in 27 Group Companies More information is available online in Doğuş Group’s CSR Report 2011. http://www.dogusgrubu. com.tr/i/assets/ contentfiles/Dogus_Group_ Corporate_Responsibility_ Report_20111.pdf (Pages; 74-75) Stakeholder 4.16 / Full Stakeholder Engagement 27 participation process Stakeholder Dialogue in 27 Group Companies Full stakeholder list and engagement platforms are available online in Doğuş Group’s CSR Report 2011. http://www.dogusgrubu. com.tr/i/assets/ contentfiles/Dogus_Group_ Corporate_Responsibility_ Report_20111.pdf (Pages; 74-75) Stakeholder 4.17 / Full Materiality 27 participation and primary subjects, Stakeholder Engagement 27 responsiveness performance Stakeholder Dialogue in 27 Group Companies Performance Indicators Management Economic 6.2 Principle 1,2,7 Doğuş Group Economic 20-21 Approach Performance / Full 6.8 Responsibility Policy Direct economic EC1 / Full 6.8 Our Group 6 value produced 6.8.3 and distributed 6.8.7 Responsible Earning 31 6.8.9 Responsible Investment 33 Local Employment 33-34 Performance Data 79 New Employment and 82 Promotion DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 The effect of EC2 / Full 6.5.5 Principle 7 CEO Message 16-17 climate change on the financial Doğuş Group Economic 20-21 success of the Responsibility Policy corporation, risks and opportunities Climate Change Risks 32-33 Corporate liabilities EC3 / Full Employee Compensations 48 regarding defined and Period of Notice benefit pension plan Performance Data 79 Important financial EC4 / Full Index disclosure There is no significant assistance financial assistance received from the received from government state in the reporting period except Boyabat Dam investment subsidy and the use of vat and customs exemption. Policy, practice EC6 / Partially 6.6.6 Doğuş Group Economic 20-21 and rates of 6.8 Responsibility Policy payment regarding 6.8.5 payments made to 6.8.7 Supply Chain Management 35 local suppliers Local Economic 80 Contribution Data 2012 Local employment EC7 / Full 6.8 Principle 6 Doğuş Group Economic 20-21 6.8.5 Responsibility Policy 6.8.7 Responsible Business 30 Local Economic 80 Contribution Data 2012 Investments made EC8 / Full 6.3.9 Community Development 35-43 for public interest 6.8 Programs 6.8.3 6.8.4 Public Policy Contributions 43 6.8.5 6.8.6 Community Engagement 54-64 6.8.7 Programs 6.8.9 Important indirect EC9 / Full 6.3.9 Chairman’s Message 14-15 economic effects 6.6.6 6.6.7 CEO Message 16-17 6.7.8 6.8 Responsible Business 30 6.8.5 6.8.6 Community Development 35-43 6.8.7 Programs 6.8.9 Local Economic 80 Contribution Data 2012 Management Environmental 6.2 Principle 7,8,9 Doğuş Group 22 Approach Performance / Full 6.5 Environmental Responsibility Policy Percentage of EN2 / Partially 6.5 Paper Consumption 91 materials used 6.5.4 as recycled input Collected Paper by Ayhan 91 material Şahenk Foundation Direct energy EN3 / Partially 6.5 Energy Consumption 88-89 consumption 6.5.4 Saved amount EN5 / Partially 6.5 Energy Consumption 88-89 of energy due to 6.5.4 improvements Products and EN6 / Full 6.5 Environmental Awareness 72-75 services that 6.5.4 Programs provide energy efficiency Energy Efficiency 75-76 100 101 Attempts to reduce EN7 / Full 6.5 Environmental Awareness 72-75 indirect energy 6.5.4 Programs consumption and reductions Energy Efficiency 75-76 obtained Total amount EN8 / Partially 6.5 Water Consumption 90 of water used 6.5.4 according to its sources Water sources EN9 / Full 6.5 Index disclosure There are no water sources significantly 6.5.4 significantly affected affected by water by withdrawal of water. extraction Doğuş Group uses water from public water system. Production centres EN11 / Full 6.5 Principle 8 Environmental Awareness 72-75 within protected 6.5.6 Programs areas Doğuş Construction 74 Biodiversity Impact Management D-Marin Marinas Group 74 Biodiversity Impact Management Doğuş Group companies do not have any operations in or adjacent to protected areas of high biodiversity value. Effects on EN12 / Full 6.5 Principle 8 Environmental Awareness 72-75 biological diversity 6.5.6 Programs Doğuş Construction 74 Biodiversity Impact Management D-Marin Marinas Group 74 Biodiversity Impact Management Doğuş Group companies do not have any operations in or adjacent to protected areas of high biodiversity value. Protected or EN13 / Full 6.5 Principle 8 Environmental Awareness 72-75 reclaimed living 6.5.6 Programs spaces Doğuş Group always respects, protects and restores the habitat which it operates in. The detailed information can be found in the case studies which are disclosed in the Awareness Programs section of the Report. (Pages,81-84) DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 Strategies EN14 / Partially 6.5 Principle 8 Environmental Awareness 72-75 regarding bio6.5.6 Programs diversity, activities in progress and Doğuş Construction 74 future plans Biodiversity Impact Management D-Marin Marinas Group 74 Biodiversity Impact Management Number of the EN15 / Full 6.5 Doğuş Group companies species in IUCN 6.5.6 do not have any operations Red List in the related to IUCN Red List. living spaces in the areas affected by the operations and the species in the national protection list, according to extinction risk level Attempts to EN18 / Partially 6.5 Principle 8,9 Climate Change Risks 32-33 reduce emissions 6.5.5 Environmental Awareness 72-75 Programs Energy Efficiency 75-76 Total waste EN22 / Partially 6.5 Waste Management 76-77 according to type 6.5.3 and disposal Paper Consumption 91 method Collected Paper by Ayhan 91 Şahenk Foundation Names, sizes, EN25 / Full 6.5 Doğuş Group has protection states 6.5.3 no operations which and bio-diversity 6.5.4 significantly affects habitat value of water 6.5.6 because of the discharge bodies and related of the water. living spaces significantly affected by the water discharges and leakages of the corporation Attempts to reduce EN26 / Full 6.5 Principle 7,8,9 Environmental Awareness 72-75 the environmental 6.5.4 Programs effects of products 6.6.6 6.7.5 Energy Efficiency 75-76 Waste Management 76-77 Discordances with EN28 / Full 6.5 Doğuş Group companies environmental laws has not fined in the and regulations year of 2012 because of not complying with environmental laws and regulations. Effects caused EN29 / Partially 6.5 Principle 7,8,9 Doğuş Group 22 by product 6.5.4 Environmental transportation and 6.6.6 Responsibility Policy employee logistics 102 103 Total amount of EN30 / Full 6.5 Environmental Investments 88 environmental expenses and investments Management Labor Practices 6.4 Principle 1,3,6 Doğuş Group Employee 23 Approach and Decent Work 6.4.3 Responsibility Policy / Full Total number LA1 / Partially 6.4 New Employment and 82 of employees 6.4.3 Promotion according to employment type, contract and Total Workforce 87 district Total number of LA2 / Partially 6.4 Turnover Rates 86 employees and 6.4.3 their circulation Total Workforce 87 according to age groups, gender and district Benefits provided LA3 / Full 6.4 Principle 6 Employee Compensations 48 for the full time 6.4.3 and Period of Notice employees 6.4.4 Training and Development 51 Programs More of information is available online in Doğuş Group’s CSR Report 2011. http://www.dogusgrubu.com. tr/web/83-337-1-1/dogus_ grubu_-_en/investor_relations/ reports/annual_reports (Pages; 43) Number of LA4 / Full 6.4 Principle 1,3 Collective Bargaining Table 80 employees 6.4.3 covered by 6.4.4 collective 6.4.5 bargainings 6.3.10 Period of notice LA5 / Partially 6.4 Employee Compensations 48 due to operational 6.4.3 and Period of Notice changes 6.4.4 6.4.5 Percentage total LA6 / Full 6.4 Employee Health And 83 labour represented 6.4.6 Safety Committees in the health and safety committees Consultancy, LA8 / Full 6.4 Principle 1 Employee Health and 49-50 precaution and risk 6.4.6 Safety control regarding 6.8 serious illnesses 6.8.3 Awareness for Serious 49 6.8.4 Diseases 6.8.8 Doğus Holding: Workplace 50 Wellness Health and safety LA9 / Full 6.4 Index disclosure Health and safety issues matters existing 6.4.6 are included in the union in the agreements agreements according to with unions the law and regulations in which the Group Companies have collective bargaining agreements. Annual average LA10 / Partially 6.4 Training and Development 51 training hours per 6.4.7 Programs employee Training 84 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 Employee training LA11 / Full 6.4 Training and Development 51 6.4.7 Programs 6.8.5 Doğuş Holding Training Programs for Supply Chain 51 and Security Staff in 2012 Training 84 Regular LA12 / Full 6.4 Performance Management 50 performance and 6.4.7 development Performance Management 50 monitoring System Performance Management 81 Men-women wage LA14 / Partially 6.3.7 Principle 1,6 Wages 85 rates according to 6.3.10 employee category 6.4 6.4.3 6.4.4 Return to work LA15 / Partially 6.4 Mother-Baby Policy 50 and retention 6.4.4 rates after parental leave, by gender Management Human Rights 6.2 Principle 1,2,6 Doğuş Group Human 24 Approach Performance / Full 6.3 Rights Policy Percentage and HR1 / Partially 6.3 Principle 1,2,6 CSR Management 19 total number 6.3.3 of significant 6.3.5 Human Rights 68-69 investment 6.6.6 agreements comprising human rights clauses and screened for human rights Number of HR2 / Full 6.3 Principle 1,2,6 Index disclosure Doğuş Group companies suppliers and 6.3.3 either include or plan to contractors 6.3.5 include the human rights screened for 6.6.6 statements within their human rights 6.4.3 all supplier audits and agreements. Total number of HR3 / Partially 6.3 Principle 1,2,6 Human Rights 68-69 hours for human 6.3.5 rights training Total number of HR4 / Full 6.3 Principle 1,2,6 Human Rights 68-69 incidents regarding 6.3.6 discrimination and 6.3.7 Doğuş Group companies precautions taken 6.3.10 did not report any incidents 6.4.3 of discrimination during the reporting period. Freedom of HR5 / Full 6.3 Principle 1,3 Doğuş Group Human 24 organization 6.3.3 Rights Policy and collective 6.3.4 bargaining 6.3.10 Human Rights 68-69 6.4.3 6.4.5 Collective Bargaining Table 80 United Nations Global Compact Principles Index Disclosure Child employment HR6 / Full 6.3 Principle 1,2,5 Doğuş Group Human 24 and precautions 6.3.3 Rights Policy taken 6.3.4 6.3.5 Human Rights 68-69 6.3.7 6.3.10 United Nations Global Compact Principles Index Disclosure 104 105 Operations HR7 / Full 6.3 Principle 1,2,4 Doğuş Group Human 24 having the risk of 6.3.3 Rights Policy forced labour and 6.3.4 precautions taken 6.3.5 Human Rights 68-69 6.3.7 6.3.10 United Nations Global Compact Principles Index Disclosure Rate of security HR8 / Full 6.3 Principle 2 Human Rights 68-69 personnel 6.3.5 trained on the 6.4.3 All the Doğuş Group corporation’s policy 6.6.6 security staff has trained and procedures about human rights regarding human principles during the rights factors reporting period. Total number of HR9 / Full 6.3 Doğuş Group companies incidents which 6.3.6 did not report any incidents resulted in the 6.3.7 of violations involving rights violation of the 6.3.8 of indigenious people rights of the 6.6.7 during the reporting period. native public and precautions taken Number of HR11 / Full 6.3 No grievances related to grievances 6.3.6 human rights reported related to human by Doğuş Group rights filed, companies through formal addressed and mechanisms during the resolved through reporting period. formal grievance mechanisms Management Product 6.2 Principle 1 Doğuş Group Product and 25 Approach responsibility 6.6 Service Responsibility Performance / Full 6.7 Policy Health and safety PR1 / Partially 6.3.9 Principle 1,2 Supply Chain Management 35 in the life cycle 6.6.6 of products and 6.7 Customers 66-68 services 6.4.7 6.7.5 Number of PR2 / Full 6.3.9 No incidents are reported incidents in 6.6.6 for non-compliance with discordance with 6.7 laws and regulations the regulations 6.4.7 concerning health and and voluntary rules 6.7.5 safety impacts of products regarding health and services of Doğuş and safety effects Group of companies during of products and the reporting period. services Labelling PR3 / Full 6.7 Index disclosure Doğuş Group and 6.7.3 Group companies fully 6.7.4 comply with the laws 6.7.5 and regulations about 6.7.6 the product and service 6.7.9 labelling. Total number of PR4 / Full 6.7 Doğuş Group companies incidents displaying 6.7.3 complies with regulations discordance with 6.7.4 and voluntary codes regulations and 6.7.5 concerning its products voluntary rules 6.7.6 and services. There regarding labelling 6.7.9 have been no incidents non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes regarding labeling. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 Customer PR5 / Full 6.7 Doğuş Group Product and 25 satisfaction 6.7.4 Service Responsibility 6.7.5 Policy 6.7.6 Customers 66-68 6.7.8 6.7.9 Doğuş Group companies have a variety of customers and do customer loyalty and satisfaction surveys on their own every year. The results and the assessment methodology of the surveys vary according to the sectors. Adherence to laws PR6 / Full 6.7 Index disclosure Doğuş Group companies and regulations 6.7.3 fully comply with the laws regarding 6.7.6 and regulations about the marketing 6.7.9 marketing communications communication and they all have policies and principles on the subject46. Confirmed PR8 / Full 6.7 Index disclosure Doğuş Group companies complaints 6.7.7 fully comply with the regarding customer laws and regulations confidentiality about the customer information security and use international standards and systems to protect the customer informations. There are no incidents recorded about confirmed complaints regarding customer confidentiality47. Non-compliance PR9 / Full 6.7 Index disclosure There are no recorded with laws and 6.7.6 significant incidents about regulations non-compliance with laws regarding and regulations regarding supplying and supplying and usage of usage of product product and services48. and services Management Social 6.2 Principle 10 Doğuş Group Community 26 Approach Performance / Full 6.6 Responsibility Policy 6.8 The influence of SO1 / Partially 6.3.9 Stakeholder Engagement 27 our activities on 6.8 local public 6.8.3 Stakeholder Dialogue in 27 6.8.9 Group Companies Community Engagement 54-64 Risk analysis SO2 / Full 6.6 Principle 1,2,10 Responsible Business 30-31 regarding 6.6.3 corruption Risk Management 31-32 Business Ethics 64-65 Doğuş Group companies include corruption risks to their risk analyses and audits procedure for every stage of their operations. 46 With the exception of the TL 8 million in administrative fines handed down by the Competition Authority, Garanti Bank received no fine exceeding TL 3 million during the reporting period. 47 With the exception of the TL 8 million in administrative fines handed down by the Competition Authority, Garanti Bank received no fine exceeding TL 3 million during the reporting period. 48 A total of 112 fines, amounting to TL 10.7 million, were imposed on Garanti Bank because of legal compliance failures with respect to the offering of products and services during the reporting period. Garanti Bank paid all of these administrative fines, which were also publicly disclosed, most of which was imposed by the Competition Authority. The Bank now undertakes the necessary efforts to prevent the recurrence of such compliance failure. 106 107 Corporation’s SO3 / Full 6.6 Principle 10 Responsible Business 30-31 policies against 6.6.3 corruption and Risk Management 31-32 trainings on the subject Business Ethics 64-65 Doğuş Group Code of Conduct and detailed information about ethical principles can be found at http://www.dogusgrubu. com.tr/web/82-278-11/dogus_grubu_-_en/ investor_relations/ corporate_governance_ principles/code_of_ethics Precautions taken SO4 / Full 6.6 Principle 10 Responsible Business 30-31 against incidents of 6.6.3 corruption Risk Management 31-32 Business Ethics 64-65 Attitude against SO5 / Full 6.6 Principle 1,10 Responsible Business 30-31 public policy 6.6.4 and assistance 6.8.3 Risk Management 31-32 activities for public policy Public Policy Contributions 43 Business Ethics 64-65 Financial and real SO6 / Full 6.6 Index disclosure Doğuş Group companies contributions to 6.6.4 do not have actions political parties, 6.8.3 regarding the financial or politicians and other kind of contributions related institutions to political parties, politicians and related institutions. Number of legal SO7 / Full 6.6 No incidents are reported cases regarding 6.6.5 for non-compliance with behaviour outside 6.6.7 laws and regulations competition and concerning outside monopolism competition and monopolism of Doğuş Group of companies during the reporting period49. 49 With the exception of the TL 8 million in administrative fines handed down by the Competition Authority, Garanti Bank received no fine exceeding TL 3 million during the reporting period. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2012 108 Report Contacts Deniz Bayel Feyizoğlu Corporate Communications Executive Vice President, Doğuş Holding Tel: +90 (212) 335 31 05 e-mail: dbayel@dogusgrubu.com.tr Başak Gürtuna Koçer Corporate Communications Assistant Manager, Doğuş Holding Tel: +90 (212) 335 31 09 e-mail: bkocer@dogusgrubu.com.tr CSR Consultancy FCS Finansal İletişim Hizmetleri Ltd. Şti. Tel:+ 90 (212) 283 41 46 e-mail: info@finansaliletisim.com www.finansaliletisim.com Designed and Produced by İndeks İçerik-İletişim Danışmanlık Tel: +90 (212) 347 70 70 www.indeksiletisim.com Doğuş Holding A.Ş. Huzur Mahallesi, Maslak Ayazağa Caddesi, No: 2 34396 Şişli, İstanbul Turkey Phone: +90 (212) 335 32 32 Fax: +90 (212) 335 30 90 www.dogusgrubu.com.tr
