United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) Abdul Monem Limited (AML) Reporting Year 2012 Reporting Period: 2011 -2012 We are available at www.amlbd.com Table of Contents Message from the Chairman ................................................................................................. 3 AML at a glance ................................................................................................................... 5 AML’s Vision ..................................................................................................................... 5 AML’s Mission ................................................................................................................... 5 Strategic Business Units (SBUs) of AML .............................................................................. 6 Group Management .............................................................................................................8 Human Rights ...................................................................................................................... 9 Labour Standards ............................................................................................................... 13 Environment ...................................................................................................................... 16 Anti-Corruption .................................................................................................................. 19 UN Global COP Report Abdul Monem Limited 2 | Page Message from the Chairman Dear Colleagues, Friends & Stakeholders: I am pleased to submit our first Communication on Progress (COP) for the year of 2011-12 and affirming our support and commitment to the Ten Principles of the UNGC’s Global Compact as regards to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles as part of the strategy, culture and day to day operations of our Company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, in particular the Millennium Development Goals (MDG). A clear statement of commitment is made to our stakeholders and to the public that describes our Company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. Abdul Monem Limited endeavors to retain public transparency and accountability in all its business segments adhering to our commitments to the UNGC objectives. Started as a Construction Company in 1956, we have built Abdul Monem Limited bit by bit and diversified our business into many facades. Our business ventures have a distinct appeal to the society for their unique qualities and eventually have become a role model for the other business enterprises. Abdul Monem Limited focusing on this philosophy of quality grew over the years by providing the best services and high quality products. In fact, “caring for quality” has earmarked Abdul Monem Limited as the most trusted and one of the leading companies in Bangladesh. More than five decades ago, we started the journey as an infrastructure development service provider and today it is one of the leading conglomerates in the country. The mission of Abdul Monem Limited is to build ventures committed to achieving the best quality products and services for the betterment and sustainable development of the society. The mission includes a dedication to review the existing operations, the evaluation and the creation of new and profitable ventures that are ethical and enhances personal, institutional and leadership development. Overall, UN Global COP Report Abdul Monem Limited 3 | Page AML aims at providing society with significant assistance in achieving the maximum potentiality. In 1990 AML beverage was awarded the Turtle Award by the President of The Coca Cola Company for its contribution to positioning the brand. In 1997 the company established another bottling plant of 650 BPM capacities in the port city of Chittagong. The plant was established to expand the market further and to deliver Coke to every consumer’s doorstep. Apart from glass bottles, Coke is available in PET and Cans as well. To meet our long term growth objectives, we recruit and actively cultivate a diversified workforce and establish a culture that fosters learning, innovation and value creation on a daily basis. I, as the Chairman and Managing Director, am very much enthusiastic towards the UNGC and the AML Team is eager to provide enduring support and commitment to the initiatives and its principles of UNGC’s Global Compact through 2013 and beyond. Finally, I would like to say that we run our business with transparency, ethical business standard encompassing CSR activities targeted primarily to our stakeholders and the public in general. With best wishes Yours sincerely, Abdul Monem (Chairman & Managing Director) Abdul Monem Limited UN Global COP Report Abdul Monem Limited 4 | Page AML at a Glance AML’s Vision Optimum use of valuable resources including human to create value-added products and services aimed at contributing to the sustainable economic, social, and environmental progress and prosperity of Bangladesh. AML’s Mission Provide value added products and services by creating a successful partnership among the people, technology and practices. Pledge is to establish an absolute sense of inclusion of our employees with our organization and building sustainable relationships with our customers, business associates and stakeholders by exceeding their expectations and gaining lifelong trust through exceptional performance. Excel in all our work, constantly challenging to perform better and engaging in teamwork with the aim to achieve incremental growth of our business thereby having a positive impact on the community and the nation in economic and social development. UN Global COP Report Abdul Monem Limited 5 | Page Strategic Business Units (SBUs) of AML Construction & Infrastructure Development AM Construction and Builders Monem Business District Food and Beverage Authorized Bottler-The Coca-Cola Company Igloo Ice cream Igloo Foods Limited Amomilk Dairy Products Sugar Refinery AM Sugar Refinery Limited Securities & Financial Service AM Securities & Financial Service Limited Medicine and Pharma Novus Pharmaceuticals Limited Soft Services Service Engine (BD) Limited AM Consulting Limited Education Abdul Monem University (Proposed) AM Skill Development Institute (Proposed) AM College AM High School AM Primary School AM Madrasa and Orphanage Foundation and CSR Abdul Monem Foundation Abdul Monem Education and Technology Trust UN Global COP Report Abdul Monem Limited 6 | Page UN Global COP Report Abdul Monem Limited 7 | Page Group Management Our Leaders… Abdul Monem Chairman and Managing Director Abdul Monem Limited Mr. Abdul Monem is the founder of the Company and is working as the Chairman and Managing Director of the Abdul Monem Group. A veteran Civil Engineer by profession Mr. Abdul Monem masterminded the AML Business, its expansion and Horizontal integration and diversification. For his achievement in this respect, Mr. Monem is awarded “Commercially Important Person (CIP)” status by the Government of Bangladesh. A.S.M. Mohiuddin Monem A.S.M. Mainuddin Monem Deputy Managing Director II Deputy Managing Director I Abdul Monem Limited Abdul Monem Limited His descendants Mr. A.S.M. Mainuddin Monem, a Business Graduate from world leading Harvard Business School, USA, and Mr. A.S.M Mohiuddin Monem, an Industrial Engineer from North Eastern University, USA are the key management responsible for the Finance, Administration and Strategic Operational Management of the Group. UN Global COP Report Abdul Monem Limited 8 | Page Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Abdul Monem Limited strongly our manufacturing and other believes that sustainability plays a locations. vital role in the growth of Abdul Monem Limited strictly businesses. Steered by our prohibits child labor engagement. It organizational purpose, values and practices no discrimination on the human resource philosophy we are grounds of race, gender, region, committed to caring people, health cast, color, or ethnic origins and and safety, managing sustainable treats all employees equally at the environment and empowering work place. Abdul Monem Limited is societies. We support universal committed to respect and to human rights not only for our protect the internationally employees but also for the proclaimed human rights and is communities where we operate our practicing the Bangladesh Labor businesses. Code 2006. Being a responsible corporate Abdul Monem Limited manages to citizen, Abdul Monem Limited has provide 20,000 liters of clean always strived to safeguard human drinking water to the poor people rights, its protection and of slum areas of the society on a promotion. All our actions are in resemblance with fundamental daily basis. rights such as right to equal We are also responsive to our social opportunity, right to freedom of responsibilities and we believe that speech and association, right the corporate houses have many against exploitation, right for responsibilities to perform. We cultivating own culture and contribute a fair portion of our education. earnings to the underprivileged, distressed and poor people. For In line with our Human Resource example, we have established Philosophy, we are an “equal educational institutions to enlighten opportunity employer.” Composition the poor people of our locality with of the organization reflects the necessary knowledge. Mr. Abdul international image of the group. Monem, the founder of AML, Suitably qualified people from local always had the dream to do and international communities are something for the orphans. His preferred for appropriate roles at dream came to reality when he UN Global COP Report Abdul Monem Limited 9 | Page established an orphanage center in Establishment of 45 School-cumhis hometown of Bijeshwar, under Cyclone Shelters in SIDOR-affected Brahmanbaria district of coastal areas (of the Bay of Bengal) Bangladesh. is one of iconic landmark development work of Bangladesh. Since the inception of this It is important to note that SIDOR, orphanage in 1998, at least 12 of a very severe Cyclonic storm that children have completed their made landfall on the coastal primary educations, 7 of them have regions of Bangladesh on completed High School and 2 of November 15, 2007 resulting in one them have got admitted in College of the devastated natural disasters education. We keep their in Bangladesh. The shelters have development along with scholastic been used by approximately 1000 track. families as their temporary accommodation who gradually then shifted to their own houses. UN Global COP Report Abdul Monem Limited 10 | Page Recently, these Shelters also have mothers and children through provided shelters to approximately participating in “Every Woman 10,000 people from at least 100 Every Child” initiative. AML has villages during the Cyclone Aila. also started providing free vitamins (Cyclone Aila hit 14 districts on the among the target groups. south-west coast of Bangladesh on the 25th May 2009.) “Every Woman Every Child” is an initiative launched by UN Secretary On a different front, Novus General Ban Ki-moon during the Pharmaceuticals Limited, a United Nations Millennium pharmaceutical-unit of Abdul Development Goals Summit in Monem Limited has committed to September 2010 that aims to save raise awareness of malnutrition the lives of 16 million women and among pregnant and lactating children in the world by 2015. Partnering with the Nutrition Department of Dhaka University, AML has already planned to reach 50,000 poor and needy mothers (both pregnant and lactating) in the next five years through its nutrition awareness program. It is to be noted here that this program is well under way and by the next reporting time a substantial number would be covered under this program. (For web reference, please visit to: http://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/index.php?page=view&type=1006&menu=1348&nr=1217) UN Global COP Report Abdul Monem Limited 11 | Page The Abdul Monem Foundation of Limited to meet any unforeseen Abdul Monem Limited is a resource crisis. for innovative and humanitarian Approximately, 1500 employees of people who have the willingness to Abdul Monem Limited have taken do something for the poor people the advantage of this “Employee of the country. The goals of Abdul Loan Scheme” with zero interest Monem Foundation are to meet and and easy repayment plan. uphold the human rights, reduce poverty level, spread education Being mindful to our female among poor, promote peace and to employees, “Maternity Benefit help every citizen to enjoy religious Scheme” is offered to women who rights. are on maternity leave. Abdul Monem Family enjoys employee An “Employee Loan Scheme” is benefits as per company policy offered for the immediate needs of supporting their rights. the employees of Abdul Monem Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Abdul Monem Limited puts the religious, ethical, social and legal present labor laws into practice uprightness. endorsed by the Government of Bangladesh to serve the workforce. Appropriate safety measures (i.e. The company ensures prompt iron/steel-toe shoes, yellow handling of grievances of employees Jackets/Trousers with ID cards, hard and customers to uphold basic hat caution sign etc.) are taken and human rights. Also, Abdul Monem monitored at workplaces. Limited always encourages the direct employment to protect the human There is a committed Employee rights of workers. Relation Association which takes care of employees well being. For There is a robust monitor prevention of sexual harassment, a policy/system to inspect all statutory complaints committee is headed by a compliances through internal as well woman officer, to deal with cases of as external agencies on a monthly sexual harassment, if any. So far no basis at plant and at business levels. such occurrences have taken place We have set high standards of at AML. None-the-less, awareness on business ethics and moral virtues for human right issues is significantly ourselves and we firmly believe in increasing among the employees. UN Global COP Report Abdul Monem Limited 12 | Page Labor Standards • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor At AML, we rightly welcome and compulsory employment labor at its appreciate the right to freedom of workplace and there are distinct association and the effective and strict policies applied in its recognition of the right to collective factories and plants. We are bargaining. We are also committed committed not to resort to any to provide workers’ representatives form of forced or compulsory labor with appropriate facilities to assist in our working place. There is no in the development of effective form of threatening/violence or collective agreement. physical assault or sexual abuse present at our workplaces and we We, at AML, are committed to use are trying to accomplish the higher collective bargaining as a beneficial standards of protection of workers forum/medium for addressing in working areas. working conditions and terms of employment, and relations between Training and short courses are employers and workers. We are offered to the supervisors, safety committed to address any problemofficers and administrative officers solving or other needs of interest to so that they can understand the workers and management, labor laws in order to become including restructuring and training, aware of laws and in turn can make safety and health issues, grievance others aware of them. and dispute settlement procedures, disciplinary rules, and family and So far we have covered more than community welfare. To this effect, 450 employees under various Abdul Monem Limited joins programs ranging from monthly 2-3 regularly to the open hour-long short presentations to dialogue/round table seminars of quarterly programs about 2-3 dayBangladesh Enterprise Institute. long trainings. Along the same line, AML has allowed five of its senior Abdul Monem Limited never managers to be trained by outside practices and supports forced and organizations on various issues, UN Global COP Report Abdul Monem Limited 13 | Page especially on Human Resource workfare and a specific electronic Management. log sheet is generated with the salary sheet. Every employee is appointed with accurate employment contract/job All Employees are entitled to enjoy description mentioning the terms all public/declared holidays and and conditions of service and their designated annual and sick working conditions following leaves. AML holds a compulsory Bangladesh Labor Code 2006. The yearly health checkup program free employment contracts/job of cost for all employees. In this description is written in easy regard, a separate wing is Bengali and English language so responsible to handle and monitor that all employees can understand supply chains and subcontracting them. Electronic time attendance arrangements carefully. systems are implemented in Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor In principle, no child is hired by mandatory requirement to verify Abdul Monem Limited. Human the legal age and status of Resources Department (HRD) has candidates to avoid any form of developed and endorsed an child labor. employment policy with no option for labor below the adult-age of 18. Abdul Monem Limited has Employee database is maintained completed the OHSAS with basic information mentioning (Occupational Health & Safety date of birth. Advisory Services) audit at plant areas and the process of getting We seek and obtain birth certified. OHSAS recommends and registration certificates for the creates a healthy, safe and workers obtained from their supportive environment at plant respective agencies. At the time of areas with strict obligation for employee recruitment process, appointing child labor in the National Identity Card (NIC) is a organizations. UN Global COP Report Abdul Monem Limited 14 | Page Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation HRD practices a “Recruitment Policy Statement” where fair, transparent, We also realize that we need to skill-based competitive promote collaboration among the employments are encouraged and nonprofit, government and any discrimination in respect of business sectors and to ensure race, gender, region, cast, color, participation by men and women creed or ethnic origin is not allowed from diverse communities and at all in recruitment process. Besides, levels of the society. We believe, HRD is being continually updated such activities help build common with the local accepted labor laws understanding, enhance excellence, enacted by Bangladesh enable people to improve their lives Government. All employees are and reinforce their commitment to treated equally at the work places. the society. Discrimination is altogether avoided In order to achieve our company’s including access to employment, vision, we are committed to follow recruitment process, payment, job our “Employee Code of Conduct,” assignments, occupational safety where every employee does and health, paid holidays, particular conform to and abides the Code of occupations, promotions and to Conduct. Over 5,000 employees run training and vocational guidance. our business, and we have a great responsibility to create an accepting Female employees/workers enjoy and rewarding work environment Maternity Leave with full pay for a for them. period of 120 days including public holidays. After enjoying the Maintaining up-to-date records on Maternity Leave, female employees recruitment, training and promotion are usually seen to be more active provide an apparent view of at their workplaces with full prospects for employees and their potential and efficiency. progression within the organization. In this respect, one of the Every confirmed employee is objectives of AM Skill Development eligible to be a member of The Institute is to promote access to Abdul Monem Limited “Employee skills development training and to Provident Fund,” which has been particular occupations for our administered in accordance with workers. the relevant law of the land. UN Global COP Report Abdul Monem Limited 15 | Page Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Abdul Monem Limited, as a All environment management responsible corporate citizen, programs are intensively monitored believes in protecting and and effectively implemented. preserving the environment. To Toward this goal, Abdul Monem achieve this objective, Abdul Limited has incorporated with ISO Monem Limited has a full-fledged 22000:2005, OHSAS management environment management team to systems, HACCP management plan, implement and monitor systems etc. We are committed to environment management conform to and caring for the programs. Environment, Occupational Health, Safety and Quality procedures of our working area. Abdul Monem Limited aims and gives continual efforts to improve performance of all pollutant abatement services like air emission and waste disposal at its plants. UN Global COP Report Abdul Monem Limited 16 | Page To meet the future environmental Department of Environment of challenges, we have emphasized on Ministry of Environment and Forest, green energy by installing solar Bangladesh for testing. panels on rooftop of our Head Quarter (MBD) to conserve the Abdul Monem Limited widely environment. recognizes and understands the need to control and improve the Fuel Analyzer has been installed at environmental performance to meet our plants to manage less emission the challenges. Gardening and of carbon monoxide. Adhering to treated effluent recycling is being guidelines, we submit treated carried out in all our units to effluent water sample to replenish the ground water. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; In pursuit of excellence towards cleaning and irrigations . The sustainable development and to go Monem Business District (by far the beyond compliance, Abdul Monem largest commercial building in Limited has taken many initiatives Bangladesh) has adopted green aligned to the Company's policy of energy by installing solar panels on Conserving natural resources, raw its rooftop to conserve the materials, water and energy by environment. process improvements, recycling and reducing waste. Abdul Monem Limited encourages forestations, gardens, reuse of Abdul Monem Limited conforms to treated water and has created all of the environmental regulatory environmental awareness among compliances and guidelines of employees. Department of Environment (DoE), Ministry of Environment and Forest Abdul Monem Limited has installed (MoEF), Bangladesh at its plants Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) to and exercises best possible usage make the water pollutant free of water consumption and reuses of before discharging into the treated waste water for drainage environment. UN Global COP Report Abdul Monem Limited 17 | Page Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. In order to address environmental of Environment and Forest, issues, Abdul Monem Limited aims to Bangladesh meet human needs while preserving the environment and AML family is Abdul Monem Limited has completed committed to the continuous OHSAS and PASS223 audit and progress of environment-friendly practices the Occupational Health technologies. and Safety Policy for its employees and others concerned. However, we Respecting the environment, we are yet to address this issue more have established Effluent Treatment profoundly as a cross-boundary Plants (ETP) in all of our plants need. Among others, we need to following the guidelines of address the following: Department of Environment (DoE), Ministry of Environment and Forest Implementing environmental-friendly (MoEF), Bangladesh. technologies to help the company reduce the use of raw materials Abdul Monem Limited has completed leading to increased efficiency. OHSAS and PASS223 audit and Innovative technology which creates practices the Occupational Health new business opportunities and and Safety Policy for its employees helps increase the overall and others concerned. However, we competitiveness of the company. are yet to address this issue more profoundly as a cross-boundary Technologies that use materials need. Among others, we need to more efficiently and cleanly can be address the following: applied to most companies under AML with long-term economic and In order to address environmental environmental benefits. issues, Abdul Monem Limited aims to meet human needs while preserving Establishing a corporate or individual the environment and AML family is company policy on the use of committed to the continuous environmentally sound technologies. progress of environment-friendly technologies. Making information available to stakeholders that illustrate the Respecting the environment, we environmental performance and have established Effluent Treatment benefits of using such technologies. Plants (ETP) in all of our plants following the guidelines of Refocusing research and Department of Environment, Ministry development (R&D) towards ‘design for sustainability’. UN Global COP Report Abdul Monem Limited 18 | Page Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. There is a well defined Code of illegal or a breach of trust in our Conduct and Business Ethics in organization. place for conducting the business operations of Abdul Monem Our Internal Audit Team supports Limited. conducting inventory management of all units and departments twice a Since its inception, AML business year with data records of ERP. The practices have been governed by audit team also administers all honesty, integrity, fair dealing and forms of bill checking and financial full obedience to all applicable compliance related issues to ensure business laws and ethics. We that all data match with primary deplore any form of bribery, terms and conditions and that no corruption and extortion in business form of divergence is occurring. and we uphold the commitment countrywide in our everyday jobs. In addition, An Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) package named ERP With our Code of Conduct, we Optima has been implemented in discourage an offer or receipt of our organization and financial data any form of gift, fee, reward or are transparently transacted other advantage to or from any through ERP. No doubt, the person as an inducement to do automation of the company something which is dishonest, encourages good governance and eliminates corruptions. UN Global COP Report Abdul Monem Limited 19 | Page “Abdul Monem Limited will continue to endeavor through its business values and commitments to encourage/uphold the United Nations Global Compact principles by ensuring good corporate governance and corporate social responsibility.” For any enquiries, please contact us: Mr. Kazi Sharafath Hossain Manager Administration and Technology Abdul Monem Limited Monem Business District 111, Bir Uttam C.R. Dutta Road (Sonargaon Road) Tel: 8802-9676301-3, 9664913, 9669570, Mobile: 880 1712 144711 Email: sharafat@amlbd.com Web: www.amlbd.com Dhaka-1205, Bangladesh UN Global COP Report Abdul Monem Limited 20 | Page
