George Mason University’s Global Citizenship Report United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress July 1, 2013 G e o rg e M a s o n U n i v e r s i t y — W h e r e I n n o v a t i o n i s t r a d i t i o n United Nations Global Compact The Ten Principles Human Rights 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. Ensure that institution is not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor 3. Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Credits and 4. Eliminate forced or compulsory labor. Acknowledgments Report Authors and Editors 5. Work to abolish child labor. Janette Kenner Muir, Associate Provost for 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment Undergraduate Education and occupation. Andrew Wingfield, Provost’s Fellow for Sustainability Studies Environment With thanks to the following individuals and 7. Support a precautionary approach offices for supplying information contained to environmental challenges. in the report: Lenna Storm, Kathryn Wallace, Margaret Lo, 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater and Tyler Orton—Office of Sustainability environmental responsibility. Hermione Pickett—Provost’s Undergraduate Education Office 9. Encourage the development and diffusion Lori Roth—Human Resources and Payroll of environmentally friendly technologies. Office of Equity and Diversity Services Office of Disability Services Anti-Corruption Office of the Provost Creative Services 10. Work against corruption in all of its forms. The United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Report is printed on New Leaf Primavera paper, 80% recycled, 60% post-consumer waste. I Introduction Letter from the President During my first year as president, I have worked with the George Mason University community on developing a new vision and mission. Mason will always strive for excellence. Going forward, we will not focus on being the best university in the world, but strive to be the best university for the world. In this spirit, George Mason University formally signed the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in summer 2012. Given my own international background and direct involvement with UNGC, I am proud that certifying this commitment was among my first official acts as Mason’s president. UNGC is a strategic policy initiative for businesses and other organizations that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 widely accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Launched in 2000, UNGC now has more than 10,000 signatories in 145 countries. While UNGC originally targeted business entities, I helped lead the effort to engage institutions of higher learning to use the Ten Principles to set their operational and academic priorities. I have been involved with UNGC since its inception in 2000 and, in my former position as president of Thunderbird School of Global Management, facilitated development of the UNGC-related Principles of Responsible Management Education, a code of professional ethics designed to cultivate values of social and environmental responsibility in future business leaders. UNGC signatories are required to submit an annual Communication of Progress. As the report that follows shows, Mason is well positioned to become the best university for the world. Located in the Washington, D.C., region, the nerve center of the free world, our university boasts a first-class global learning infrastructure, a diverse and dynamic student body, and a talented, energetic faculty whose teaching and research address the most pressing challenges of our time. Through its policies and operations, Mason has earned a reputation for its commitment to values such as equity, tolerance, and environmental stewardship that work well with the UNGC’s Ten Principles. While we have much to celebrate, our UNGC commitment also creates the opportunity for the Mason community to reflect on how our work might mesh even more with the Ten Principles. We hope that this report will not only create a sense of pride in the Mason community today, but also spark the kind of open and authentic conversations that will enable us to articulate our aspirations for tomorrow. Sincerely, Ángel Cabrera President George Mason University United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 1 Organization Profile Mission A University for the World George Mason University is a public comprehensive research university established by the Commonwealth of Virginia in the National Capital Region. We are an innovative and inclusive academic community committed to creating a more just, free, and prosperous world. The recent visioning process for the university reaffirmed our commitment to freedom and learning, foundational concepts incorporated in Mason’s seal and now formally adopted as the university’s motto. Core characteristics are encapsulated in the Mason idea—innovative, diverse, entrepreneurial, accessible—reminding us that we are committed to being a university for the world, drawn together to work across cultures, bringing new perspectives and solutions to the world’s most pressing problems, and preparing students to navigate in it. For more information The Mason Vision: vision.gmu.edu/the-mason-vision About Mason Mason is a distributed university with locations in Fairfax, Arlington, Prince William, and Loudoun counties. A new campus is set to open next year in Songdo, South Korea. Currently, more than 32,000 students attend Mason; 5,748 students live on campus in residence halls. Seventy-five undergraduate programs and 123 graduate and professional programs are delivered face-to-face and through distance education. Programs in management, law, the arts, and writing have received national and international attention. Mason is setting the gold standard for the modern public university. Our dynamic culture and innovative academic programs prepare hard-working students for 21st-century careers. Our commitment to teaching excellence combines with cutting-edge research that enriches the academic experience and is literally changing the world. Mason is affordable, yet offers high value. Ideally located in the National Capital Region, students enjoy rich cultural experiences and access to the most sought-after internships and employers in the country. For more information George Mason Institutional Research and Reporting: irr.gmu.edu 2 George Mason University’s Global Citizenship Report 2013 Report Parameters and Mason’s Governance This report covers the 2012-13 academic year, including the 2013 summer session and activities that take place on all campuses. Some information in this report is taken from Mason’s Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education’s (AASHE) Sustainability Tracking, Assessment, and Reporting System (STARS) report submitted in 2011. Information on energy use and emissions comes from Mason’s American College and University President’s Climate Commitment (ACUPCC) reports. Other information was gathered from all academic units and administration offices relevant to the four UNGC areas. Commitment to the UNGC is facilitated through strong governance at the administrative and the faculty levels. The Board of Visitors (BOV) is the governor-appointed body that oversees final decision making for the university on behalf of the Commonwealth of Virginia. The BOV is responsible for final approval of the university president. The president, in turn, oversees a large administrative body that includes two senior vice presidents (provost and chief financial officer) and 10 vice presidents. The Office of the Provost has several associate-level provosts who oversee certain aspects of the institution. Twelve colleges and schools report to the provost. Mason has a strong system of faculty governance through the Faculty Senate and in colleges through curriculum and promotion and tenure committees. Several senate and university committees engage in the work of the university, such as crafting academic policy, advising on budget and finance issues, and serving on search committees. In preparation for this report, several committees worked together to create strategies, report on current work, and prepare for public presentations of UNGC principles. The Office of Sustainability provides a robust picture of the range of work focused on environmental issues; the provost’s Undergraduate Education Office provides considerable strategic focus; the Office of International Programs and Services offers support for student activities and international programming; and the provost’s Fellow for Sustainability Studies supplies information about scholarship, courses, and cocurricular programming relevant to the UNGC. For more information George Mason Board of Visitors: bov.gmu.edu United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 3 II A GLOBAL UNIVERSITY As a university for the world, Mason aims to leverage its intellectual resources to educate knowledgeable and responsible global citizens and focus the full range of its scholarly expertise on addressing global challenges. Mason has built a robust global learning infrastructure in support of these goals. The Global Curriculum The strong enrollments in such majors as Global Affairs and Government and International Politics attest to undergraduates’ keen interest in pursuing an education that is global in scope. Students who wish to add a global dimension to their program of study can choose from a wide array of minors that focus on global processes, cultures, regions, or languages. Undergraduates looking for an international experience while living on the Fairfax Campus can apply to live in the Global Crossings Living Learning Community. Domestic and international students are paired as roommates in the Hampton Roads residence hall and participate in programming that revolves around crosscultural interaction and leadership development. Graduate students in Mason’s highly regarded PhD program in Conflict Analysis and Resolution engage in research and practice in various world regions beset with conflict between human groups. Doctoral students in the College of Education and Human Development can specialize in international education and focus on matters of social justice and equity in educational systems throughout the world. The PhD programs in Climate Dynamics and Environmental Science and Public Policy foreground the study of Earth’s natural systems and human impacts on those systems. Master’s-level programs in a range of departments enable students to engage with global issues in health, business, religion, natural science, politics, and public policy. For more information Global Programs: global.gmu.edu The World as Classroom: Experiential Learning Mason offers a rich program of experiential learning opportunities all over the world that amplify what students learn in the classroom. These experiences are always eye opening and sometimes life changing. The Center for Global Education (CGE) offers a wide range of international study, research, service, and leadership opportunities to Mason students, faculty, staff, 4 George Mason University’s Global Citizenship Report 2013 and members of the general public. CGE also designs and implements international programs for undergraduates, graduates, and professionals seeking knowledge and skills necessary to succeed in the culturally diverse society of the 21st century. CGE manages a variety of international programs in almost 50 countries: shortterm programs during the winter break and summer term; semester and year-long exchanges; intensive language courses; internships; and an honors semester at the University of Oxford. The Center for Field Studies (CFS) is dedicated to providing students with exciting and challenging field-based experiential learning opportunities. CFS course offerings include a broad range of academic disciplines and subject matter, from a focus on the natural world to human populations in their respective social and cultural contexts. CFS creates opportunities for students to move beyond the traditional classroom and apply their knowledge and data collection skills first-hand in a variety of real-world settings. For more information Center for Global Education: globaled.gmu.edu Center for Field Studies: fieldstudies.gmu.edu Creating Global Knowledge: Scholarship One of the seven primary commitments in Mason’s new mission is to do research of consequence and translate discoveries into interventions and applications with social, cultural, and economic implications. Several of Mason’s research centers and programs address global challenges from an interdisciplinary perspective and their work touches on all four of the UNGC areas. The School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution (S-CAR) is committed to the development of theory, research, and practice that interrupt cycles of violence. S-CAR is an innovative academic resource for people and institutions worldwide. It comprises a community of scholars, graduate and undergraduate students, alumni, practitioners, and organizations in the field of peace making and conflict resolution. S-CAR is a Commonwealth Center for Excellence, recognized for its leadership in the field and its world-renowned faculty. The Center for Global Policy (CGP) in the School of Public Policy conducts research on a wide range of global policy issues such as foreign trade, democratization and state building, and transnational networks, while analyzing specific policy issues for a variety of government agencies. CGP also develops and serves as the home to several major cross-national data projects and resources for global policy. These include the Polity IV project of regime characteristics, the State Fragility Index, and the U.S. government’s Political Instability Task Force/State Failure project. The Center for International Education (CIE) in the College of Education and Human Development focuses on research and development of K-12 through university-level international education projects that increase capacity in international settings. CIE supports academic programs to enhance teaching and learning in international schools, develops international mindedness in domestic schools and programs, and promotes lifelong professional development opportunities for international teachers, principals, and higher education faculty. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 5 Center for Global Studies Global society in the 21st century is marked by unprecedented levels of interconnectedness and flow. Actors and institutions, old and new, negotiate complex paradoxes of conflict, cooperation, development, and sustainability. Peoples, cultures, commodities, and capital traverse transnational networks, challenging existing models of geography, polity, and market. The emergence of globalization as a world reality has prompted the development of new research paradigms and programs that seek to better understand this intense interconnectedness. Jo-Marie Burt Center for Global Studies (CGS) codirectors Jo-Marie Burt, Public and International Affairs, and Terrence Lyons, School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution, oversee a highly active center comprising more than 100 associate faculty members whose collective expertise spans the full range of the humanities, the social and natural sciences, and information technology and engineering, as well as practice-oriented fields such as conflict resolution, public policy, law, management, and health. CGS publishes the journal Global Studies Review and, in 2013, hosted its 10th annual spring conference, “Not Your Father’s Peacebuilding: New Post-Conflict Realities.” Terence Lyons For more information School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution: scar.gmu.edu Center for Global Policy: globalpolicy.gmu.edu Center for International Education: cehd.gmu.edu/centers/cie Center for Global Studies: cgs.gmu.edu Building Bridges: Mason’s Global Partnerships The Office of Global and International Strategies helps Mason attain its strategic goals in international education and expand its reputation as a global university. The Global Office assists units, programs, faculty, and students in pursuit of international initiatives and coordinates efforts across traditional organizational boundaries. It serves as an incubator for innovative university projects that engage Mason faculty and students with their counterparts around the world. The Global Office has forged teaching and learning partnerships with universities in China, Russia, India, and, most recently, Korea. In 2013, the Global Office launched its Global Register, a database that creates a one-stop shop for information on Mason’s global activities and expertise. Global Problem Solving Consortium Today’s university students will inherit a world characterized by pressing global challenges. They must be prepared to focus their intellectual skills on problems of world health, unequal access to resources, environmental degradation, and more. It is incumbent on institutions of higher education to prepare students better to confront these pressing concerns. In response to this challenge, Provost Peter Stearns invited a select group of prestigious international institutions to join a new Global Problem Solving Consortium in 2012. The consortium offers focused programs that bring students and faculty members together to Peter Stearns improve their knowledge of global issues and their awareness of how other major societies approach these issues. The consortium offered its first summer workshop, Water Management for Environmental Sustainability, in July 2013. For more information Office of Global and International Strategies: masonglobal.gmu.edu Global Register: globalregister.gmu.edu Global Problem Solving Consortium: masonglobal.gmu.edu/global-problemsolving-consortium 6 George Mason University’s Global Citizenship Report 2013 The World Comes to Mason: International Student Services Mason’s international students represent more than 130 countries—from Thailand to Turkey, Nepal to the Netherlands—and the diversity of cultures, experiences, and perspectives these students bring contributes heavily to the university’s distinctive atmosphere. Mason values its international students and is committed to supporting these students on practical and intellectual matters. The Office of International Programs and Services (OIPS) assists students with international regulatory and visa matters, academic advising services, and social and cultural programming. The Center for International Student Access (CISA) provides developmental support and acculturation to Western educational styles in a manner that respects and celebrates individual student culture and epistemology, and prepares students for personal and academic success. The center promotes the development and retention of wellrounded, culturally conscious, and civically engaged international student-citizens who are able to positively contribute to our local and global society. For more information Office of International Programs and Services: oips.gmu.edu Center for International Student Access: cisa.gmu.edu During International Week, Mason students from around the globe showcase their countries and cultures in a festival of celebration and cross-cultural learning. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 7 III HUMAN RIGHTS Academic Commitments Human Rights Scholarship Interest in human rights-related research, practice, and teaching is widespread at Mason. Human rights and global justice are the focus for one of the five interdisciplinary working groups hosted by the Center for Global Studies. Human rights issues are front and center for several research centers and programs at the School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution, including the Center for the Study of Gender and Conflict, the Genocide Prevention Program, and the Sudan Task Group. The Terrorism, Transnational Crime and Corruption Center (TraCCC), profiled later in this report, operates at the intersection of human rights, labor, and anticorruption issues in its research and teaching on human trafficking. Mason professors Fred Bemak and Rita Chi-Ying Chung (both in the College of Education and Human Development) began their careers on opposite sides of the globe—Bemak in Massachusetts and Chung in New Zealand—but it was their passion for human rights and social justice that ultimately brought them together. Bemak and Chung have traveled to more than 55 countries, together and individually, where they have worked with at-risk youth, immigrants, and refugees; counseled child-trafficking and Fred Bemak post-disaster victims; and guided students of color and former child soldiers. This dynamic duo not only works together as they traverse the globe, they’ve been married for 17 years. There has been much to celebrate in Chung and Bemak’s house this year, as both have won prestigious professional awards. Chung received the Gilbert and Kathleen Wrenn Humanitarian and Caring Person Award, which Bemak received in 2011, and Bemak received the Kitty Cole Human Rights Award, which Chung garnered last year. In addition, Chung was one of seven Virginia professors to receive the highly competitive Outstanding Faculty Award from the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia and Dominion Resources in recognition for her exemplary Rita Chi-Ying Chung teaching, research, knowledge integration, and public service. For more information Center for the Study of Gender and Conflict: scarcgc.wordpress.com Genocide Prevention Project: www.genprev.net Sudan Task Group: scar.gmu.edu/sudan-task-group 8 George Mason University’s Global Citizenship Report 2013 Human Rights in the Curriculum Nineteen distinct academic units at Mason offered 48 courses on human rights topics in the 2012-13 academic year. Units whose faculty and students engage most actively with human rights include Women and Gender Studies, Latin American Studies, African and African American Studies, School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution, Department of Social Work, and New Century College, which recently added a concentration in social justice to its BA in Integrative Studies program. Human rights is a primary focus of the new Social Justice Scholars and Educators Faculty Learning Community convened by the Center for Teaching and Faculty Excellence. Finally, human rights was the special theme for the 2013 summer session at Mason. Costa Rica’s verdant landscape gives Mason social work students a closer look at international viewpoints. The two-week intensive study-abroad program, Sustainable Human Development and Human Rights: A Gender Perspective, offered since 2006, puts 20 students in the thick of international social work each summer. Costa Rica integrates human rights into its policies and government, says trip leader Dennis Ritchie, who directs Mason’s MSW program in the College of Education and Human Development. While in Costa Rica, students visit grassroots organizations, nongovernmental organizations, Dennis Ritchie government offices, and an indigenous community. Ritchie wants students to see firsthand how social work can translate into government policy. He wants them to understand how far social work principles can reach and apply that knowledge to their work. “We in the United States tend to focus on needs, which tends to lead to a more charitable model,” Ritchie says. “But everyone has human rights and a nation’s citizens are rights holders. That approach in Costa Rica informs everything from policy to legislation. Social work is human rights.” Students appreciate how the course helps them make connections. “[The trip] applied what we were learning in the course to the real world,” says Mason graduate student Lesley Katz. Graduate student Amanda Riley adds, “It’s just so different to see things in person rather than to learn them in a classroom.” For more information Women and Gender Studies: wmst.gmu.edu Latin American Studies: las.gmu.edu African and African American Studies: aaas.gmu.edu Department of Social Work: chhs.gmu.edu/socialwork New Century College: ncc.gmu.edu Social work students traveled to Costa Rica. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 9 Human Rights ProgramminG The UN Human Rights Council strives to integrate human rights education into university curricula. The Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) senior class took this UN initiative as the cue for its capstone project, researching the state of human rights education at Mason and in the surrounding community. The students organized a Human Rights Fair (shown above) in April 2013 to share their findings in research posters and engage in a series of structured dialogues. The title of the Center for Global Studies fourth annual film festival in April 2013 was “Human Resilience: Coping with Crisis from the Mexican Borderlands to the Slums of Nairobi.” Beyond Academic Commitments The Office of Equity and Diversity Services (OEDS) OEDS monitors the university’s continuing commitment to equal opportunity in its employment and educational practices. OEDS reports to the president of the university and is responsible for the implementation of all equal opportunity policies, including the disability reasonable accommodation policy and the administration of the discrimination grievance procedures. Through educational workshops, the OEDS ensures that members of the campus community understand their rights and responsibilities, specifically in regard to maintaining a learning and working environment free from illegal discrimination. It works collaboratively with other campus entities and the surrounding community to ensure physical and program access for persons with disabilities and to create, design, and disseminate programs that bring diverse people together in an encouraging and welcoming environment. For more information Office of Equity and Diversity Services: equity.gmu.edu The Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Multicultural Education (ODIME) ODIME supports Mason’s diverse student and faculty population. Throughout the year, ODIME sponsors a variety of programs for students and faculty, including lectures, concerts, awards, and seminars. The office works specifically with African heritage, Hispanic/Latino, Asian/Pacific American, American Indian, and lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ) populations. 10 George Mason University’s Global Citizenship Report 2013 ODIME coordinates training opportunities that include diversity workshops and seminars, development of mentoring programs, the Safe Zone program for LGBTQ resources and allies, and the Student Transition and Empowerment Program (STEP). Another program is Brother to Brother, Sister to Sister, which educates students about relationships across gender lines. ODIME also organizes a number of national cultural celebrations, such as the American Indian and Alaskan Native Heritage Month, Asian Pacific American Heritage Month, Black History Month, Middle Eastern and South Asian cultural and religious events, Hispanic Heritage Month, Martin Luther King Jr. Day celebration, and Pride Week. For more information Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Multicultural Education: odime.gmu.edu Office of Disability Services (ODS) As part of Mason’s continuing commitment to upholding the letter and spirit of the laws that ensure equal treatment of people with disabilities, the university maintains the ODS. Under the administration of University Life, ODS implements and coordinates reasonable accommodations and disability-related services that afford equal access to university programs and activities. ODS is available to serve all students with disabilities, including those with cognitive (e.g., learning, psychological, and closed head injury), sensory, mobility, and other physical impairments. Exam accommodations provide students with disabilities the same opportunity as their peers to reflect the knowledge they have gained during a particular course. All students who have a need for materials in an alternative format may request this service through ODS if they qualify. ODS also provides sign language interpreting and transliterator services for eligible students who are deaf or hard of hearing. These services are also available to faculty and staff, and for campus events. For more information Office of Disability Services: ods.gmu.edu The Early Identification Program (EIP) EIP is an innovative, multiyear college preparatory program for high school students. Program activities are free and are held on Mason’s Fairfax and Prince William Campuses. Admission to Mason is guaranteed to those who successfully complete EIP and an academic program in high school. Each year, Mason and EIP offer participants the opportunity to apply and interview for four-year, full-tuition scholarships and other smaller awards. EIP actively pursues support for other scholarships from private sponsors and donors. For more information Early Identification Program: eip.gmu.edu Mentor Jhessyka Vargas (center) works with students participating in the Early Identification Program Summer Academy at the Fairfax Campus. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 11 IV LABOR Academic Commitments The globalized economy puts people in motion, whether by choice, necessity, or compulsion. Much of the labor-related teaching and research at Mason coalesces around matters of immigration. Mason faculty find immigration-related research and teaching opportunities nearby in Northern Virginia and around the world. The topics they explore—cross-border human trafficking, community conflicts over immigrant day laborers, immigration economics, and policy—can overlap with the UNGC areas of human rights and anti-corruption. Labor Scholarship Issues associated with immigrant labor are a focus for scholars in diverse departments and programs, including New Century College, Latin American Studies, and the Departments of Social Work, English, and Sociology and Anthropology. The keen interest in immigration, both among faculty and in the general public, recently sparked the creation of a new research institute at Mason. Launched in 2012, the Institute for Immigration Research conducts unbiased research to educate policy makers, media, teachers, students, and the business community about the contributions of immigrants as entrepreneurs, workers, and consumers. Early research projects focus on mapping immigrants’ economic activity, as well as examining the economic impact of immigrants in higher education. For more information Institute for Immigration Research: iir.gmu.edu Labor in the Curriculum New Century College professor Al Fuertes, a graduate of Mason’s School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution, put his facilitation skills to work beginning in 2007 with a series of community meetings that invited residents of Centreville, Virginia, to a local church to discuss the polarizing issue of Central American day laborers residing and seeking work in the community. The process began with a lot of heated rhetoric and little listening, but over time the dialogues became quite constructive, eventually leading to the creation of the Centreville Labor Resource Center. The center, which enjoys support from community stakeholders across the political spectrum, consolidates all day labor contracting in Al Fuertes Centreville in one location. The center also offers training in basic computer tasks and skilled trades, as well as English as a second language classes. To Fuertes, who teaches courses on conflict analysis and transformation, trauma healing, refugees, and human trafficking, the center abounds with experiential learning opportunities for his students. “It’s one thing for my students to read about the harsh life of refugees or the horrors of human trafficking,” says Fuertes, “but here students can speak directly with people whose families have fled dangerous regimes in Central America, people who have paid coyotes to get them across the border only to be left to die in the desert. These conversations create deeper understanding and, in many cases, real empathy.” 12 George Mason University’s Global Citizenship Report 2013 Preparing Future Faculty Preparing for Careers in the Academy is a credit-bearing course offered by Mason’s Center for Teaching and Faculty Excellence. The purpose of this program is to help students working on terminal degrees such as the PhD and the MFA to prepare for future academic careers and strengthen their instructional effectiveness. Mason also participates in the Preparing Future Faculty (PFF) program, a national movement to transform the way aspiring faculty members are prepared for their careers. The PFF program provides doctoral students, as well as some master’s and postdoctoral students, opportunities to observe and experience faculty responsibilities at a variety of academic institutions with varying missions, diverse student bodies, and different expectations for faculty. Students come from several types of institutions such as historically black colleges and universities, Hispanic-serving institutions, women’s colleges, and tribal colleges. Mason’s relationship with Howard University has been productive, resulting in the hiring of more minority faculty members. For more information Center for Teaching and Faculty Excellence: ctfe.gmu.edu Beyond Academic Commitments George Mason University As a public institution in Virginia, George Mason University does not discriminate against state government employees and applicants for employment. All individuals are afforded an equal employment opportunity without regard to race, gender, color, national origin, religion, age, veteran’s status, political affiliation, or disability. A Governor’s Executive Order also prohibits retaliation against those persons filing a complaint or persons participating in the investigation of a complaint. Office of Employment Dispute Resolution The state-level Office of Employment Dispute Resolution (EDR) provides state agencies and their employees a broad range of workplace dispute resolution tools that ensure solutions to workplace conflict consistent with Virginia’s human resource policies and related law. Mediators assist people in conflict to explore differences and develop solutions to their concerns. EDR offers online and classroom training on such topics as workplace conflict, grievance procedure, and disciplinary process. An AdviceLine provides confidential consultation on employment rights and responsibilities, and how to resolve workplace conflict. Surveys Since 2000, Mason has had a triennial Quality of Work Life survey. The first two surveys (2000 and 2003) were conducted with a sample of Mason employees. Beginning in 2006, all university employees were invited to participate in the survey. The survey is comprehensive, touching on a number of work-life issues, including salary, benefits, work unit relationships, fairness, and autonomy and growth. The findings are compiled by a distinguished faculty member in our Psychology Department. Input from faculty and staff through the Quality of Work Life Survey has been responsible for the creation of our Telework and Flextime policy (2002), renamed Flexible Work in 2008; the Mason shuttle between the Fairfax and Prince William Campuses; and much more. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 13 Flexible Work Schedules Mason strongly supports flexible work schedules for its employees. It has numerous flexible work options including a compressed work schedule, flextime, job sharing, remote work, and telework. Mason has found that flexible work options can be a great strategic tool for faculty and staff retention; continuity of operations; productivity enhancement; and extended office coverage (compressed schedules). For faculty and staff, the benefits include putting commuting time to a different purpose, reducing commuting costs, enhancing productivity, and creating work-life balance. Procurement Procedures and Processes As a public institution of higher education within Virginia, Mason follows the procurement procedures and processes outlined by the state legislature. These state that preference shall be given to goods produced in Virginia, and to goods, services, or construction provided by Virginia persons, firms, or corporations. In Mason’s requests for proposals, it gives preference to local products and businesses. Small Womenand Minority-owned Businesses The Small Womenand Minority-owned Businesses (SWaM) program seeks to increase diversity in Mason’s vendor community. Mason seeks to procure at least 40 percent of its products from SWaM organizations. The university communicates with the delegated purchasing community on a continuing basis to emphasize the importance of diversity in procurement. Mason conducts training and outreach to ensure SWaM businesses gain access to university contracting opportunities. Vendors Mason chooses and works with vendors that share our commitment to sustainability. Virginia requires that vendor’s contracts with the state must include the following: vendors must not discriminate because of race, religion, color, sex, national origin, age, disability, or other basis. The vendor needs to advertise that it is an equal opportunity employer; must comply with federal, state, and local laws and federal immigration laws; must have a drug-free workplace; and must have worker compensation coverage. There are also preferences for vendors that are small businesses and businesses owned by women, minorities, and servicedisabled veterans. They must also have products with recycled content and less toxicity, and provide Virginia-based products and services. The Office of Human Resources and Payroll The Office of Human Resources and Payroll has a specific policy that allows classified and wage employees time away from work to develop basic skills. This no-cost training focuses on four objectives: develop and enhance employees’ skills, provide skills required by changes in the employee’s current position, secure basic skills to prepare an employee for advancement, and allow employees to obtain basic skills to perform their jobs. More than 50 certificate programs and seminars are available to build employee skills. For more information Office of Human Resources and Payroll: hr.gmu.edu 14 George Mason University’s Global Citizenship Report 2013 V ENVIRONMENT Academic Commitments Mason boasts an impressive array of scholars and research centers addressing climate change and other environmental challenges, and sustainability-related courses and programs have become a hallmark of our curriculum. Our work in these areas is guided by the Vision for Sustainability in Academic Endeavors at Mason, which Provost Stearns endorsed in 2011. In 2012, Mason committed to the Higher Education Sustainability Initiative launched at the UN Conference for Sustainable Development in Rio de Janeiro. In spring 2013, Mason advanced to the Finest Four of the national Environmental March Madness tournament. The second annual Environmental March Madness tournament, hosted by green information technology company Enviance, pitted Mason against a national field of universities known for promoting environmental sustainability in academics and operations while supporting a robust culture of sustainability on campus. Mason reached the Finest Four based on an invitation to submit a survey of sustainability-related teaching and research, student engagement opportunities, and operational commitments, along with a second round of supplementary essays, videos, and photos submitted by students and faculty. Mason submitted 265 photos, half a dozen student-produced videos, and more than 20 essays by students and faculty members, including Mason president Ángel Cabrera. Submissions were evaluated by a panel of judges from leading environmental nonprofits, top media and education publications, and large for-profit companies that promote sustainable business operations. Mason’s advance to the Finest Four proves emphatically that our university has gained a national reputation for our campuswide commitment to environmental sustainability. Environmental Scholarship Is Flourishing Mason employs more than 120 faculty members who work in 29 research centers that focus on environmental subjects ranging from climate change and smart transportation to freshwater ecology and endangered species, to name but a few. Mason’s environmental researchers regularly secure grants from major public and private funders and have won a number of prestigious awards. In summer 2012, the Obama administration appointed Environmental Science and Policy professor Allison Macfarlane to chair the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Members of Mason’s faculty are regularly sought by governments, nongovernmental organizations, and major media outlets as experts on a wide array of environmental topics. Environmental scholarship is an area of genuine excellence at Mason. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 15 the many faces of climate research Climate change is the greatest environmental challenge humans have ever faced. Its impacts reach into virtually every facet of the planet’s ecology, and its current and potential effects on human society are therefore myriad. A problem as complex as climate change must be approached from many perspectives, and Mason researchers are doing just that as they carry out groundbreaking scholarship that draws on expertise in natural science, social science, and the humanities. Jagadish Shukla, Distinguished University Professor of Climate Dynamics, is an international leader in the scientific study of climate and weather. A lead author on the 2007 UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report committee that shared the Nobel Prize with Al Gore, Shukla is also president of the Center for Ocean-Land-Atmosphere Studies and the Institute of Global Environment and Society, and the founding chair of Mason’s PhD in Climate Dynamics program. The work of Shukla and his research associates has made fundamental contributions to the study of climate dynamics that have led to the development of a scientific Jagadish Shukla basis for the prediction of climate beyond the limit of the predictability of daily weather. Edward Maibach, Distinguished University Professor of Communication, directs the Center for Climate Change Communication (CCCC). Funded by several major foundations, Maibach’s research focuses on the broad question of how public engagement in climate change can be expanded and enhanced. CCCC’s mission is to conduct unbiased public engagement research— and help government agencies, nonprofit organizations, and companies apply the results of this research—so that collectively, we can stabilize our planet’s life-sustaining climate. The center’s Climate Change in the American Mind research program has produced a series of influential Edward Maibach reports on Americans’ climate change and energy beliefs, attitudes, policy support, and behavior. The center’s research is a valuable resource for policy makers at the local, state, and national levels. Maibach is regularly interviewed about this work on major media outlets such as National Public Radio and the New York Times. Susan Crate, associate professor of environmental science and policy, uses her training as an anthropologist and human ecologist to study human adaptations to climate change. Much of her National Science Foundation-funded research has focused on the Viliui Sakha, an indigenous community adapted to the extreme sub-Arctic climate in northeastern Siberia, Russia. Crate has discovered that one of the main issues facing the Viliui Sakha’s ecosystem is a changed timing of seasons (phenology), which has big repercussions for an agro-pastoralist culture dependent on horse and cattle husbandry. Crate also studies how people are adapting to climate change closer Susan Crate to home with a domestic research program focused on rural communities in the Chesapeake Bay region. Andrew Light, associate professor of philosophy and public policy, is director of the Center for Global Ethics and associate director of the Institute for Philosophy and Public Policy. He is an internationally recognized expert on the relationship between environmental policy and ethics and has a particular interest in policy responses to climate change. As a Senior Fellow at the Center for American Progress, he works primarily on international climate and science policy, publishing cogent analyses of international climate talks such as those in Durban in 2011 and Rio de Janeiro and Doha in 2012. Andrew Light For more information PhD in Climate Dynamics program: aoes.gmu.edu/academics/graduate/climate Center for Climate Change Communication: www.climatechange communication.org Center for Global Ethics: www.gmu.edu/centers/globalethics Institute for Philosophy and Public Policy: ippp.gmu.edu 16 George Mason University’s Global Citizenship Report 2013 Blue Planet Prize Conservation biologist Thomas Lovejoy, professor of environmental science and policy, received the prestigious Blue Planet Prize for 2012. This prize is awarded to individuals or organizations that make outstanding achievements in scientific research and its application in helping to solve global environmental problems. An ecologist who has worked in the Brazilian Amazon since 1965, Lovejoy works on the interface of science and environmental policy. He conceived the idea for the long-term study on forest fragmentation in the Amazon (started in 1978), the largest experiment in landscape ecology, the Minimum Critical Size of Ecosystems project. He also coined the term “biological Thomas Lovejoy diversity,” originated the concept of debt-for-nature swaps, and has worked on the interaction between climate change and biodiversity for more than 20 years. He is the founder of the public television series Nature. Lovejoy has served as a senior advisor on biodiversity to the United Nations, the World Bank, the Smithsonian Institution, and the World Wildlife Fund. He has served on advisory councils in the Reagan, George H. W. Bush, and Clinton administrations. Greening the Curriculum Every university—with its human population, its mixture of built and natural environments, and its systems for energy and water, food, and transportation—is a kind of microcosm of society. This makes universities excellent laboratories for learning how to live more lightly on the planet. Mason, with its rich intellectual resources, its proximity to the nation’s capital, and its global scope, is well positioned to produce the next generation of sustainability leaders. Mason has made rapid progress in the past few years toward realizing its vast potential as a sustainability educator. Mason offers two environmental undergraduate degrees, the BA in environmental and sustainability studies and the BS in environmental science. Five additional majors offer environmentally focused concentrations, and multiple minors enable students to add an environmental dimension to virtually any course of study. At the graduate level, the PhD in Environmental Science and Public Policy and Climate Dynamics programs anchor our environmental offerings. Student interest in these programs is growing robustly, reflecting our society’s increasing awareness of the environmental challenges that are shaping our future and underscoring Mason’s growing reputation in environmental and sustainability education. The Sustainable Mason logo pictured here designates a “green leaf” course or academic program, one which focuses on learning about sustainability—meeting our present needs without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. Mason offers more than 100 green leaf courses and 20 green leaf academic programs. For more information Green Leaf courses and programs: sustainabilitystudies.gmu.edu/green-leaf Learning through Immersion October 2012 marked the ribbon-cutting for the new academic, residential, and dining facilities at the Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute, a 3,000-acre conservation research and teaching center in Front Royal, Virginia. This new facility is the site for the Smithsonian-Mason School of Conservation, an immersive conservation learning experience unlike anything else in the world. Like a studyabroad program, the school places undergraduates in residence for a semester studying endangered species and ecosystems. Highly qualified world experts— United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 17 Sustainability LLC residents spent a including Smithsonian scientists, Mason faculty, and colleagues from other U.S. weekend doing dune restoration at and international conservation organizations—provide students with direct conAssateague Island nections to the most current teaching, research techniques, and work in the field. National Seashore. The new residential complex is a LEED Gold-certified building. Students in the Sustainability Living Learning Community (SLLC), a themed residence hall floor on the Fairfax Campus, are making sustainability a key component of their personal lives while doing environmental service in the community and taking the lead in Mason’s efforts to create the greenest university in Virginia. Groups of SLLC residents have designed and installed Mason’s first rain garden, launched a new e-waste recycling program for the Mason community, and worked to reduce Mason’s carbon footprint by promoting drying racks as alternatives to electric dryers in the residence halls. SLLC residents don’t just talk the talk; they walk the walk. For more information Honored guests, faculty Smithsonian-Mason School of Conservation: smconservation.gmu.edu and staff gather at the Sustainability Living Learning Community: green.gmu.edu/students/living Smithsonian-Mason School of Conservation learningcomm.html Facility Dedication Ceremony at Front The Living Lab Royal, Virginia on Mason’s Office of Sustainability (OoS) oversees many of the programs covered October 18, 2012. in the next section (Environment—Beyond Academic Commitments.) While the main mission of OoS is to improve Mason’s environmental performance in multiple areas and foster a culture of sustainability throughout the university, OoS personnel have made a strong commitment to ensuring that the transformations they are making—from infrastructure to culture—also create transformational learning opportunities for students that help them grow as individuals, scholars, and professionals. Each year, undergraduate students log hundreds of hours of for-credit service learning on OoS projects focused on recycling, organic gardening, energy conservation, transportation alternatives, and more. At any given time, OoS staff members mentor up to seven undergraduate and graduate interns who are applying what they learn in the classroom as they work on campus sustainability initiatives that relate to their academic studies. 18 George Mason University’s Global Citizenship Report 2013 The most innovative example of this commitment to academic integration is the Patriot Green Fund (PGF). Managed by the OoS, the PGF is a $100,000 per year fund devoted to making Mason’s campuses more sustainable through facility upgrades or installations and student research projects. A committee of students, faculty, and staff members meets quarterly to review applications to determine which projects will ultimately be funded. All the funded projects are visible to the students and involve groups of students in their installation, implementation, or outreach. In its first two years, the PGF has launched Mason’s BikeShare program, dramatically expanded recycling programs, and funded creation of a rain garden, two apiaries, and a Permaculture Food Forest, to name a few. For more information Patriot Green Fund: green.gmu.edu/pgf Beyond Academic Commitments Mason’s commitment to environmental stewardship is backed by public pledges and demonstrated through purposeful action. Mason was an original signatory of the American College and University Presidents Climate Commitment in 2007, which committed Mason to becoming climate neutral by 2050 through creation and enactment of a Climate Action Plan. Since that pledge, Mason has made significant progress incorporating sustainability at the highest levels of the university. The Executive Steering Committee for Sustainability includes representatives from the units responsible for Mason’s operations, academics, and student affairs. The Office of Sustainability (OoS) has primary responsibility for coordinating pursuit of sustainability-related goals in Mason’s operations and campus culture, while supporting sustainability-related teaching and learning initiatives through its academic integration initiatives. In its 2014 Strategic Plan, the university included goals and metrics to achieve climate neutrality and integrate sustainability into its academic and extracurricular programs. In 2011, Mason was among the first universities to report on its sustainability progress using the Sustainability Tracking Assessment and Rating System (STARS). Mason received a STARS Silver rating and has a goal of achieving STARS Gold in 2014. Mason’s 2011 Transportation Master Plan elaborated on how Mason will continue to be a pedestrianand bicycle-friendly campus. For more information Climate Action Plan: rs.acupcc.org/site_media/uploads/cap/84-cap.pdf 2014 Strategic Plan: provost.gmu.edu/wp-content/uploads/2012/01/FINAL_ Strategic_Goals_for_2014-1.pdf 2011 STARS Data: stars.aashe.org/institutions/george-mason-university-va/ report/2011-08-09 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 19 Energy and Climate Since 2005, Mason has initiated two Energy Performance Savings Contracts with Siemens Industry Inc., totaling $16.7 million dollars. The improvements yield $2.5 million dollars in savings annually. Mason estimates that 20,505 metric tons of CO2 equivalent is saved annually through its energy-saving initiatives. This amount of CO2 is equivalent to annual greenhouse gas emissions from 5,379 passenger vehicles, the electricity use of 3,420 homes for one year, or greenhouse gas emissions avoided by recycling 9,557 tons of waste. In addition to the above performance contracts, the Mason Energy Office has also implemented an integrated and sophisticated facility energy management system that enables the Energy Office to monitor and adjust systems remotely to make them more efficient. This program generated significant savings through improved monitoring and control capabilities for key systems, such as heating, cooling, ventilation, and lighting. Verification of proper temperature, set points, setback or shutWhile growth has down of systems; monitoring of energy usage real-time; and detection of degraded continued, energy energy efficiency all contribute to more efficient operations and cost savings. use at Mason per gross square foot For more information has declined by Mason’s Energy Office and programs: masonenergy.gmu.edu about 25 percent For climate data, please see Mason’s ACUPCC Reports: rs.acupcc.org/ since 2009. search/?abs=andq=George%20Mason%20University Purchased Electricity Consumption Gross Emissions/1k GSF 25 25 20.5 20.5 19.6 19.6 20 20 19.2 19.2 19.4 19.4 19.2 19.2 17.0 16.5 15.9 15.2 15 15 kWh/GSF 10 10 5 5 0 0 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 FY’06 FY’07 FY’08 FY’09 FY’10 FY’11 FY’12 Footprint kWh – Purchased Average 18.27 Total Gross Emissions Total Net Emissions Emissions by Source Wastewater Study abroad Paper Scope 2 <1% air travel <1% T&D losses Other directly 5% Vehicle fleet 4% financed travel 1% <1% Stationary 18% Refrigerants and chemicals Student <1% Directly financed air travel commuting Agriculture 5% 16% <1% Purchased electricity 46% Employee commuting 5% 20 George Mason University’s Global Citizenship Report 2013 Annual Bike to Mason Day Transportation on the Fairfax Campus. Mason’s Transportation Master Plan, supported by the Climate Action Plan, elaborates a transportation goal to reduce single occupancy vehicles on campus from 2010 levels by 10 percent by 2020. Mason hopes to achieve this through investment in transportation infrastructure, education, and incentive structures. The Office of Parking and Transportation has launched numerous initiatives to promote health and achieve the above goals. To promote increased bicycle use, we have improved bicycling routes on and off campus, improved bicycle amenities, and facilitated connections with surrounding bicycle facilities in the nearby communities. We established Patriot Bikeshare, a Mason offers free shuttles to and around program that allows Mason community members to borrow a bicycle when they campus. can’t have their own on campus. Cyclists can also sign up for a monthly Commuter Benefit Program for riding their bikes to work. We also sponsor Bike to Mason events several times a year to encourage community-building around cycling. Carpooling is another way to reduce single-occupancy vehicles. To promote carpooling, we created Mason Zimride, an online ride-share portal that provides members of the Mason community with a safe and easy way to connect with others who have a similar travel destination, whether coming to campus for class or work, Mason’s or traveling long distances. Participants with a car are able to split gas and transTransportation portation costs by connecting with members who are without a vehicle. Parking Master Plan pass holders who carpool to Mason get special parking locations. elaborates a goal to reduce Mason promotes public transportation use by offering free shuttles to and around single-occupancy university campuses not only for the Mason community, but for local community vehicles on campus members, as well. The Commuter Choice program offers significant financial from 2010 levels benefit for employees who use public transportation. Three Zipcars are available by 10 percent on the Fairfax Campus for those who need a short-term car rental; other rental by 2020. vehicles are available at nearby mass transit stops. For more information Mason’s bike programs: bike.gmu.edu Mason’s transportation options: transportation.gmu.edu 2011 Transportation Master Plan: transportation.gmu.edu/pdf/GMU_Fairfax Campus_TransMgmtPlan_Final.pdf United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 21 Built Environment and Storm-Water Management Mason strives to manage its economic and natural resources responsibly and sustainably. In 2007, Mason’s Board of Visitors pledged that all new construction and major renovations be designed to the U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Silver standard or its equivalent. As of 2012, Mason has three LEED Gold buildings, one LEED Silver building, and one LEED-certified building, including the first Gold-certified conference center Student residents in the Chesapeake Bay Watershed: the Mason Inn Conference Center and Hotel. of the Sustainability Living Learning Because of Mason’s requirements under its authority as a municipal separate Community helped storm sewer system and because Mason is part of a sensitive watershed that drains design and install into the Chesapeake Bay, the university’s focus for land development has been to Mason’s first rain minimize the impacts of runoff associated with land disturbances, such as flooding, garden in university erosion, and water pollution. Mason hopes to achieve this goal by using best manhousing in 2012. agement practices, implementing low impact development, and finding cost-effective alternatives that provide water quantity and quality control while simultaneously complying with local, state, and federal laws and regulations. Approaches include incorporation of on-site storm-water management tools, such as rain gardens, vegetated and grass swales, retention ponds, green roofs, and pervious pavement. These serve the function of treating, conveying, and infiltrating storm-water runoff, with the goal of cleaning and slowing it down before it is discharged into local waterways. Mason has one acre of pervious pavement on its Fairfax Campus and its largest on-site treatment facility (and a best management practice) is Mason Pond, which treats approximately 125 acres—more than a third of our main campus area. For more information Mason Land Development Office: facilities.gmu.edu/LandDevelopment/index.htm Mason Inn Conference Center and Hotel: news.gmu.edu/articles/5362 The Mason Pond 22 George Mason University’s Global Citizenship Report 2013 Recycling and Waste Minimization Despite rapid growth in building square footage requiring service and maintenance, Mason’s overall waste tonnage has decreased since 2009, and comingled (cans, glass, and plastics) recycling rose by 10 percent between 2011 and 2012. These results came from a conscious push to improve the accuracy of waste data and allocating resources to improve recycling infrastructure and education. The Office of Housing and Residence Life partnered with Recycling and Waste Mason has a goal of a Management, Office of Sustainability (OoS), University Life, and Auxiliary 25 percent diversion Enterprises to implement in-room recycling, strengthen collections infrastructure, rate by the year 2014. and provide recycling education in all residence halls. Student centers have introduced recycling centers that provide detailed visual information about what is recyclable and what is not. This has raised awareness in the highest traffic areas of campus. These units provide students, faculty, staff, and visitors the necessary information to make informed recycling decisions about how to properly dispose of their recycling materials. Currently, OoS is working to install standardized visual labels on all of its recycling units. Mason is on track to reach its goal of a 25 percent diversion rate by the year 2014. Finally, Mason implemented an e-waste recycling program through a contract written by the Waste and Recycling Commonwealth of Virginia. 10 For more information 8 Weight in millions of pounds Recycling and Waste Management: 6 recycling.gmu.edu 4 2 0 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 Recycling Incinerated waste United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 23 VI Anti-Corruption Academic Commitments On TraCCC in Arlington and russia The UNGC areas of human rights, labor, and anti-corruption overlap when it comes to human trafficking, one topic of focus for the Terrorism, Transnational Crime and Corruption Center (TraCCC). Housed in the School of Public Policy on Mason’s Arlington Campus, TraCCC is the first center in the United States devoted to understanding the links among terrorism, transnational crime, and corruption, and to teach, research, train, and help formulate policy on these critical issues. Other research topics in which TraCCC and its overseas partners are actively engaged include the links between crime and terrorism, money laundering and other financial crimes, the impact of organized crime and terrorism on legitimate business, environmental crimes, and nuclear proliferation issues. Through its four overseas research centers in Vladivostok, Chelyabinsk, Saratov, and Stavropol, TraCCC fulfills its dual mission of researching and documenting trends in organized crime and corruption in Russia and devising country-specific Four Russian cities legislative and policy methods to address these crimes. have TraCCC-affiliated centers: Stavropol, Scholars and practitioners at each center identify issues of organized crime and Saratov, Chelyabinsk, corruption affecting their specific region and offer legislative and policy solutions. and Vladivostok. Chelyabinsk saratov vladivostock stavropol 24 George Mason University’s Global Citizenship Report 2013 Louise Shelley, University Professor in the School of Public Policy, is TraCCC’s founding director. Shelley is a leading expert on the relationship among terrorism, organized crime, and corruption, as well as human trafficking, transnational crime, and terrorism with a particular focus on the former Soviet Union. She also specializes in illicit financial flows and money laundering. The author of numerous books and articles, Shelley has run programs in Russia, Ukraine, and Georgia with leading specialists on the problems of organized crime and corruption. She has also headed up large-scale projects on money laundering from Russia, Ukraine, and Georgia, and coordinated training of law enforcement persons on the issue of human trafficking. She has testified before Louise Shelley the House Committee on International Relations, the Helsinki Commission, the House Banking Committee, and the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on transnational crime, human trafficking, and the links between transnational crime, financial crime, and terrorism. Shelley regularly shares her expertise with major print, online, and television outlets. Highly respected in her field, Shelley received the 2013 G. O. W. Mueller Award for Outstanding Contributions to International Criminal Justice from the Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences and the 2012 Distinguished Scholar Award from the International Association for the Study of Organized Crime. Protecting Investors Housed in the School of Management, the Investor Protection and Corporate Fraud Research Center provides thought leadership on investor protection and fraud risk by sponsoring, conducting, and disseminating research in these areas. The center focuses on investor protection activities such as the role of corporate governance, the role of auditors, insider trading, management disclosures, and the legal and regulatory environment of business. Center director Keith L. Jones, associate professor of accounting, has focused his research on identifying and evaluating methods to assess the risk of fraud. Keith L. Jones For more information Terrorism, Transnational Crime and Corruption Center: traccc.gmu.edu Beyond Academic Commitments Members of the George Mason University community aspire to the principles and values articulated in our Code of Ethics: •• We perform our public responsibilities, services, and activities ethically, competently, efficiently, and honestly, in keeping with university policy and applicable law. We expect that all necessary and proper controls safeguarding public resources are in place and observed, with periodic auditing of functions and departments by the state auditor of public accounts and/or the university’s Internal Audit and Management Services. •• We do not accept any favor, loan, service, business, or professional opportunity from anyone knowing that it is offered to improperly influence the performance of our public duties, or when acceptance thereof may reasonably be perceived as an impropriety in violation of university policy or state law. University procurements of goods or services are undertaken only by authorized personnel and, when competitive principles apply, decisions are made impartially and objectively in accordance with established policy and state law. •• We preserve and respect the confidentiality of university records, including personnel and student records. We do not externally disclose confidential United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 25 records or other nonpublic information without appropriate authorization, and any confidential record or information we access as a result of our position or duty is neither exploited for personal benefit nor misused for any unauthorized purpose. •• We are committed to the principles of federal and state law guaranteeing equal opportunity and nondiscrimination with respect to university services, programs, activities, and employment, and we support an environment that respects the rights and opinions of all people. Complaints of discrimination, harassment, and retaliation are investigated, and, when warranted, appropriate corrective action is taken and disciplined in accordance with state and university policy and applicable law. •• Our communications on behalf of the university with all persons, including co-employees, clients, customers, students, guests, and vendors, are conducted professionally and with civility. •• We do not condone dishonesty in any form by anyone, including misuse of university funds or property, fraud, theft, cheating, plagiarism, or lying. We encourage and expect reporting of any form of dishonesty, and expect our managers and supervisors to appropriately investigate such reports. We also expect that the police and/or state auditor of public accounts will be notified when circumstances reasonably indicate fraud or theft of university funds. •• We strive for continuous improvement in our performance of public duties for the university. •• We bring to the attention of supervisors and managers, the university auditor, or other responsible university office, any violation of these principles or circumstances reasonably indicating that a violation has occurred or may occur. Such reporting in good faith in order to promote the ethical integrity of operations is expected and encouraged by the university, and retaliation by any university employee as a result against the person making such good faith report shall be subject to disciplinary action. We appropriately investigate all such reports and, when warranted by the facts, require corrective action and discipline in accordance with state and university policy and state law. 26 George Mason University’s Global Citizenship Report 2013 VII conclusion New Initiatives, Future Goals, and Concluding Thoughts George Mason University’s commitment to the United Nations Global Compact creates an opportunity for the Mason community to think carefully about next steps as we move forward into what is truly a new era for our university. Below are goals for Mason’s second year of participation with the UNGC: •• Establish new International Education Week programming on campus to engage the Mason community in dialogue about UNGC commitments, showcase UNGC-related student scholarship, identify areas for improvement, and articulate future directions. •• Modify Mason’s general education program to include environmental and global citizenship paths that combine academic course work with cocurricular activities. •• Follow through on the School of Management’s new commitment to the UNGCaffiliated Principles of Responsible Management Education. •• Include the UNGC Ten Principles broadly in Mason’s strategic planning process. The process of preparing this first UNGC Communication on Progress has started many conversations at Mason about the UNGC commitment and its implications for our university. The report itself gives the Mason community an opportunity to look with pride on what Mason is currently doing academically and operationally in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption even as we contemplate how we can more fully integrate the Ten Principles into what we do going forward. With our new mission formed, we have launched the strategic planning process that will map Mason’s path for the years ahead. Our UNGC commitment will surely inform this planning process to help us realize our vision of being a university for the world. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 27 VIII appendices Faculty Research by UNGC Area Scholar Name Affiliation HR* L* E* AC* Changwoo Ahn Environmental Science and Policy ■ Phil Auerswald School of Public Policy Supriya Baily College of Education and Human Development Peter Balint Env Sci and Policy/Pub. Int’l. Affairs Andrea Bartoli School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution Sheryl Beach Geography and Geoinformation Science Fred Bemak College of Education and Human Development Brien Benson School of Public Policy Arabandi Bhavani Sociology and Anthropology Geoffery Birchard Environmental Science and Policy Estela Blaisten-Barojas Chemistry and Biochemistry Carl Botan Communication Zafer Boybeyi Atmospheric, Ocean, and Earth Sciences Lisa Breglia Global Affairs Alex Brodsky Computer Science Jo-Marie Burt Public and International Affairs Fernando Camelli Physics, Astronomy, Computational Science Daniel Carr Statistics William Cartwright Health Administration Guido Cervone Geography and Geoinformation Science Weixia Cher Chen New Century College Long Chiu Atmospheric, Ocean, and Earth Sciences Rita Chi-Ying Chung College of Education and Human Development Claudio Cioffi-Revilla Computational Social Science Carol Cleaveland Social Work Sara Cobb School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution James Conant Public and International Affairs Susan Crate Environmental Science and Policy John Dale Sociology and Anthropology Margaret Daniels Recreation, Health, and Tourism David Davis School of Public Policy Becky Smullin Dawson Global and Community Health Timothy DelSole Atmospheric, Ocean, and Earth Sciences * HR=HUMAN RIGHTS; L=LABOR; E=ENVIRONMENTAL; AC=ANTI-CORRUPTION 28 George Mason University’s Global Citizenship Report 2013 Faculty Research by UNGC Area, continued Scholar Name Affiliation HR L E AC Liping Di Geography and Geoinformation Science Peter Dieke Recreation, Health, and Tourism Paul Dirmeyer Atmospheric, Ocean, and Earth Sciences Leslie Dwyer School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution Michael Ebert Volgenau School of Engineering Cody Edwards Environmental Science and Policy Robert Ehrlich Physics, Astronomy, Computational Science Allan Falconer Center for Social Science Research Rebecca Forkner Environmental Science and Policy Gregory Foster Chemistry and Biochemistry Elizabeth Freeman New Century College Allison Frendak-Blume School of Public Policy Al Fuertes New Century College Michael Gabel New Century College Pamela Garner New Century College Paula Gilbert Modern and Classical Languages Patrick Gillevet Environmental Science and Policy Michael Gilmore New Century College Jack Goldstone School of Public Policy Mark Goodale School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution Deborah Goodings Civil, Environmental, Infrastructure Engineering Marc Gopin School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution Paul Gorski New Century College Lisa Gring-Pemble New Century College Gregory Guagnano Sociology and Anthropology Barry Haack Geography and Geoinformation Science David Haines Sociology and Anthropology Gerald Hanweck Finance David Hart School of Public Policy Karla Hoffman Systems Engineering and Operations Research Mark Houck Civil, Environmental, Infrastructure Engineering Daniel Houser Economics Paul Houser Geography and Geoinformation Science Bohua Huang Atmospheric, Ocean, and Earth Sciences Abul Hussam Chemistry and Biochemistry Emily Ihara Social Work Kathryn Jacobsen Global and Community Health Emilia Jin Atmospheric, Ocean, and Earth Sciences Carl Johnston Economics Robert Jonas Environmental Science and Policy R. Christian Jones Environmental Science and Policy United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 29 Faculty Research by UNGC Area, continued Scholar Name Affiliation HR L E AC Christopher Kennedy Environmental Science and Policy Mick Kicklighter Law James Kinter Atmospheric, Ocean, and Earth Sciences Barry Klinger Atmospheric, Ocean, and Earth Sciences James Kozlowski Recreation, Health, and Tourism Gary Kreps Communication Vemeru Krishnamurthy Physics, Astronomy, Computational Science Barry Kronenfeld Geography and Geoinformation Science Todd LaPorte School of Public Policy James Lawrey Environmental Science and Policy Qiliang Li Electrical and Computer Engineering Andrew Light Philosophy Thomas Lovejoy Environmental Science and Policy Jian Lu Atmospheric, Ocean, and Earth Sciences Terrence Lyons School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution Duhita Mahatma New Century College Allison McFarlane Environmental Science and Policy Edward Maibach Communication Peter Mandaville Public and International Affairs Frank Manheim School of Public Policy Jeffrey Mantz Sociology and Anthropology Eric Max McGlinchey Public and International Affairs Daniel Menascé Computer Science Doug Mose Chemistry and Biochemistry George Mushrush Chemistry and Biochemistry Susan Allen Nan School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution Elavie Ndura College of Education and Human Development Julia Nord Atmospheric, Ocean, and Earth Sciences Dimitrios Papaconstantopoulos Physics, Astronomy, Computational Science Minkyung “Min” Park Recreation, Health, and Tourism Chris Parsons Environmental Science and Policy Erin Peters College of Education and Human Development Esther Peters Environmental Science and Policy Christy Pichichero Modern and Classical Languages Christine Pommerening School of Public Policy John Qu Geography and Geoinformation Science Kenneth Reinert School of Public Policy Dennis Richie Social Work James Riggle School of Public Policy Ellen Rodgers Recreation, Health, and Tourism Sunny Harris Rome Social Work 30 George Mason University’s Global Citizenship Report 2013 Faculty Research by UNGC Area, continued Scholar Name Affiliation HR L E AC Hilton Root School of Public Policy Kathy Rowan Communication Tony Roshan Samara Sociology and Anthropology Edwin Schneider Atmospheric, Ocean, and Earth Sciences Paul Schopf Atmospheric, Ocean, and Earth Sciences John Schreifels Chemistry and Biochemistry Linda Seligmann Sociology and Anthropology Burl Self Geography and Geoinformation Science Lori Shelby Recreation, Health, and Tourism Louise Shelley School of Public Policy Howard Sheng Physics, Astronomy, Computational Science Jagadish Shukla Atmospheric, Ocean, and Earth Sciences Debra Shutika English Robert Simon Computer Science Dann Sklarew Environmental Science and Policy Carlos Sluzki Global and Community Health Cindy Smith New Century College/Environmental Science and Policy William Sommers Geography and Geoinformation Science Joao Sousa Computer Science Wayne Stalick Chemistry and Biochemistry Cristiana Stan Atmospheric, Ocean, and Earth Sciences Gregory Stanton School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution Anthony Stefanidis Geography and Geoinformation Science David Straus Atmospheric, Ocean, and Earth Sciences Donglian Sun Geography and Geoinformation Science Lee Talbot Environmental Science and Policy George Taylor Geography and Geoinformation Science Tojo Thatchenkerry School of Public Policy Albert Torzilli Environmental Science and Policy Sylvia Vitazkova New Century College Kathleen Wage Electrical and Computer Engineering Nigel Waters Geography and Geoinformation Science Janine Wedel School of Public Policy Duminda Wijesekera Computer Science Andrew Wingfield New Century College Thomas Wood New Century College Chaowie (Phil) Yang Geography and Geoinformation Science Ruixin Yang Geography and Geoinformation Science Wenli Yang Geography and Geoinformation Science United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 31 Research Centers with UNGC Areas Addressed Center Name Affiliation HR L E AC Ali Vural Ak Center for Global Islamic Studies College of Humanities and Social Sciences Center for Aerospace Policy Research School of Public Policy Center for Clean Water and Sustainable Technologies College of Science Center for Climate and Society College of Science Center for Climate Change Communication College of Humanities and Social Sciences Center for Earth Observing and Space Research College of Science Center for Global Ethics Philosophy Department Center for Global Policy School of Public Policy Center for Global Studies Office of Global and International Strategies Center for Infrastructure Protection and Homeland Security School of Law Center for International Education College of Education and Human Development Center for Justice, Law, and Society College of Humanities and Social Sciences Center for Narrative and Conflict Resolution School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution Center for Ocean-Land-Atmosphere Studies College of Science Center for Policy and Environment School of Public Policy Center for Recreation and Tourism Research and Policy College of Education and Human Development Center for Science and Technology Policy School of Public Policy Center for Smart Power Grids Volgenau School Center for Social Complexity Krasnow Institute for Advanced Study Center for Social Science Research College of Humanities and Social Sciences Center for the Study of Gender and Conflict School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution Center for the Study of Narrative and Conflict Resolution School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution Center for Transportation Policy, Operations and Logistics School of Public Policy Center for World Religions, Diplomacy, and Conflict Resolution School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution Center of Excellence in Command, Control, Communications, Volgenau School Computing, and Intelligence (C4I) Comprehensive Atmospheric Modeling Program College of Science Diversity Research and Action Center College of Education and Human Development Environmental Science and Technology Center College of Science Genocide Prevention Program School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution Geographic Information Science Center of Excellence College of Science Institute for Immigration Research College of Humanities and Social Sciences Institute for Philosophy and Public Policy Philosophy Department Mason Center for Conservation Studies CHSS and COS Sudan Task Group School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution Terrorism, Transnational Crime and Corruption Center School of Public Policy The Global Environment and Natural Resources Institute College of Science Transportation and Economic Development Research Center School of Public Policy 32 George Mason University’s Global Citizenship Report 2013 2012–13 Courses by UNGC Areas Course Name # of Students Professor(s) HR L E AC AVT 385—EcoArt 16 Mark Cooley CEIE 355—Environmental Engineering and Science 85 Liza Durant CEIE 450—Environmental Engineering Systems 41 Barry Liner CEIE 540—Water Supply and Distribution 47 Mathew Doyle CLIM 101—Global Warming: Weather, Climate, and Society 50 James Kinter, Gedish Shukla CLIM 711—Introduction to Atmospheric Dynamics 5 Jian Lu CLIM 712—Physical and Dynamical Oceanography 5 Bohua Huang CLIM 715—Numerical Simulations in Weather and Climate 4 Zafer Boybeyi CLIM 751—Predictability of Weather and Climate 4 David Straus, Jagadish Shukla CLIM 762—Statistical Methods in Climate Research 5 Timothy Delsole CLIM 991—Climate Dynamics Seminar 4 Barry Klinger COMM 660—Climate Change and Sustainability Communication 14 Ed Maibach Campaigns CONF 394–002/SOCI 395—Human Rights and Inequality 25 John Dale CONF 399-001/ENGH 310-001/NCLC 375-005/WMST 314-001 35 Paula Gilbert — Stories of Gender/Human Rights CONF 651—Conflict Analysis and Resolution for Collaborative 11 William Potapchuk Leadership in Community Planning CONF 665-001—CR In Humanitarian Crises 5 Cynthia Mazur CONF 682—Principles in Environmental Conflict Resolution and 5 William Hall Collaboration CONF 728—001 Human Rights Theory and Practice 24 Mark Goodale CONS 401—Conservation Theory 11 Stephanie Lessard-Pilon CONS 402—Applied Conservation 11 Stephanie Lessard-Pilon CONS 403—Ecology and Conservation Theory 15 Anneke DeLuycker CONS 404—Monitoring and Assessment of Biodiversity 15 James McNeil CONS 410—Human Dimensions of Conservation 11 Elizabeth Blume CONS 411—Science Communication for Conservation 15 Anneke DeLuycker CONS 490—Integrated Conservation Strategies 10 Stephanie Lessard-Pilon CONS 491—Comprehensive Conservation Planning 15 James McNeil CRIM 308—001 Human Rights and Justice 38 Maryellen Meymarian CRIM 405—Law and Justice around the World 129 Alan Swanson CRIM 490—004 Human Trafficking 61 Mark Harrington ECON 321—Economics of Labor 50 Bryan Caplan ECON 335—Environmental Economics 78 Thomas Rustici, David Thomas ECON 360—Economics of Developing Areas 196 Cheryl Litman, Jason Dunick, Noel Johnson ECON 361—Economic Development of Latin America 62 Carrie Meyer ECON 362—African Economic Development 50 Eskil Ullberg ECON 435—Economics of Energy 31 Micheal Webb United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 33 2012–13 Courses by UNGC, continued Course Name # of Students Professor(s) HR L E AC EDCI 573—Teaching Science in the Secondary School 31 Steven Burton EDCD 628-001—Counseling and Social Justice 28 Rita Chung EDLE 690—Using Research to Lead School Improvement 23 Scott Bauer EVPP 110—The Ecosphere: An Introduction to Environmental 554 Kim Largen Science I EVPP 111—The Ecosphere: An Introduction to Environmental 234 Kim Largen, Christopher Ruck Science II EVPP 201—Environment and You: Issues for the Twenty-First 37 Rita Peralta Century EVPP 318—Conservation Biology 27 Karin Schwartz EVPP 322—Business and Sustainability 20 Dann Sklarew EVPP 336—Human Dimensions of the Environment 40 Vivek Prasad, Dann Sklarew EVPP 337—Environmental Policy Making in Developing Countries 258 Younsung Kim, Chaitanya Ravi, Joseph Ransom, Robert Jonas, Debroah Copsick, Vivek Prasad EVPP 338—Economics of Environmental Policy 7 Christopher Kennedy EVPP 350—Freshwater Ecosystems 11 Kim de Mutsert EVPP 361/GOVT 361—Introduction to Environmental Policy 96 Peter Balint, Younsung Kim EVPP 362—Intermediate Environmental Policy 19 Yongsung Kim EVPP 363—Coastal Morphology/Processes 17 Randolf McBride EVPP 377—Applied Ecology 214 Lorolei Crear EVPP 378—Ecological Sustainability 10 Changwoo Ahn EVPP 419—Marine Mammal Biology/Conservation 45 Chris Parsons EVPP 421—Marine Conservation 35 Chris Parsons EVPP 430—Fundamentals of Environmental GIS 22 Germana Manca EVPP 432—Energy Policy 17 Chaitani Ravi EVPP 436—Human Dimensions of Global Climate Change 10 Vivek Prasad EVPP 445—Principles of Environmental Toxicology 3 Angela Lynch EVPP 451—Fungi and Ecosystems 14 Albert Torzilli EVPP 480—Sustainability in Action 15 Dann Sklarew EVPP 490— Environmental Conflict Resolution 18 Vivek Prasad EVPP 490— Tools and Techniques of International Development 8 Stephen Garon EVPP 490—Antarctic Ecology and Conservation 4 Chris Parsons EVPP 490—Mushrooms, Molds, and Mankind 7 Albert Torzilli EVPP 503—Field Mapping Techniques 15 Julia Nord, Lisa LaCivita EVPP 505— Energy Policy 4 Barry Klinger EVPP 505— Physical Oceanography 17 Chaitani Ravi EVPP 505—Soil Science 11 Julia Nord EVPP 506—Science of the Environment I 5 David Allen 34 George Mason University’s Global Citizenship Report 2013 2012–13 Courses by UNGC, continued Course Name # of Students Professor(s) HR L E AC EVPP 507—Science of the Environment II 10 David Allen EVPP 518—Conservation Biology 13 Rebecca Forkner EVPP 521—Marine Conservation 35 Chris Parsons EVPP 524—Introduction to Environmental and Resource Economics 13 Christopher Kennedy EVPP 531—Land-Use Modeling Techniques/Applications 13 Qing Tian EVPP 550—Watershed Ecology/Management 14 Chris Jones EVPP 581—Estuarine and Coastal Ecology 15 Kim de Mutsert EVPP 607—Fundamentals of Ecology 26 Joris van der Lam EVPP 622—Management of Wild Living Resources 17 Lee Talbot EVPP 623—Translating Environmental Policy into Action 12 Lee Talbot EVPP 635—Environment and Society 9 Vivek Prased EVPP 641—Environmental Science and Public Policy 18 Robert Jonas EVPP 642/PUAD 642—Environmental Policy 18 Peter Balint EVPP 648—Population Ecology 18 Larry Rockwood EVPP 650—Environmental Analysis and Modeling 9 Changwoo Ahn EVPP 651—Multivariate Data Analysis for Ecology and 14 Chris Jones Environmental Science EVPP 652—The Hydrosphere 12 Paul Houser EVPP 670—Environmental Law 14 Brett Hartl EVPP 692—Animal and Conservation Ethics 14 Dann Sklarew EVPP 692—Community Ecology 15 Chris Parsons EVPP 692—Controversy in Fisheries Science 10 Kim de Mutsert EVPP 692— Hot Topics in Marine Conservation 9 David Luther EVPP 692— Managing Our Planet 13 Chris Parsons EVPP 741—Climate Change Politics/Policy 17 Todd LaPorte EVPP 741—Challenge of Biodiversity 14 Thomas Lovejoy EVPP 745—Environmental Toxicology 7 Robert Jonas FRLN 330—Dirty Wars, Resistence, and Memory in Latin America 13 Colleen Sweet GCH 560—Environmental Health 51 Rebecca Dawson GCH 602-001—Violence and Its Impact on Health 13 Carlos Sluzki GEOL 305—Environmental Geology 7 Richard Diecchio GEOL 420—Earth Science and Policy 13 Theodore Wynn GGS 102—Physical Geography 168 Germana Manca, Patricia Boudinot GGS 103—Human Geography 125 Patracia Boudinot, Richard Medina GGS 121—Dynamic Atmosphere and Hydrosphere 21 Guido Cervone GGS 302—Global Environmental Hazards 20 Guido Cervone GGS 303—Conservation of Resources and Environment 41 Maction Komwa United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 35 2012–13 Courses by UNGC, continued Course Name # of Students Professor(s) HR L E AC GGS 304—Population Dimensions of Global Change 27 David Wong GGS 307—Sustainable Development 9 Allison Richards GGS 312—Physical Climatology 7 Paul Houser GGS 314—Extreme and Unusual Weather 10 Zafer Boybeyi GGS 319—Air Pollution 13 Zafer BoyBeyi GOVT 444-005—Human Rights/Transitional Justice 18 Jo-Marie Burt GOVT 445-001—Human Rights 22 Joseph Cochanek GOVT 490-003—Democracy and Social Justice 32 Hazel McFerson HNRS 131—Contemporary Society in Multiple Perspectives 49 Pia Moller HNRS 131—Contemporary Society in Multiple Perspectives 48 Laurie Robison, John Woolsey HNRS 230—Cross Cultural Perspectives 47 Jo-Marie Burt, Ben Cowan HNRS 240—Reading the Past 24 Steven Scott-Harris HNRT 228—Scientific Thought and Process 83 George Taylor, Harold Geller LAW 313-001—Refugee and Asylum Law 10 Lindsay Harris NCLC 102—Global Networks and Communities – Food and 172 Michael Gilmore, John Sovereignty O’Connor, Zachary Petersen, Pamela Scott, John Saddler, Beatriz Cuartas, Suzanne Smith NCLC 103—Human Creativity: Science and Art 132 Elizabeth Freeman, Slyvia Vitazkova, Thomas Wood, Pamela Scott, Basak Durgun, Savannah Fetterolf NCLC 210—Sustainable World 35 Andrew Wingfield NCLC 304—Social Movements and Community Activism 27 Derek Sweetman NCLC 314—Conflict, Trauma and Healing 26 Al Fuertes NCLC 334—Environmental Justice 27 Thomas Carter NCLC 337—002 Social Justice Consciousness 26 Paul Gorski NCLC 348—Digital Futures 24 Lesley Smith NCLC 375—Environmental Law and Policy 16 Thomas Carter NCLC 375—International Human Rights 12 Cher Chen NCLC 395—Beekeeping and Sustainability 12 German Perilla NCLC 401—Conservation Biology 19 Michael Gabel, Thomas Wood NCLC 402—People and Plants: Sustenance, Ceremony, and 23 Michael Gilmore Sustainability NCLC 404 —Ethics and Leadership 24 Nicholas Lennon NCLC 416 —Refugee and Internal Displacement 25 Al Fuertes NUTR 630 —Global Nutrition 16 Constance Gewa PHYS 331—Physics of Renewable Energy 15 Robert Ehrlich PHYS 385—Materials Science with Applications to Renewable 8 Krishnamurthy Vemuru Energy 36 George Mason University’s Global Citizenship Report 2013 2012–13 Courses by UNGC, continued Course Name # of Students Professor(s) HR L E AC PRLS 300—People with Nature 15 Dewey Kutruff PRLS 302—Park Management and Operations 6 Dewey Kutruff PRLS 316—Outdoor Education and Leadership 26 Susan Johnson PRLS 362—Cultural and Environmental Interpretation 29 Susan Johnson PRLS 402—Human Behavior in Natural Environments 7 Nancy Chamberlain PRLS 501—Introduction to Natural Resource Law 15 James Kozlowski PRLS 531—Natural Resources Recreation Planning 2 Brenda Wiggins PRLS 670—Environmetnal Law 8 James Kozlowski PUBP 710-001—Democratic Transitions and Democracy Assistance 21 Jack Goldstone PUBP 710-005—Governance/Policy/Climate Change 32 Todd LaPorte PUBP 710-012—Labor Markets and Policy 12 John Earle PUBP 736-001—International Migration Policy 17 David Hart PUBP 763-001—Illicit Trade 19 Louise Shelley PUBP 764-001—Transnational Crime and Corruption 18 Louise Shelley RELI 375—Qu’ran and Hadith 13 Maria Dakake SOCI 307—Social Movements/Political Protest 17 Lester Kurtz SOCI 308—Race/Ethnicity in a Changing World 28 Dennis Rutledge SOCI 320—Social Structure and Globalization 43 Johanna Bockman SOCI 395—Human Rights and Inequality 10 John Dale SOCW 351-001, 002, DL1—Social Policy/Social Justice 87 Ina Fernandez, Jane Brewster SOCW 351-001—DL1 Social Policy/Social Justice 43 Patrica Balasco-Barr, Kimberly Haywood SOCW 417—Integrative Methods for Social Action and Social 46 Dennis Richie, Catherine Change Tompkins, Emily Ihara SOCW 475—Selected Topics: Human Rights 24 Emily Ihara SPAN 481-001—Latinos, Gender and Human Rights 13 Ricardo Perez TOUR 312—Ecotourism 14 Berry Feil TOUR 340—Sustainable Tourism 76 Peter Dieke TOUR 540—Sustainable Tourism Management 33 Abena Aidoo WMST 300—Social Dynamics of Family Violence 15 Angela Hattery WMST 600—Sexuality/Race/Immigration 13 Rachel Lewis United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 37
