2012 Corporate Sustainability Report OUR VALUES Hess Values set the framework and establish the ethical standards by which we conduct our business. Integrity. We are committed to the highest level of integrity in all our relationships. Integrity People. We are committed to attracting, retaining and energizing People Performance the best people by investing in their professional development and providing them with challenging and rewarding opportunities for Value Social personal growth. Creation Responsibility Performance. We are committed to a culture of performance that Independent demands and rewards outstanding results throughout our business. Spirit Value Creation. We are committed to creating shareholder value based on sustained financial performance and long term profitable growth. Social Responsibility. We are committed to meeting the highest standards of corporate citizenship by protecting the health and safety of our employees, safeguarding the environment and creating a long lasting, positive impact on the communities where we do business. Independent Spirit. We are committed to preserving the special qualities and unique personality that have made us Ca successful C+ independent B B+ enterprise. A A+ Mandatory Self Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Declared Third Party Checked Optional GRI Checked REPORT APPLICATION LEVELS C C+ B B+ A A+ Mandatory Self ✓ Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Declared This is our Communication on Progress Third in implementing the principles of the Party Checked ✓ United Nations Global Compact. Optional GRI We welcome feedback on its contents. Checked Note: Following a review by ERM CVS, our external verifier, Hess is self-declaring a GRI Application level of A+ in conformance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. VERIFICATION ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) conducted representative site visits, reviewed source data and our internal data collection and aggregation system and conducted interviews to ensure the information presented is a reliable representation of our performance. An ERM CVS assurance statement has been included at the end of this report. ERM CVS also provided an opinion on the GRI Application Level. On the cover: Hess North Dakota Drilling Operations 10 22 TABLE OF 30 CONTENTS 2 Message from the CEO 4 Progress and Goals 6 About Hess 8 Approach to Reporting 38 10 How We Operate 22 Community and Social Performance 30 Safety and Health 38 Global Workforce 44 Climate Change and Energy 44 52 Environment 60 Assets in Transition 63 Performance Data 67 GRI Content Index 70 ERM CVS Assurance Statement 52 71 Awards and Recognition 2 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Sustainable business practices are essential to ensuring our license to operate, managing risks, operating efficiently and developing growth opportunities. John B. Hess Chief Executive Officer Hess is committed to help meet the world’s growing energy Stakeholder expectations are rising for the energy industry to needs while making a positive impact on the communities increase transparency, promote human rights, minimize adverse where we do business. We strive each day to be a trusted environmental and socioeconomic impacts, combat corruption, energy partner that ensures the safety of our workforce and responsibly manage suppliers and provide clean energy options. host communities and protects and preserves the environment. These issues present challenges and opportunities for our Sustainable business practices are essential to ensuring our industry and our business. license to operate, managing risks, operating efficiently and Across our company in 2012, we engaged in intensive efforts developing growth opportunities. to drive operational excellence, capital discipline, risk Our company’s long term vision for the future is based on the management, innovation, trusted partnerships and the Hess Values of Integrity, People, Performance, Value Creation, professional development of our people. We further integrated Social Responsibility and Independent Spirit. We operationalize environmental and social considerations into our enterprise risk our Values through our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, management, new country entry and investment processes. which guides the way we do business and helps us develop We established the role of Chief Compliance Officer to improve trusted relationships with our stakeholders, including communities, our compliance related controls and incorporate best practices. employees, customers, business partners and shareholders. Climate change is a global challenge that must be met with Earlier this year we announced the final phase of a strategy that collective action. We have spoken openly about the need for will transform Hess into a pure play exploration and production United States and world leaders to work with industry to company. This strategy, which includes fully exiting our develop comprehensive energy and climate policies that will downstream businesses, will result in a portfolio of higher growth, help meet future energy demand and reduce greenhouse gas lower risk assets. We believe we will have the financial flexibility to emissions. Transparent and equitable carbon price signals pursue growth at the same time that we increase current returns should be given serious consideration as the domestic and to shareholders and generate significant future value. global economies recover from the sustained recession. As an energy provider, we help play a critical role in economic In the United States, the dual application of horizontal drilling development. As living standards rise in emerging economies, and hydraulic fracturing has made the production of natural world demand for fossil fuels continues to grow. While gas and crude oil from low permeability geologic formations alternative and renewable energy is needed and should be economically feasible, which has significantly improved the encouraged to help meet long term energy demand and reduce nation’s energy security. The challenge is to produce this carbon emissions, hydrocarbons will continue to supply the energy responsibly and transparently. Shale gas has resulted majority of demand for the foreseeable future. in relatively low natural gas prices, lowering the costs of both raw materials and energy. Natural gas continues to capture a 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3 growing share of electricity generation and industrial and our security contractors to communicate our ethics, human rights commercial energy demand. Combined with improvements in and social responsibility expectations to their employees and energy efficiency and growth in renewable energy, U.S. energy subcontractors, as well as demonstrate compliance. related carbon emissions are now below 2005 levels. We continued to implement our five year climate change We participate in and support key international multi-stakeholder strategy based on a 2008 baseline. We achieved our 50 frameworks that inform and guide our approach to transparency, percent combined flaring reduction target for Algeria and human rights and the environment. These include the United Equatorial Guinea ahead of schedule. While we will not achieve Nations Global Compact, the Voluntary Principles on Security our five year net equity greenhouse gas emissions intensity and Human Rights and the Extractive Industries Transparency target due to significant portfolio changes, we expect absolute Initiative. We endorse and uphold the international standards set emissions to be three to four million tonnes lower in 2013 out in the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the than in 2008. In 2012 we integrated the cost of carbon in all International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental significant future capital investment decisions, began planning Principles and Rights at Work. for our next generation climate change strategy, and focused on reducing flaring in our operations in North Dakota. We aim Overall workforce safety performance at Hess improved by to be transparent about our climate change programs and 13 percent, our best result ever, and we further enhanced our performance, and we were included in the Carbon Disclosure process safety program. The programs we introduced in 2012 Project’s Global 500 and S&P leadership indices for the fourth in response to the deterioration in contractor safety performance straight year for the quality of our disclosures. We also in 2011 have proven effective in addressing the challenges we developed a corporate policy on climate change and energy faced in our growing United States shale energy business. that will be introduced in 2013. Tragically, we suffered two separate fatalities in 2012, our first since 2008. These fatalities serve to remind us that our work to Essential to Hess’ future success is a strong culture and high keep our people safe can never stop as we continue to strive to quality workforce that will continue to innovate, lead and learn. eliminate all accidents from our business. In 2012 work teams gathered information, conducted focus groups and externally benchmarked other companies to inform Strategic social investment advances our goal of making a these improvement initiatives as part of a multiyear planning measurable, positive social impact where we operate and is process. Areas examined by these teams include the Hess a valuable tool for community and stakeholder engagement. culture, the Hess environment for innovation, attracting and We focus on education and health because we rely on a retaining our talented workforce, diversity and inclusion, and the well-educated and highly skilled workforce. In 2012 we ways in which we promote learning, development and leadership. invested $40 million in education, health and community development projects in more than 20 countries. We launched Throughout this report, we describe our short and medium term a Hess Scholars program in Ghana to increase access to goals and long term vision, our challenges and opportunities secondary education for promising low-income students. In and our performance. With the ongoing support of our Equatorial Guinea we concluded the first phase of our program communities, employees, customers, business partners and to improve the quality of primary education and prepared to investors, we are confident that we are building a sustainable launch a program to improve education for secondary school enterprise that will continue to make a positive impact on the students. In North Dakota, we started Succeed 2020, a world around us. program to improve school to career transition. We approved a new Hess Security and Human Rights Policy in early 2013. This policy formalizes expectations that our security providers adhere to applicable international law enforcement principles, international humanitarian law and international human rights law in a manner that is consistent with the Voluntary John B. Hess Principles. We put new contract clauses in place that require Chief Executive Officer 4 PROGRESS AND GOALS PROGRESS AND GOALS It is an ongoing challenge for our industry and our company against a 2008 baseline. The higher carbon intensity of to meet society’s growing need for energy in a profitable way exploration and production operations, combined with that is environmentally responsible, socially sensitive and reduced production and throughput from asset sales and safe. At Hess we recognize that non-technical risks (NTR) facility closures, mean that our normalized target is no longer associated with communities, stakeholder relationships achievable. However, since 2008 we have reduced absolute and public perception can impact project outcomes and GHG emissions (equity basis) by 26 percent (2.8 million business success. The sustainability goals and targets we tonnes) through 2012. have established indicate our commitment to improve performance across a range of material issues and address 2013 GOALS challenges facing Hess today. We strive for continuous improvement and top quartile performance. In 2013 we will expand our corporate 2012 PROGRESS sustainability goals beyond climate change and energy to During 2012 we took steps to improve how we understand include policies, processes and metrics across our business and manage NTR in our day-to-day operations. Early in that will help to address the material sustainability issues facing the year we conducted a gap analysis of our operations Hess and the oil and gas industry at large. These goals build against increasing stakeholder expectations and expanding on our progress to date and are informed by our 2012 gap voluntary reporting requirements. Using the results, we analysis, our stakeholder materiality assessment and valuation formed an internal cross-functional task force to develop of environmental and social risk factors for capital projects. formal action plans based on their impact to long term organizational strategy. Policies and Guidelines To drive consistency and continuous improvement in 2013, Policies and Guidelines we will begin rolling out our new Global Standards and will To manage these risks more effectively, we develop and begin to develop a standardized process for conducting implement policies and standards across our operations. environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs), Examples include a new corporate policy on Security due diligence, and baseline assessments. We will further and Human Rights, an improved contractor management enhance process safety management by fully aligning with program and development of guidelines for planning industry guidance on process safety indicators. stakeholder engagement at all project sites. Processes Processes To reduce our flaring rates over the long term, by 2014 we We continue to enhance systems for managing potential will complete four gas gathering projects to increase capture impacts across each project’s life cycle. We have increased at our largest shale energy assets in the Bakken formation. the number of high level risk assessments conducted across To mitigate long term social risk, we are piloting a grievance our assets. We also introduced a new country entry process mechanism and updating our reporting system to track and that incorporates a full assessment of NTR into country entry address community incidents. decision making. Metrics Metrics We will evaluate setting a new GHG reduction target for In 2009 we established a greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 2014-2019, taking into account the restructuring of Hess intensity target (equity basis) of a 20 percent reduction into a pure play exploration and production company. 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5 TARGET DISCUSSION SUSTAINABILITY GOALS AND TARGETS DATE (PAGE #) How We Operate Begin phased rollout and implementation of new Global Standards 2013 4, 35, 55 Continue to integrate sustainability into enterprise risk functions 2013 13-14 Community and Social Performance Pilot test a grievance mechanism at one of our assets and roll out site-specific 2013 27 grievance mechanism guidance Update our companywide incident reporting system to include a mechanism for 2014 25-27 reporting community incidents Further integrate human rights and freedom of association risk considerations into the supply chain via prequalification screening and human rights clauses in contracts and 2014 27 investment agreements Pilot a Security and Human Rights Toolkit for country managers 2013 29 Safety and Health Further develop and deepen leadership engagement 2013 31 Enhance process safety management and fully align with industry guidance on 2013 34-35 process safety indicators Aim for top quartile personal safety performance as measured by total recordable 2013 30-32 injury/illness rate Strengthen contractor management 2013 32-34 Global Workforce Continue multiyear Hess Culture initiative by defining goals with respect to leadership 2013 40-41 behaviors, performance management and professional development Climate Change and Energy Achieve an absolute GHG emissions reduction of 3 million to 4 million tonnes 2013 45-46 (equity basis) Complete four gas gathering projects in North Dakota to monetize associated gas 2014 47-48 and reduce flaring Update five year GHG and energy efficiency strategy and targets 2014 45-46 Environment Develop a global, standardized process for conducting ESIAs, due diligence and 2013 54 baseline assessments Conduct two asset-level reviews to determine performance against the Environmentally 2013 55 Friendly Drilling Scorecard 6 ABOUT HESS ABOUT HESS Hess has made significant progress in our transformation from an integrated oil and gas company to a focused, higher growth, pure play exploration and production (E&P) company. In 2012 the company operated in the E&P and the Marketing and Refining (M&R) segments. E&P is involved in the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. In M&R we purchase, market and trade refined petroleum products, natural gas Hess 2012 Portfolio of Operations and electricity. Exploration Production Development *As of December 31, 2012 EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION Exploration Our E&P strategy has shifted from high impact exploration to development of shale resources, Exploration locations include offshore Ghana and the Kurdistan exploitation of existing discoveries and a more Region of Iraq. focused and higher growth exploration program. Developments 2012 Highlights Developments are underway at several  55 million barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) were assets, including multi-phased converted from proved undeveloped reserves to developments at South Arne in Denmark, proved developed reserves Tubular Bells in the Gulf of Mexico, the  North Dakota year-over-year production increased North Malay Basin in Malaysia and the 87 percent to 56,000 BOE/D Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area (JDA) in the Gulf of Thailand.  Four successful exploration wells were drilled on the Deepwater Tano Cape Three Points block, offshore Ghana Production Production operations are ongoing Proved Reserves (Million BOE) globally. Key production assets include Asia 280 the Bakken in North Dakota, Okume and Africa 257 Ceiba in Equatorial Guinea, South Arne, Europe 476 Valhall and JDA. United States 540 406,000 10.3 141% 1,553 BOE/D Total Net Years Replaced Million BOE Hydrocarbons Reserve Life Production Proved Reserves Produced 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 7 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS Economic Contributions $ Millions In 2012 our direct economic contributions Capital and Exploration 1% < 1% 2% < 1% Expenditures $8,265 exceeded $20 billion, including capital and Recordable Supplier Spend 4% exploration expenditures, payments to suppliers, 5% $8,020 Income Tax Expense $1,675 wages and benefits, taxes and royalties, interest, 8% Wages and Benefits (U.S.) 40% dividends and social investments. $1,045 Royalties and Other Payments $920 Interest Expense $419 39% Dividends Paid $171 Social Investments $40 Carbon and NOx Taxes $6 MARKETING AND REFINING Retail Marketing In 2012 Hess operated terminals and retail gasoline stations, most of which include convenience stores. 1,361 gasoline stations in 16 states in the Eastern U.S. and the District of Columbia Through February 2013, Hess also manufactured refined petroleum products. Refining and Terminals In January 2012 HOVENSA, a 50 percent owned A fluid catalytic cracking facility in Port joint venture in the U.S. Virgin Islands, shut down Reading, N.J., 19 U.S. East Coast terminals its refinery in St. Croix. In February 2013 we ceased and one St. Lucia terminal with combined capacity of 38 million barrels operations at our Port Reading facility and announced our intention to sell our terminal network. Energy Marketing In March 2013 the company announced its intention Leading energy marketer in the Eastern to fully exit all downstream businesses, including U.S., supplying fuel oil, natural gas and electricity to more than 21,000 retail, energy marketing and energy trading. Until commercial, industrial and small that process is complete, we will continue our business customers long-standing commitment to our customers to deliver a secure product supply, competitive prices Electricity Operations and high quality service. 512-Megawatt (MW) joint venture Bayonne Energy Center serving New York City $1,123 389,000 2,300,000 4,500 Million in BOE/D Refined MCF/D* Natural MW-RTC* Convenience Petroleum Gas Sales Electricity Sales Store Sales Product Sales *Thousand cubic feet/day *Megawatt – round the clock 8 APPROACH TO REPORTING APPROACH TO REPORTING This report provides information on our sustainability policies, programs and performance in 2012. Additional sustainability information is available at hess.com/sustainability. Financial and governance information, including our annual report, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Form 10-K filing and our proxy statement, is available at hess.com/investors. All financial data are reported in U.S. dollars. REPORTING STANDARDS third party activities where Hess has overall responsibility as specified in contractual arrangements. Health, safety and We report our sustainability performance on an annual environment data for joint ventures where we have significant basis in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative influence, as defined by the GRI’s guidance on boundary (GRI) G3.1/Oil & Gas Sector Supplement guidelines to an setting, are reported separately in the performance data A+ application level. We also follow the IPIECA, American table at the end of this report. These joint ventures include Petroleum Institute and International Oil and Gas Producers SonaHess (Algeria) and Carigali Hess Malaysia/Thailand Association Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Joint Development Area Block A-18. For our former Sustainability Reporting. A GRI Content Index, crosssubsidiary in Russia, Samara-Nafta, we include net equity referenced with the IPIECA indicators and the 10 Principles greenhouse gas (GHG) data and social investment spending. of the United Nations Global Compact (UN Global Compact), is provided at the end of this report. We report some quantitative environment, health and safety data on a normalized basis to facilitate year-on-year BOUNDARY SETTING comparisons. We report GHG emissions on an operated basis The scope of this report includes principal facilities and for Hess operated assets, and on a net equity share basis for assets operated by Hess Corporation and its subsidiaries operated facilities, joint ventures and non-operated facilities in and joint ventures through 2012, unless otherwise indicated. which we hold an interest. Data for the joint venture Bayonne Data presented are gross figures from operated facilities and Energy Center, which began operation in June 2012, will be reported once a full year of data is available. Materiality Determination 1 12 53 4 6 Our sustainability report describes the company’s 14 10 8 7 2 strategy and performance regarding significant 11 9 13 topics for Hess and our key stakeholders, including 15 employees, suppliers, customers and consumers, External Awareness 17 Low Priority 16 18 Non-Material communities, shareholders, governmental and Medium non-governmental organizations and industry Priority peers. Topics were chosen and prioritized through High Priority a materiality assessment process that identifies Company Impact issues for reporting based on the level of internal 1. Shale Energy 10. Energy and external stakeholder interest, relevance to our 2. Governance 11. Human Rights operations and level of potential risk and impact. 3. Process Safety 12. Public Policy 4. Climate Change and GHG Emissions 13. Suppliers 5. Water 14. Effluents and Waste 6. Communities 15. Anti-corruption and Bribery 7. Social Risk 16. Diversity and Inclusion 8. Compliance 17. Workforce Training and Development 9. Enterprise Risk Management 18. Biodiversity 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 9 RESTATEMENTS AND ADDITIONS data. Due to rounding, individual numbers in the charts and tables may not sum to the total amounts shown. There have been no material restatements of information from our previous reports. EXTERNAL ASSURANCE INTERNAL QUALITY ASSURANCE ERM Certification and Verification Services conducts annual third party assurance of our environment, health, safety and We have internal documentation and information systems in social responsibility data management systems to ensure place to promote consistent and reliable data collection and consistent and objective data collection and reporting of our aggregation from all of our Hess operated and joint venture sustainability performance. They also undertake a third party assets. We conduct corporate and business level Quality check of our self-declared GRI G3.1 Application Level. Their Assurance/Quality Control reviews and validation to evaluate Independent Assurance Statement is provided on page 70 the accuracy and reliability of facility specific and aggregated of this report. Our Commitment to Transparency and Performance We are committed to transparent communication about our environment, health, safety and social responsibility performance. To enhance our reporting against evolving external expectations, in 2012 we conducted a gap assessment of our 2010 reporting against new GRI G3.1 and Oil & Gas Sector Supplement (OGSS) guidelines. In line with our assessment, the diagram below indicates our key areas for development, when we seek to report on our progress, and the anticipated level of effort to do so. Level of Effort: Low Medium High 2012 2013 2014  Increased our understanding  Include international employees  Report on significant indirect Economic of infrastructure investments in total employee wages and economic impacts for local benefit benefits (currently U.S. only)  Develop a local content policy  Communicated and refined  Begin process of updating  Develop a standardized process our flare reduction strategy our five year GHG and energy for conducting Environmental  Furthered our understanding efficiency strategy and targets and Social Impact Assessments, Environment of significant transportation due diligence, and baseline impacts assessments  Communicate new GHG and energy strategy  Released new corporate policy  Pilot test a grievance  Integrate human rights into on Security and Human Rights mechanism supplier management Human Rights  Developed a Security and  Pilot the Security and Human  Complete corporate-wide Human Rights Toolkit and Rights Toolkit rollout of human rights stakeholder mapping tool training  Improved contractor  Report the percentage of  Further our talent management program employees receiving reviews development programs Labor Practices using new career management system  Further clarified the  Pilot an External Sustainability  Update reporting systems to elements of our no-politicalAdvisory Panel include community incidents Society contributions policy and reported on our adherence to this standard HOW WE OPERATE Bakken Multi-well Pad, North Dakota W e are committed to Our long term vision and six core Hess Values provide a foundation for how we do business. The Hess Code of deliver long term Business Conduct and Ethics (Code of Conduct) and sustainable value to all of our our Social Responsibility, Human Rights and Environment, Health and Safety policies build on our values to define shareholders, meeting the highest our internal expectations for sustainable management standards of corporate citizenship and performance. and creating a long lasting positive We are evolving our Management System Framework in response to changes in the industry, stakeholder impact on the communities where expectations and our evolving strategy and portfolio. we do business. We acknowledge that there are always opportunities for improvement. We are in the early stages of developing and implementing an enhanced framework of policies and standards to formalize corporate expectations and accountabilities and drive an enterprise-wide rigorous and systematic approach to environment, health, safety and social risk management. This systematic approach is consistent with broadly recognized international standards and guidelines that focus on managing health, personal and process safety, and social and environmental risks. We expect in 2013 to begin applying the Management System Framework and 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 11 the upgraded standards. Environment and safety ETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT performance metrics are also components of the We recently revised and updated our Code of Conduct, bonus formula for executives and employees. which sets the standard for how we operate, to explicitly Internal reviews and audits and third party assurance align with the Hess Values and reflect new regulations and guide our conformance with internal requirements, societal expectations. The Code of Conduct is publicly compliance with legal and other requirements and available at hess.com/codeofconduct. disclosure of reliable information to the company’s The Code of Conduct describes the business conduct directors and stakeholders. In keeping with a behaviors that Hess expects of its employees, officers, precautionary approach, identified risks are evaluated directors and contractors. In 2012 we distributed the new and mitigation plans are developed and implemented. Code of Conduct throughout the company with a sign-andHess supports international voluntary initiatives to respect return requirement. We expect that our suppliers, agents human rights, protect the environment and encourage and business partners will follow similar principles when financial transparency across our operations. We endorse working for Hess and its subsidiaries. and support the United Nations Global Compact, the The Hess anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy, Executive Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, the Directive 26 (ED26), aligns with applicable anti-bribery and Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, the United anti-corruption laws. These include the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Practices Act (FCPA) and the U.K. Bribery Act. The Code of the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Conduct has been translated for each of our countries of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. operation outside the U.S. We also participate in several sector-specific and multiIn 2012 there were no legal actions, fines or sanctions stakeholder associations. This enables us to learn from relating to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, anti-competitive sector peers and others. It also allows us to grow internal behavior or antitrust or monopoly laws or regulations. capacity and engage with external stakeholders. The company takes disciplinary actions for violations of Global Compliance Organization Our compliance policies and procedures all stem from the Code of Conduct. In 2012 Hess added a Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) position to strengthen our Global Compliance To continuously improve compliance controls and Program. The Global Compliance Program embrace best practices, our Compliance organization establishes, maintains and enforces policies, addresses three key areas: Enterprise Programs, procedures, processes and initiatives to prevent Internal Investigations and Anti-Bribery/Anti-Corruption. and detect compliance violations. Its aim The group expects to increase engagement in 2013, is to promote an organizational culture that providing expanded online training, as well as targeted encourages commitment to ethical conduct and training for specific internal organizations to ensure compliance with the law. The CCO reports to our greater knowledge and global compliance. Enhanced General Counsel and briefs the Audit Committee tracking and reporting mechanisms for employees of the Hess Board of Directors. will also promote greater access and transparency. 12 HOW WE OPERATE the Code of Conduct, including termination of employment or services. There were no substantiated allegations of corruption in 2012. Training and Audit The Hess audit team systematically conducts annual companywide anti-corruption risk assessments to determine our potential exposure to corruption and identify employees who could benefit from additional anti-corruption training. An introduction to the Code of Conduct is part of our onboarding process for non-Retail and salaried employees. Onboarding also includes anti-corruption training. We provide ED26 anti-bribery and anti-corruption training to employees based on their job responsibilities and countries of operation. In 2012 the company provided classroom anti-corruption training in accordance with our FCPA audit and training policy, which included training for approximately 20 percent of relevant managers and 20 percent of relevant non-managers. Additional anti-corruption training on the Wellhead Platform A, Offshore Pangkah, Indonesia FCPA and U.K. Bribery Act is scheduled for 2013. Employees who in good faith report known or suspected Hess senior leaders and employees of foreign operations violations of company policy or make a complaint are are required to annually review and sign off on ED26, the protected from retaliation. We thoroughly, confidentially and FCPA, U.K. Bribery Act and the Code of Conduct. promptly investigate allegations related to the Code of Conduct or potential violations of law or company policy. Disciplinary Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Audit and Training actions range from counseling and formal correction action Frequency (Years) plans to termination of employment or services. Country CPI* Audit Training 5.0-10.0 3 3 Political Contributions Hess policies prohibit political contributions using corporate 3.0-4.9 1-2 2 funds, whether in cash or in-kind, even if the laws of certain <3.0 1 1 jurisdictions may permit them. In 2012 there were a handful *T  ransparency International’s Corruption Perception Index (CPI) is of political contributions made by Hess employees using one of the determining factors for country-specific training and audit frequency. corporate funds, against our policy. Hess is addressing this through increased efforts to educate employees on compliance with ED26 policies. Confidential Hotline The Hess confidential hotline, managed by an independent Our Code of Conduct and our anti-corruption and antithird party, includes both telephone and web based reporting bribery policy, ED26, prohibit the use of Hess facilities or capabilities. Employees, business partners and customers property for campaign activities. We do not make payments can report allegations of Code of Conduct violations and directly or indirectly to influence the outcome of ballot workplace concerns in more than 12 languages. measures. Because our policies prohibit political 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13 contributions, there are no managers in charge of related but were not the operator, including Azerbaijan, Norway spending decisions, or independent audits. The Chief and Peru, we complied with the disclosure practices of the Compliance Officer will oversee enterprise programs to operating company, in addition to complying with country report on non-compliance on our Code of Conduct going laws and regulations. forward. The work of the corporate compliance group will be To comply with EITI revenue reporting and disclosure reported on an annual basis to the Audit Committee of the requirements in the countries where we do business, Hess Hess Board of Directors. discloses requested payments based on accounts audited It is the company’s policy not to coerce political contributions to international standards. from employees, directly or indirectly reimburse an employee Hess attended the 2012 EITI plenary meeting in Ottawa, for a political contribution or channel a contribution through Ontario and plans to attend the EITI plenary in 2013 in an employee to disguise its origin. Hess does not have an Sydney, Australia. employee funded PAC. Employees wishing to engage in the political process may do so as private citizens. We annually report and confirm our adherence to our policies New Country Entry on corporate political spending to the public. In 2012 we implemented a formalized country risk For more information, please refer to the Training and Audit and assessment process to enhance the quality of Global Compliance Organization sections in this report and our information we review before engaging in E&P Code of Conduct online at hess.com/codeofconduct. operations in a new country or region. Revenue Transparency As part of the process, Hess subject matter Hess supports revenue transparency through participation experts provide background on the legal, social, environmental, commercial and compliance risks of in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), a operating in the subject country. We evaluate this voluntary multi-stakeholder initiative that includes oil and information at key decision points. In 2012 we mining companies, governments, civil society groups, followed the new process to evaluate our potential international non-governmental organizations and investors. entry into three new countries. As a Supporting Company of the EITI, Hess endorses the initiative’s objective to improve governance through The key social risks now addressed during our new transparency of company payments to governments. country entry evaluation include but are not limited to indigenous peoples’ rights, sources of existing We support the EITI’s efforts to attract more countries conflicts and country reputation for implementing to the initiative. In past years we participated in the EITI the State Duty to Protect Human Rights. The current in Equatorial Guinea (EG), whose candidacy to the process includes a review of expert opinions from initiative was not successful. We support EG’s efforts to governmental sources such as the U.S. State improve revenue transparency. During 2012 we met Department, as well as leading non-governmental with the World Bank and International Monetary Fund organizations. We also conduct a high level review (IMF) to discuss their work with Equatorial Guinea on of media reports. transparency initiatives. Our country risk assessments help us understand the potential risks that can impact our project, as As an operating company of record, we support the EITI well as the risks our project might present to local in Indonesia, which is a Candidate country that is area communities. As there is a cost to mitigating progressing toward compliant status. In EITI Compliant or risks, the exercise also informs project economics. Candidate countries where we had equity interests in 2012 14 HOW WE OPERATE ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT the Conference Board, the Corporate Council on Africa, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the 2012 U.S. Global Our company’s evolving enterprise risk management program Leadership Conference and the Business Roundtable. is helping us identify and evaluate a range of key potential business risks, including those driven by social, safety and Within IPIECA we are represented on the Executive environmental factors. At Hess, asset leaders attend risk Committee and participate in the biodiversity, climate change management workshops where one of the goals is to identify reporting and social responsibility working groups. We are business risks and their underlying drivers. Once we identify also represented on the greenhouse gas initiatives, water, a risk, leaders evaluate possible approaches to develop supply chain and human rights task forces, the occupational effective plans that recognize and address potential gaps health committee and the strategic planning group. and issues. As a result, we are better able to protect and enhance the value of our company and confidently pursue We are members of and contribute deepwater and new business opportunities. emergency response expertise to national and international organizations such as the Clean Gulf Cooperative (CGC), We include social and environmental issues, as well as other the Offshore Operators Committee, API, the Oil Spill potential risk areas among the factors considered during risk Response Limited (OSRL), OGP and IPIECA. assessments. In 2012, for example, we improved our social and environmental risk metrics because of increased To address international spill prevention, well capping collaboration across functions and among internal subject response and spill response capacity we participate in the matter experts who help us improve our understanding of Marine Well Containment Company, the Helix Well Control environmental, health, safety, human rights and community Group, the CGC, OSRL, and the Subsea Well Response engagement risks. We continue to advance a common project (SWRP) consortium. framework for the potential risks we identify and share them To understand trends in regional markets, we belong to across functional areas to facilitate risk prioritization, ensure regional industry and business associations such as the consistency and improve internal alignment. This framework Independent Power Producers of New York, local chambers and associated tools provide us the means to better of commerce, building associations and state petroleum recognize, understand and prioritize key risks that impact and gas associations. our business. We provide funding above routine membership dues to KEY MEMBERSHIPS AND ASSOCIATIONS associations in recognition of the value they provide to our industry. We do not earmark this funding for lobbying. Our memberships in industry and business associations We recognize that our positions do not always align with further our knowledge, understanding and ability to all formal positions of the associations, organizations and address issues that impact our business. They enable us collaborative working groups in which we participate. Our to benchmark and share best practices with sector peers, funding should not be considered a direct endorsement contribute to guidance documents on environmental and of the entire range of activities undertaken by these social issues and access tools to manage them. membership organizations. To address concerns related to Hess’ key memberships include IPIECA, the global oil and potential misalignment, we publish our positions on key gas association for environmental and social issues, the sustainability issues in our Corporate Sustainability Report. International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (OGP), the American Petroleum Institute (API), the Council on SUPPLIERS Foreign Relations, the Center for Strategic and International The company spent more than $8 billion on products and Studies, the National Foreign Trade Council, the National services with approximately 14,000 vendors, of which 73 Association of Manufacturers, the National Association of percent were based in the U.S. Convenience Stores, the Retail Energy Supply Association, 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 15 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Our goal is to understand the expectations, priorities and concerns of stakeholders who may be affected by our company and who in turn may affect us. We aim to interact and openly communicate with stakeholders to identify opportunities that will improve our business operations and strengthen our license to operate. Some examples of our 2012 stakeholder engagement can be found below. COMMUNITIES  In Dinarta in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, Hess conducted cultural awareness Consultation, town halls, training for staff and held meetings with local representatives before advisory panels conducting seismic surveys.  In Beetaloo, Australia, our aboriginal affairs advisor created training materials on indigenous stakeholder engagement for Hess employees and contractors. EMPLOYEES H  ess CEO John Hess hosted several employee engagement events, including Town halls, surveys, a Global Town Hall in which he reviewed strategy and performance and intranet, safety answered employee questions. committees U  sing results from surveys and benchmarking exercises, we analyzed key aspects of our corporate culture and identified areas for improvement. SUPPLIERS H  ess plays a leading role in the National Technological Hydrocarbon Institute Local content and of Equatorial Guinea, which trains nationals for employment. mentoring programs,  In our shale energy business we require contractors to complete a proprietary business-to-business Environment, Health, Safety and Social Responsibility induction training relationships module which outlines Hess’ expectations. CUSTOMERS F  ollowing Superstorm Sandy, hessexpress.com posted real-time fuel inventory Customer service data for retail sites in the New York tri-state area, directing customers affected by organizations, surveys the storm to visit sites with sufficient fuel supplies. H  ess Energy Solutions advises business customers on energy efficiency solutions, renewable energy projects and energy optimization. GOVERNMENTS  Hess engaged with World Bank, IMF, and U.S. and Equatorial Guinea government AND MLIs* representatives to advocate resuming the EG revenue transparency initiative. Consultation, negotiation,  We engaged with government stakeholders on legislative and regulatory legislative and regulatory issues in North Dakota, contributing operational knowledge to the state’s advocacy, voluntary initiatives investment efforts. CIVIL SOCIETY H  ess participates in the Ceres Working Group, Reducing Environmental Risks Partnerships, voluntary from Shale Gas, to research and promote water management practices. initiatives, funding H  ess joined business, government and civil society representatives at the first UN Forum on Business and Human Rights. SHAREHOLDERS H  ess regularly speaks with the environment, social and governance AND INVESTORS investment community. Dialogue, consultation, annual meeting, surveys H  ess meets semiannually with each of its 50 largest investors and regularly and conferences hosts investor lunches and breakfasts for institutional shareholders. INDUSTRY SECTOR Trade and professional H  ess participates in multi-stakeholder forums to foster sustainable water use associations, in shale oil and gas resource extraction. Examples include the Energy Water benchmarking Initiative and Colorado School of Mines Modeling Consortium. *Multi-lateral institutions 16 HOW WE OPERATE Small, Diverse and Local Suppliers customer base and meet U.S. federal government supply In 2012, 37 percent of our U.S. suppliers were small, chain diversity subcontracting requirements. diverse and local, and 12 percent were minorityand Supplier Engagement women-owned. Small and diverse suppliers accounted Hess continues to engage suppliers on issues that are for 24 percent of our U.S. supplier spend. important to our industry and our stakeholders. Since 2009 In U.S. Exploration and Production (E&P), small and diverse we have worked with current and prospective suppliers of businesses comprised 38 percent of U.S. vendors but hydraulic fracturing services to define acceptable fracturing accounted for only 18 percent of spend since a high fluid systems and we have encouraged suppliers to publicly proportion of our budget was for major capital projects. disclose fracturing fluid chemical composition data. E&P conducted business with more than 3,700 international vendors in 2012. Outside the U.S., E&P often prioritizes the Supplier Qualifications and Compliance inclusion of local suppliers in production sharing contracts with Our contractor management program addresses host countries. These agreements often include local spend prequalification, selection, monitoring and review of our thresholds and names of government-approved local vendors. contractors, with particular focus on contractors engaged in higher risk activities. For additional information about Hess’ supplier diversity practices are a key part of our this and other supplier initiatives, refer to the Community Marketing and Refining (M&R) strategy. Since launching and Social Performance and Safety and Health sections the Hess Supplier Diversity Policy in 2010, M&R continues later in this report. to grow its Supplier Diversity Program, which provides opportunities to small and diverse suppliers as part of the Hess conducts quarterly reviews of its suppliers to ensure procurement process. As a result of these efforts, we have compliance with the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office achieved an “outstanding” rating for supplier diversity from of Foreign Assets Control and the U.S. Patriot Act. Contracts the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA). In 2012 our for goods and services typically include requirements for M&R business spent $490 million for products and services supplier compliance with applicable laws and regulations in from small and diverse suppliers, an increase from $372 areas such as safety, health, environment, process safety, million in 2009. Small and diverse businesses now account drug and alcohol use, business ethics, conflicts of interest, for 46 percent of M&R supplier spend. Our dedication to the FCPA and labor practices. supplier diversity is helping us drive our government International Supplier Spend by Country Small Business Supplier Spend (U.S.) $ Millions Minority Women Small Businesses 2% 3% 35% Equatorial Guinea $628 28% 29% 5% 30% Denmark $392 24% 25% 9% Indonesia $353 25% Australia $339 20% U.K. $344 15% 14% 11% Ghana $227 10% 10% 8% 15% Malaysia $128 5% 7% Norway $56 6% 6% 13% 14% Other $87 0 2010 2011 2012 Women and minority data shown above represent percentages of total small business spend. Data are based on the October 1, 2011-September 30, 2012 timeframe. 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17 SHALE ENERGY We continue to develop and implement processes to identify and address the environmental and social risks of The presence of vast quantities of oil and natural gas in our shale energy business. During the past few years, we formations with low permeability, including deep shale, have completed one or more high level risk assessments has been known for decades. It is now economically using our enterprise risk methodology at each of our shale feasible to recover shale oil and gas due to a combination oil and gas assets. In 2012 risk assessment workshops were of sophisticated horizontal drilling and completions held at our North Dakota, Texas and Ohio assets. In early technologies and improvements in a proven well stimulation 2013 an enterprise risk workshop was held to update the method referred to as hydraulic fracturing. shale energy business unit’s high level risk assessment. In 2012 we conducted development and production activities Further, we continue to identify and address stakeholder in the Bakken formation of North Dakota and the Eagle concerns that may risk our license to operate. Risk Ford formation in south Texas, as well as appraisal activities assessments of our shale energy operations in North in the Utica Shale formation in Ohio. We publicly report on Dakota and the ensuing plans to manage local stakeholder our shale energy operations, including drilling, development expectations and concerns, such as flaring, truck traffic and production, and the efforts we take to manage the and land use, helped us establish similar plans at other inherent risks associated with the business. We recognize Hess shale energy assets. stakeholders’ concerns about the impact shale energy operations have on safety, the environment and public health. Hydraulic Fracturing: Bakken Example 1 2 3 Fracture Conductor Casing Fresh Cement Water Water + Sand Aquifer + Additives Surface Casing Production Frac String Casing Drawing is not to scale and numbers are approximate 1) In the Bakken, an average Hess well is more than 10,000 feet deep. The underground formation is separated from the deepest fresh water aquifer by many thousands of feet of overlying rock. 2) Wells are lined with multiple layers of steel pipe and encased in cement to depths well below the aquifer, preventing fluids or gas from seeping from the well into the groundwater. Dedicated tubing, referred to as a frac string, is used during hydraulic fracturing as an additional groundwater protection measure. 3) A mixture of water, sand and special purpose additives are pumped under high pressure into the underground formation to create fractures. The fractures are propped open by the sand, allowing oil to flow into the well. 18 HOW WE OPERATE Management Practices environmental factors. The team developed key risk Our shale energy development preparations include detailed, mitigation strategies to address environmental, health operations-focused risk assessments and risk mitigation and safety, social, contractor and other commercial planning, environmental and social impact assessments and issues related to our license to operate. management plans as appropriate, stakeholder identification The team has taken the lead in developing guidelines and engagement, and regulatory reviews. We also conduct that define expected operating practices to manage key contractor screening, selection, onboarding and training and above ground risks in areas including the environment, emergency response planning, drills and training. workforce and public health, safety, social impact and We formed an Above Ground Risk Steering Team in 2012 commercial and partnership risks. We expect these to identify potential non-technical risks related to shale operating practices will be finalized and implemented energy operations, including those driven by social and in 2013. Examples of 2012 management practices are summarized in the table below. Management Practices Topic Practice C  onduct baseline surface water and groundwater quality monitoring of domestic water wells Water Quality within a minimum 2,500-foot radius of each well site.* Monitoring  Conduct water quality analyses in accordance with state regulations and FracFocus Chemical Disclosure Registry guidance, and for any known local contaminants.  Identify fresh water substitutes for hydraulic fracturing and well maintenance. Fresh Water Use  Follow internal fracturing (frac) fluid water quality and reuse guidelines.  Publish individual well data for frac water use on the FracFocus website.  Encourage efficient use of functional, cost effective chemical additives in frac fluids.  Encourage suppliers to use the least toxic chemical formulations available, develop less toxic Chemical Use additives and disclose chemical ingredients.  Publish frac fluid chemical composition and quantities on the FracFocus website.  Use well designs that ensure casing and cementing isolate fresh water zones.  Use closed-loop fluid containment systems for drilling fluids and frac fluid flowback. Groundwater Protection  Dispose of drill cuttings onsite in a lined impoundment or offsite at authorized third party facilities.  Develop and maintain spill prevention plans for all facilities and implement spill prevention and mitigation measures. U  pdate and install emissions controls on tank batteries such as vapor recovery units, combusters and high efficiency flares. Air Emissions  Implement gas gathering projects, third party commercial arrangements and natural gas capture at the wellhead to monetize natural gas and reduce flaring.  Green completions include containment of frac fluid flowback and natural gas emissions controls.  Build  multi-well pads where possible to minimize land use and leverage operational efficiencies. Land Use  Encourage baseline assessments for population, archaeological, biological and environmental impacts to be conducted in accordance with internal guidelines. U  ndertake systematic pre-qualification, selection, engagement, monitoring and post contract Contractor review of Hess contractors. Management  Apply formal, consistent and auditable standards for contractor management that include health, safety, environment and social responsibility. H  ost open houses for leaseholders and public meetings for members of the community.  Meet routinely with community members and leaders where the company has an Community established presence. Engagement  Collaborate with community partners and state officials to ensure adequate infrastructure funding, with a specific focus on roads, to improve traffic safety and support road maintenance. *The exception to this practice is in North Dakota, where the state operates an established network of groundwater monitoring wells. 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19 Performance because we made fewer truck trips and had shorter In 2012 our ongoing efforts to improve operations and pumping times and lower pumping rates. our investments in infrastructure in the North Dakota Our Exploration and Production Technology (EPT) Bakken formation resulted in better resource efficiency organization includes subject matter experts who focus on and safety performance. optimizing cost-effective water and chemical use in oil and gas operations and recommend technology applications to Water and Chemical Use minimize the environmental impact of hydraulic fracturing. Unconventional production presents resource challenges In 2012 EPT issued frac fluid water quality and reuse given the need for large volumes of fresh, locally sourced guidelines and conducted pilot studies to find non-potable water used to extract hydrocarbons. We seek to minimize water sources suitable for fresh water substitution. While the use of fresh water for hydraulic fracturing and analyze work is ongoing, frac fluid returns are generally very low, water sources, including fresh water, saline water, ranging from 5 percent in Utica wells to 20 percent in wastewater and frac fluid flowback, to assess their suitability Bakken wells one to two weeks after the frac job is finished. for hydraulic fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing accounted for about 14 percent of the company’s total fresh water In the Bakken, EPT efforts resulted in an approximate 75 consumption in 2012, of which our Bakken wells accounted percent reduction in the cost of an additive used in frac for 98 percent. fluids. This additive can be used at a lower dosage and is more environmentally favorable than the one previously In 2012, our efforts to reduce costs for our North used. Pilot tests are ongoing to evaluate non-chemical Dakota drilling and completions led to more efficient biological treatment of frac fluids. Other efforts included use of water and chemicals for hydraulic fracturing. formulation and field implementation of a custom Midway through 2012 we reduced the resource intensity and costs of hydraulic fracturing in the Bakken through technological advances in our well completions design. As a result, we decreased the average volume of fresh water used for each hydraulic fracturing job by approximately 35 percent. The decrease in water use reduced our need for other frac fluid components, including propping agents and chemical additives. We also saw fuel efficiency gains per frac job Bakken Hydraulic Fracturing Water Intensity per Well Thousand Gallons 10,000 8,897 9,093 8,000 6,549 5,824 6,000 5,556 4,000 2,000 0 Energy Production, Utica Shale, Ohio Q1 2012 Q2 2012 Q3 2012 Q4 2012 Q1 2013 20 HOW WE OPERATE biodegradable surfactant and completion of a field However, in North Dakota the rapid growth of our shale evaluation and economic assessment of a solid proppantenergy business resulted in an 87 percent year-over-year based scale inhibitor. increase in oil production from the Bakken formation and flaring of associated gas. In the short term, flaring remains a Groundwater Protection significant challenge. The company has acquired a number Well integrity is crucial to contain drilling fluids, frac fluids of sites that are remote. For now, these sites lack the and produced oil, gas and water. To protect groundwater, infrastructure to implement gas gathering. To address the our wells are lined with multiple layers of steel pipe and issue, we continue to build the necessary infrastructure to encased in cement to depths well below the deepest fresh mitigate long term flaring rates. water zones. This approach isolates fresh water from fluids We are investing more than $1.2 billion to capture and or gas in the well that could impact the groundwater. monetize natural gas from our shale energy wells, building In 2012 Hess used real-time microseismic monitoring of gas gathering systems and expanding capacity at our Tioga selected hydraulic fracturing jobs. This technology allows Gas Processing Plant. We also spent more than $50 million us to map fractures in the rock to confirm that we remain in 2009 and 2010 to construct a new gas gathering system within the targeted formation and pose no risk to local and extend the Red Sky natural gas pipeline to interconnect groundwater or nearby wells. with a third party gas processing plant. We plan to complete four major gas gathering projects by 2014. We expect to Air Emissions add as much as 60 million standard cubic feet per day Hess aims to continue reducing flaring and greenhouse gas (MMscf/d) of capacity. In addition, we expect to complete emissions across our operations as discussed in the Climate our Tioga Gas Plant expansion in late 2013, increasing its Change and Energy section of this report. Our primary capacity to 250 MMscf/d. sources of air emissions are fuel combustion and flaring. To mitigate flaring, we are exploring long term and short Historically, our North Dakota production operations have term options for natural gas capture at the wellhead and had the lowest flaring rate for conventional wells in the accessing third party infrastructure and gas processing industry. We have achieved this with a flaring rate of less capacity through contracts and trading agreements. We are than 0.5 percent by consistently expanding the infrastructure engaging with two of our three drilling contractors to convert necessary to gather and commercialize natural gas some drilling rigs to dual fuel (natural gas and diesel) to allow associated with oil production. Management of Hydraulic Fracturing Fluid Flowback Flare Gas Gas gathering system Solids Wellhead Separator Additional Oil/Water Oil treatment/ Separator Storage Flowback Solids Water Disposal at state or federally regulated facilities 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21 use of natural gas at the well site and to achieve cost To minimize the impact on the environment and streamline savings. Other mitigation measures include piloting third permitting, we introduced a geographic information systems party services at the well site to capture, compress and (GIS) tool for use during our Utica Shale appraisal activities transport stranded gas and light liquids. We have also in Ohio. The tool incorporates environmental and social formed a team of subject matter experts to study best baseline data as GIS layers and is used to identify sensitive practices for reducing flaring and monetizing stranded gas. areas and select well pad locations. We report on GHG emissions for our U.S. production assets Contractor Management in accordance with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency We work with contractors and industry partners to (EPA) Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule. We estimate improve overall safety performance in North Dakota. that in 2012 fugitive methane emissions from North Dakota Our company undertakes systematic pre-qualification, and Eagle Ford, Texas production operations were about 91 selection, engagement, monitoring and post contract tonnes and 19 tonnes respectively, based on EPA-mandated review of contractors to ensure they meet our expectations emissions factors and the number and types of piping for management of environment, health and safety. When components and pneumatic devices in natural gas service. a contractor does not fully meet our criteria, management approval and risk mitigation plans must be in place before At our Bakken assets we employ dedicated crews and work can proceed. In 2012 engagements between Hess equipment to separate solids, liquids (water and oil) and and key contractors continued to reinforce the importance gas in frac fluid flowback. The flowback is separated in a of contractor environment, health, safety and social closed system. To avoid venting of methane, natural gas is performance to our business. More information on contained and flared or sent to a gas gathering system if contractor management and safety performance can be available. The closed loop system helps safeguard the found in the Safety section of this report. containment of the liquids and solids. The oil and gas industry and the state of North Dakota have Communities worked together to establish methodologies that may be We recognize that the rapid and concentrated development used to estimate vapor control emissions from storage of shale energy operations can create unintended issues tanks, wells and central facilities and identify acceptable and social impacts. To better identify and understand local control technologies. Hess has executed an Administrative stakeholder concerns and their causes in the communities Consent Agreement with the North Dakota Department of where we operate, we completed a social baseline at our Health to resolve potential air pollution control law violations Utica Shale asset in 2012 and intend to undertake one in relating to our oil and gas production operations in North North Dakota in 2013. Dakota. The Administrative Consent Agreement requires During the year we also laid the groundwork to pilot the Hess to retrofit some existing facilities and to pay a penalty IPIECA grievance mechanism in 2013. After the pilot is of $418,500. complete we will develop Hess-wide guidance on grievance mechanisms. The Community and Social Performance Land Use section of this report contains detailed information on our Our approach is to minimize land use and reduce the social investments and social and human rights risk number of well sites needed to develop our acreage. During management for our shale energy assets. 2012 we began to move from held by production drilling (drilling a single well per pad to uphold the lease) to multiwell pad drilling where as many as six wells are clustered on a single well pad and share surface facilities. We plan to continue this transition in 2013. COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Succeed 2020 Program, North Dakota S ocial responsibility is a core We approach community investments strategically and continue to strengthen our focus on management systems value at Hess and fundamental for social opportunities and risks. In 2012 we conducted a to how we operate our business. workshop for our social responsibility practitioners in Asia Pacific to share experience and best practices in that region. We are committed to creating long A workshop for the Europe, Middle East and Africa region lasting, sustainable relationships by took place in early 2013. At our assets, staff members have received training in stakeholder engagement, social risk engaging with and managing the identification and management, strategic social investment impact we have on communities and Hess voluntary commitments. Effective management of social responsibility positively affects our performance by where we operate. increasing external stakeholder support and reinforcing the Hess culture internally. In 2012 we began to update our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Human Rights policies. We also developed a new Security and Human Rights Policy, which was launched in early 2013. These documents detail our commitments, through every phase of our business activity, to employees and the communities where we operate. They also set expectations for employees and contractors. Looking ahead, we are exploring ways to more firmly align our business practices with our CSR Policy, Human Rights Policy and Security and Human Rights Policy. For example, 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23 before Hess commences exploration activities in a country, improve quality of life, especially for those who live and work our risk analysis now includes social responsibility and near our operations. human rights as clear business risks that must be In Thailand we conducted a comprehensive evaluation of our assessed. We recognize the need to rigorously manage multiyear social investment program during 2012, examining social responsibility expectations in our relationships with the types and amounts of investments that were made since suppliers and contractors and will continue to address this work began there in 2005, and analyzing the measurable area as our internal programs evolve. We are starting to outcomes of those efforts. The study, which incorporated incorporate social responsibility awareness when we input from stakeholders, suggested ways to enhance several onboard new contractors. ongoing projects and strengthen stakeholder relationships. We strive to support the efforts of communities to These recommendations included promoting knowledge improve their socioeconomic and environmental conditions. sharing from past and ongoing projects within the local By building local capacity, we are able to contribute to communities, maintaining a monitoring program to encourage sustainable development. To this end, we pursue support of dialogue with the communities, and continuing to identify the various educational, vocational and economic development right strategic partners for each project. The study also initiatives, which we will discuss in this section of the report. identified the need for better communication around our social investments and emphasized the importance of SOCIAL INVESTMENTS OVERVIEW appropriate human and financial resources to ensure the sustainability of social investment programs. We plan to We recognize that strategic social investment enhances incorporate the general findings from Thailand into our community and stakeholder engagement. It is central to management of social investments across our portfolio. advancing our goal to have a measurable, positive social impact in the communities where we operate. Education In 2012 our social investment and in-kind contributions and health are key focus areas. Companies like ours rely on a totaled $40 million. More than $18 million of our investment well-educated workforce, and we recognize education and went toward education projects in communities where we health are fundamental to sustainable economic development operate. We invested nearly $9 million in community and building transparent and democratic societies. projects aimed at economic development, health and capacity building. We also invested approximately $3.5 Hess works with communities where we operate to identify million for in-kind donations of products, primarily Hess Toy social impacts, contribute to economic development and Trucks donated to Toys for Tots® and other social service support efforts that build long term value for residents and agencies during the holiday season and in the aftermath of for Hess. Our investments in social projects are meant to Superstorm Sandy in the New York City Metropolitan Area. Social Investment by Country Type of Investment $ Thousand $ Thousand 1% 2% U.S. $20,630 Education $18,570 Arts & Culture $1,944 3% Equatorial Guinea $6,381 Community $8,763 Health $1,712 Malaysia $5,151 Disaster Relief $5,013 Environment $88 10% Peru $3,862 In-Kind $3,491 Russia $1,323 13% 52% Libya $525 Indonesia $455 St. Lucia $306 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 16% Ghana $219 All Others $729 24 COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE MAJOR INITIATIVES non-profit partner, FHI 360, the initiative has enabled REAs to hire staff to manage the program, coordinate stakeholder Succeed 2020 involvement and monitor progress. Implementation of new We continued our support of education in North Dakota, educational programs such as enhanced teacher training where we have been a major producer of oil and gas for and development of business partnerships will begin in 60 years. “Succeed 2020,” a five year, $25 million program, several parts of the state during 2013. More information is assists students as they prepare for college, careers and available at NDSucceed2020.org. the workplace, beginning in the middle school grades. The statewide program supports college and career counseling PRODEGE for students, professional development for teachers, Our flagship social responsibility project in Equatorial Guinea distance learning to expand access to career and technical (EG) is PRODEGE (Programa de Desarrollo Educativo de education, tutoring and other approaches that address Guinea Ecuatorial). Phase 1 of this initiative, completed in specific regional objectives. This far-reaching program is an 2012, resulted in significant improvements in primary investment in the future of North Dakota communities and education, establishing model classrooms for active learning the sustainability of the workforce there. in 54 schools nationwide and providing teacher training and certification opportunities for nearly 1,000 primary school We have already committed $5 million to support planning teachers. Along with our non-profit partner, FHI 360, a global and implementation activities within each of the eight Regional leader in educational development, PRODEGE has Education Associations (REAs) in North Dakota. Through our contributed to the ability of the country’s Ministry of GHANA Education Program Hess partners with the Ghana National Petroleum Corporation, the national oil company of Ghana, and Montrose, a third party international services development company, to annually provide scholarships to promising students, with a particular emphasis on education for girls and women. Young people from three school districts in western Ghana are eligible for the awards. Criteria for selection include a quantitative assessment score, recommendations from the community, financial need and gender. The scholarship covers the cost of tuition, fees, textbooks and uniforms at specific vocational and nursing schools that have been selected to participate. Hess-sponsored Scholarship Program, Ghana As long as a scholarship recipient maintains high achievement, the scholarship continues for the duration of the student’s academic program, either This initiative was created as a result of a baseline two or three years. Representatives from the needs assessment conducted by Hess in 2011 with Scholars’ Program staff monitor the educational input from stakeholder groups. During its first funded offerings at the schools and follow the students’ year, the Scholars’ Program supported 71 Ghanaian progress to optimize the effectiveness of grants. students, among them 35 females. 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25 Education to collect and analyze data on student 2013 through 2017. The Government of EG is also providing achievement and teacher capacity and to develop effective $25 million. Phase 2 will focus on improving the quality of education strategies. secondary education through teacher training and the development of instructional materials. The program will also Phase 2 will build on these successes, using the practical continue to build management capacity at the Ministry of experience gained from the first five years of the initiative. Education. Some resources will be dedicated to sustaining Hess has committed an additional $25 million for the period COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES UNITED STATES EQUATORIAL GUINEA KURDISTAN REGION OF IRAQ Superstorm Sandy Promoting Supporting Local Relief Efforts Biodiversity Traditions In the aftermath of Superstorm Bioko Island, off the coast of Stakeholder relationships have been Sandy, the severe storm that swept Equatorial Guinea, is home to especially important in our ability through the New York metropolitan diverse species of wildlife, including to identify and develop community area in October 2012, Hess the endangered leatherback sea projects in Kurdistan. Hess Corporation donated $5 million for turtle and drill monkey. Hess cooperated with local government recovery efforts. The funds were invested $75,000 during 2012 to officials to select opportunities split evenly between the Mayor’s support a variety of wildlife where we could help improve public Fund to Advance New York City conservation projects conducted access to scenic spaces and picnic and the Hurricane Sandy New through an academic partnership facilities. We are constructing 75 Jersey Relief Fund. Employees also with Drexel University in tables with bench seating, as well had the opportunity to donate to Philadelphia and the National as 15 waste bin structures at three these two organizations, with Hess University of Equatorial Guinea in sites in our Dinarta license area. matching their contributions. Our Malabo. The multi-faceted program These improvements will allow many gifts included approximately 50,000 provides educational materials for families to enjoy the outdoors while Hess Toy Trucks that were donated children, collects data on turtle pursuing a popular local tradition of to children in families affected by nesting sites and trains residents to picnicking. The local governments the storm. monitor and protect the turtles have committed to regular waste during nesting season. pickups at the sites. 26 COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE key achievements of Phase 1 and ensuring that children During 2012 we examined in detail these risks and the enter school ready to learn. The program plan states that by opportunities they offered at eight Hess projects. Our 2017 the Ministry of Education will sustain PRODEGE aim was to assess financial value erosion associated through the in-house capacity and expertise developed with non-technical risk. These efforts showed the value through the program. of continuing to integrate social risk management into our corporate enterprise risk processes, while also highlighting SOCIAL RISK the benefit of maintaining a good corporate reputation and strong stakeholder relationships. We recognize that a responsible business must manage its impact on people, the environment and financial performance. Major Hess operations are required to map stakeholders and For the global oil and gas industry, above ground risks such as develop an engagement plan. We also encourage each of stakeholder opposition, environmental concerns and safety our sites to develop, maintain and implement a strategic issues can contribute to delaying large capital projects. social investment program to help address the management of these risks and opportunities. COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES INDONESIA THAILAND LIBYA Apprenticeship Program Fuel from Biogas IMC Nurse Training In 2012 we continued to support an We fund a project in three small Following a civil war that began apprenticeship program at our Thai villages to obtain biogas from in 2011, Libya experienced a Indonesia assets. The curriculum livestock manure. The gas is used shortage of medical supplies and instruction were provided by Hess as cooking fuel. The Thai and skilled medical professionals, operations and human resources government piloted the project especially nurses. Hess is supporting staff. We offered a six-month training and in 2012 Hess supported its International Medical Corps as it program for recent university expansion to provide biogas to 42 increases the number of Libyan graduates so they could gain valuable families. The initiative reduces fuel nurses and enhances the quality of skills through on-the-job assignments, costs, improves environmental training and professional standards. supplemented by classroom learning conditions by better managing Hess contributed $500,000 in and mentoring. The 2012-2013 class animal waste and involves close 2012 and has committed another included 15 apprentices. cooperation with villagers in $1 million for 2013. program planning and execution. 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 27 In 2012 we conducted a high level risk assessment in North lessons learned from that pilot into the business plans of Dakota and an environmental and social impact assessment all Hess assets. for our Utica Shale project in Ohio, including a high level There were no instances of involuntary resettlement quantitative analysis of several risk factors. These included during 2012. screening for potential risks associated with cultural heritage sites and artifacts. Voluntary Initiatives Hess has endorsed or formally joined a number of HUMAN RIGHTS international voluntary initiatives that pledge to promote While it is governments’ responsibility to protect human human rights, protect the environment and encourage rights, companies like Hess must act with care and respect financial transparency: for the human rights of all citizens wherever we operate.  United Nations Global Compact is a strategic policy The Hess Values and our Code of Business Conduct and initiative for businesses committed to aligning their Ethics (Code of Conduct) provide a foundation for our operations and strategies with 10 principles in the areas commitments to ethical and responsible business practices. of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We revised our Code of Conduct in 2012 to include specific reference to human rights.  Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights is a multi-stakeholder initiative involving governments, As discussed earlier in this report, we began updating the companies and non-governmental organizations that Hess Human Rights and CSR policies in 2012. The new promotes implementation of a set of principles that guide Security and Human Rights Policy, approved in early oil, gas, and mining companies on providing security for 2013, established our commitment to engage security their operations while respecting human rights. providers in a manner that is consistent with the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. We have also  Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative is an drafted human rights-related contract clauses for high effort to strengthen implementation of the principles to level investment agreements with the goal of eventually increase transparency of payments and revenues in incorporating this language consistently into future the extractive sector. agreements. Similar language is already being incorporated into supplier contracts.  United Nations Declaration on Human Rights was issued by the United Nations in 1948 and represents the Our strategy is to prevent human rights-related incidents by first global expression of rights to which all human beings engaging with the community to proactively address potential are inherently entitled. issues. We operate in complex environments that can be politically and physically challenging. This presents us with  International Labor Organization Declaration on an opportunity to make positive and lasting contributions in Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work is an areas of governance, transparency, respect for rule of law expression of commitment by governments and employers’ and social and economic development. To that end, we have and workers’ organizations to uphold basic human values. initiated a process to establish formal mechanisms for We are active in IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry reporting grievances at each of our operations. We drafted association for environmental and social issues. We a guidance document to help users develop their own served in a leadership role as co-chair of IPIECA’s Voluntary site-specific mechanism and will begin a pilot grievance Principles task force in 2012 and in 2013 we will assume mechanism program in 2013, in partnership with IPIECA, at the role of co-chair of the Social Responsibility Working one of our North American assets. We plan to incorporate Group. In addition, we engage within our industry and 28 COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE across other business sectors on CSR matters and business and human rights policy and implementation. Risk Assessments Prior to pursuing project opportunities in new countries, or substantially expanding operations into a new region, Hess undertakes a review and analysis process called New Country Entry to examine both technical and non-technical risks. In 2012 we updated the New Country Entry process and incorporated security and human rights issues more formally into the analysis. We also contracted with an independent global risk analysis consultant to commission country risk reports that include an examination of security and human rights issues at assets in our current portfolio, as well as for prospective areas of interest. In potential high-risk areas Hess commissions third party Corporate Social Responsibility Workshop, Jakarta, Indonesia human rights risk assessments. Conducted on the ground, these assessments identify risks to Hess projects and staff, CSR staff made presentations and held formal discussions as well as to the surrounding communities. A third party on human rights and Hess’ voluntary commitments at human rights risk assessment is currently underway for several global locations during 2012, including Australia, our operations in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. Previous Indonesia, EG and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, as well assessments have been completed in Thailand, Indonesia, as our U.S. offices in Houston, Woodbridge, N.J. and Malaysia, Algeria and EG. New York City. We participated in the Voluntary Principles Training and Awareness December 2012 workshop in Jakarta, Indonesia, which We educate our employees on the importance of respecting provided guidance and tools for implementing the principles human rights and are committed to raising internal as part of our regular business practices. Hess staff who awareness of the Voluntary Principles and other voluntary attended the December 2012 workshop shared the initiatives. We have developed an online training module for information with those on the Indonesia staff who could all employees that explains human rights and why they are not attend. important to our business. The training course reviews the Security company’s Human Rights Policy, offers employees guidance The Code of Conduct prohibits the use of military or on integrating respect for human rights into their daily work police personnel services except where required by local and provides direction on how to report suspected human authorities or in cases of emergency. We contract for rights violations. We are implementing a phased rollout of security services from private contractors in those areas the online module in 2013. Every new employee will be where such services are required. Our operations contract required to review the module within 90 days of hire. for these services locally with support from our global In 2012 we established an intranet site focused on all of our security and global supply chain functions. voluntary commitments, with links to the relevant policies We expect security providers to adhere to applicable and Code of Conduct. We plan to expand the site with international law enforcement principles, humanitarian law additional reference materials, presentations and guidance and human rights law. Hess introduced new contract during the coming year. 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29 clauses in 2011 covering security and human rights In the event of a security incident with human rights expectations to its upstream business. The new contract implications, a report is made to the head of global security. clauses require our security contractors to communicate our Reports are also issued for those occurrences that highlight human rights, social responsibility and ethical expectations potential future risk such as peaceful community protests. to their employees and subcontractors, as well as We are not aware of any human rights violations in 2012. demonstrate compliance. The aim is to ensure delivery of a consistent message of performance expectations for Labor Practices security contractors and drive consistency across Hess’ Hess is committed to diversity and equal employment operations. In 2013 we plan to work together with our global opportunities for all employees and job candidates regardless supply chain colleagues to review our progress and identify of race, color, gender, age, sexual orientation, creed, national measures for implementation and assurance in this area. origin or disability. We do not tolerate any form of workplace harassment, including sexual harassment. We reinforce these expectations through our Code of Conduct, Human Rights and Corporate Social Responsibility Policies. The company has not identified significant risk in our global Country Manager Toolkit on Security and Human Rights workforce for child labor, forced or compulsory labor, or violations of the right to freely associate and bargain The creation of our Country Manager Toolkit on collectively. We do not permit the employment of underage Security and Human Rights was a major children or the use of forced labor in our global workforce. advancement in 2012. The Toolkit guides the fieldThis is also enforced in our contract language on labor level implementation of the Voluntary Principles. Given practices. We recognize and respect our employees’ rights the nature of the oil and gas industry and the broad to join associations and engage in collective bargaining in a range of locations and cultures in which we operate, manner that is consistent with applicable laws, rules, we recognized the need for specific guidance to help regulations and local customs. our employees address challenging situations regarding security and human rights. Freedom of Association The Toolkit covers key topics, including stakeholder When commissioning country risk reports from our third mapping and engagement, risk assessments and party vendors, risks associated with labor rights, including relations with public and private security. It includes freedom of association and collective bargaining, are tools and templates for employees to use in included and reviewed. identifying and tracking potential security and human rights risks. Specific guidelines cover how to interact Hess employs unionized and non-represented workers with public sector and private security providers. The in hourly job classifications. In 2012 approximately 6 Toolkit also includes a section devoted to managing percent of employees were represented by 19 collective transfers of equipment and supplies when interacting bargaining agreements. with either public or private security providers, to minimize security and human rights risks. For major operational changes, such as layoffs and facility closures, we comply with advance notification requirements We will pilot the Toolkit during 2013 in a broad, specified in collective bargaining agreements and labor multidisciplinary process that includes each of the key regulations. These notices are typically 60 to 90 days for functions that contribute to effective implementation locations with 50 or more employees and 14 to 28 days of the Voluntary Principles. for locations with fewer than 50 employees. SAFETY AND HEALTH Stena Forth Drillship, Gulf of Mexico H ess strives for safe and The inherent hazards in the activities of the oil and gas industry, ranging from the operation of drill rigs to the incident free operations for management of all our facilities and transportation are the safety and wellbeing of our routinely identified, assessed and managed. Systematically managing these risks is essential to safe operations. workforce, the environment and We have developed a comprehensive set of Hess Rules for the communities where we do our employees and contractors. The Hess Rules focus on business. This goal is fundamental control of seven high fatality risk activities associated with our industry. The Hess Rules are mandatory. Everyone to our company’s culture and associated with the Hess organization is expected to integral to our strategy, values and comply, regardless of the type or location of his or her work. business decisions. We believe no Our approach to management of health and safety risks task is so important that we cannot extends beyond activities under our operational control to our supply chain and partnerships. We seek to ensure that do it safely. our partners’ safety and health systems and programs align with ours. We insist on transparency from our partners and we undertake appropriate reviews to ensure commitments are being met. We monitor a range of leading and lagging safety and health metrics across the enterprise, consistent with available industry guidance and standards. These metrics are regularly reported to the appropriate levels of management within the 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31 organization. Locally, leading safety and health metrics are Hess is working with third party subject matter experts to tailored to address the challenges presented by our diverse develop an Executive Safety Leadership Program to further lines of business and their operating environments. embrace safety, engage and energize the organization and make improvements that are visible companywide. During To gauge our performance against industry peers we 2012 a group of 23 senior leaders participated in a safety conduct periodic formal benchmarking exercises. We learn leadership reflection and planning exercise. We have from others’ best practices and share our best practices increased discussion of safety leadership among members with members of our industry. We strive for continuous of our management team and can now develop effective improvement of performance while acknowledging areas goals for the future. that pose challenges. We expect every employee and contractor to be a safety We know that an engaged and informed workforce is leader. In our Exploration and Production (E&P) business essential to safer work environments. Workforce safety we are taking steps to improve safety performance by committees at Hess play a lead role in ongoing site safety implementing a peer-to-peer behavior-based program in culture improvements at operating and office locations. The our North Dakota and West Texas operations. Workers composition of each safety committee varies by location and are trained to observe each other on the job and provide type of operation, but typically includes managers, salaried feedback regarding “safe” and “at risk” behaviors. and hourly employees including those represented by collective bargaining agreements, contractors and safety In 2011 we implemented a North Dakota Safety Improvement professionals. Committee responsibilities typically include Program in response to an increase in safety incidents. developing site safety goals, identifying and prioritizing safety In 2012 we reevaluated and advanced our North Dakota activities and reviewing safety issues, incidents, near misses contractor management program. By increasing leadership and related investigations. presence in the field, contractor engagement and targeted process improvements, we achieved a 36 percent SAFETY LEADERSHIP improvement in our North Dakota workforce (employee and contractor) Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) in 2012. At Hess leaders at all levels drive our safety culture, working With a strong presence in the shale energy business, we are under the philosophy of “no harm now or ever.” During working with contractors and industry partners to improve 2012 we further strengthened our safety culture across all overall safety performance in North Dakota. business levels. Workforce Hours (Employees and Contractors) Workforce Safety Performance Million Manhours Cases per 200,000 Hours 2% U.S. North Dakota 20.5 Workforce TRIR Workforce LTIR 4% U.S. Retail 14.4 Workforce LT/RD TRIR Target (Workforce) 3% U.S. E&P Headquarters 3.8 4% 2010 32% U.S. Other 8.5 0.68 4% Equatorial Guinea 3.0 0.37 5% 0.18 Indonesia 2.7 2011 Denmark 2.3 13% 0.72 Malaysia & Thailand 1.9 0.36 U.K. 1.3 0.17 6% 23% Algeria 1.1 2012 Australia 1.1 0.60 0.63 0.31 International Remainder 2.5 0.22 32 SAFETY AND HEALTH PERSONAL SAFETY a decline in contractor safety performance, and continuous improvement in our Retail Marketing business. Tragically, we suffered two fatalities during 2012. A male contractor working at our Eagle Ford asset in Texas died Our 2012 TRIR, the company’s best since we began tracking during rig move operations and a female employee working workforce data in 2004, was achieved at a time when total at a retail store in Carlisle, Pa., was shot and killed during a workforce hours increased 19 percent, mainly in our shale robbery. These events remind us that we must continuously energy business. The U.S. shale energy business, which strive to maintain a safe working environment for everyone tends to have higher incident rates, now accounts for 32 at Hess. percent of our total workforce hours and continues to grow. The following personal safety metrics, as defined by the In 2012 we improved the employee component of our total U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), workforce safety by nearly 30 percent, surpassing our 2011 are tracked by each of our operations and reported at the record for best companywide TRIR. The safety performance corporate level: TRIR, Lost Time/Restricted Duty Incident of our contractors improved by 4 percent in 2012, even Rate (LT/RD), Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) and fatalities though contractor hours increased 31 percent during the (all rates are per 200,000 hours*). In addition, local assets same time period due primarily to the continued growth of track first aid cases, near misses and unsafe acts in support our U.S. shale energy business. of their local programs and continuous improvement. During 2012 our E&P business undertook a “Serious Injury Our TRIR of 0.63 was a 13 percent year-on-year and Fatality” study. The study helped identify underlying improvement. However, we fell just short of achieving our factors associated with the most serious incidents we have annual safety target for the total workforce (employees experienced and enabled us to focus our programs and and contractors). This improvement demonstrated the resources on reducing their likelihood. effectiveness of measures put in place in 2011 to address CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT Contractors comprise 60 percent of the company’s total workforce and 81 percent of the workforce in our E&P business. As a result we maintain a particular focus on contractor management. Employee and Contractor Safety Performance Cases per 200,000 Hours Contractor TRIR Employee TRIR 2010 0.50 0.81 2011 0.73 0.71 2012 0.70 0.50 When calculating LTIR, scheduled work days are used. A lost time * incident involves one or more days away from work, excluding the day of Seminole Gas Processing Plant, Texas the incident. Absenteeism and Occupational Disease Rate are not primary metrics for Hess, and are therefore not tracked. 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 33 In recent years the company established a contractor thorough assessment and verification of bid submissions, management program to address the fundamentals of with evaluation outcomes integrated into overall bid selection contractor prequalification, selection, monitoring and review, criteria alongside commercial and technical assessments. with an emphasis on those contractors in our business who In response to declining contractor safety performance within are engaged in activities with the highest risk potential. our North American shale energy business, we further During prequalification, we engage recognized industry strengthened our program in the following areas. prequalification organizations when they are available, Our four-step contractor Onboarding and Engagement particularly in the U.S. and the U.K. Where recognized industry Program was fully executed, ensuring: prequalification organizations are not available, we use in-house prequalification processes, including a full review of 1) Expectations are clearly defined and understood safety programs, safety performance and regulatory track 2) The person in charge and communication routes are record. Subsequently we select contractors following a clearly identified NORTH DAKOTA the basis for our land transportation safety standard. Land Transportation We apply industry best practices for drivers of our The National Institute for Occupational Safety and company-owned vehicles through developed driver Health reported in December 2012 that the rate of management systems. Hess has 424 vehicles in motor vehicle deaths in the oil and gas industry is North Dakota with in-vehicle monitors. We monitor nearly 8.5 times greater than most other industries. and track driver behavior and vehicle speed to The leading causes of vehicle crashes are driver identify unsafe behavior and inform discussions fatigue and failure to adopt safe practices, such as aimed to promote corrective behavior. maintaining speeds appropriate to conditions and All employees and direct contractors who drive on consistently wearing seat belts. company business must take a proactive driving Our North America shale energy business typically course that includes an hour-long driving assessment. requires frequent trips to remote well sites. Between During the past three years we have trained 870 2010 and 2012 the number of vehicle miles driven in employees. In addition, we collaborate with the this sector of our business increased 273 percent to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the North 6.8 million miles. The business continues to expand. Dakota State Patrol and the North Dakota Petroleum Council to continuously improve the driving practices As a result, since we began our efforts to intensify of our contractors. our focus on land transport safety, no Hess employee or contractor has been involved in a serious traffic A full time Journey Management Coordinator has incident. This record is encouraging in light of the been assigned to enhance the program. Journey rapid increase in vehicle miles driven, which have Management Plans are well organized and required risen more than 30 percent since 2010, and the for all trips considered moderate or high risk. Drivers industry record of fatalities on roads in the oil counties are required to enter their trip details into a computerof North Dakota. based Journey Management Board. The Operations Control Center in Tioga monitors the Board 24/7 and In 2007 Hess adopted the International Association contacts the supervisor of any overdue employees. of Oil & Gas Producers (OGP) 365: Land Discussions are held routinely to challenge the need Transportation Safety Recommended Practice as for trips and to assess road risk in adverse weather. 34 SAFETY AND HEALTH 3) Job-related hazards and risks are assessed and In early 2011 Hess launched an Operational Excellence Action communicated Project whose aim was to evaluate and reduce the risk of catastrophic events at E&P and Marketing and Refining (M&R) 4) Contractor performance is monitored and reviewed while locations worldwide. The project established a clear vision for work is performed the company based on practices seen downstream in the A senior leader contractor engagement program was developed petrochemicals industry. It is our vision that process safety is and tracked through 2012. For our contractors whose workers an essential element of the organization’s culture and engage in the highest risk activities, the program connects our considered in every business decision. senior leaders with theirs on managing the key risks associated with these operations. THAILAND PROCESS SAFETY Sinphuhorm Incident Like our industry peers we continue to focus on and A process safety event early in 2012 at the strengthen our approach to process safety. Hess uses the Sinphuhorm Gas Processing Plant in northeastern American Petroleum Institute (API) and OGP guidance Thailand involved the inadvertent release of gas definition of process safety: “A disciplined framework for emissions from the plant’s thermal oxidizer. Soon after the event a two-day evaluation workshop was managing the integrity of hazardous operating systems and initiated at which five generic root causes for the processes by applying good design principles, engineering incident were identified: and operating and maintenance practices.” In practice this means we employ:  Inadequate plant expertise  Potentially improper operations becoming routine  Design integrity – ensuring that we design and build our  Equipment operability facilities so that the risks are as low as reasonably practical  Work management  Technical integrity – inspecting, testing and maintaining  Safety culture our hardware Soon after the incident, but before the findings  Operational integrity – ensuring that we work within the from the workshop could be implemented, an operational design parameters explosion occurred at the plant. It destroyed a piece  Process safety leadership – ensuring that our leaders are of equipment called a boil-off tank. There were no equipped to manage the risk of catastrophic events injuries associated with either event. However, the explosion caused the plant to shut 2012 Process Safety Events down and disrupted the local natural gas supply during Songkran, a major Thai holiday celebrating Tier 1 Tier 2 the new year. We responded immediately to the (6) (6) incident, engaged extensively with members of the (5) (5) (5) community and worked swiftly and safely to resume operations at the plant. Following plant start-up we (4) (4) also promptly investigated and alleviated community concerns that followed reports of odors from the plant. A subsequent evaluation of the event validated (2) (2) that the five generic root causes initially identified also caused the explosion. Those causes have become the focus of preventative planning going forward. Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 35 We ramped up our process safety preparedness efforts in 2012 with the implementation of a focused process safety program across the enterprise. This program addresses three strategic elements: improving process safety leadership; strengthening process safety governance, support and assurance; and deepening engagement and reinforcing accountability. The program contains four action areas to strengthen process safety over the next two years:  Process safety governance and support structures – We have expanded our professional process safety staff resources and formed an enterprise-wide work group to develop and deliver improvements to process safety management systems and practices. In 2013 we will establish a steering team comprised of senior leaders who will provide high level guidance and visibility to the program, which will be led by a vice president of Process Safety. P  rocess safety Global Standards to define minimum expectations – Plans are in place to develop enterpriseEmergency Response Exercise, North Dakota wide standards for process safety during 2013. The standards will draw on industry best practice. maximize what we learn from these events and improve our P  rocess safety – We began an assessment of each process safety performance. facility’s process safety management and introduced Hess Indicators for Process Safety (HIPS). Our audit In 2013 we will focus on how we can better identify causal and assurance mechanisms will be revised in 2013 to factors and develop appropriate corrective actions to prevent integrate process safety more explicitly. reoccurrence of process safety events. We will also review our use of leading process safety metrics and align fully with P  rocess safety accountabilities and responsibilities – industry guidance for leading Tier 3 and Tier 4 metrics, which Plans are in place in 2013 to deliver process safety track challenges to safety systems and weaknesses in facility awareness training for plant personnel and a cross-section specific processes and systems. of leaders at the middle and senior levels. As noted earlier, in 2012 we implemented process safety EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND metrics monitoring and reporting companywide in accordance RESPONSE with API and OGP guidance. The Hess Indicators for Process In the event of unanticipated disruptions, our obligations Safety (HIPS) focus on loss of primary containment events that include the protection of human life, property and the meet agreed industry criteria for Tier 1 (greater consequence) environment. To meet these obligations in all our regions of or Tier 2 (lesser consequence) process safety events. There operation and at all our operations, each region has its own have been 12 Tier 1 and 27 Tier 2 process safety events since Emergency Response Network that spans four operational we began HIPS reporting in April 2012. A review of these levels – local, geographic, regional and corporate. Each level events identified the need to continuously improve the quality is comprised of personnel trained in their roles and and effectiveness of our process safety incident investigations, responsibilities for incident response and mitigation. 36 SAFETY AND HEALTH Crisis and emergency management plans are in place and CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S AWARD FOR routinely exercised across the enterprise to ensure a SAFETY EXCELLENCE systematic and effective approach during any incident. The Chief Executive Officer’s Award for Safety Excellence These plans cover everything from oil spills and well control provides senior leaders with opportunities to reinforce the to business continuity and restoration. connection between safety and the success of our business. We routinely participate in emergency exercises and drills and Nominations are accepted for Hess team and joint venture engage in local emergency management efforts. Lessons we achievements that demonstrate outstanding and sustainable learn from real incidents, exercises and industry events are safety performance results with a wide reaching impact on routinely incorporated into our plans. the organization. We maintain strong relationships with mutual aid and Annual awards are presented to the operation that has been emergency response organizations at local, regional and most effective improving and sustaining its safety culture and global levels. Hess is a member of several spill response performance. The E&P and M&R presidents present additional and well control cooperative organizations, including Oil awards for safety excellence within their respective businesses. Spill Response Limited, WWC Well Contained, Marine In 2012 we introduced a Special Recognition category to Well Containment Company, Subsea Well Response engage and recognize achievements in our local businesses. Project, Oil Spill Prevention and Response Advisory Group and Clean Gulf Associates. Strategic relationships are also GLOBAL SAFETY maintained with contractors who provide tools, systems APPRECIATION DAY and personnel to Hess for emergency preparedness and Our annual Global Safety response activities. Appreciation Day gives senior leaders an additional opportunity to engage with the workforce, reinforce the importance of safety to our business, reflect on progress and successes and describe the path to continued improvement. Hess employees and contractors at more than 100 locations observe Global Safety Appreciation Day with a variety of meetings and activities. The event includes a video broadcast safety message from the members of the Hess Leadership Team focusing on global improvement priorities. In 2012 corporate leaders and their workforce peers presented safety tips with an emphasis on risk assessment and management, process safety, contractor safety management, Hess Rules, assurance and lessons-learned, as well as the application of the “Plan, Do, Check and Adjust” framework. HEALTH AND WELLNESS We continue to promote employee health, encouraging a balanced and productive lifestyle at work and at home Okume Complex, Equatorial Guinea through the implementation of our unified health and 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 37 wellness strategy. We have adopted eight elements of health management consistent with OGP and IPIECA health performance indicators, which are also used by many of our industry peers. These elements include health risk planning and impact assessments, control of workplace exposures, management of medical emergencies and ill-health in the workplace, fitness for task assessments, health reporting and record management, public health interfacing and promoting good health. Our company is proactive in identifying health needs and priorities at Hess locations around the world. We ensure our employees are protected from potential health hazards associated with work operations, travel and other job-related activities. We continue to enhance our fitness-for-work programs and routinely perform pre-placement assessments to confirm that our employees’ health is compatible with their work assignments. In the U.S. a variety of health management resources and tools Health Screening, Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area focused on cardiovascular health, musculoskeletal disease, mental health and chronic disease management were offered Our current focus areas include the prevention of hearing loss to our employees to help them meet their personal health and for our workers, raising awareness of workers in our shale wellness objectives. These objectives may involve exercise, energy business regarding exposures to silica dust, and diet and nutrition, weight control, stress management, tobacco protecting the health of workers who may be exposed to a cessation and chronic disease management. variety of illnesses and diseases. Employee resilience is the cornerstone of our future Our industry operations span various geographies including approach to health and wellness. Decreased health risks developing countries. Hess takes steps to protect the and improvements in employee health lead to improved health of its workers who may be exposed to diseases mental focus, morale and productivity, as well as decreased common in the developing world and to regionally prevalent injuries, illness, disability and lost work. As we continue to illnesses. Employees and contractors are provided with focus on establishing a culture of health, we will introduce education on health topics impacting the regions where we additional metrics around the impact of our efforts in each operate, including information about malaria, HIV, tuberculosis of these areas. and blood-borne pathogens. To evaluate our performance, health metrics are tracked Prior to international travel all employees are counseled on monthly and data are compared over the prior 13 months to specific regional health risks within the destination country and identify trends. Among others, these metrics include hearing vaccinations are reviewed and provided when appropriate. conservation measurements and fitness-for-duty exams. Additionally, expatriates and their family members at locations They are evaluated regionally and for the entire U.S. Data for around the world have access to counseling focusing on a the U.K. and other regions will be incorporated and tracked variety of topics including: Health improvement, mental health, in 2013. parenting, aging and caring for parents. GLOBAL WORKFORCE Hess Learning Center, Houston, Texas T hrough Talent Management Hess’ success relies on a company culture and high quality workforce that continues to innovate, lead and learn. In we are able to take a broad 2012, we examined the Hess culture, our environment view of the entire workforce for innovation, attracting and retaining talent, diversity and inclusion and our methods to promote learning, cycle: Talent recruitment, new development and leadership. With this process we aim employee orientation, workforce to improve the way we manage our talented workforce in support of our business objectives. development and retention, leadership development and EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS succession planning. As of December 31, 2012, Hess employed more than 13,200 people (excluding Hetco front office and Russia operations), an increase of approximately 2 percent over 2011. Ninety percent of our employees worked in the U.S. and more than two thirds worked in our retail operations. In 2012, 23 percent of our employees were part time and 61 percent were hourly employees. To understand employee dynamics in the context of our future business needs, we assess various statistics that describe the composition of our workforce. We hired 723 people in 2012. The voluntary turnover rate for the Hess workforce (excluding retail hourly employees) was 6.8 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 39 percent in 2012. Voluntary turnover rates were lower among DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION women and employees under 30 and over 50 years of age. Hess continues to develop, retain and advance a diverse Fewer than 1 percent of employees at operated assets were workforce based on traditional measures of diversity (e.g., laid off in 2012 because their positions were eliminated. gender, ethnicity), as well as aspects of diversity that go During the first quarter of 2013, we closed our Port Reading, beyond traditional categories. Our definition of diversity N.J. refining facility and announced our intention to focus includes cultural and physical differences, as well as exclusively on Exploration and Production (E&P) and exit the diversity of background, experience and perspective. downstream businesses, including Energy Marketing and Gender diversity and ethnic background metrics for our Retail Marketing operations. This business focus will require employees were similar to those in the prior year. Forty substantive changes to our existing workforce during the percent of our employees are female. Our U.S. employee coming months. base is 38 percent minority according to the U.S. Department of Labor definition. Adding to our diverse mix Global Employees Turnover and New Hires (Number of Employees) 13,277 Employees Male Turnover Male New Hires Female Turnover Female New Hires 2% <1% 3% Africa 5% 32 3 U.S. Retail 8,205 14 1 U.S. Non-Retail* 3,691 Americas 28% Asia Pacific 694 390 159 62% Europe 427 355 1 162 Africa 257 Asia-Pacific Other (<1%) 3 47 19 86 36 Europe 43 11 46 23 Excludes Hetco front office and Russia operations *Includes St. Lucia (112) Excludes retail hourly employees Women and Minority Representation WOMEN (U.S. AND INTERNATIONAL) MINORITIES (U.S.) Male New Hires Total Total Female New Hires Employees in Number Percent Employees in Number of Percent Job Category Job Category of Women Women Job Category Minorities Minorities Executives and 88 10 11% 79 5 6% senior officers First and mid-level 2,272 702 31% 1,946 477 25% managers Professionals 2,268 777 34% 1,561 420 27% Other 8,649 3,835 44% 8,310 3,616 44% Total 13,277 5,324 40% 11,896 4,518 38% Note: There are 1,854 U.S. employees who are both minority and female. 40 GLOBAL WORKFORCE of employees, 46 percent of new hires in the U.S. were percent of managers and professionals are local nationals. In women or minorities. The age distribution of our workforce Indonesia 97 percent of our employees and 95 percent of is similar to prior years, though the average age of our managers and professionals are local nationals. employees increased slightly from last year. In 2012 four women were appointed to Hess executive positions — EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Chief Compliance Officer, Vice President Corporate Social Over the course of 2012 work teams assessed the Hess Responsibility, Vice President Environment, Health, Safety culture and helped define the value proposition that Hess and Social Responsibility (EHS&SR) and Chief Information offers employees. Officer, Exploration and Production, increasing the proportion of female executives by 4 percent. For our We conducted a baseline culture survey of our organization. non-U.S. workforce, we emphasize diversity by hiring and More than 400 randomly selected employees from around the developing skilled local nationals as part of the Hess world participated in an online survey and approximately 200 workforce and local leadership. employees participated in small group discussions. We learned that central elements of our culture are strong, including pride Workforce Localization in our integrity and social responsibility and confidence that In keeping with our aim to foster diversity and cultivate leaders exemplify the Hess Values. Employees suggested that leadership, we employ a high number of local nationals more could be done to improve process efficiency, such as in our operations around the world. As in all areas of our making changes to the organization structure. They also would business, our Global Talent Acquisition group hires local like to see more non-monetary recognition. workers with exceptional professional qualifications and who are aligned with the Hess culture and values. In a related effort, 1,200 employees participated in an information gathering survey on Hess’ culture that focused on Ten percent of the Hess workforce was located outside innovation. Two hundred “Best Practice” innovation companies the U.S. in 2012. Two percent of our employees were in were benchmarked and Hess’ innovation culture was Africa, 3 percent were in Europe and 5 percent were at compared. Following analysis, recommendations were made Asian locations. for changes in leadership behaviors and workplace culture aimed at promoting innovation and value creation at Hess. In Equatorial Guinea 70 percent of our employees and 35 percent of our managers and professionals are local Another internal survey of current and prospective nationals. In Malaysia 65 percent of our employees and 63 employees showed that career opportunities, compensation National and Non-National Employees* National Employees % of Country Workforce % of Managers and Professionals Professional/ Other Non-Nationals Malaysia Indonesia Equatorial Guinea Managerial Nationals Nationals 120 Malaysia 95 59% 6% 35% 89 82 66 68 Indonesia 63 61% 36% 3% 60 Equatorial Guinea 34 33 35 16% 54% 30% 0 *In significant areas of operation (>100 employees) 2010 2011 2012 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 41 and work-life flexibility were the key selling points for working represented employees, see the Freedom of Association at Hess. We will continue to enhance these attributes while section in the Community and Social Performance ensuring fairness, quality and empowerment across our section of this report. global workforce. BENEFITS VOLUNTEERISM Hess provides comprehensive, high quality health and Through our intranet, Hess Connect, employees can learn retirement benefits that supplement or enhance the about social responsibility engagement and volunteer coverage that is offered by government programs. In opportunities in their area. The wide range of employee addition to wages, our financial benefits include pension, volunteer opportunities across the company includes savings, life insurance and bonus and incentive programs. company-sponsored, as well as employee-driven projects. Health benefits include medical, dental, vision, prescription drug and various employee assistance plans. Employee For example, our Houston-based employees support Target benefit packages vary by country. Hunger, a United Way agency that promotes self-sufficiency for those in need through deliveries of groceries, holiday food In the U.S., the company is adding or increasing benefits. In the boxes and gifts for children. Staff from our Perth office in past year, for example, we added domestic partner benefits, Australia joined coastal care volunteer groups for a clean-up increased medical plan options and increased the company’s project on Kwinana beach. In the aftermath of Superstorm match against employee contributions to 401(k) plans. In China Sandy, Hess employees from our New York and Woodbridge, we added a pension plan, and in the U.K. we enhanced our N.J. locations in the U.S. worked together with Partnership pension offerings to help offset recent tax changes. with Parks to restore park areas after flooding and organized Hess benefits and programs for non-hourly retail employees a food and supplies drive for victims most severely impacted. exceed the industry standard. In addition to full medical coverage, non-hourly retail employees can participate in COMPENSATION the company’s savings plan, a benefit also available to full Hess rewards its employees for their contributions to our time retail hourly employees. Hess’ separate benefits plan company’s current and future performance. In addition to for full time retail hourly employees includes medical and base pay, Hess compensation includes a wide range of life insurance coverage and paid vacation time. Hess offers benefits, including bonus and incentive plans. To gauge retail employees a pension plan, a benefit that is not the competitiveness and fairness of our compensation, commonly provided in the retail industry. Retail employees we benchmark Hess against industry peers. are eligible to receive education assistance for courses related to their development. So that we can be among the top quartile of employers when comparing our entry level wages to local wage To align employees’ interests with investors and provide minimums, we measure this differential at locations where another opportunity to participate in the company’s success, we employ 100 or more. In the U.S., as well as at our Hess offers a long term incentive program to employees who international operations in Europe, Southeast Asia and demonstrate exemplary leadership and contribute Equatorial Guinea, we pay more than local prevailing significantly to the business. industry minimum wage. Hess pays retail hourly employees 24 percent more than the minimum wage, on average. Salaried employees participate in the company’s cash bonus plan and the company offers financial assistance to The wages, benefits and bonuses of our represented employees who wish to pursue educational coursework. In employees are determined by collective bargaining 2012 the company contributed more than $1.5 million for agreements. For further information on our unionoutside educational assistance. 42 GLOBAL WORKFORCE TALENT MANAGEMENT With guidance from their managers, employees create their individual development plans. Hess provides In 2012 the company continued to forge a connection mentoring, training, online courses and other educational between our Talent Management and Learning and assistance so that employees can develop their potential Development processes. and leadership capabilities in alignment with the company’s Hess engages in an annual talent management process business objectives. to understand and assess our leadership and technical Through the Hess Performance Management process, an capabilities and develop succession and hiring plans. employee’s performance is evaluated against goals and Performance Management expectations and leadership behaviors. These factor into an Hess employees are responsible for managing their own overall performance rating, which impacts an employee’s performance and career paths. Individual responsibility is salary and bonus. a foundational value in our approach to performance Learning and Development management. The company provides many tools, programs In 2012 we aligned the content of our development courses and opportunities to support employees as they strive to more directly with our long term objectives and our reach their goals. leadership model. Our employees used the tools introduced in 2011 to more effectively manage their ongoing education Recruiting Veterans and development. Our Global Talent Acquisition strategy is focused Our classroom training programs and online Hess Learning on hiring people whose values align with our own Center provide an important supplement to employee and whose skills and experience match Hess’ development that takes place on the job and through talent needs. In 2012 we expanded the portion of coaching and mentoring relationships. Our employees have our Talent Management program that reaches out access to Hess global online resources to develop to the military and recruiting veterans. professional, leadership and technical skills. We participate in an American Petroleum Institute At Hess we have a suite of four leadership development led group called Veterans to Energy that maps talent programs, each tailored to the needs of a particular level of and experience from the military to the energy sector. leadership in the organization, from early-career supervisors Hess also participates in a national veteran hiring program called “Joining Forces,” which connects through senior leadership. Program content reflects the service members to careers and supports their competencies needed to achieve our vision and the skills transition to civilian life. We were recognized for our necessary to develop as a leader and to contribute efforts by Brad Cooper, Executive Director of Joining effectively to our company’s success. Forces, Office of the First Lady, during a White House-sponsored “Joining Forces” event. New Employees Employees new to Hess are benefiting from the Veterans working at Hess have organized the Hess improvements we made to onboarding and orientation Veterans’ Group to enhance our outreach and processes during 2011. In 2012 more than 700 new integration efforts. The group is sponsored by our employees worldwide participated in our online Passport General Counsel. In our recruitment efforts, we work with military recruiters, attend military-sponsored to Hess program. In addition to our offices in Houston, jobs fairs and publicize our interest in hiring Woodbridge, N.J., New York, North Dakota, London and military personnel. Kuala Lumpur in 2012, the Passport to Hess program was rolled out in Copenhagen, Beijing, Jakarta and Perth. As 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 43 of the end of the year, 100 percent of the respondents were either extremely satisfied or satisfied with the Passport to Hess Welcome Day. The Passport to Hess site provides information about the company and Hess Values, as well as links to The Learning Center and The Resource Center. The Learning and Resource centers are critical portals for managing one’s career development path. The Hess catalogue of online courses is available through the Passport to Hess site. The onboarding program for new hires also establishes a system for supervisors and new employees to work closely together for the first 90 days at Hess and to make sure the integration process goes as smoothly as possible. New Hess employees may also be eligible to join the supplemental early career development programs we offer. Early Career Programs Our Global Professional Development Program (GPDP), first piloted in 2011, was implemented across the organization in 2012. College graduates newly hired at Hess were introduced to the first stages of this two year Global Professional Development Program Session, Houston, Texas early career integration program. The program accelerates performance and career development by introducing basic professional skills such as business writing, presentation million on classroom courses and 24/7 online learning and techniques, goal setting and time management. The basic development. The total amount spent on training programs curriculum is tailored to regional locations so employees can decreased 12 percent from the previous year primarily adapt to the needs of the country and business environment because certain targeted programs and system upgrade in which they are launching their careers. processes were completed in 2011. For our newly hired technical personnel, it is especially We currently offer more than 1,000 e-courses that align important to continually hone skills. The oil and gas with Hess operations and business priorities. We tailor industry is evolving rapidly, with innovative techniques and many courses for employees located outside the U.S. technologies creating competitive advantage for businesses Through our independent third party verification process, across the world. The Hess Global Foundation Program is we estimate that our non-retail employees spent at least designed to help our graduate engineers and geoscientists 25 hours in training and courses during 2012. keep pace with this rapid evolution through training, mentorship and on-the-job assignments so they are fully Data from the Hess Learning Center shows that more prepared for challenging assignments early in their careers. than 3,500 non-retail employees completed more than 10,000 online courses in 2012, a 96 percent increase over Training 2011. This data demonstrates increased utilization of Training programs are an important component of the Talent learning resources and course completions. Management process at Hess. We spent more than $14 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Tioga Rail System, North Dakota H ess continues to help meet Hess monitors, measures and takes steps to reduce our carbon footprint at existing and planned operations. We the world’s increasing have been executing a five year (2009-2013) climate change demand for energy while we strategy and are in the process of developing a policy to provide internal clarity on our climate change framework, manage our carbon footprint demonstrate comprehensive climate change management and energy use. This commitment and increase transparency. This policy, when adopted, will guide operational and project planning efforts to manage underpins our seven-point our carbon footprint. strategy that addresses the We recognize the need for cooperation between U.S. and challenges and opportunities world leaders and industry to develop comprehensive energy presented by climate change. solutions that will meet future energy demand and reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. These solutions include increased use of cleaner burning natural gas, commercial scale carbon neutral technologies and demand reduction measures such as energy efficiency initiatives. Carbon price signals may also encourage more efficient use of hydrocarbons. In the U.S., we support a transparent, flexible, equitable and reasonable approach to reducing carbon emissions that will not impede the domestic economic recovery. 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 45 STRATEGY AND GOALS The higher carbon intensity of exploration and production operations, combined with reduced production and In 2009 the Hess Leadership Team approved a five year throughput from asset sales and facility closures, mean corporate climate change strategy for 2009 through 2013. that our normalized target is no longer achievable. However, Key elements of the strategy address GHG emissions between 2008 and 2013, our absolute GHG emissions intensity, flaring, energy efficiency, carbon accounting and (equity basis), have decreased 26 percent (2.8 million products and services to help customers become more tonnes). We expect GHG emissions (equity basis) will be carbon efficient. A synopsis of the progress we have made three to four million tonnes lower in 2013 than in 2008 in executing our climate change strategy is summarized in because of a combination of improved operating processes the table below. and discontinued operations. While we are on track in most areas, a transformation of Hess In 2012 we began incorporating carbon footprinting tools is underway. This impacts our ability to achieve our GHG and energy efficiency best practices into our capital emissions intensity reduction target (equity basis) of evaluation for new upstream investment decisions valued 20 percent below the 2008 baseline by the end of 2013. greater than $50 million to promote carbon efficient Through 2010 we reduced our equity basis GHG emissions equipment selection. The cost of carbon is included in base intensity by 14 percent. However, we have subsequently exited project economics in carbon-regulated areas. In all other petroleum refining with the closings of the HOVENSA joint areas, the cost of carbon is included in project economics venture refinery in January 2012 and the Port Reading refining as a sensitivity analysis. Workshops to educate project facility in February 2013. In addition, we have announced the engineers were held in Houston, London and Kuala Lumpur planned divestiture of our other downstream businesses. and were taught by subject matter experts. Climate Change Strategy and Progress Strategy Progress Due to the restructuring of Hess into a pure play Exploration and Production (E&P) company, our target Establish and publicly communicate a five year GHG of 20 percent reduction in emissions intensity by 2013 is emissions intensity reduction target. no longer achievable. However, since 2008 we reduced absolute GHG emissions (equity basis) by 26 percent (2.8 million tonnes) through 2012. We incorporated carbon cost considerations into the E&P Account for the cost of carbon in all significant future project planning process for major investments and held investment decisions. training workshops for project engineers. We incorporated energy efficiency considerations into the Evaluate industry best practices to minimize emissions E&P project planning process for major investments and when designing production facilities. held training workshops for project engineers. Reduce flaring in Algeria and Equatorial Guinea by 50 We continued to review flare reduction options while percent over five years (by end of 2013 compared to having already reduced combined flaring in Algeria and 2008 baseline). Equatorial Guinea by 61 percent through 2012. We implemented monthly collection of energy use and spend data at our assets to identify opportunities to Implement a corporate wide energy efficiency program. reduce energy consumption and costs and to begin establishing a baseline. Purchase at least 10 percent of annual electricity We purchased renewable energy certificates equivalent to for company operations from renewable sources. 15 percent of our 2012 net electricity use. Hess Energy Solutions expanded its integrated commodity Offer Hess Energy Marketing customers products and contract offerings, incorporating energy efficiency, services to help them minimize their carbon footprint. renewable energy and fuel conversion services. 46 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY During the year we began building an energy management GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE system to track energy use throughout the corporation. This The HLT oversees the climate change strategy and its new system helps us identify opportunities to reduce energy execution by the Hess Climate Change Network (CCN). The use and flaring. In 2013 we will continue to collect energy CCN reports to the company’s Operational Excellence Pillar use data with the goal of evaluating energy efficiency Team, which is led by the President of E&P and includes improvement opportunities and establishing an energy senior leaders from our upstream and downstream business baseline and targets for 2014 and beyond. segments, as well as corporate Environment, Health, Safety Another element of our strategy is increasing the use of and Social Responsibility, Global Process Excellence and renewable energy through the purchase of renewable energy Information Technology functions. certificates (RECs) equivalent to 10 percent of net electricity We established four CCN work groups to develop, update used for company operations. We have exceeded this target and execute the company’s climate change strategy. The for the past three years. In addition, our Marketing and Climate Policy Work Group monitors policy developments, Refining (M&R) business installed a 1.1 megawatt solar assesses their impact on our operations and coordinates photovoltaic system at its Woodbridge, N.J. headquarters to strategy development across the four work groups. The provide more than 20 percent of its electricity needs. Since Energy Efficiency and Flaring/Venting Work Groups focus on 2010 we have also achieved carbon neutral status for the technical and operational factors of carbon footprint employee business travel on commercial air carriers through evaluation and reduction. The Carbon Markets Work Group the purchase of carbon offsets. provides guidance on forward pricing for project economics In 2013 and through early 2014 we will update our climate and carbon monetization opportunities. change strategy and objectives for the next five year cycle (2014-2019). We will continue to emphasize best practices GREENHOUSE GAS PERFORMANCE for flare reduction and energy efficiency. To accomplish this We report our GHG emissions on an operated and net equity objective we will also continue to assess opportunities to basis. The majority of our direct (Scope 1) emissions are improve our emissions performance. associated with fuel combustion and flaring. We report indirect emissions associated with purchased electricity (Scope 2) and Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Source Million Tonnes CO2e Thousand Tonnes CO2e Scope 1 Emissions Scope 2 Emissions (gross) 4% Flaring 2,433 2010 13% Fuel Combustion 2,300 3.68 0.78 Indirect 760 42% 2011 Other 238 4.34 0.74 2012 4.97 0.76 40% 0 2 4 6 8 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 47 other indirect emissions (Scope 3), resulting from employee business travel and the transport and use of our products. Hess Operated Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2) In 2012, of the 5.7 million tonnes of gross GHG emissions from operated assets, 5.0 million tonnes were Scope 1 emissions, primarily from flaring and fuel combustion, and 0.8 million tonnes were Scope 2 emissions from purchased electricity. Process operations (primarily fuel combustion), flaring and indirect emissions (purchased electricity) accounted for 44 percent, 43 percent and 13 percent of GHG emissions respectively. Greenhouse gas emissions from operated assets increased 0.7 million tonnes, primarily as a result of an increase in flaring emissions due to the rapid expansion of our operations in the North Dakota Bakken formation. Based on North Dakota Industrial Commission data, we have historically had some of the lowest gas flaring rates in the Tioga Gas Processing Plant Expansion, North Dakota industry. However, our flaring rates in the Bakken region currently exceed the 2012 industry average of 32 percent. Bakken formation have stabilized between 2011 and 2012 and we expect flaring to decrease substantially in the next While we decreased our flaring in the Bakken from 2009 to few years as we continue to invest in flare reduction projects. 2010 by bringing additional gas gathering infrastructure online, our flaring subsequently increased from 2011 to 2012, We are investing more than $1.2 billion to improve following the acquisition of acreage in remote areas with gas gathering infrastructure, monetize gas recovery and insufficient existing gas gathering infrastructure. These new minimize gas flaring. These investments include the planned acquisitions accounted for 56 percent of our Bakken flaring completion of four gas gathering projects by 2014. Other at year end 2012. At operated assets, flaring rates in the mitigation measures utilized in 2012 included daily review of Net Equity Greenhouse Gas12 Emissions 10.8 Net Equity 50 Emissions by Country Thousand Tonnes CO2e Hess M&R Algeria 10 U 9.5 Islands  .S. Virgin 9.0 9.1 45 Hess E&P Non-operated E&P (U.S.V.I.) 44 43 U.S. 8.03,159 Other Countries* 419 8 Normalized GHG Malaysia/ Russia Malaysia/Thailand 40 1,986 U.S.V.I. 332 39 Thailand 38 6 Equatorial Guinea 952 Algeria 243 12 50 10.8 Emissions Rate (Tonnes/1000 BOE) 35 Russia 454 U.K. 210 4 9.5 GHG (Million Tonnes CO2e) 10 9.0 9.1 45 44 30 2 43 8.0 4% 3% 3% 8 40 39 40% 25% 12% 6% 5% 5% 0 25 6 38 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 0 1 mil 2 mil 3 mil 4 mil 5 mil 6 mil 7 mil 8 mil 9 mil 35 4 *Other countries: Azerbaijan 1.3% 30 2 Norway 1.2% Libya 1.0% 0 25 Denmark 1.8% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 48 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY rates and pressures to optimize the steam to oil ratio, a interests in Samara-Nafta, Russia and Pailin field, Thailand. measure of efficiency. We also piloted third party services Combined, these assets accounted for approximately three to compress natural gas for transport. These mitigation million of our eight million tonnes of net equity emissions. measures continue in 2013, along with pilot testing methods Operated sources included our operations in EG and North for natural gas liquids collection at the well site and plans for Dakota, the Port Reading refining facility and the Seminole conversion of some of our contracted drill rigs to dual fuel and Tioga gas plants, which together accounted for 3.2 (natural gas as well as diesel). million tonnes of net equity emissions. Our year-over-year net Based on our current production and emissions forecast, equity emissions decreased by more than one million tonnes we anticipate further absolute reductions in GHG emissions CO2e, primarily due to the closure of the HOVENSA joint reflecting these flaring reduction initiatives in North Dakota venture refinery in early 2012. and the closure of our Port Reading, N.J. refining facility. In addition to our projects in the Bakken, we have ongoing flare Scope 3 Product Use Emissions reduction initiatives in Algeria and Equatorial Guinea (EG). The majority of our Scope 3 emissions are associated with We continue to look for ways to reduce fuel consumption customer and consumer use of our fuel and other products. and improve our operational efficiency through these and Although no standard methodology has been adopted other energy efficiency initiatives. within our industry to report these types of emissions, we have followed the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Hess Net Equity Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2) (EPA) approach. Since 2007 we have tracked GHG emissions from our Our methodology for calculating product use emissions non-operated locations based on our equity interest in addresses the products that we refine and sell, as well each asset. Tracking emissions on a net equity basis is as natural gas that we produce and sell for third party more difficult than on an operated basis, but it provides a consumption. We exclude emissions associated with more accurate overall picture of our carbon footprint. products that are manufactured by others and purchased Our major sources of emissions from non-operated assets in by Hess for resale. Emissions factors for refined petroleum 2012 included the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area products are based on the EPA rule for mandatory GHG (JDA) and SonaHess (Algeria) joint ventures and our equity reporting. Natural gas emissions factors reflect CO2 content in gas sales. Product Use Emissions Our product use emissions have decreased from Million Tonnes CO2 approximately 40 million tonnes CO2e in 2010 to 22 million Natural Gas Gasoline Diesel Residual Oil tonnes CO2e in 2012, as a result of shutting down our HOVENSA joint venture refinery. In February 2013 we closed 2010 14.2 13.4 7.7 4.9 our remaining Port Reading refining facility. Therefore, our Scope 3 product use emissions from refined petroleum 2011 products are expected to be less than one million tonnes 13.4 11.1 7.1 4.1 4.6 in 2013. 2012 13.2 4.5 2.8 1.5 5.5 Other Scope 3 Emissions 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 In addition to our product use emissions, in 2009 we began GHG factors are 0.37, 0.43 and 0.47 tonnes of CO2 /barrel for gasoline, diesel identifying and quantifying potential carbon hotspots in our and residual oil, respectively, and 0.0966 tonnes of CO2 /MMBtu for natural value chain. To date, we have collected data associated gas. These factors are based on the EPA rule for mandatory GHG reporting, except the gas factor which is adjusted for JDA’s CO2 content in gas sales. with third party supply and distribution and business travel. 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 49 Scope 3 emissions from these activities are not material ranching families and rural communities in a region of noted relative to product use emissions, but demonstrate our rural out-migration while preserving sensitive habitat. progress in assessing our value chain GHG emissions. We have joined the CDP Supplier Initiative (formerly known We have refined our approach for 2012 to focus on third as the Carbon Disclosure Project) and have requested party activities where we can obtain accurate and reliable key suppliers of refined petroleum products and biofuels source data. These include ocean transport of refinery to respond to our information requests. Our goal is to feedstock for the Port Reading refining facility and refined improve our understanding of third party GHG emissions petroleum products for resale by Energy Marketing and from the production of these products that we sell to Retail Marketing. We also collect data on employee business customers and consumers. travel on commercial air carriers. In 2012 Scope 3 ocean transport emissions were 210,000 tonnes CO2e, similar to ENERGY USE 2011. Our emissions from employee business travel on Energy management is fundamental to our company’s commercial aircraft were approximately 23,000 tonnes, the business strategy and our ongoing efforts to improve same as 2011. energy efficiency at Hess. We offset more than 120 percent of commercial carrier Our operations make and purchase energy primarily for emissions through the purchase of carbon credits from The power, processing, heating and cooling. In 2012 energy Climate Trust (TCT). In addition, we provided a $25,000 grant consumption from Hess operated assets was approximately to TCT to support an avoided grasslands conversion carbon 47,000 thousand gigajoules, a 2.3 percent increase over offsets project in the Prairie Pothole Region of North Dakota. 2011. Seventy-five percent of our energy use was generated The grant will advance validation of a new carbon offset directly by our operations. The remaining 25 percent was protocol for avoided grasslands conversion by the American gross indirect energy (including energy burned by the utility Carbon Registry and the Voluntary Carbon Standard. The to provide net purchased electricity). methodology will enable grassland producers to earn income from preservation of their grasslands and the soil carbon The slight rise in energy use in 2012 was primarily at present in these systems. As a result, this project will support E&P operations where approximately 75 percent of the Energy Use Energy Use by Country Thousand Gigajoules Thousand Gigajoules Direct Indirect 1% 2% 5% U.S. (E&P) 24,590 2010 6% 33,238 11,218 U.S. (M&R) 11,938 8% Equatorial Guinea 2011 3,833 34,021 11,853 52% Indonesia 2,879 U.K. 1,148 2012 25% Denmark 2,365 34,993 11,932 Thailand 171 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 60,000 50 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY company’s energy was used. The largest increase occurred For major new projects ($50 million or greater) we require at our rapidly expanding North Dakota operations, where that energy assessments be included in planning and year-over-year production increased 87 percent and energy review. We held project planning workshops at all major E&P use rose 18 percent. locations to educate project design teams on new requisite tools for assessing energy efficiency. The workshops were In 2012 U.S. operations accounted for more than 99 percent developed by a cross-functional team of internal and (approximately 1.1 million megawatt hours) of net purchased external energy experts. electricity. Based on U.S. electricity generation profiles, we estimate that approximately 8 percent of this electricity was We also continued to advance the energy efficiency generated from renewable sources, primarily wind and projects at existing facilities. For example, a lighting project hydroelectric power. Hess targets to purchase at least 10 was completed at a New Jersey facility, lowering energy percent of annual net electricity from renewable sources. In use by a projected 145 MWh annually. Terminal Operations 2012 we acquired 180,000 Green-e Energy certified RECs continued a multiyear strategy to reduce fuel use by for wind power, equal to 180,000 megawatt hours or about converting boilers from heavy fuel oil to natural gas. In 15 percent of our net purchased electricity. Overall, late 2012 through early 2013, our Charleston, S.C. approximately 23 percent of our indirect energy use was and Pennsauken, N.J. terminals completed natural gas from renewables. conversions. We also improved the monitoring and accountability for boiler fuel use and in some markets Energy Initiatives we stopped storing fuel products that must be heated. In 2012 Hess continued to improve energy efficiency and Combined, these efforts resulted in a 31 percent decrease reduce energy consumption at our operations. We began in Terminal Operations’ fuel use between 2009 and 2012. monthly collection of energy use and spend data at our assets to identify opportunities to reduce energy and costs. These data are reported monthly to senior leaders and will inform our five year climate change strategy and energy goals for 2014-2019. Direct Energy Use by Fuel Source U.S. Net Indirect Energy Use by Fuel Source* Thousand Gigajoules Thousand MWh 1% <1% 2% 1% Natural Gas 25,544 5% Coal 400 10% Petroleum Coke 5,620 Natural Gas 423 Diesel 3,493 35% Nuclear 229 16% 20% Fuel Oil 335 Wind 57 Renewables (Solar) 4 Hydro 23 73% Biomass, solar and other renewables <10 37% *Approximate figures based on U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) state net electricity generation profiles for utilities and independent power producers as of March 2012 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 51 Green Buildings In 2012 Hess continued to make progress incorporating environmental excellence into our leased buildings and owned facilities. Renovations continued at Hess’ M&R headquarters in Woodbridge, N.J., where we aim to achieve Leadership in Energy Efficiency and Design (LEED®) Gold certification. The renovations include the addition of high efficiency lighting and mechanical equipment and efficient window glazing, as well as sensor operated and low-flow plumbing fixtures. We also installed a $5.6 Hess Solar Field, Woodbridge, N.J. million, 1.1-megawatt solar energy facility that supplies approximately 22 percent of the building’s electricity needs. The 3,472 single-axis panels have sun-tracking monitors the position of the sun and adjusts window capability for up to 25 percent more sunlight capture shades accordingly, occupancy sensors that turn off than fixed panel systems. The field began operations lights in unoccupied rooms and a “green roof” that in April 2012 and generated 1,037 megawatt hours helps cool the building. We measure and ensure (MWh) of electricity by the end of the year. indoor air quality, encourage bicycle commuting and have programs in place to ensure recycling. In Our leased E&P headquarters building in Houston addition, we use environmentally friendly cleaning is certified LEED Platinum for Core and Shell. We supplies and pest control. The building’s high completed an interior buildout in 2011 to meet efficiency plumbing fixtures and its reuse of air commercial interior LEED Silver criteria. Energy conditioning condensate and rainwater for conservation features include a lighting system that landscaping help to conserve our use of water. Hess E&P Headquarters, Houston, Texas ENVIRONMENT Valhall Field, Norway W e are strengthening our We have initiatives to reduce the amount of water and energy we use, limit the level of greenhouse gas and other environmental assessment air pollutants we emit, prevent spills, and reduce the time it processes to ensure that key takes to remediate affected sites. In 2012 we standardized waste management practices across U.S. operations to environmental risks are identified, improve consistency and performance. mitigated and communicated to We are currently conducting two major multiyear our stakeholders. Environmental decommissioning projects in the U.K. sector of the North Sea. These projects have required extensive environmental stewardship and responsible assessments and have presented unique challenges as development make good we remove thousands of tonnes of infrastructure from the business sense. seabed for subsequent recycling and disposal. We are also introducing a new global air emissions reporting system, which will improve the accuracy, reliability and accessibility of environmental data. In addition we are strengthening and standardizing our environmental assessment processes to ensure key environmental risks are identified, mitigated and communicated to our stakeholders. In 2012 we began to use new evaluation tools to assess the environmental and social risks associated with our operations. In the Utica Shale in Southeast Ohio we began using an online 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 53 Geographical Information System (GIS) that incorporates Louisiana), 21 percent was used for hydraulic fracturing environmental and social baseline data. It is used on a daily operations and 1 percent for all other operations. basis to help us avoid ecologically sensitive areas, minimize The Seminole Gas Processing Plant (SGP) in West Texas impacts to the environment and reduce permitting was our largest fresh water user. The plant uses water requirements and review time. mainly for process cooling and sources it from a Hess owned and operated groundwater well field. Due to WATER USE regional climatic conditions – dry all year and hot during Fresh water availability and quality are issues of increasing the summer – there is a high evaporative loss associated importance, especially within Exploration and Production with SGP’s cooling system. The facility recirculates water (E&P). We recognize responsible water use is a key issue for in its cooling towers between three to five cycles, and to the communities where we operate and for our stakeholders. prevent buildup of solids in the circulating water a portion Our Environment, Health and Safety Policy commits us to is removed as “blowdown.” Fresh water inputs to the conserving natural resources. As a result, we closely monitor cooling system must replace both the amount of blowdown our water use, strive to reduce our water footprint and are and the amount of water lost to evaporation. taking steps to safeguard water quality. In 2012 SGP used 6.3 million cubic meters of water for In 2012 our operations used 12 million cubic meters of fresh process cooling and other utilities, 5 percent less than in 2011. water, 99 percent of which was used in our U.S. operations. To put this in context with overall regional use, SGP’s 2012 Groundwater accounted for 54 percent, surface water groundwater withdrawals represented 0.1 percent of the withdrawals less than 1 percent, and the remainder was estimated regional demand from the Ogallala Aquifer based on purchased from local municipalities. Fresh water use Texas Water Development Board data for the Llano Estacado decreased about 8 percent compared to 2011, primarily region (www.twdb.texas.gov) which includes the county where due to lower consumption in our gas processing and refining SGP is located. operations. No water sources were identified as having been significantly affected by the company’s water use. In Marketing and Refining (M&R), the Port Reading refining facility used 2.3 million cubic meters of water purchased In 2012 we used 8.5 million cubic meters of fresh water in from the local municipality, comprising 64 percent of M&R’s our E&P operations, 71 percent of the company total. About total fresh water use. Approximately 75 percent of the 2.3 78 percent was used by U.S. natural gas processing plants million cubic meters of water used at Port Reading was for (Seminole in Texas, Tioga in North Dakota and Sea Robin in the facility’s cooling system, which recirculates water Fresh Water Use Fresh Water Use by Business and Facility Million Cubic Meters Thousand Cubic Meters E&P 1% Groundwater Municipal Surface Water Seminole Gas Plant 6,286 2010 9% North Dakota 1,758 6.6 3.7 0.04 Tioga Gas Plant 206 Sea Robin Gas Plant 174 19% 2011 International 80 8.5 4.6 0.02 52% Other U.S. 34 <1% 1% M&R 2012 1% 2% Port Reading 2,272 6.5 5.5 0.07 15% Retail 1,077 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 Terminals/Woodbridge 179 54 ENVIRONMENT between three and six times. The facility’s utility systems account for approximately 20 percent of water use. The remaining 5 percent is used throughout various stages of the petroleum refining process. SGP and Port Reading together accounted for 71 percent of the company’s 2012 fresh water consumption and represent the vast majority of our water recycling/reuse activities. In 2012 about 1.1 million cubic meters (9%) of water was reused. BIODIVERSITY Understanding biodiversity and key ecosystem services are important considerations in our project planning and execution. At times our operations extend into sensitive habitats where the protection of migratory and local animal and plant life is critical to our project decision making. Our Environment, Health and Safety Policy reinforces our commitment to the environment. We routinely conduct biodiversity screenings for major new projects as part of early site evaluation and selection. Environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs) are used to create mitigation strategies for environmental and Monitor lizard, native to mangrove habitats near our Pangkah operations in Indonesia biodiversity risks. These ESIAs are performed for Hess by experienced third party consultants in accordance with biodiversity assessment and management across our country specific laws and regulations. operations. We have also conducted a review of geospatial tools for identifying ecosystem risk factors and are currently ESIAs include biodiversity baseline studies followed by assessing training needs. screening of plant and animal species against the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) In 2012 Hess E&P assets continued the ESIA process Red List and threatened and endangered species lists. initiated in 2011 for our offshore Tubular Bells project in the In locations where an ESIA is not mandated, our E&P Gulf of Mexico. We also began the scoping of an ESIA to management system framework requires risk screening assess the risks associated with our offshore Stampede and impact assessments for proposed exploration, drilling project in the Gulf of Mexico, which is in the early conceptual and development programs. ESIA results are made public design phase. where required by law. In North Dakota we completed a study of the effects of In 2012 we continued to enhance our approach to biodiversity seismic surveys in Lake Sakakawea on pallid sturgeon and impact assessment and management. We are building other endangered fish species. We conducted this study to consistency in expectations and execution of our biodiversity understand the impacts of proposed seismic geophysical and ecosystem services by developing global standards that surveys that may occur in September 2013 within specific address these issues. Part of this development process regions of the lake pending U.S. Fish & Wildlife approval. includes evaluating the implementation of IPIECA guidance on The study findings included identification of sound levels to 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 55 which adult fish can be safely exposed and will inform best development. The use of a formalized approach and practices for future surveying activities. biodiversity data collection tools will help us enhance our data collection process during the next several years. Historically Hess is a member of the Biodiversity and Ecosystems we have collected biodiversity data manually through reviews Services working group of IPIECA, the global oil and gas of ESIAs and other existing reports, which are limited because industry association for environmental and social issues. they only cover a fixed time period. This improved approach IPIECA provides us with opportunities to continuously learn will help us maintain more up-to-date information. and improve as well as engage with stakeholders inside and outside our industry. For example, IPIECA, the International IUCN Red List Council on Mining and Metals and the Equator Principles Hess Corporate Environmental Affairs maintains a list Association have formed the Cross Sector Biodiversity of IUCN Red List species compiled and updated using Initiative (CSBI). This initiative brings the mining, oil and gas environmental due diligence, screening and impact and financial sectors together to develop and share best assessment reports. Most of the endangered or critically practices to safeguard biodiversity and ecosystems. This endangered species on this list are marine life that thrives workflow is helping us effectively apply the International in tropic and subtropic regions, including some coastal Finance Corporation’s Performance Standard 6 on and offshore regions in the vicinity of our project areas. Biodiversity, Conservation and the Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources. No Hess asset is located within an IUCN protected area, with the exception of the Sinphuhorm Natural Gas Field in Hess also participates in the Advisory Committee of the northeastern Thailand. Some associated wellheads and gas Environmentally Friendly Drilling – Technology Integration gathering lines lie within the northern boundary of the Phu Program (EFD-TIP). The EFD-TIP represents an integrated Kao-Phu Phan Kham National Park, an IUCN Category V approach for applying new technologies to address protected area. To help maintain and protect this national environmental impacts in shale oil and gas production. forest, we provide financial support for local fire fighting and Potential technologies come from service providers, reforestation programs. Research Partnership to Secure Energy for America projects, National Energy Technology Laboratory funded SITE DECOMMISSIONING projects, and the EFD Program (efdsystems.org). As offshore oil and gas facilities reach the end of their Since 2010 Hess has collaborated in an industry-wide commercial life, decommissioning those assets presents study on fish impingement and entrainment and thermal unique engineering, environmental protection and waste impacts of cooling water intakes. The study was initiated management challenges. The Fife, Fergus, Flora and Angus to support revisions to the Gulf of Mexico-wide National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit. It is now being used to support development of a company monitoring plan that addresses permit requirements for IUCN Category Number of Species both existing and new facilities. Critically Endangered 22 In 2012 we began to use new evaluation tools to effectively assess biodiversity risks associated with our operations, Endangered 41 including the GIS tool in the Utica Shale. Vulnerable 243 In addition to the evaluation of available biodiversity tools, Near Threatened 250 a formalized data collection scope of work is under 56 ENVIRONMENT fields (FFFA) in the North Sea stopped production in 2008 decommissioning projects in the region. We have been after delivering more than 100 million barrels of oil during a active in industry committees to develop guidance for 17-year life. The Ivanhoe and Rob Roy fields (IVRR), also in responsible decommissioning practices and worked with the North Sea, have also ceased production. The knowledge regulators to ensure that these operations are completed gained from the FFFA project will be applied to their safely and effectively. decommissioning this year. These fields mark the first major As the operator of these fields, we thoroughly researched subsea abandonment in United Kingdom (U.K.) waters. and planned the decommissioning design. Full While well abandonment is not uncommon, most abandoned decommissioning plans were prepared and environmental wells in the North Sea have been primarily from fixed impact assessments were conducted for the FFFA and platforms, with fewer challenges than older fields present IVRR projects. These included assessments of the possible such as corrosion. environmental and social impacts from decommissioning As these projects are the first of their kind in the North Sea, activities on the biological environment, in addition to fishing our activities are setting a precedent for future and other commercial activities in the area. Fife, Fergus, Flora and Angus Fields Decommissioning Map Aberdeen Fife, Fergus, Flora & Angus Edinburgh 337km (209 miles) southeast of Aberdeen Teeside The decommissioning of the Fife, Fergus, Flora and Angus fields’ subsea facilities in the U.K. North Sea is setting standards for future projects in the region. 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 57 Decommissioning activities at FFFA commenced with the In 2012 the drilling mud and cuttings discharged from removal of the Floating Production Storage Offloading offshore operations contained approximately 322 metric (FPSO) vessel. Then a multiyear undersea process began to tons of oil. Offshore produced water discharges totaled disconnect and remove “mattresses” (big concrete blocks 16.5 million cubic meters with an average oil content of latticed together with wire mesh or rope), “trees” (assemblies nine parts per million volume (ppmv). The discharged of valves and fittings attached to each oil well), and the produced water contained 119 metric tons of oil, 93 associated subsea pipelines. percent of which was from operations in Equatorial Guinea, the North Sea and Indonesia. Steps are taken to conduct work safely and minimize impact on the environment. For example, a guard vessel Onshore E&P operations generated approximately 24.9 remains in place at the site to keep shipping traffic clear million cubic meters of produced water, of which 57 percent and be a potential first responder in case of an oil spill or was reinjected for reservoir management and 43 percent other emergency. Arrangements have also been made was reinjected for disposal. No produced water onshore for decontamination and recycling or disposal of the was discharged to surface water. Overall, 95 percent of gas infrastructure removed from the seabed. The operation plant stormwater discharge samples were within NPDES will recover more than 7,000 tonnes of steel and concrete, permit limits. 95 percent of which will be recycled. The Port Reading refining facility discharged 1.3 million cubic meters of treated wastewater. Nearly all (99.7 percent) DISCHARGES of terminal and refinery discharge samples were within Discharges in our E&P and M&R operations include permit specifications. stormwater runoff and process wastewater. In the U.S. these discharges are regulated under the National Pollutant HYDROCARBON SPILLS Discharge Elimination System (NPDES). Discharges In 2012 hydrocarbon spill volumes totaled 788 barrels from associated with our E&P operations also include produced 138 spills. The volume of hydrocarbon spills has increased water, drill cuttings and drilling fluids. Offshore exploration over the past three years and spill volumes nearly doubled and production discharges include drilling mud, drill cuttings from 2011. Three spills in North Dakota accounted for 58 and produced water. Oil in Produced Water Discharges to Sea Hydrocarbon Spills Oil Volume in Produced Water (Metric Tons) Volume of Oil Spills (bbls) Number of Oil Spills (#) Oil Concentration in Produced Water (ppmv*) 250 13 14 900 160 138 12 200 221 10 788 9 10 94 116 150 149 8 450 80 6 456 100 119 348 4 50 2 0 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 *parts per million volume 58 ENVIRONMENT percent of the 2012 spill volume. Equipment was immediately shut down and cleanup efforts commenced. More than two-thirds of the spilled volume was recovered. Our company is a member of a spill consortium in North Dakota, Sakakawea Area Spill Response LLC (SASR), which organizes training exercises and purchases equipment to be made available in the event of a spill at Lake Sakakawea. This initiative allows faster and more comprehensive spill response capabilities. NON-HYDROCARBON SPILLS The volume of non-hydrocarbon spills in E&P totaled 1,879 barrels of fluid from 60 spills, a 57 percent decrease in volume from 2011. Two produced water spills totaling 1,015 barrels occurred at our West Texas operations as a result of injection line leaks. More than 90 percent of the spill volumes were recovered. Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area, Gulf of Thailand CRITERIA POLLUTANTS Air emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOX) and sulfur oxides WASTE (SOX) result from fuel combustion, process operations and flaring activities. Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) Our typical waste streams include construction debris, are emitted during product loading and storage and fuel scrap metal and wood, office and domestic waste, oily dispensing. In 2012 normalized NOX and SOX emissions tank bottoms, contaminated soil, spent acids and caustics increased 18 percent and 11 percent respectively. and used catalyst. Scrap metal, spent acids and caustics, Normalized VOC emissions increased substantially in North and used catalysts are usually recycled or reused. Waste is Dakota as a result of increased activity and rapid expansion disposed according to waste management plans at each of operations. operating location. Non-Hydrocarbon Spills Criteria Pollutants Emissions (Tonnes per million BOE) Volume of Spills (bbls) Number of Spills (#) VOCs NOx SOx 5,000 100 70 88 60 57.5 4,333 50 46.4 60 37.6 40 2,500 50 30 40 30.2 20 25.7 1,869 22.2 10 7.6 8.4 9.3 437 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 59 Approximately 200,000 metric tons of waste was generated the end of 2012 Hess held a reserve of $55 million for in 2012, of which 96 percent was non-hazardous. Thirtyestimated environmental remediation liabilities, which we seven percent of the waste we generated last year was expect will adequately cover assessment and remediation recycled or reused. costs for all known impacted sites. Information about estimated asset retirement obligations, which are accounted In 2012 we exported 10.4 tonnes of waste considered for separately, is provided in the company’s 2012 SEC hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention. The Form 10-K filing. waste was generated from catalyst used in our operations at our Port Reading, N.J. refining facility and exported to Environmental assessment and remediation expenditures in the eurozone for recovery of precious metals. 2012 were $19 million. In 2012 capital expenditures related to compliance with federal, state and local environmental standards, other than for the low sulfur requirements, were REGULATORY COMPLIANCE AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS $70 million. We paid approximately $85,000 in environmental fines and penalties in 2012. More than 80 percent of those fines were incurred in our M&R segment, primarily associated with operation and maintenance of underground storage tank systems at our retail stations. Corrective actions were taken in response to each incident to ensure compliance going forward. ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURES We remediate sites that have been affected by our activities, including former or current gas stations, terminals, refineries and onshore E&P facilities. We accrue for environmental assessment and remediation expenses when the future costs are probable and reasonably estimable. As described in Item 7 of the company’s 2012 SEC Form 10-K filing, at Waste Metric Tons Non-hazardous Hazardous 2010 83,451 4,185 2011 149,577 4,300 2012 197,866 8,712 Hess-supported Elizabeth River Remediation Project, Virginia 0 50,000 100,000 150,000 200,000 250,000 ASSETS IN TRANSITION ASSETS IN TRANSITION Our company’s multiyear transformation to become assessments, comprehensive energy audits, energy a more focused and higher growth exploration and benchmarking and energy reduction plans that help production (E&P) company culminated March 4, 2013, customers meet their voluntary energy goals or comply when we announced we are exiting our downstream with local regulations. businesses, including retail, energy marketing and In New York City, recent clean air legislation mandates energy trading to become a pure play E&P company. the phase out of heavy heating oils, which will impact The company also announced we would further focus approximately 10,000 buildings. Energy Solutions the E&P portfolio by divesting assets in Indonesia provides comprehensive fuel conversion services and Thailand and pursuing monetization of Bakken integrated with commodity contracts. Together these infrastructure assets in North Dakota, expected in 2015. services ensure that buildings are properly heated and that they benefit from the long term economic We will continue to provide information to stakeholders advantages of natural gas. We have joined the New as our transformation into a pure play E&P company York City Energy Efficiency Corporation on fuel progresses. Until this process is complete, updates conversion projects and the New York City Energy on the assets in transition will be provided in future Efficiency Corporation and JPMorgan Chase & Co., sustainability reports. which provide financing, while Energy Solutions provides In this section we describe the key products and project management and natural gas supply expertise. services of our downstream businesses for activities Our Energy Operations group includes wholesale conducted in 2012. electric and natural gas operations, as well as a new line of business in independent power generation. ENERGY MARKETING During 2012 operations began at the Bayonne Energy Hess Energy (hessenergy.com) is a leading energy Center, a 512-megawatt natural gas fueled electric marketer in the Eastern U.S., providing natural gas, power plant joint venture with ArcLight Capital Partners. electricity and fuel oil to more than 21,000 commercial, The plant provides electricity to New York City. A joint industrial, government and small business customers. venture was also formed (Hess 50%) to build a In 2012 natural gas and electricity accounted for more 655-megawatt natural gas fueled electric generating than 85 percent of sales volumes on a thermal facility in Newark, N.J. (newarkenergycenter.com). equivalent basis. REFINED PETROLEUM PRODUCTS The Energy Solutions group within Energy Marketing continued to build a portfolio of products and services Hess has 1,361 branded retail stations along the U.S. to help customers reduce their energy use and costs, East Coast (hessexpress.com). These stations provide become more energy efficient and shrink their carbon customers with ultralow sulfur diesel (ULSD) footprint. Drivers include local regulations, voluntary and reformulated (RFG) and conventional gasoline. corporate initiatives, and the favorable economics of Our stations sold 534 million gallons of diesel fuel in natural gas over heating oil. 2012, all of which were ULSD. RFG sales volumes were approximately one billion gallons and represented 52 Energy Solutions offers integrated commodity contracts percent of total gasoline sales. Under U.S. Environmental that can incorporate energy efficiency, renewable Protection Agency (EPA) regulations, in 2012 we energy, and fuel conversion services, depending on a generated approximately $8 million in surplus renewable customer’s needs. Energy management and efficiency fuels credits that we sold to other companies. services include Demand Response, retrofit 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 61 We purchase biodiesel produced from a variety of EPAonboard electrical power generation systems for approved feedstocks, including soybean oil, corn oil, commercial airliners. canola oil, camelina oil, animal waste, waste grease and other sources to blend into ultralow sulfur diesel or #2 SUPERSTORM SANDY heating oil at our Newark, N.J., Baltimore, Md., Bronx, N.Y., Superstorm Sandy, one of the largest Atlantic storms on and Jacksonville, Fla. terminals. In 2012 our Marketing and record, hit the U.S. East Coast in October 2012 with high Refining (M&R) segment purchased and sold approximately winds, rain and an extreme storm surge that devastated 9.5 million gallons of biodiesel. one of the most densely populated and developed areas Additional product responsibility information as per the of the country. The storm and ensuing damage had a Global Reporting Initiative’s GRI G3.1 guidelines is included tremendous impact on our customers, our employees on our public website where we have posted a GRI Content and our day-to-day business, especially affecting our M&R Index (hess.com/2012griindex). customers in and around the New York metropolitan area. Despite unprecedented challenges, Hess was able to continue providing products and services to customers. NUVERA FUEL CELLS We were prepared, customer focused, committed to Nuvera Fuel Cells (nuvera.com), a wholly owned Hess operating safely and remained dedicated to our corporate subsidiary, conducts applied research and development values through it all. and commercialization of motive fuel cell power systems and hydrogen delivery solutions for automotive, industrial In the last decade, experience from serious weather events and aerospace applications. Technologies include hydrogen in Texas, Florida, North Dakota, the U.S. Northeast and Asia fuel cells for electric vehicles and hydrogen generation and has taught us the importance of early planning. We routinely fueling systems. Nuvera has conducted research with prepare, test and follow detailed procedures when faced industry partners, academic institutions and the U.S. with an emergency weather event. As the superstorm was Department of Energy National Energy Labs to advance approaching, we tracked it closely and ensured that our hydrogen fuel cell technology by continuing to improve fuel retail locations, terminals and Port Reading, N.J. refining cell durability and the efficiency of fuel cell stack technology. facility followed pre-hurricane preparation checklists to safeguard employees and customers and secure equipment. One of Nuvera’s key technologies is the PowerTap® hydrogen generator, which uses steam methane reformation Early on, we arranged for and staged 110 emergency to generate high-purity, high-pressure hydrogen. This generators to power our operational areas from Eastern technology capitalizes on abundant natural gas as a source Pennsylvania to metropolitan Boston that were in the storm’s of clean and cost effective hydrogen and can also use path. Most generators were deployed to retail sites but some biomass methane and other renewable feedstocks. were used at our terminals to ensure a continuity of supply. PowerTap units are currently deployed in industrial ® We brought in additional personnel and equipment before applications, including the material handling industry. the storm hit, including Hess employees and contractors who traveled from Houston and from the Southeastern U.S. Nuvera is also working on advanced hydrogen fuel cell to provide onsite support. systems for industrial mobility, automotive and aerospace applications. Nuvera has entered into joint development We tracked the crisis as it developed, monitoring the agreements with leading automotive and aerospace locations of generators and personnel and recording the companies to further the advancement of OrionTM, an timeline of events around the region. At some of our eighth generation fuel cell stack design. One example is a locations in the New York City region we brought in cots partnership with a major aerospace company to develop and supplies to house workers temporarily, and we lodged out-of-town employees at nearby hotels. 62 ASSETS IN TRANSITION We worked with our energy marketing industrial, commercial associated with shortages. Our website, Facebook page and and government customers in advance of the storm to Twitter pages kept customers informed about our fuel provide them with ample fuel inventories. supplies and addressed their questions and concerns. Through the social networks, our customers expressed In addition to fuel for transportation, demand for fuel for many positive comments about Hess facilities being open back-up power generation significantly increased as areas and accessible. within the region lost electricity for as long as two weeks. By placing large generators at our Port Reading Terminal, Our people relied on teamwork and collaboration to maintain we were able to run the loading rack continuously for about employee and customer safety and business continuity 10 days to meet the demand for gasoline and diesel fuel. throughout this crisis. The company established several ways We supplied fuel a day and a half after the storm surge hit to communicate with employees about safety issues and the to meet urgent needs in local communities, providing diesel status of Hess facilities. A 24-hour hotline was established fuel for senior centers, homeless shelters and hospitals. to provide employees with information about which office We also provided gasoline for public safety personnel and locations were open and where to report for work. We also emergency responders. Our marketing staff handled a set up a website for employees with information about steady flow of calls from commercial, industrial and available assistance and services. Through this system we also government clients needing diesel fuel to run their generators. sent out text message alerts, which were sometimes the most The number of fuel deliveries in the days immediately after efficient means for getting news to employees. Our Houston the storm was about three to four times normal. office played an important role by assisting with procurement and communications during the days after the storm. Within two days after the storm ended, Hess had reopened 177 of our 186 retail sites in New Jersey, New York City Hess employees demonstrated their continued strong and Long Island, operating at 95 percent capacity regionally. commitment to safety by ensuring there were zero Although there were long lines of customers at some recordable injuries or incidents during the storm and its stations, Hess retail staff worked hard to maintain an aftermath. People throughout the company acknowledged organized and safe environment for customers and that the independent spirit and focus on people and employees. Station personnel assisted with directing traffic communities that are embodied in the Hess Values were and maintaining orderly queues for gasoline as well as in vital in helping us successfully weather this historic storm. convenience stores. Office-based employees across Hess Hess business leaders have reviewed our performance who had previous retail experience went on duty to help during Superstorm Sandy so that we can improve our pump gas and otherwise assist motorists during the very response and resilience in future situations. Planning and hectic days following the storm. Our retail sites became preparation were essential to our quick recovery immediately important gathering places to get a cup of hot coffee or after the storm. We intend to be even more proactive during necessary food items in communities where the local Hess future events by mobilizing Hess employees and contractors station was the nearest store with power. from outside the affected region even sooner. The value of As the sites reopened, we posted real-time fuel inventory having communication and logistical support that is based data on hessexpress.com, and encouraged motorists to visit outside the affected area and improving remote access for stations with fuel inventories exceeding 7,000 gallons. We key personnel within the impacted area were among the publicized this information to minimize customer frustration important lessons we learned. 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 63 PERFORMANCE DATA This table contains a subset of our publicly reported performance data. Refer to the company’s 2012 SEC 10-K and proxy statement at hess.com/investors for additional information. Units 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Governance Number of members of the Board # 14 13 13 13 13 Independent Board members # 11 10 10 10 10 Female members of the Board of Directors % 14 15 15 15 15 Minority members of the Board of Directors % 7 8 8 8 8 Board members that are both minority and female # 1 1 1 1 1 Board members from outside the U.S. % 0 0 0 0 0 Board members in the 50 and above age group % 100 100 100 100 100 Business Performance Sales and other operating revenue $ Million 37,691 38,466 33,862 29,614 41,134 Refined petroleum product sales 000 BOE/D 389 430 471 473 472 Net income $ Million 2,025 1,703 2,125 740 2,360 Total assets $ Million 43,441 39,136 35,396 29,465 28,589 Total debt $ Million 8,111 6,057 5,583 4,467 3,955 Total equity $ Million 21,203 18,592 16,809 13,528 12,391 Debt to capitalization ratio % 27.7 24.6 24.9 24.8 24.3 Exploration and Production Total net hydrocarbons produced 000 BOE/D 406 370 418 408 381 Proved reserves (total) Million BOE 1,553 1,573 1,537 1,437 1,432 Reserve life Years 10.3 11.4 9.9 9.5 10.0 Replaced production % 141 147 176 103 171 Economic Contributions Capital and exploration expenditures $ Million 8,265 7,462 5,855 3,245 4,828 Operating costs $/BOE 20.6 19.7 14.5 13.7 15.5 Income tax $ Million 1,675 785 1,173 715 2,340 Royalties and other payments to governments $ Million 920 947 1,542 414 891 Cash dividends paid to shareholders $ Million 171 136 131 131 130 Employee wages and benefits (U.S.) $ Million 1,045 1,057 992 794 720 Interest expense before income taxes $ Million 419 383 361 360 267 Supplier spend (approximate)* $ Billion 8 6 2 2 2 Asia Pacific % 11 15 NC NC NC Africa % 11 25 NC NC NC Europe % 10 10 NC NC NC Other % <1 <1 NC NC NC U.S. % 68 50 NC NC NC With small businesses (U.S.) % 24 29 28 28 29 With women-owned small businesses (U.S.) % 6 7 6 8 5 With minority-owned small businesses (U.S.) % 8 10 11 10 5 Community and Social Performance Total social investment $ Million 40 23 18 13 21 Education % 47 33 34 13 49 Health % 4 5 12 23 12 Disaster relief % 13 5 9 8 15 Community contributions (not in-kind) % 22 20 19 29 17 In-kind % 9 28 18 25 6 Arts and culture % 5 8 7 — — Environment % <1 1 1 2 1 64 PERFORMANCE DATA Units 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Global Workforce Number of permanent employees (excludes Hetco # 13,277 13,021 12,587 12,229 12,432 front office & Russia) U.S. % 90 90 91 91 91 International employees % 10 10 9 9 9 Temporary employees # 1,180 825 NC NC NC Part time employees % 23 24 NC NC NC Full time employees % 77 76 NC NC NC Employee turnover voluntary (excluding hourly retail) % 6.8 7.2 NC NC NC Employee lay-offs (excluding hourly retail) % 0.9 1 NC NC NC Female employees (U.S. and International) % 40 39 40 40 40 Executives and senior officials % of job category 11 7 4 6 7 First and mid-level managers** % of job category 31 31 31 NC NC Professionals** % of job category 34 33 34 NC NC Minority employees (U.S.) % 38 37 36 36 37 Executives and senior officials % of job category 6 7 7 7 7 First and mid-level managers** % of job category 25 25 24 NC NC Professionals** % of job category 27 26 26 NC NC Technical and personal training and development spend $ Million 14 16 12 11 13 Training per year per management/professional employee*** Average hrs 25 25 25 25 25 Training per year per hourly retail employee Average hrs 14 14 14 14 12 Employees represented by collective bargaining agreements % 6.0 6.5 8.7 9.0 7.5 Safety Performance ∆ Workforce (Employee + Contractor) Fatalities # 2 0 0 0 1 Workforce (Employee + Contractor) Hours worked Million hours 63.3 53.3 40.8 38.2 39.3 Employee Recordable Incident Rate per 200,000 hrs worked 0.50 0.71 0.81 0.83 1.12 Contractor Recordable Incident Rate per 200,000 hrs worked 0.70 0.73 0.50 0.45 0.80 Workforce (Employee + Contractor) Recordable Incident Rate per 200,000 hrs worked 0.63 0.72 0.68 0.69 0.99 Employee Lost Time Incident Rate per 200,000 hrs worked 0.29 0.22 0.26 0.31 0.42 Contractor Lost Time Incident Rate per 200,000 hrs worked 0.18 0.12 0.07 0.15 0.24 Workforce Lost Time Incident Rate per 200,000 hrs worked 0.22 0.17 0.18 0.25 0.35 OHSAS 18001-certified operations % of production 1.6 1.9 1.9 2.0 2.0 Health and safety fines and penalties operated $ Thousand 0 0 0 98 0 Products with Material Safety Data Sheets % 100 100 100 100 100 Environmental Performance ∆ Gross operated hydrocarbon production/throughput 000 BOE/D 1,000 1,083 1,150 1,193 1,149 (normalization factor) Net hydrocarbon production and net refinery throughput 000 BOE/D 465 575 668 672 665 Port Reading Refinery throughput 000 BOE/D 116 124 128 145 137 Hydrocarbon spills number # 138 116 94 117 123 Hydrocarbon spills volume bbls 788 456 348 297 1,303 Non-hydrocarbon spills number # 60 88 40 52 57 Non-hydrocarbon spills volume bbls 1,869 4,333 437 3,751 1,860 Fresh Water Use Groundwater Million m3 6.5 8.5 6.6 6.6 5.9 Municipal Million m3 5.5 4.6 3.7 3.9 2.6 Surface water Million m3 0.07 0.02 0.04 0.04 0.06 Reused/recycled (estimated) % 9 11 NC NC NC 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 65 Units 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Energy Use Production energy intensity Gigajoules/boe 0.13 0.12 0.11 0.10 0.10 Operated direct energy use 000 Gigajoules 34,993 34,021 33,238 33,688 32,102 Natural gas 000 Gigajoules 25,544 24,836 24,192 24,083 22,190 Diesel 000 Gigajoules 3,493 3,283 3,587 3,175 3,772 Petroleum coke 000 Gigajoules 5,620 5,496 4,982 5,922 5,666 Fuel oil 000 Gigajoules 335 406 477 508 474 Renewables (100% Solar) 000 Gigajoules 3.7 0 0 0 0 Operated indirect energy use (gross) 000 Gigajoules 11,932 11,853 11,218 9,850 8,958 Operated net indirect energy use (purchased electricity) by primary 000 MWh 1,145 1,137 1,076 949 NC energy source**** Coal % 35 35 42 49 NC Natural gas % 37 37 37 22 NC Nuclear % 20 20 12 20 NC Renewables % NC NC 6 6 NC Hydro % 2 2 NC NC NC Wind % 5 5 NC NC NC Biomass, solar and other renewables % <1 <1 NC NC NC Petroleum % <0.1 <0.1 2 2 NC Green-e certified renewable energy certificates (wind power) 000 MWh 180 180 140 100 100 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Volume of flared & vented hydrocarbons MMscf 26,437 21,760 15,607 17,125 17,879 Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) Million Tonnes CO2e 5.0 4.4 3.7 4.0 3.9 CO2 Million Tonnes CO2e 4.7 4.2 3.5 3.6 3.7 CH4 000 Tonnes CO2e 207.4 139.6 123.7 294.7 174.7 N 2O 000 Tonnes CO2e 24.5 21.8 23.6 24.6 28.4 Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) by source Flaring / venting % 49 43 36 40 39 Fuel combustion % 46 55 61 57 57 Other % 5 2 3 3 4 Operated indirect emissions (Scope 2) Million Tonnes CO2e 0.8 0.7 0.8 0.6 0.6 CO2 Million Tonnes CO2e 0.8 0.7 0.8 0.6 0.6 CH4 000 Tonnes CO2e 0.15 0.15 0.15 0.12 0.12 N 2O 000 Tonnes CO2e 7.8 7.2 6.7 5.2 6.4 Net equity GHG emissions Million Tonnes CO2e 8.0 9.1 9.0 9.5 10.8 Net equity carbon intensity (Scope 1 and 2) Tonnes/Thousand BOE — 43 38 39 44 Scope 3 emissions^ Million Tonnes CO2e 22.3 35.9 40.3 45.9 77.9 Product use Million Tonnes CO2e 22.1 35.7 40.2 45.8 77.9 Ocean transport logistics 000 Tonnes CO2e 210 221 56.8 55.9 NC Employee business travel (commercial air carriers) 000 Tonnes CO2e 23 22.7 19.7 11.6 NC Air Emissions (Excludes GHGs) Sulfur oxides (SOX) Tonnes 3,401 3,300 3,181 3,112 2,996 SOX intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 9.3 8.4 7.6 7.2 7.1 Nitrogen oxides (NOX) Tonnes 11,038 10,153 9,306 7,695 8,426 NOX intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 30.2 25.7 22.2 17.7 20.0 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) Tonnes 21,030 14,861 19,486 24,851 18,869 VOC intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 57.5 37.6 46.4 57.1 44.9 66 PERFORMANCE DATA Units 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Exploration and Production Discharges Oil in produced water to sea Tonnes 119 149 221 136 175 Oil in produced water to sea ppmv 9 10 13 19 20 Produced water to sea Million m3 16.5 17.4 20.1 8.3 10.0 Produced water reinjected Million m3 28.5 19.5 19.5 18.2 15.5 U.S. Clean Water Act Discharges – Port Reading Refinery Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) Tonnes 24.5 10.7 7.4 36.9 7.4 Suspended solids Tonnes 13.4 14.3 11.2 41.2 5.8 Petroleum hydrocarbons Tonnes 5.2 5.7 4.6 4.8 4.6 Waste Non-hazardous waste Thousand Tonnes 197.9 149.6 83.5 116.5 101.7 Recovery/reuse/recycle % 38 40 50 56 60 Treatment % 35 9 22 14 10 Disposal % 18 45 18 26 12 Incineration/energy recovery % 1 1 1 1 <1 Land farm % 8 5 9 3 18 Composting % <1 <1 <1 <1 <1 Hazardous waste Thousand Tonnes 8.7 4.3 4.2 9.4 2.3 Recovery/reuse/recycle % 12 3 4 2 13 Treatment % 1 60 29 44 61 Disposal % 34 23 48 51 17 Incineration/energy recovery % 53 10 19 2 10 Land farm % 0 4 0 1 0 Basel Convention (recovery/reuse/recycle) Tonnes 10.4 0 0 0 11 Other Environmental Indicators ISO 14001-certified operations % of production 8 12 13 16 15 ISO 14001-certified operations # 3 3 3 3 3 Environmental fines and penalties $ Thousand 85 160 96 264 1,188 Capital expenditures $ Million 70 95 85 50 15 Environmental expenditures remediation $ Million 19 19 13 11 11 Environmental reserve $ Million 55 60 55 55 61 Malaysia/Thailand JDA Environmental and Safety Indicators Direct energy use 000 Gigajoules 8,346 6,944 7,046 6,650 6,594 Waste generation Tonnes 382 457 880 726 264 Criteria Pollutants NOx Tonnes/Million BOE 45.16 42.54 44.55 49.23 36.30 Criteria Pollutants SOx Tonnes/Million BOE 1.68 1.73 2.17 2.16 3.10 Criteria Pollutants VOC Tonnes/Million BOE 8.37 8.07 8.78 8.72 26.23 Recordable incident rate workforce (contractors + employees) per 200,000 hrs worked 0.39 0.27 0.13 0.36 0.48 SonaHess Environmental and Safety Indicators Direct energy use 000 Gigajoules 6,096 5,718 5,621 5,788 4,599 Waste generation Tonnes 745 767 826 86 898 Hydrocarbon spills number # 5 4 12 5 9 Hydrocarbon spills volume bbls 25 17 55 9 46 Non-hydrocarbon spills bbls 198 20 1,031 --Criteria Pollutants NOx Tonnes/Million BOE 69.49 56.66 51.82 53.17 72.17 Criteria Pollutants SOx Tonnes/Million BOE 0.36 0.31 0.28 0.26 0.25 Criteria Pollutants VOC Tonnes/Million BOE 243.4 248.53 253.12 279.31 451.59 Recordable incident rate workforce (contractors + employees) per 200,000 hrs worked 0.33 0.11 0.48 0.39 0.34 * Supplier spend for 2008-2010 is U.S. only; U.S. data are based on the October 2011-September 2012 timeframe and reflect recordable supplier spend as reported to the U.S. Small Business Administration, which is overseen by the U.S. Department of Defense. International supplier data are based on commercial discretionary spend. ** Corporate classifications changed between 2009 and 2010, so data prior to 2010 are not provided. *** Estimated training per management/professional employee **** Third party power generation ^ Sum of all Scope 3 emissions that we measure. Other Scope 3 emissions that have not been quantified are not included in these totals. ∆ Where relevant, all data are restated to exclude joint ventures. ∆∆ Data on the percentage of new employees receiving anti-corruption training were not fully available prior to 2012. 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 67 GRI CONTENT INDEX This index refers to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 indicators, with cross-reference to the 10 Principles in the United Nations Global Compact (UN Global Compact) and IPIECA sector-specific guidelines. Detailed information on GRI indicators related to Board-level governance (4.1–4.7, 4.9, 4.10) and defined benefit plan obligations (EC3) can be found at hess.com/ investors and in our Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) forms 10-K and DEF C14A. An expanded GRI Index is available at hess.com/2012griindex. GRI G3.1 Core & OGSS Indicator GRI G3.1 Additional Indicator IPIECA only ● Fully reported Partially reported GRI GRI UNGC IPIECA General Description Page(s) Indicator Status Principle(s) Indicator 1.0 Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Message from the CEO 2-3 ● 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities (a) 2-5 ● 2.0 Organizational Profile 2.1-2.9 Organizational profile (a) 5-7, 63 ● 2.10 Awards received during reporting period 71 ● 3.0 Report Parameters 3.1-3.3 Reporting period, scope and boundary 8 ● 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding report 71 ● 3.5-3.8 Determination for content 8 ● 3.9 Data measurement techniques and basis of calculations 9 ● 3.10, 3.11 Explanation of restatements and significant changes 9 ● 3.12 GRI content index 67-69 ● 3.13 External assurance 9, 70 ● 4.0 Governance 4.1-4.7, Information on highest governance body (a, b, c) 13-14, 63 ● 4.9, 4.10 4.8 Internal values, codes of conduct, and principles 10-11, 22-23, 27 ● 1-10 4.11 The precautionary approach 11 ● 7 4.12 Externally-subscribed or endorsed voluntary initiatives (c) 13, 27-28 ● 1-10 4.13 Key memberships and associations 14 ● 4.14-4.17 Stakeholders, types of engagement, key topics and concerns 8, 15 ● Economic EC DMA Disclosure on management approach to economic performance (a, b) 2-3, 6-7 ● EC DMA Disclosure on management approach to market presence 2-3, 6-7 ● EC DMA Disclosure on management approach to indirect economic impacts 22-26 ● EC1 Direct economic value (a, b) 7, 63 ● SE4, SE13 EC2 Financial implications of climate change 44-46 ● 7 EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations (a, b) 41 ● EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government (c) OCI ● EC5 Comparison of standard entry level wage with local minimum wage 41 ● 1 EC6 Local supplier spend at significant locations of operation 16, 63 SE5, SE7 EC7 Local hiring at significant locations of operation 40 ● 6 SE5, SE6 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 23-26 ● SE4 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts (c) OCI SE6 OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and production 6, 63 ● OCI: GRI Online Content Index b – See also hess.com/investors a – See also Annual Report and SEC 10-K c – See GRI Online Content Index (hess.com/2012griindex) 68 GRI GRI UNGC IPIECA General Description Page(s) Indicator Status Principle(s) Indicator Environment EN DMA Disclosure on management approach to environmental aspects 44-46, 52-53 ● 7 EN1, EN2 Materials used and percentage recycled input materials (c) OCI 8 EN3, EN4 Direct and indirect energy use by primary source 49-50, 65 ● 8 E2 OG2, OG3 Total amount invested in renewable energy and total amount generated by source 51 ● 8, 9 EN5 Energy conservation and efficiency initiatives and improvements 50-51 8, 9 E2 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable products and services 60-61 ● 8, 9 E3 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 50-51 8, 9 E2 EN8, EN9 Total water withdrawal by source, significantly affected water sources 53-54, 64 ● 8 E6 EN10 Water recycled and reused 53-54, 64 ● 8, 9 E6 EN11, EN12 Proximity of protected areas/areas of high biodiversity 55 ● 7, 8 E5 EN13 Habitats protected or restored 49, 55 ● 8 E5 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 54-55 ● 8 E5 OG4 Significant operating sites in which biodiversity risk has been assessed and monitored 54-55 7, 8 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List and national conservation list species 55 ● 7 EN16, EN17 Total direct and indirect and other relevant greenhouse gas emissions 46-49, 65 ● 8 E1, E4 EN18 Greenhouse gas reduction initiatives and results 45-49 8 E1 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 65 ● 8 E7 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 58, 65 ● 8 E7 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 57, 66 ● 8 E9 OG5 Volume of formation or produced water 57, 66 ● 8 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 59, 66 ● 8 E10 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 57-58, 64, 66 ● 8 E8 EN24 Basel Convention waste management summary 59, 66 ● 8 EN25 Biodiversity value of receiving waters for water discharges and runoff 55 ● 8 OG6 Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon 65 ● 8 OG7 Amount of drilling waste (drill mud and cuttings) and strategies for treatment and disposal 57, 66 ● 8 EN26 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 48-49, 60-61 ● 7-9 EN27 Products sold and packaging reclaimed (c) OCI ● 8, 9 OG8 Benzene, lead, and sulfur content in fuels (c) OCI ● 8 EN28 Fines, penalties and non-compliances 59, 66 ● 8 EN29 Transportation impacts 48-49, 65 ● 8 EN30 Environmental expenditures 59, 66 ● 8 Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosure on management approach to employment, labor/management LA DMA 38 ● relations, training and education and diversity and equal opportunity LA DMA Disclosure on management approach to occupational health and safety 30-31 ● LA1 Total workforce by employment type, contract and region 39, 64 ● LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region 39, 64 ● 6 Benefits provided to full time employees that are not provided to temporary LA3 41 ● or part time employees, by major operations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 29, 64 ● 1, 3 LA5 Minimum notice period of significant operational changes (c) 29 ● 3 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in joint safety committees 31 1 HS1, SE16 LA7 Injury, occupational illness, lost days, absenteeism, and fatalities by region 31-32, 64 ● 1 HS3 LA8 Disease prevention programs 36-37 ● 1 HS2 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in collective bargaining agreements 31 ● 1 SE16 LA10 Average hours of training per employee by employee category 64 ● SE17 LA11 Programs for skills management, lifelong learning and career endings 42-43 ● SE17 LA12 Employees receiving regular performance and development reviews 42 SE17 LA13 Governing bodies and employees by category according to diversity indicators 39, 64 ● 1, 6 SE15 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of women to men by employee category 41 1, 6 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender (c) OCI IPIECA Process Safety 34-35 ● — HS5 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 69 GRI GRI UNGC IPIECA General Description Page(s) Indicator Status Principle(s) Indicator Human Rights HR DMA Disclosure on management approach to human rights aspects 27 ● HR1 Human rights and significant investment agreements 27 1-6 SE8 HR2 Significant suppliers/contractors screened for human rights 23, 28-29 1-6 SE9 HR3 Employee training on policies and procedures concerning human rights 28 ● 1-6 SE8 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 29 ● 1, 2, 6 SE18 Operations and significant suppliers at risk re: freedom of association and collective HR5 29 1, 2, 3 bargaining HR6 Operations and significant suppliers at risk re: child labor 29 1, 2, 5 HR7 Operations and significant suppliers at risk re: forced and compulsory labor 29 1, 2, 4 HR8 Security personnel trained on human rights 28-29 ● 1, 2 SE10 HR9 Violations of indigenous peoples' rights 24-27, 29 ● 1, 2 0G9 Indigenous communities present or affected by operations; location of engagement strategies 25-26, 29 ● HR10 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments 28 ● Grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved though formal grievance HR11 27 ● mechanisms Society Disclosure on management approach to corruption, public policy, anti-competitive behavior SO DMA 10-11 ● 10 and compliance SO DMA Disclosure on management approach to community 22-23 ● SO1 Programs and practices that assess and manage impacts of operations on communities 13-14, 25-29 ● SE1-SE5 SO2 Business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 12 ● 10 SE11-SE12 SO3 Employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures 12 ● 10 SE11 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 12 ● 10 SE11 SO5 Public policy positions/participation in public policy development and lobbying 2-3, 12, 44 1, 10 SE14 SO6 Political contributions 12 ● 10 SE14 SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior and outcomes 11 ● SO8 Fines and penalties for non-compliance with laws and regulations 11 ● Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities, SO9, SO10 13-14, 25-29 ● prevention and mitigation measures OG10 Significant disputes with local communities and indigenous peoples 29 ● Number of sites that have been decommissioned and sites that are in the process of being OG11 56-57 ● decommissioned OG12 Extent and impact of involuntary resettlement 29 ● OG13 Number of process safety events, by business activity 34-35 ● Product Responsibility PR DMA Disclosure of management approach 60-62 ● PR1 Life cycle assessment for health and safety impacts of products/services (c) OCI ● 1 HS4 PR2 Non-compliances with health and safety impact requirements for products/services (c) OCI ● 1 HS4 PR3 Product and service labeling requirements for significant products (c) OCI ● 8 HS4 PR4 Non-compliances with product and service labeling requirements (c) OCI ● 8 HS4 PR5 Customer satisfaction practices (c) OCI ● PR6 Marketing communications compliance programs (c) OCI ● HS4 PR7 Non-compliance with marketing communications regulations/voluntary codes (c) OCI ● PR8 Substantiated customer privacy complaints and data loss (c) OCI ● 1 PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations re: products and services (c) OCI ● OG14 Volume of biofuels produced and purchased meeting sustainability criteria (c) 61 ● 70 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES  Discussions with Hess Corporation’s leaders who exercise ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was overall business responsibility and those with accountability engaged by Hess Corporation to undertake assurance on its 2012 for data and Report content. Corporate Sustainability Report (the Report). The objective of our  Visits to offices in Houston, Texas, and Woodbridge, New engagement was to obtain limited assurance that the Report Jersey to assess and review data collection, consolidated provides an appropriate presentation of Hess Corporation’s 2012 data management, data interpretation and internal data sustainability performance. We were also asked to confirm that the assurance processes. report conforms to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 criteria for Application Level A and the common elements of the For certain financial, production and economic data presented in IPIECA/API Reporting Framework guidelines. the data table on page 63, we restricted our work to checking the consistency of the data with the audited 2012 SEC 10-K report. RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES & INDEPENDENCE Hess Corporation is responsible for preparing the Report and CONCLUSIONS the information contained within it. Based on the assurance activities undertaken, nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the Report does not, in ERM CVS, responsible for reporting to Hess Corporation on its all material respects, provide an appropriate presentation of assurance conclusions, is a member of the ERM Group. ERM Hess’ sustainability performance during 2012. CVS has also been commissioned to verify Hess Corporation’s GHG data as reported to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). We also confirm that the Report meets the requirements of GRI G3.1 application level A+ and the common elements of The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related the IPIECA/API reporting guidelines. to independent assurance activities and training programmes related to auditing techniques and approaches. Our processes RECOMMENDATIONS are designed to ensure that the work we undertake with clients Without affecting the conclusions presented above, we is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS and the staff recommend: that have undertaken work on this assurance exercise provide no consultancy related services to Hess Corporation in any respect.  using collection methodologies based on the data mapping from inception through to Corporate consolidation in order to REPORTING CRITERIA AND ASSURANCE APPROACH further improve data consistency and transparency of the data We based our work on Hess Corporation’s internal guidance chain of custody; and definitions for the reported metrics which are based on  further improvements to user guidance for calculating and the GRI and IPIECA guidelines as described on page 8 of the capturing GRI/IPIECA performance data, including the sources Report. We performed our work in accordance with ERM CVS’ that require measurement at each reporting unit; assurance methodology, which is based on the International Standard for Assurance Engagements 3000: Assurance  improving the consistency of independent data review Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical processes at the reporting entities. Information issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (ISAE 3000). We have provided Hess Corporation with a separate, confidential report detailing our assessment of Hess’s 2012 Between February and April 2013 we undertook a series of Sustainability Report. activities, including:  Visits to the following operations to review activities and verify data and data management processes at reporting units; Exploration and Production operations in Equatorial Guinea, and North Dakota, U.S.A., and Marketing and Refining (M&R) Leigh Lloyd, Managing Director oil products storage terminal operations in Jacksonville, Florida, June 2013 U.S.A. Additional visits took place to E&P operations at North Dakota, the Tioga Gas Plant in North Dakota, the Southeast ERM Certification and Verification Services, London Asia Joint Development Area in Malaysia, and South Arne, ermcvs.com Denmark to review greenhouse gas related data. E-mail: post@ermcvs.com 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 71 Awards and Recognition SUSTAINABILITY  CDP Carbon Disclosure Leadership Indexes  Maplecroft Climate Innovation Index Cycle Three Global 500 (#2 in Energy Sector) U.S. Companies (#6) S&P 500 (#3)  Corporate Responsibility Magazine 100 Best  Dow Jones Sustainability Index North America Corporate Citizens List  MSCI ESG Indices WORKFORCE MSCI World ESG Index  International Liquid Terminals Association Safety MSCI World Socially Responsible Index Excellence Award MSCI KLD 400 Social Index  Workforce Diversity for Engineering & IT  oekom research AG Prime Status Professionals Magazine’s Top 50 Employers List  Newsweek Green Rankings  Woman Engineer Magazine’s Top 50 Employers List U.S. Energy Sector (#1) REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION Sandy Alexander Inc., an ISO 14001:2004 certified printer with Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Chain of Custody printed the For copies of our Environment, Health and Safety Policy, Human Hess Annual Corporate Sustainability Report with the use of Rights Policy or our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, or renewable wind power resulting in nearly zero carbon emissions. for more information regarding our operations, please visit our This report was printed on FSC-certified Mohawk Options paper, website at Hess.com. a process-chlorine-free 100 percent post-consumer waste (PCW) We invite your questions, comments and suggestions paper manufactured entirely with 100 percent certified wind regarding this report. To send us your questions or comments, energy and containing 100 percent post-consumer recycled fiber. or request more information or additional copies of this report, please contact: The savings below are achieved when PC recycled fiber is used in place of virgin fiber: Vice President, Environment, Health, Safety and Social Responsibility 214 trees preserved for the future Hess Corporation 618 lbs water-borne waste not created 1185 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10036 90,956 gallons wastewater flow saved You can also send us an e-mail at ehs@hess.com. 10,064 lbs solid waste not generated 19,815 lbs net greenhouse gases prevented 151,667,200 BTUs energy not consumed SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Savings from the use of emission-free wind-generated electricity: This report contains projections, future estimates, plans, 10,059 lbs ghg emissions not generated expectations and other forward-looking statements, including Displaces this amount of fossil fuel: information about sustainability goals and targets and planned 11 barrels of fuel oil unused social, safety and environmental policies, programs, and initiatives. These statements reflect the company’s current views In other words your savings from the use of wind-generated electricity with respect to future events and the company’s performance. are equivalent to: No assurance can be given that the development or continuation Not driving 9,955 miles or Planting 684 trees of any policy, program or initiative expressed in any forwardlooking statement will be achieved, and actual results could differ materially from those expected for a number of reasons, including risk factors affecting the company’s business. A discussion of these risk factors is included in the company’s annual report of Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 1185 Avenue of the Americas New York, New York 10036 www.hess.com
