Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 About this Report Editorial policy Scope of this Report Sysmex publishes the annual “Sysmex Sustainability Report” Period reported in the hopes of communicating our approaches and activities Fiscal 2012 (from April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013). Some concerning corporate social responsibility (CSR) to our activities conducted outside of this period are also included. stakeholders and facilitating dialogs with them. Organizations covered In this, our seventh issue, we introduce a number of eﬀorts Sysmex Group (Sysmex Corporation and its subsidiaries both we have been engaging outside Japan. We are also publishing in Japan and abroad). In this report, “Sysmex” refers two versions of the report this year—the full version, which to the Sysmex Group as a whole. “Sysmex Corporation” refers provides comprehensive data, and the digest version, in which to the Company on a stand-alone basis. we have sought to make the information more accessible by including plentiful photos and illustrations. We also regularly disclose policy, system and other CSR Guidelines referenced information on our website. In this way, we enable the reader • The Japanese Ministry of the Environment’s Environmental to select the report format most appropriate to their level Reporting Guidelines (2012 ed.) of specialization and interest. • The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Edition 3.1 Date of publication September 2013 1 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 Contents Inquiries about this report Sysmex at a Glance ....................................... 3 CSR Promotion Department, Corporate Business Message from the Chairman and CEO ............... 5 Planning Division, Sysmex Corporation 1-5-1, Wakinohama-Kaigandori, Chuo-ku, Kobe, Hyogo, 651-0073, Japan Highlight 1 Tel +81-78-265-0500, Fax +81-78-265-0524 Regional Headquarters for the Americas Expands and Relocates its Oﬃce, Strengthening Customer Cautionary statements Support Infrastructure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 This report contains both forward-looking statements and facts regarding the past about Sysmex Corporation and its group companies (the Sysmex Group). These forward-looking statements are based on the current judgments and assumptions of the Sysmex Group in light of the information currently available to it. Uncertainties inherent in such judgments and assumptions, the future course of our business operations, and future events may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially diﬀerent from any future results, performance, or achievements either expressed or implied within such forward-looking statements. Highlight 2 Upgrade of Reagent Production Factory in Jinan: Better for People and the Environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Organizational Governance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Human Rights / Labor Practices .................... 16 The Environment ........................................ 21 Fair Operating Practices .............................. 28 Consumer Issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 Community Involvement and Development . . . . . 34 Independent Opinion .................................. 41 Corporate Data .......................................... 42 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 2 Sysmex at a Glance Sysmex is a Global Provider of Diagnostics Products and Services. In-vitro diagnostic testing of patient blood and urine samples plays an important role in conﬁrming a patient’s state of health or determining a course of treatment. Sysmex supports healthy lives worldwide by providing a variety of in-vitro diagnostic instruments and reagents in more than 170 countries in an integrated system from research and development through production, sales and after-sales support. Sysmex products are in use near you. 1 Hospitals 1 Our products are used in hematology and other ﬁelds in outpatient/in-hospital checkups and complete physical examinations to discover 1 changes or abnormalities in Automated Blood Coagulation Analyzer CS-5100 organs and systems. Automated Hematology Analyzer XN-Series XN-2000 1 Gene Ampliﬁcation Detector Automated Immunoassay System RD-100i HISCL-5000 XN-Series Reagents 3 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 Integrated System from R&D to Production, Sales and After-Sales Support R&D Production Sales After-Sales Support Creating valuable Ensuring high quality and Providing products and Responding accurately to healthcare testing and stable product supply services to more than 170 each and every inquiry diagnostic technologies countries Global Network Providing a Variety of Products and Services in More than 170 Countries EMEA* * Europe, the Middle East, Africa Americas Subsidiaries: 18 China Number of employees: 1,149 Subsidiaries: 4 Subsidiaries: 4 Number of employees: 775 Number of employees: 293 Japan Sysmex Corporation Subsidiaries: 7 Number of employees: 2,282 Asia Paciﬁc Subsidiaries: 11 Number of employees: 349 Sales Production R&D Regional Headquarters 4 4 2 Animal 3 Pharmacies 4 Sports Training Hospitals Our system provides information on physical Our product is used for daily training programs and Our products are useful in condition simply by entering nutritional maintenance to maintaining the health of anthropometric measurements regularly check the hemoglobin dogs, cats and other pets, as and answers to questions levels of athletes in training well as aquarium dolphins about lifestyle and diet. programs for gyms and school 2 and zoo animals. sports teams. 3 Automated Hematology Analyzer Healthcare Support System Peripheral Blood Vessel pocH-100i V Diﬀ PROWELL Monitoring System ASTRIM SU Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 4 Message from the Chairman and CEO Contributing to Health and Building Trust and Conﬁdence among People Worldwide Taking on the Evolution of Healthcare and Meeting Global Health Needs Ever since its founding in 1968, Sysmex has created a wide spectrum of products and services in the diagnostics ﬁeld based on advanced technologies. Diagnostics play a vital role in healthcare by enabling the early detection of disease, the determination of treatment and the prevention of illness. The healthcare environment is currently undergoing dramatic changes due to shifting social structures. In emerging countries, economic development and population growth are rapidly increasing healthcare needs. On the other hand, advanced countries are facing declining birthrates and aging populations, and individual values for healthcare are increasingly diversifying. Sysmex’s products are being used at healthcare facilities in over 170 countries around the world, and we are responding to these changes and striving to create innovative values with the aim of contributing to the advancement of healthcare. We want to respond to the desire of people across the globe: “to stay healthy”. In ﬁscal 2012, we acquired approval to provide our XN-Series, the ﬂagship models in the hematology ﬁeld, in the United States and China, and continued our global acceleration of sales where we had already obtained approval, such as in Japan, Europe and the Asia Paciﬁc region. The XN-Series has been acclaimed for ease-of-use in the lab as well as functionality, resulting in its receiving Germany’s iF Product Design Award 2013 after receiving the Good Design Gold Award 2011 in Japan. We also launched the HISCL-5000 automated immunoassay system in Japan, a new model in the ﬁeld of immunochemistry testing, which aids in the diagnosis of infectious diseases, cancer and heart diseases. The HISCL-5000 delivers rapid test results, realizes pre-examination testing for better patient service and improves clinical laboratory’s testing eﬃciency. In the life science ﬁeld, we received approval from 5 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare of level of growth and further enhancing proﬁtability. an additional indication of our lymph node metastasis The plan is aimed at building a foundation for rapid diagnosis system for stomach cancer, in future growth by reinforcing our business promotion addition to breast cancer and colon cancer. We are structures in each ﬁeld of testing, according to also working to standardize the rapid detection the business unit structure, continuously investing in R&D of lymph node metastasis in other types of cancer. and strengthening production capacity by improving “Shaping the advancement of healthcare” is Sysmex’s production bases. The plan represents our aim of being mission. Accordingly, we aim to create valuable healthcare a company that generates new value through unique testing technologies that contribute to patients’ health technologies and business models, and executes rapidly. and quality of life (QOL), and strive to improve the In April 2013, Sysmex established the Mid-Term eﬃciency and quality of testing at healthcare facilities. CSR Plan (ﬁscal 2013–2015) based on the 10 Principles of the Global Compact, which Sysmex joined in 2011, Building Trust and Conﬁdence among and the ISO 26000 international standards for social Our Stakeholders responsibility. Based upon this plan, we will pursue We aim to build trust and conﬁdence among our CSR management aimed at resolving social issues. stakeholders in accordance with our Group Sysmex will continue working to achieve sustainable corporate philosophy, the “Sysmex Way.” development of the Group and the global community. In ﬁscal 2012, Sysmex America, which is We would like to ask our stakeholders for their continued the regional headquarters for the Americas, relocated support and understanding of all our endeavors. and expanded its corporate oﬃces, oﬀering new August 2013 services and support to accommodate increased Hisashi Ietsugu market demand. One of these is the streaming video Chairman and CEO service from the new studio featuring live broadcasts demonstrating, for example, instrument operation and Corporate Philosophy emergency repair procedures. We will continue to expand these services to improve customer satisfaction. We also rebuilt the reagent production factory in Jinan to accommodate the rapid growth of the Chinese market. The new plant was constructed with worker motivation and harmony with the global environment in mind. Shaping the advancement of healthcare. Sysmex was also a special sponsor of the Kobe Marathon 2012, staged by the city of Kobe, for the second year in a row, because our policy is to contribute a healthy society through sports. We will oﬀer encouragement to We continue to create unique and innovative values, the approximately 20,000 runners and provide overall while building trust and conﬁdence. support as we participate in the event in 2013. New Group Mid-Term Management Plan With passion and ﬂexibility, we demonstrate our Sysmex launched the new Group Mid-Term Management individual competence and unsurpassed teamwork. Plan in April 2013 with the goal of maintaining our high Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 6 Highlight 1 USA Entrance Cafeteria Sysmex America, Inc. Sysmex Group’s regional headquarters for the Americas Location: Chicago, U.S.A. Main business: Sales of in vitro diagnostic systems and reagents Collaboration area Showroom Regional Headquarters for the Americas Expands and Relocates its Oﬃce, Strengthening Customer Support Infrastructure Sysmex America, which is the regional headquarters for North, South and Central America, has relocated and expanded its corporate oﬃces, strengthening its service and support infrastructure to accommodate increased demand. SAI’s high service quality has also earned High-Quality Proprietary Services the MarketTools ACE (Achievement in Customer Making Sysmex No. 1 in Customer Excellence) Award*2 for two consecutive years. Satisfaction for 13 Consecutive Years * 1 IMV Service Track US user survey Sysmex ﬁrst established a subsidiary in the United *2 The MarketTools ACE Award acknowledges companies for outstanding achievement in customer satisfaction, employee States in Chicago in 1979, and in 2003 began providing satisfaction and partner satisfaction. direct sales and support as Sysmex America, Inc. (SAI), which serves as our regional headquarters. Expanding and Relocating Corporate Since then SAI has sought to improve customer Oﬃces to Accelerate Business satisfaction and develop proprietary service and Development support. Sysmex Network Communication Systems (SNCS) is an online network support service used SAI relocated and increased the size of its corporate by numerous customers that oﬃces in September, 2012 to match the expansion monitors the performance of of its business in the Americas and pursue its customers’ analyzers in real time, growth strategy. contributing to stable operations. Situated near the previous location, SAI’s new Sysmex has received the top oﬃces are in Lincolnshire, Illinois, providing quick ranking among manufacturers access to Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport. of hematology analyzers SAI continues to use the former corporate campus in a survey of customer for customer training on products. The new oﬃce satisfaction*1 for 13 consecutive has ample space for future expansion years for its eﬀorts of service accompanying growth. system and activities. 7 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 Opening Ceremony The September 2012 opening ceremony was attended by more than 300 people, including the local mayor, customers and employees. Video Virtual Customer Streaming Training Service Fully equipped studio for streaming videos of diagnostic instrument operating New oﬃce procedures Sysmex America Network Recording a video Realizing interactive broadcasting of customers in the Americas and across the globe Strengthening Our Virtual Customer as we strive to contribute to the development of Training Services while Reducing healthcare. Environmental Impact SAI’s sales and service coverage area is very broad, Words from an Employee with the US area alone encompassing four time Making it Easier on zones. SAI therefore began oﬀering virtual training Customers Located services to bring service and support to the customers Far Away in this broad region, including those in Canada. Zach Siejka The newly built virtual training studio Customer Training Sysmex America broadcasts live streaming of diagnostic instrument handling for customers under contract, including We recently opened a studio from which we provide high-quality online training. training programs, such as instrument operation The use of online streaming video training procedure and emergency repairs. These trainings programs allows customers to take the are geared to the degree of experience and skill of training they want when they want it— “just the medical technologist. in time”—at their own workplace. Our goal in The use of virtual training reduces the time and establishing this online streaming video costs that were associated with visits to Chicago. training system is to provide higher quality and value than our competitors. Environmental impact is also reduced because the CO2 emissions that accompany travel are eliminated. Sysmex will continue to provide a full range of products, services and support that meet the needs Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 8 Highlight 2 Employee welfare wing Factory wing China Jinan Factory (Jinan Sysmex Medical Electronics Co., Ltd.) Location: Jinan, Shandong, China Business: Manufacture and sales of diagnostic reagents Biotope Front gate and guard room Upgrade of Reagent Production Factory in Jinan: Better for People and the Environment Sysmex has renovated its reagent production factory in Jinan, which commenced production in April 2012. This advanced reagent production factory takes into consideration the environment, people, quality and eﬃciency, and its future capacity will meet growing demand in China. took such measures as using resources eﬀectively Stable Supply of Reagents to Meet and providing greenery around the factory. Growing Demand for Laboratory For example, we installed energy-conserving Tests in China equipment such as high-eﬃciency air conditioning, Sysmex established its ﬁrst Chinese reagent automatic lighting controls and exterior lighting production factory in Jinan in 1995 and its second that relies in solar power. factory in Wuxi in 2003 to provide a stable supply We also designed the piping system to of reagents to customers in the Chinese market. conserve energy in cleaning processes, and keep China’s recent economic development has temperatures down inside the factory by spurred healthcare system reform and encouraged maintaining greenery on the roof and in eﬀorts to enhance the country’s healthcare the exterior spaces. environment, causing demand for testing to expand. We have sought to create a safe and clean We therefore upgraded the reagent production workplace where our employees would feel safe factory in Jinan to meet growing demand in China, and comfortable. For example, by mechanizing starting production at the new facility in April 2012. the conveyance of heavy products we can reduce workplace accidents. We also use natural lighting in workplaces, which has a refreshing eﬀect to Designing a Factory That is Good for create bright and healthy-feeling spaces. We People and the Environment expanded our employee welfare facilities, such as We built the new factory based on four concepts the dining hall and recreation areas, and made from a CSR perspective: ECO, Human, High a biotope and walkways that impart a refreshing Quality and Flexible. natural feeling. Aiming for an eco-friendly factory, Sysmex 9 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 The Environment People An Eco-Friendly Factory that Takes Enhanced Employee Productivity the Global Environment into Consideration and Motivation • Energy-conserving air conditioning and • Mechanized heavy-product conveyance lighting installed • Natural lighting in work areas • Energy-conserving piping arrangement • Open terrace, biotope and walkways • Solar power used for exterior nighttime lighting • Open and airy dining and recreation rooms • Rooftop gardens ECO Human Concept of the New Factory High Solar-powered lamps Flexible Dining room with natural lighting Quality Quality and Eﬃciency Future Capacity Making Products that Assure Accommodating the Rapid Customer Satisfaction Growth of the China Market • Process automation for preventing quality • Expansion of manufacturing area for ﬂuctuation mainstay product • Automated process recording strengthens Four Renewal Concepts • Installation of expandable production lines quality checks • Additional production space available for • The layout for a factory tour While the pursuit of quality and eﬃciency products in diﬀerent manufacturing processes and the ability to expand in the future are givens, we take the global environment and our employees into consideration from a CSR perspective. New production line seen from Expandable production area a factory tour corridor to meet rising testing demand in China as well as Building a Highly Eﬃcient and Flexible the rest of Asia while contributing to the improvement Production Space for the Future of regional healthcare and the QOL of patients. Following concern for the environment and people, two other concepts are quality/eﬃciency and future Words from an Employee capacity. The goal of the reagent production factory Supplying Good Products in Jinan is to make products that instill customer from a New Factory with conﬁdence and assure their satisfaction, so we have a Comfortable Working pursued quality and eﬃciency. Through this factory Environment renewal, we have created new production lines that Liu Tong blend an automated line for the quality-assured Management Planning Department Jinan Sysmex manufacturing with well-trained human skills for ﬂexible manufacturing. We also have incorporated The new factory has commenced operation, and work eﬃciency has improved by the a layout for a customer factory tour. streamlined production area. Automation has We anticipate population growth and rising also reduced the burden on employees, which demand for diagnostic testing in China, so we designed increases production capacity and creates a the new facilities to have the ﬂexibility to meet better working environment. The new factory increasing demand, enabling capacity in has more greenery, so I can enjoy my lunch in manufacturing area for mainstay products to natural, comfortable surroundings. The pleasant work environment at approximately quintuple. the new factory inspires all of us to continue We will continue to improve our production eﬀort to provide customers with a stable structure so that we can accommodate future supply of superior products. market environment and growth, allowing us Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 10 Organizational Governance Aiming to Be a Corporation Trusted by Society To improve management eﬃciency and enhance transparency and management robustness, Sysmex is strengthening its corporate governance system. We pursue open and aboveboard business activities based on high ethics to protect our stakeholder’s interests. Promotion of CSR Activities Corporate Philosophy Sysmex CSR Builds Trust and Conﬁdence through Practice of the Sysmex Way Sysmex CSR builds trust and conﬁdence to all our stakeholders through the practice of the Sysmex Way, the corporate philosophy of the Sysmex Group. The Sysmex Way indicates the way Shaping the advancement of healthcare. the most basic corporate activities ought to be conducted, consisting of three elements necessary for continued growth: Mission, Value and Mind. The Core Behaviors clarify provision of value to customers, employees, business partners, shareholders, We continue to create unique and innovative values, while building trust and conﬁdence. society and all our stakeholders. At Sysmex, every Group employee shares the Sysmex Way, placing importance on practices throughout daily business activities. With passion and ﬂexibility, we demonstrate our To become more individual competence and unsurpassed teamwork. proactive in our CSR initiatives, Sysmex joined Core Behaviors the United Nations Global To our Customers Compact in February 2011. We deliver reassurance to our customers, through unmatched We practice the 10 principles quality, advanced technologies, superior support, and actions related to human rights, that consistently reﬂect the viewpoint of our customers. We constantly look out for our customers’ true needs, and seek to labor, the environment generate new solutions to satisfy those needs. and anti-corruption. To our Employees The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles We honor diversity, respect the individuality of each employee, and provide them with a workplace where they can realize their Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed full potential. We value the spirit of independence and challenge, human rights; and Human Rights provide employees with opportunities for self-fulﬁllment and growth, and reward them for their accomplishments. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. To our Business Partners Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom We deliver commitment to our client companies through of association and the effective recognition broad-ranging partnerships. We strive to be a company that can grow of the right to collective bargaining; in step with our trade partners, through respect and mutual trust. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced Labour and compulsory labour; To our Shareholders Our shareholders can rest assured that we will continue to improve Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and the robustness and transparency of our management policies, Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination while promoting information disclosure and close communications. in respect of employment and occupation. We commit ourselves to a consistent yet innovative style of management, in order to achieve sustainable growth and increased Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; shareholder value. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote To Society Environment greater environmental responsibility; and We carry out our business in strict compliance with laws and regulations, as well as in adherence to high ethical standards. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. As a responsible member of society, we play an active role in resolving environmental issues and other problems that impact Principle 10: Businesses should work against our society today. Anti-Corruption corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 11 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 Setting Mid-Term Objectives for CSR Activities In April 2013, Sysmex established the Mid-Term CSR Plan responsibility, to foster CSR eﬀorts. Sysmex will contribute to (ﬁscal 2013−ﬁscal 2015) based on the 10 Principles of the Global the resolution of social issues by applying PDCA to its CSR Compact and ISO 26000 international standards for social eﬀorts based on this plan. Sysmex Mid-Term CSR Plan (Fiscal 2013−2015) Category CSR Mid-Term objectives Plan Organizational Reinforcement of the compliance system • Revision of Group compliance system governance Improvement of business continuity plan • Continuous improvement of business continuity plan Human rights / • Promotion of female employee activity Promotion of diversity Labour practices • Making the workplace more motivating Promotion of Environmental activities • Oﬀering eco-friendly products and services The Environment based on the long-term environmental • Reduction of the environmental impact of our operations objectives, Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020 Promotion of fair trade • Revision of Group compliance system concerning fair trade Fair operating practices • Establishment and notiﬁcation of procurement policies from the CSR Promotion of CSR procurement point of view Enhancement of information security • Shoring up the information security system Consumer issues • Enhancement of our Voice of the Customer (VOC)-based manufacturing Improvement of customer satisfaction and service structures Community Promotion of corporate citizenship activities • Promoting activities based on the Policy on Corporate Citizenship involvement and and philanthropy Activities and Philanthropy development Corporate Governance Structure Corporate Governance Shareholders’ Meeting Enhancing Management Robustness and Election/Dismissal Election/Dismissal Election/Dismissal Transparency to Improve Management Eﬃciency Sysmex considers reinforcing corporate governance to be among Managing Board meeting its most important management priorities. We believe (members of the Managing Board) that enhanced management robustness, better transparency, Nominating and improved management speed and eﬃciency will help us Committee maximize the overall corporate value of the Group. Compensation Board of The Company’s Managing Board consists of seven members, Accounting Committee Auditors Auditors (Corporate one of whom is an outside member, and deliberates on important Auditors) Chairman and CEO management issues. The Company has adopted the corporate auditor system, and the Board of Auditors consists of four Global Strategic Internal Audit Office Committee corporate auditors, two of whom are external auditors. Risk Management The corporate auditors supervise the members’ business conduct Steering Committee Committee Auditing Auditing objectively from an independent position. In April 2005, we adopted the executive oﬃcer system in order to increase Executive Officers the speed of decision making in the conduct of business Divisions, Subsidiaries and Affiliates and respond quickly to changes in the business environment. A consultative body to the president, the Steering Committee deliberates on important matters concerning the Group’s business. Five of the 17 executive oﬃcers are also members of the Managing Board. The Company has also established the Nominating Committee and the Compensation Committee, which have responsibilities in accordance with the “companies with committees” system. Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 12 Internal Control Sysmex Group Compliance Code* Internal Control System Improvements 1. To Ensure Safety of Our Products and Services to Customers Based on a Managing Board meeting resolution concerning We shall act in all of our corporate activities by making it a matter of priority to provide our customers with safety and security. internal control systems in ﬁscal 2006, Sysmex is engaged 2. To Promote Fair Dealing and Free Competition in the improvement and promotion of a system for compliance, We shall deal with our customers and all partners having information retention and management, risk management, business relationships with us in a just and fair manner and shall eﬃcient execution of professional duties, Group company conduct transactions under appropriate conditions. As regards our relation with other companies in the same line of business, management and auditing. we shall not do any dishonest act of unreasonably restricting In ﬁscal 2008, Sysmex formulated Internal Control business with each other or of defaming them. Regulations concerning Financial Statements and established 3. To Make Fair and Proper Information Disclosure and to Exercise Complete Information Control an Internal Control Committee concerning Financial Statements, We shall disclose our corporate information such as our group’s a consultative body to the chairman and CEO. financial conditions and business activities in a fair, quick, correct and intelligible way in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, etc. and shall exercise strict control over confidential information collected through our business activities so as not Compliance to cause any disadvantage to third parties. 4. To Respect Intellectual Property Pursuing Open and Aboveboard Business We shall respect any third party’s intellectual property, and shall not attempt to obtain any third party’s result of efforts or Activities confidential information through an illegal method nor shall we use any third party’s right for our own business without the rightful Sysmex has deﬁned its view of compliance as “respecting laws person’s consent. and regulations and going about our business boldly 5. To Maintain International Peace and Safety with a strong sense of ethics.” We shall comply with exportand import-related laws and In accordance with this deﬁnition, we have established regulations, etc. and shall not be engaged in any transaction likely to impede maintenance of international peace and safety. a Compliance Code, in which particularly important conformance rules for all executives and employees to abide by are compiled. 6. To Conduct Proper Accounting and Appropriate Tax Payment We shall always conduct appropriate tax payment and proper We conduct training programs to ensure the thorough accounting by complying with applicable laws and regulations permeation of the code within the organization. The code also related to taxes as well as other laws and regulations, etc. related to accounting. applies to overseas Group companies, constructing an integrated compliance structure for the entire Group. 7. To Respect Human Rights and to Improve Occupational Health and Safety We shall respect the fundamental human rights of each of Continuously Providing Education on Compliance the personnel and shall not do any infringing act thereon such as discrimination, harassment, etc. We shall also endeavor to improve Compliance managers are in place at each Group company, occupational health and safety and shall not enforce any unfair labor and Sysmex provides compliance education for all employees. practice on the personnel. We have produced a Compliance Handbook and distributed 8. To Make Distinction between Public and Private Matters and Not to Do Any Act Involving Conflict of Interest a copy to each Group company employee in Japan to ensure We shall be sure not to attempt to gain any personal profit in that all employees are thoroughly compliance-aware. performance of duties, and shall not make any unauthorized use Furthermore, in addition to regular compliance training we set of our group’s assets, goods and information nor shall do such personal act that might cause any disadvantage to our group’s important themes for each year, and training is conducted at business activities. each department according to 9. To maintain sound relationship with society relevant themes. In ﬁscal 2012, We shall be always strict at the time of conducting business with the main themes included public agencies and making political donations by complying with relevant laws, etc. We shall also maintain a dauntless attitude training related to revisions toward antisocial activities and groups and shall never be of internal regulations made concerned with them. to reﬂect trends in the medical 10. To Preserve the Global Environment industry, and training We shall comply with environment-related laws and regulations, etc. and pay attention to environment throughout our business to prevent power harassment. activities based on international standards, etc. for environment in Overseas Group company an endeavor to preserve and improve the global environment. compliance training is Revised November 2009 conducted according to * Written above is the Sysmex Corporation Compliance Code. Our subsidiaries the situation in each country. outside of Japan have established their own versions of the Compliance Code by reflecting the various differences in customs and practices of their Compliance Handbook respective regions. 13 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 Internal Reporting System Information Disclosure The “Campanula Lines,” an internal reporting system originally developed for Group companies in Japan, allows our employees General Meeting and Informal Meetings to seek consultations and ﬁle reports via telephone, postal mail for Shareholders or e-mail through two lines (in-house and external). Valuing opportunities for direct dialogue with our shareholders, Any information received is handled anonymously we make an eﬀort to encourage the participation of as many to protect those providing the information from any adverse shareholders as possible at the General Meeting of Shareholders. reactions. Also, such internal reporting systems are in place After the general meeting, we hold informal meetings at overseas Group companies. to promote interaction with shareholders. At the ﬁscal 2012 General Shareholders’ Meeting, “Campanula Lines” Internal Reporting System we used panels, images, and other tools to explain our R&D, Compliance Sub-committee our eﬀorts to contribute to our local community, Kobe, Reporting and to society by helping solve healthcare issues, and the opinions of third parties concerning Sysmex’s eﬀorts. Compliance leaders After that, we entertained questions and exchanged opinions. At the same time, for shareholders who ﬁnd it diﬃcult to attend shareholder meetings, we use postal mail In-house contact External line (law ﬁrm) and the Internet to facilitate the exercise of voting rights. E-mail, Furthermore, we contribute to the readability of convocation E-mail, Reply Consultation telephone, Consultation Reply and resolution notices. We also prepare English-language versions postal mail, postal mail in-house mail for overseas shareholders, print color convocation notices and post the same information on our corporate website. Sysmex Group employees (full-time employees, contract employees, In ﬁscal 2012, we increased the visual content of the convocation part-time employees, temporary employees) notices by using graphs, maps, etc. Risk Management Promoting Risk Management by Establishing a Dedicated Committee To control groupwide risk management activities, Sysmex established a Risk Management Committee, which is chaired by a Risk Management Oﬃcer, the Group’s chief executive in charge of risk management. This committee continuously conﬁrms results of monitoring and risk reduction countermeasures conducted by each division and consolidated subsidiary. In addition, we have been working on a disaster response Informal meeting after the General Shareholders’ Meeting structure. In ﬁscal 2012, we established the Disaster Countermeasure Standards governing the companywide emergency communication structure. We also newly formulated the Disaster Prevention Manual, Further Enhancing Information Disclosure which lays out the required actions to be taken by each employee We make it a rule to disclose any information that we believe according to the circumstances, implemented safety conﬁrmation will aﬀect investment decisions in light of our own standards, tools for emergency communications, and conducted two as well as to observe applicable laws and regulations concerning rounds of companywide drills to make sure all are well-versed. securities trading and the Rules on Timely Disclosure of We have installed digital wireless as a means of Corporate Information by the Issuer of Listed Security communication among our oﬃces, and have placed disaster and the Like established by stock exchanges. prevention supplies at every oﬃce. We have also introduced In addition to biannual brieﬁngs on ﬁnancial results (after ﬁre escape equipment for employees who are unable to walk year-end and after the second quarter), since the third quarter on their own due to injuries or disabilities. of ﬁscal 2011 Sysmex has held a conference call following Furthermore, we hold meetings on the Company’s the announcement of business results in the ﬁrst and third disaster countermeasures and the Company ﬁre-ﬁghting team quarters in an eﬀort to further enhance information disclosure. conducts disaster drills so all employees can be thoroughly aware of the actions they must take during an emergency. Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 14 Chosen for Excellence in Disclosure to Individual Investors In the 2012 Awards for Excellence in Corporate Disclosure, sponsored by the Securities Analysts Association of Japan, Sysmex was selected for excellence in disclosure to individual investors. We were given high marks for our chairman and CEO’s explanations in his own words to individual investors at the Company’s brieﬁng meetings, as well as video distribution via our website. Other positive comments included that the structure of the “Investor Relations” section of our site was simple and elegant, and our shareholder newsletter was easy to read and extensive in its content. Dialogue with Stakeholders * The Securities Analysts Association of Japan Corporate Disclosure Study Group was launched in 1995. It evaluates and selects for excellence based on criteria Promoting Direct Dialogue with Various Stakeholders such as the quality, volume and timing of corporate information disclosure. Sysmex values opportunities for direct dialogue with stakeholders. We incorporate opinions and requests received into our business activities. Main Dialogue Achievements in Fiscal 2012 Customers • Conducted survey on degree of customer satisfaction in each region (Sysmex Corporation and overseas Group companies in each region) • Held scientific seminars in each region (Sysmex Corporation and overseas Group companies in each region) • Ongoing customer training program incorporating customer feedback in each region (Sysmex Corporation and overseas Group companies in each region) Award ceremony Employees • Investigated desire concerning career design, including interest in working overseas or changing jobs through a voluntary External Evaluation reporting given to all employees, with results made use of in HR rotation (Sysmex Corporation) Sustainability Evaluation • Exchanged opinions through collective bargaining with the labor Socially responsible investment (SRI), assessing and screening union concerning three themes, including personnel and business skill development, and dialog on workplace corporate performance in dimensions like environment environment improvement. (Sysmex Corporation) and social fairness as well as economy for a sustainable society, is drawing attention. Business Partners In ﬁscal 2012, Sysmex Corporation was selected as a member • Held an explanatory meeting on quality policies to introduce of the Asia Paciﬁc Index of the Dow Jones Sustainability suppliers efforts to improve product quality and request supplier cooperation. Some 158 people from 74 companies participated. Indexes (DJSI)*1, a leading global SRI index. Since 2008, we also (Sysmex Corporation) has been included in the FTSE4Good Index*2, while for two Shareholders and Investors years in a row we have been selected as the Ethibel Excellence*3 by Forum Ethibel, a Belgian SRI evaluation organization. • Conducted individual interviews with over 300 domestic and foreign institutional investors and analysts (Sysmex Corporation) *1 Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes: SRI index developed through collaboration between S&P Dow Jones Indexes of the United States and Robeco SAM, • Held informational meeting for individual investors at Kobe a Swiss research specialist in the area of socially responsible investment. Portopia Hall for 500 individual investors (Sysmex Corporation) * 2 FTSE4Good Index: SRI index developed and managed by the U.K. FTSE Communities Group, a joint venture between the Financial Times newspaper and the London Stock Exchange. • Held event for local community interaction at R&D core Technopark * 3 Ethibel Excellence: Select stocks chosen for demonstrated performance (Sysmex Corporation) above a certain level in terms of CSR issues related to observance of human rights and environmental contributions. • Participated in math and science education-focused “5th Science Fair in Hyogo” event for high school students (Sysmex Corporation) • Participated in the “Aim High Urban Mentoring Initiative” conducted by a U.S. NPO and advised local high school students (Sysmex America) 15 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 Human Rights/Labor Practices Providing a Workplace Environment Where Diverse Human Resources Are Invigorated Sysmex’s Compliance Code forbids discrimination and proscribes unjust working conditions. We strive to adhere thoroughly to these principles and work to ensure fair working conditions and treatment. We also seek to provide labor systems and a workplace environment in which diverse human resources can maximize their potential and be invigorated. Training for power harassment performed in fiscal 2012 Respecting Human Rights and Diversity Period Subject Executive Vice Presidents/ Participants Vice Presidents June, July (Including those on loan 106 Sysmex Group Compliance Code (Excerpt) to subsidiaries in Japan) 7. To Respect Human Rights and to Directors/Managers Improve Occupational Health and Safety October-December (Including those on loan 538 to subsidiaries in Japan) We shall respect the fundamental human rights of each of the personnel and shall not do any infringing act thereon such as discrimination, harassment, etc. We shall also endeavor to improve occupational health and safety and shall not Consultation and Reporting Systems Related enforce any unfair labor practice on the personnel. to Human Rights 7-1 Prohibition of discrimination and harassments Sysmex has set up “Campanula Lines” as an internal reporting We must not conduct discriminatory behaviors with regard to a person’s sex, age, nationality, race, origin, belief, religion, system for Group companies in Japan to enable consultation social status, lineage, illness or physical disability, nor must related to sexual harassment and power harassment, among we take such behaviors as ignoring the dignity of other people, including such acts as giving sexual harassment, other topics. We also have internal reporting systems in place power harassment, etc. at Group companies overseas. 7-2 Privacy protection We must acknowledge diversiﬁed sense of values people have individually, and must respect privacy of each Promoting Employment of People and every person. Also, we must not unnecessarily disclose with Disabilities private information we acquire in the course of work to any other third person and must not try to obtain Sysmex Corporation encourages the employment of people private information unnecessarily. with disabilities. Targeting long-term employment, we design 7-3 Elimination of forced labor and child labor We must not enforce unjust labor by detaining someone working conditions to maximize individuals’ aptitudes and skills. against his or her will. Also, we must not hire children of age As of March 2013, our ratio of employment of people below the minimum age of employment set forth by laws or regulations enforced in the country of region we operate. with disabilities was 2.08%, exceeding the legal mandate of 1.8% 7-4 Assurance of safety and health at workplaces as well as our own target of 2.0%. We will continue reinforcing We must adhere to laws and regulations related to safety our eﬀorts in this area. and health so that everyone may work with ease of mind, and must strive to maintain and enhance mental as well as physical health of everyone so that safe and comfortable Employing Seniors—System for Reemploying working environment can be established. PostMandatory Retirement Age Workers Sysmex Corporation’s mandatory retirement age is 60, but we Eliminating Discrimination have in place a system for rehiring until age 65 people who have and Unjust Working Conditions retired at the mandatory retirement age and still wish to work. Sysmex has formulated guidelines describing particularly During ﬁscal 2012, we rehired eight employees who had important rules and behaviors for compliance with basic retired at the mandatory age according to the terms of our respect for human rights as indicated in “7. To Respect Human internal rules. Rights and to Improve Occupational Health and Safety” of Sysmex’s Compliance Code. OHSAS 18001* Certiﬁcation Sysmex Brazil has acquired OHSAS 18001 certification, This code clariﬁes a variety of discriminatory actions that are an international standard for occupational health and safety not tolerated; prohibits sexual harassment, power harassment management systems. and other acts that ignore human rights; underscores prohibitions * OHSAS 18001: This standard, issued in 1999 based on BS 8800, which was, developed by the British Standards Institute (BSI) in 1996., on child labor and forced or compulsory labor; and seeks to consists of some 30 certiﬁcation bodies and standardization organizations in various countries. ensure a safe and comfortable workplace environment. We also conduct training programs as needed to ensure the code is put into practice. In ﬁscal 2012, we held courses dealing with power harassment for supervisors at the manager level and above. Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 16 Employee Evaluation and Treatment Aiming to Equalize Employment Opportunities Sysmex Corporation recruits new employees based the evaluation Equitably Evaluating Personnel Based on Abilities of individuals, without regard for gender, nationality, race, age, and Accomplishments employment history or disability status. Sysmex Corporation values the spirit of independence Speciﬁcally, we instituted year-round hiring to oﬀer equal and challenge, provides employees with opportunities opportunities to people who had already graduated or had for self-fulﬁllment and growth, and rewards them for their studied overseas and therefore might be at a disadvantage. accomplishments. In ﬁscal 2012, this resulted in our hiring of 50 graduates and six Based on the principle of fair treatment, Sysmex’s basic potential candidates. We also use the internet to conduct approach toward evaluation is to “reward employees web-based company brieﬁngs and web-based interviews, for capabilities that contribute to the enhancement of corporate enabling us to recruit candidates throughout the world, value as well as for producing accomplishments.” In addition including those who are living overseas or in rural parts to evaluating employees for their successes, we evaluate of Japan. In ﬁscal 2012, we hired nine non-Japanese. the processes leading to employee growth (competency evaluations). To achieve fairness and ensure that employees Hiring Contract and Temporary Employees understand their evaluations, we show employees their evaluation to Full-Time Positions results and their superiors’ comments. Sysmex Corporation actively hires contract employees and temporary employees as full-time personnel. We have clariﬁed our internal regulations for hiring people working on limited, Basic Principles of the Personnel ﬁxed-term contracts, oﬀering them fair opportunities for Management System promotion. We put this information on our intranet to encourage 1) Ensuring long-term employment thorough understanding of these rules. When renewing • Establishing a double-linear-type competence-based rating frame temporary employees’ contracts, for employees that meet that enables a diversity of employees to maximize their skills, and providing opportunities for self-realization and growth certain conditions we notify temporary placement agencies 2) Promoting the development and cultivation of diverse of the possibility of employing such personnel directly. human resources Through the ongoing application of these systems, in ﬁscal • Establishing competence-based rating standards and promoting cultivation of human resources and normalization of career 2012 we promoted 17 contract and temporary employees advancement through clarification of promotion criteria to full-time positions. • Evaluating not only accomplishments but also the processes Promotions to Full-Time Positions (Sysmex Corporation) of producing achievements (realization capability) in order to promote human resource development and the reform Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013* of corporate culture Contract employees 13 10 11 3) Rewarding employees for capabilities that contribute Temporary employees 10 7 1 to the enhancement of corporate value as well as for producing accomplishments Total 23 17 12 • Simplifying the relationship between evaluation and reward. • Creating a remuneration structure that is easy for everyone * As of April 1, 2013 to understand and that rewards employees in accordance with their contribution, role, competency and accomplishments Focus on Supporting a Work−Life Supporting Employee Career Design Balance Sysmex Corporation has in place a voluntary reporting system Support for Childrearing that employees can use to design their future careers. Sysmex Corporation oﬀers a variety of systems, such as childcare Approximately 95% of employees take advantage of this system. leave and shorter work hour systems, to ensure that parents can The system aﬀords each employee with the opportunity spend as much time with their children as possible. In support to consider their own career directions and life plan, as well of childrearing, we allow employees to take accumulated paid leave as to aﬀect their own skills development and placement to care sick children in addition to oﬀering a ﬂex-time system. according to the content of their reports. In ﬁscal 2012, Furthermore, we provide a reemployment system to enable we provided an improved declaration sheet to gather more employees who were forced to suspend their career paths due detailed information about employees’ desires. For example, to child-raising with opportunities to resume their work. we added questions that encourage employees to consider In ﬁscal 2012, we set up new systems to assist employees their careers over the medium to long term, as well as questions returning from childcare or nursing care leave. (See page 18 related speciﬁcally to the desire to work overseas. for details.) These support systems are explained in clear terms on the dedicated site on the Company intranet. These eﬀorts resulted in a 100% rate of return of employees after childcare leave in ﬁscal 2012. 17 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 Users of Systems to Support a Work-Life Balance (ﬁscal 2012) bereavement or other circumstances may also temporarily utilize System Description Users the service. Shorter work hour system for Until the end of third grade of Expanding Systems to Provide a Good Working 42 child rearing elementary school Environment Leave of Child nursing leave prescribed by law, absence system available after one year of age and 60 In addition to a childcare support system, Sysmex Corporation (childcare leave, childbearing leave) up to two years has in place a number of other systems to help employees Accumulated paid leave for up to 10 realize a work−life balance from various perspectives. Accumulated days of annual paid vacation from We allow employees to use accumulated paid leave paid leave system previous years can be taken for child 33 nursing or short-term nursing purposes to attend hospital consultations for parents and family members, System to reemploy people who as well as to accompany family during hospital stays. We also Reemployment previously left the Company for 1 oﬀer a reemployment system to assist employees resuming system childcare or nursing-related reasons work after having been forced to suspend their careers due Daycare center provides care for In-house infants and children up to entry into 40 to nursing needs. daycare system elementary school, which is available children for full-time or temporary childcare. Furthermore, we have introduced a cafeteria-type plan that meets diverse employee needs by enabling them to choose from a menu of welfare options. We also encourage employees Establishment of In-House Daycare Center to take their paid leave so they can unwind. Sysmex Corporation has opened the “Sysmex Kids Park,” an in-house In ﬁscal 2012, we attached a sample form with a paid daycare center, at Technopark, our core R&D facility. The center leave requisition to clarify one of our measures to promote takes care of employees’ infant children while they are at work. the taking of paid leave. We also posted a system guide on The center oﬀers short-term as well as full-time daycare, the intranet so employees could become acquainted with it. so that employees whose spouses work on a part-time basis or who ﬁnd it diﬃcult Acquiring a Next-Generation Accreditation Mark to take care of their In ﬁscal 2011, Sysmex Corporation children due received the next-generation to caretakers’ illness, support certiﬁcation logo (nicknamed “Kurumin”) from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare for its planned implementation of systems to support Next-generation support In-house daycare center, certification logo (nicknamed Sysmex Kids Park a work-life balance. “Kurumin”) Implementation of New Support Systems In February 2013, Sysmex Corporation implemented or notebook PC that he or she can use to connect to a new support system to facilitate the smooth return the Sysmex email system and intranet. Three months to work of employees who have taken childrearing or prior to returning to work the employee on leave can nursing care leave, and the employee is loaned a tablet begin viewing “in-house only” company information. Being cut off from the workplace can be an obstacle Words from an Employee to a later smooth return. However, this set-up allows the employee to access Company information at home My Return to Work was in real-time, and enables better communications with Worry-Free Thanks to colleagues through email. This IT-based system helps the Return-to-Work the employee get through the leave period without Support System. experiencing the torment of feelings of alienation Rino Matsuzaki Quality Management System Department and loneliness, and also allows the employee to play Sysmex Corporation an active role at the workplace upon his or her return. I used the return-to-work support system after taking 18 months of childcare leave. I was concerned after having been away from work for such a long time, but by using the PC loaned to me under the system I was able to view company information, and also was able to keep in touch with my colleagues via email. This allowed me to feel confident about returning to my job. Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 18 Cooperation between Labor and given training on emergency measures, how to evacuate when Management an accident occurs, and how to handle machinery and raw materials that are potentially dangerous, as well as how to use Aligned to Create a Better Workplace an automated external deﬁbrillator (AED). We are also developing All full-time employees of Sysmex Corporation, except those citizen emergency life-saving technicians. holding managerial posts and some in back-oﬃce operations, are Furthermore, as preparedness measures we conduct members of the Sysmex Union, the in-house labor union. Sysmex evacuation and ﬁre-ﬁghting drills, as well as on reporting Corporation and the Sysmex Union work together to develop earthquakes, ﬁres and other disasters in cooperation with local systems that help employees to maintain work−life balance. ﬁre stations. For example, we held large-scale disaster emergency We conducted collective bargaining in May 2012, with response drills at Technopark in ﬁscal 2012. opinions exchanged concerning the development of personnel and business skill, diversity promotion and the raising of health Frequency and Severity of Work-Related Injuries consciousness. We also held four council meetings between (Sysmex Corporation) labor and management, covering topics such as managing 2.0 1.75 working hours and improving the workplace environment. 1.62 1.61 1.62 1.59 1.5 Employee Opinions Reﬂected in Management 0.96 1.0 1.26 Sysmex conducts a Corporate Culture Survey of employees of all 0.63 0.53 Group companies in Japan every two years, and we analyze replies 0.5 0.22 to questions on over 100 categories to gain an understanding 0.01 0.02 0.01 0.00 0.01 0 of unspoken rules and values within the organization, as well as 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) of the degree of eﬀectiveness of various measures. This is useful Average frequency among all industrial sectors in Japan in discovering and resolving the issues surrounding the Group. Frequency at Sysmex Corporation Severity at Sysmex Corporation Similar eﬀorts to create structures to reﬂect employee Notes: Frequency of work-related injuries: the number of employee deaths or opinions in management are underway at other Group injuries resulting from work-related accidents per million work hours. companies, such as Sysmex International Reagents, which Severity of work-related injuries : the ratio of the number of days absent from work due to work-related injuries per thousand hours worked. introduced the Employee Proposal System. Health and Safety Considerations Human Resources Development Maintaining and Improving Employees’ Health Focusing on HR Development on a Global Basis Sysmex Corporation encourages employees to undergo Sysmex has in place systems designed to enable all employees thorough physical examinations and cancer tests for women, to cultivate expertise and skills on a regular and planned basis. in addition to regular health checkups, for the early detection We also focus on developing global human resources, the core of illness. We provide channels for health consultations throughout of our global business, for our management strength. the Company, and have in place systems where employees can We introduced the Global Apprentice Program targeting meet with industrial physicians and public health nurses. We oﬀer younger employees in ﬁscal 2011. We solicit participants a dedicated channel for mental health consultations with specialized internally for this program, which oﬀers employees industrial physicians and have established an employee assistance the opportunity to work at overseas subsidiaries and is open program (EAP), enabling employees to seek help easily. to employees who aim to develop global careers. The objective As part of our illness prevention initiatives, we provide of the program is to foster a core of global personnel within speciﬁc insurance guidance within our head oﬃce, which helps to promote health and raise employee awareness. We also believe it is important to support employees returning to work after having taken leave. For example, we have created a system for a gradual return to work that allows employees to take a step-by-step approach to returning after a long leave from work. Occupational Health and Safety To ensure the health and safety of its workers, Sysmex Corporation has formulated Safety and Health Regulations. We have also established a Safety and Health Committee at each of our oﬃces Chiaki Takeuchi of the HU Business Management Dept., who was dispatched to foster a safe and good working environment. Employees are to Sysmex Asia Pacific through the Global Apprentice Program. 19 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 the Company. By the end of ﬁscal 2012, a total of seven employees had been transferred overseas through the program. We promoted exchanges of Japanese and overseas personnel in ﬁscal 2012 by instituting the Global Personnel Exchange Program for strengthening ties through deeper mutual understanding. (See below for details.) The global personnel exchange program Introducing Extensive Training Programs Creating an Open Corporate Culture Sysmex America has been executing educational programs Sysmex Europe creates many opportunities for in coordination with outside institutions since 2005. We communication among employees, such as marketing offer training programs covering 40 themes that are strongly meetings, function meetings, and unit meetings. Each connected to Sysmex’s business, and have achieved a 90% season brings events in which all employees can satisfaction level among employees who have enrolled. participate, as well as a Christmas party, all of which In addition to group training, we also have made constitute good chances for in-house communication. approximately 180 types of e-learning program available. Sysmex Europe has also adopted an open-door policy, In addition, we have created a scholarship funding program for and encourages employees to speak frankly with managers. providing up to $5,250 in financial support to employees pursuing self-directed study at outside institutions. In addition to the above, Sysmex America is also cultivating business leaders through our Mini MBA Program, in which enrollees sharpen basic skills, such as finance and management, analyze Sysmex’s issues and strengths over a period of three-months or more, and make recommendations. Employee event High Marks in the Employee Mini MBA Satisfaction Survey Program For the first time Sysmex Europe took part in a benchmark study graduates on quality and attractiveness of workplace culture along with over 400 companies in the form of a survey by a German researcher. In the survey, 90 percent of our employees confirm Global Personnel Exchange Program that Sysmex Europe is a very good place to work, landing Sysmex Europe among Germany's Best Employers in 2012. In November 2012, our Group companies in America, Canada, and Brazil dispatched eight employees to Japan for about two weeks, where they visited the Sysmex business offices and got to know their counterparts in Japan. Global Personnel Exchange (experiencing a tea ceremony) Global Personnel Exchange (office tour) Employees of Sysmex Europe, selected as one of Germany’s Best Employers in 2012 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 20 The Environment Promoting Environmental Activities to Reach Our Long-Term Environmental Objectives In the Sysmex Group Environmental Action Plan (Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020), we have set forth our long-term environmental objectives, including environmental consciousness in product life cycle processes and environmental consciousness at business oﬃces. We have also established mid-term environmental objectives from ﬁscal 2013 to 2015 and we are working to achieve these goals. Environmental Management Acquiring ISO 14001 Certiﬁcation Sysmex is working toward the acquisition of ISO 14001, the international standard for environmental Environmental Policy management, for the Group as a whole. By shaping the advancement of healthcare, our global Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc acquired this environmental conservation activities contribute to the creation of a fulfilling and healthy society. certiﬁcation in April 2012. As a result, all Sysmex factories in Japan as well Core behavior as ﬁve of seven overseas locations 1. We deliver reassurance to all people by carrying out business have received ISO 14001 certiﬁcation, activities in an environmentally conscious manner. bringing the total to 17 sites. We are 2. We strive to provide eco-friendly products and services while giving careful thought of environmental issues throughout moving forward with eﬀorts to acquire their life cycles. certiﬁcation at Sysmex Wuxi and ISO 14001 certificate 3. We strive to conserve energy and resources, reduce wastes, Jinan Sysmex, as well. (Sysmex Asia Pacific) promote recycle and properly control chemical substances in all business activities. ISO 14001 Certiﬁed Sites 4. We comply with all applicable national or regional environmental regulations, standards and agreements. Company Name Site Acquired in 5. We continually improve our environmental conservation Kakogawa Factory April 2000 activities and work diligently prevent pollution and minimize Technopark February 2002 the impact our products have on the environment. Sysmex Corporation Head oﬃce February 2002 6. We contribute to society through environmental conservation Solution Center November 2005 activities as a member of the community, while educating and raising the environmental consciousness. Sysmex International Ono Factory March 2001 7. We establish environmental objectives and targets consistent Reagents Seishin Factory June 2007 with this environmental policy, and measure our performance Sysmex Medica — March 2001 against them. Sysmex RA — June 2008 Revised May 2009 Neumünster Factory November 1999 Sysmex Europe Head oﬃce October 2011 Sysmex Deutschland — October 2011 Promoting Environmental Activities Sysmex Brazil — May 2006 Sysmex Corporation and Sysmex International Reagents are December 2009 Sysmex America — establishing policies and plans, managing the progress Sysmex Reagents America — December 2009 of planned activities, and evaluating their results Sysmex New Zealand — May 2011 in the Environmental Management Committee chaired Sysmex India — March 2012 by a senior executive oﬃcer. Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc — April 2012 In ﬁscal 2012, while continuing to grapple with the fundamental issues of the Sysmex Group Environmental Action Plan (Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020), we consolidated Conducting Environmental Auditing the issues categorized as “environmentally conscious products In ﬁscal 2012, Sysmex Corporation and Sysmex International and services” and “environmentally conscious operations” Reagents evaluated overall compliance through a series and revised the targets. We also established mid-term of self-assessments conducted by individual divisions themselves environmental objectives (ﬁscal 2013–2015), and made possible and internal environmental auditing performed by auditors mid-term evaluation of the degree of achievement of these goals. in other divisions. External environmental auditing was also Sysmex has also appointed an environmental manager carried out by a third-party auditing organization. in each Group company in Japan and overseas, thus establishing The internal environmental audits found ﬁve nonconformities, a system to collect groupwide activity information while the external environmental audits discovered two. Corrective and environmental performance data. actions for these nonconformities were promptly completed. 21 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 Sysmex Group Environmental Action Plan (Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020)/ Mid-term Environmental Objectives Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020 Mid-term Environmental Long-term Environmental Objectives Activities/Achievements in FY 2012 Objectives (FY2020) (FY 2013 – 2015) (Revised Edition) • Promoted efforts toward RoHS directive compliance • Promoted product development for reduced power consumption • Promoted a switchover of protein raw materials used in reagents from animal derivatives to artificially Promote eco-friendly products Promote eco-friendly products synthesized protein and service models and service models • Promoted reduction in materials used in product Environment containers and packaging consciousness • Promoted expansion of remote service in Asian in product life regions for CO2 emissions reduction through cycle process improved service efficiency Reduce carbon dioxide emissions Reduce carbon dioxide emissions for logistics by 50% (per unit of for logistics by 30% (per unit of freight ton-km: Japan domestic and freight ton-km: Japan domestic and • Promoted modal shift from air to ocean transport for inter-regional transportation)*1 inter-regional transportation)*1 exports to Indonesia and other countries Base year: FY2010 Base year: FY2010 • Installed equipment (including thorough air conditioning controls, installation of energy efficient fluorescent and LED lighting, placement of occupancy Reduce greenhouse gas emissions Reduce greenhouse gas emissions sensors in the toilets) as measures against global at business offices by 50% at business offices by 25% warming (each business office) (per unit of consolidated sales)*2 (per unit of consolidated sales)*2 • Reduced the number of production line processes through automation (Sysmex International Reagents) Base year: FY2008 Base year: FY2008 • Purchased electricity from power companies using renewables (Sysmex Europe) Environment • Reduced CO2 emissions by using solar power (Sysmex consciousness Europe Neumünster Factory) at business oﬃces • Conducted review of waste disposal companies Achieve a recycle rate of 93% Achieve a recycle rate of 90% (Solution Center) or higher at all business offices*3 or higher at all business offices*3 • Began recycling contracting for fluorescent tubes, etc. (Solution Center) Reduce water usage at reagent Reduce water usage at reagent factories by 10% (per unit of factories by 3% (per unit of • Installed water purifying equipment (Jinan Sysmex) amount of production)*4 amount of production)*4 • Reused industrial waste water after treatment (Sysmex India) Base year: FY2008 Base year: FY2008 * 1 Sysmex Corporation * 2 Business oﬃces: All Factories and major business sites Twelve domestic and overseas Group factories (ﬁve in Japan; one each in Germany, the United States and Brazil; two in China; one each in India and Singapore) Seven domestic and overseas Group oﬃces (four in Japan; one each in Germany, the United States, China and Singapore) * 3 Business oﬃces: All Factories and major business sites that product and/or chemical substances are handled Twelve domestic and overseas Group factories (ﬁve in Japan; one each in Germany, the United States and Brazil; two in China; one each in India and Singapore) Six domestic and overseas Group oﬃces (two in Japan; one each in Germany, the United States, China and Singapore) * 4 Reagent factories (nine sites) Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 22 Reducing the Use of Substances Eco-Friendly Service with Environmental Impact Promoting Eco-Friendly Service Models Conforming with Regulations Sysmex is lowering environmental impact by making service Application of the revised RoHS Directive* (which was amended more eﬃcient. in July 2011) to Sysmex’s diagnostic instruments and diagnostic For example, in addition to expanding the functions instruments for animals begins from July 2016. To meet of the Customer Support Center, we are minimizing downtime the stipulations of the revised RoHS Directive, Sysmex is adjusting for diagnostic instruments in use by constructing the Sysmex its design and production processes for products shipped to Europe. Network Communication System (SNCS, see page 32 for * RoHS Directive: A directive prohibiting the use of hazardous substances in details) to maintain interactive communication with customers. electrical and electronic devices sold in the European Union. This directive calls for the cessation of use of heavy metals (lead, cadmium, mercury and hexavalent This system leads to reduced visits to customer sites by chromium) and specified bromine-containing flame retardants (PBB and PBDE). our employees, allowing reductions in the amounts of gasoline used by company cars and the amounts of CO2 emitted by them. Developing Smaller, More Energy-Eﬃcient Products Reducing Domestic CO2 Emissions for Logistics To help our customers save energy, we are pursuing eﬀorts We are also promoting eﬀorts to reduce CO2 emissions to develop diagnostic instruments that are smaller and use even generated in logistics processes. For logistics operations in less electricity. Japan, we revised transportation routes to make them more We are also reducing packaging weight and using eﬃcient eﬃcient, and as a result, CO2 emissions from transportation packing methods to reduce environmental impact when products within Japan were down approximately 9% in ﬁscal 2012 are shipped. compared with the previous ﬁscal year. To reduce emissions resulting from exports from Japan, Establishing Eco-Friendly Diagnostic Reagent we conducted a modal shift from air to sea freight for Raw Material Production instruments shipped to Indonesia. As a result, CO2 emissions Sysmex has established a method of producing from silkworms generated through transportation to the Asia-Paciﬁc region the proteins used as raw materials in its diagnostic reagents. were down approximately 29% year on year. In contrast, Our protein production contracting service business using air shipments to Europe increased due to a sudden increase this technology has also been fully operational since ﬁscal in demand, resulting in an approximately 38% increase in CO2 2012, and we are already taking orders from a number of emissions year on year for exports overall. pharmaceutical companies. Nonetheless, due to our eﬀorts to make packaging more In the past, proteins were cultivated with equipment such eﬃcient, when viewed in terms of ton-kilometer* units our as tanks to control for environmental factors (such as sterility, domestic and intra-regional logistics CO2 emissions were temperature and oxygen concentrations), using cells from down approximately 7% year on year. mammals and other animals; the new approach reduces * Ton-kilometer: A unit of freight carriage equal to the transportation of one metric ton of freight one kilometer. For example, one metric ton of freight energy consumption substantially. As silkworms can be transported one kilometer is expressed as “one ton-kilometer.” cultivated at room temperature, simply by using shelves FY2011 FY2012 and breeding containers and providing them with food, Within Japan 1,256t-CO2 1,145t-CO2 we anticipate energy savings and waste reduction. Exports 3,279t-CO2 4,528t-CO2 Environment consciousness at business offices Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions at Business Oﬃces We are promoting various measures at each site, in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at our business oﬃces. Silkworms to produce proteins At all our business oﬃces, including our factories, we have introduced thorough building temperature controls, insulated and applied reﬂective coatings to the roof, and installed energy-eﬃcient ﬂuorescent and LED lighting. Sysmex International Reagents has also reduced its production line processes through automation. 23 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 While production area expansion has in some cases caused a large increase in power used, the eﬀorts described above have CO2 emissions from logistics resulted in a year-on-year reduction in greenhouse gas emissions (t-CO2) (t-CO2/ton-kilometers) (per unit of consolidated sales) of approximately 0.2%. 10,000 0.14 0.15 0.13 0.12 7,500 5,674 0.10 5,400 5,000 4,535 4,031 3,279 4,528 0.05 2,500 1,369 1,256 1,145 0 0 2010 2011 2012 (ﬁscal year) Japan Overseas Ton-kilometers per unit Note: Range of calculation is CO2 from Japanese factory to Japanese customer and that to overseas seaport or airport Greenhouse gas emissions at business oﬃces (t-CO2) (t-CO2/¥100 million) LED lighting (Ono Factory) 30,000 12.0 9.53 8.65 8.63 22,500 9.0 Reducing Waste at Business Oﬃces 15,000 11,881 11,651 12,556 6.0 We are continuously making eﬀorts to increase our recycling 4,441 4,517 5,106 rate, such as by reviewing waste disposal companies. 7,500 3.0 We proceeded with eﬀorts at each site in ﬁscal 2012, such 7,439 7,134 7,450 0 0 as reviewing waste disposal companies at the Solution Center 2010 2011 2012 (ﬁscal year) and initiating recycling of ﬂuorescent lighting and other items. Japan Overseas Unit of sales Also, Sysmex Wuxi made eﬀorts to reduce waste, for Note: Range of calculation is as described on page 22. example, by reusing the PE bags used for materials packaging in the production and development process, and reusing them as household trash bags. Business oﬃce recycling rate Through such eﬀorts, the Group’s recycling rate for ﬁscal (%) 2012 rose to 89.5% from 87.9% last year. 100.0 88.2 87.9 89.5 75.0 Reducing Water Use and Processing Wastewater Appropriately at Business Oﬃces 50.0 We are working to improve eﬃciency and reduce water use 25.0 volume. 0 Jinan Sysmex installed new, high-eﬃciency water 2010 2011 2012 (ﬁscal year) purifying equipment. At Sysmex India, all factory wastewater is puriﬁed and used to water the greenery around the facility. Note: Range of calculation is as described on page 22. As a result of such eﬀorts, water use (per unit of output) in ﬁscal 2012 was down approximately 3% year on year. Water use at reagent factories (thousand m3) (m3/1,000 boxes) 400 22.0 21.5 24.0 20.8 300 18.0 239 200 217 200 12.0 137 157 171 100 6.0 63 60 68 0 0 2010 2011 2012 (ﬁscal year) Japan Overseas Unit of amount of production Note: Range of calculation is as described on page 22. Using post-treatment factory wastewater to water the greenery (Sysmex India) Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 24 Others resulting in a reduction in packing material volume for those products of approximately 26%. Sysmex Wuxi has taken steps Reducing CO2 Emissions from Domestic to reduce packing materials, such as changing the material Company Cars used for clinical chemistry product boxes and eliminating To reduce CO2 emissions from some 400 company cars in shrink wrap. Japan, we are engaged in eﬀorts such as using the intranet to make the distance traveled by each car and the amount of gas Carefully Managing and Appropriately Disposing used “visible,” while seeking to raise driver consciousness. of Substances with Infection Potential We are also introducing eco-cars and hybrid cars into the ﬂeet. Sysmex International Reagents uses bio-based materials for These eﬀorts resulted in an approximately 3% the manufacture of products, and such materials are used at year-on-year reduction in CO2 emissions from our domestic Technopark as experimental materials for research and ﬂeet of company cars in ﬁscal 2012. development. As these substances have infection potential, all appropriate precautions are taken in their handling. Supporting Establishment of Environmental Our instruction manuals call for strict management of these Management Systems by Suppliers materials, and restrict the means of storage and locations Sysmex has formulated green procurement standards designed where they are used. Furthermore, these substances are to raise the environmental consciousness of its suppliers. carefully segregated from general waste for proper disposal. We also disclose on our website the chemical substances that we limit or reduce in our products. We ask our suppliers Using Tablets to Reduce Paper Use of parts and raw materials for their cooperation in this regard. Sysmex Corporation has introduced tablet computers In ﬁscal 2012 we conducted a survey of 302 suppliers to to promote paperless meetings. This approach reduces paper inquire their status of chemical substances management. use and waste volumes, as well as eliminating such processes We conﬁrmed that no major environmental issues had arisen. as printing and distributing documents prior to meetings. Meeting eﬃciency is also improved, as data can be Reducing Materials for Containers distributed digitally to meeting participants beforehand. We are working to reduce the amounts of materials for containers for instruments, reagents and repair parts in an eﬀort to reduce the weight of materials used. In ﬁscal 2012, we revised the packing containers for nine types of reagent, Green Procurement Standards 1. Objectives 3. Scope of Application In accordance with its environmental policy, the Sysmex Group These standards apply to the procurement of materials, parts strives to fulfill its corporate social responsibility by promoting and products by Sysmex Group companies. global environment conservation. Accordingly, we endeavor to 4. Control of Chemical Substances in Products promote the manufacture of environmentally friendly products by encouraging the procurement of raw materials and parts The Sysmex Group requires the selection of materials and parts that have low impact on the global environment. These standards for the products it develops and produces to be based not only have been formulated to cultivate proactive environmental on the requisite quality, performance and economic feasibility, conservation activities among our suppliers and enable us but also on the minimization of environmental impact. to work together toward the development of a sustainable society. Therefore, materials and parts that do not employ the chemical substances described below shall be adopted: 2. Green Procurement Initiatives 1) Substances prohibited according to restrictions on chemical We practice “green procurement” to ensure that our substances contained in products shall not be contained . procurement activities promote a reduction 2) Those in which the chemical substance amounts defined in the environmental impact of the Company’s products under restrictions on chemical substances contained and reduce the environmental impact of all production activities, in products shall be monitored. including those of our suppliers. We promote the two items 3) Those for which the environmental impact of the chemical below as specific green procurement initiatives. substance in terms of atmospheric pollution, water contamination, 1) Promote the procurement of raw materials and parts soil pollution, etc. shall be low. that have lower environmental impact. 4) Environmental impact data for materials shall be disclosed. 2) Expand business with suppliers that take a proactive approach 5) In relation to packaging materials, when all of toward environmental conservation. the aforementioned factors are identical, that with the lowest volume of contained chemical substances shall be selected. 25 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 Actively Using Natural Energy to Reduce CO2 Emissions A strong sense of environmental awareness exists in Europe, so Sysmex Group companies in Europe engage in eco-friendly efforts in response to community demand. Reducing Environmental Impact More than anything else, Europe today demands companies reduce environmental impact across the entire range of their business. Sysmex Group companies in Europe are giving their all to meet the expectations of the community. Efforts in Germany Sysmex Europe is making all efforts to switch to renewable forms of energy, such as water, wind, geothermal heat, and sunlight. Photovoltaic systems are being installed at our own factories, and we are entering into renewable energy power supply agreements with power companies Photovoltaic System (Sysmex Europe Neumünster factory) in an effort to increase our ratio of renewables-derived power purchased. We have been actively implementing effective power use measures, such as the full-scale launch of a heat recovery system, since fiscal 2012. We are also using eco-cars in our company fleet. Another way we broadly reduced CO2 emissions was to move the reagent warehouse closer to the Neumünster factory, cutting the distance by around 90 km. Wind Power Water Power Renewable Energy Geothermal Heat Sunlight Efforts in France Sysmex France operates an ISO 14001-based environmental management system to reduce environmental impact. In addition to curbing waste emissions and practicing waste separation, the company has reduced annual per-vehicle fuel consumption by 5%, and promotes “eco-driving.” Eco-car using natural gas Sysmex France has also succeeded in reducing used (Sysmex Europe) paper volume by switching to a lighter gauge of paper and encouraging two-sided printing. Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 26 Environmental Impact of Business Activities INPUT Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 1 Electricity use (thousands kWh) 26,643 28,154 1 City gas (thousands m3) 801 956 1 LPG (m3) 8,317 5,337 1 LNG (m3) — 0 1 Heavy oil (kL) — 0 1 Kerosene (kL) 58 62 1 Diesel (kL) 59 19 4 Gasoline for domestic fleet (kL) 775 748 4 Diesel for domestic fleet (kL) 2.6 3.3 3 Water use (thousands m3) 315 332 5 Office paper (t) 52 49 4 PRTR (t) 9.1 7.2 Sysmex’s business activities Design Production Transportation Use Disposal OUTPUT Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Greenhouse gas emissions from business 1 CO2 offices (t-CO2) 11,979 15,988 CO2 CO2 emissions from domestic company 4 cars (t-CO2) 1,806 1,746 2 Total waste emissions (t) 1,184 1,164 2 Recycling rate (%) 87.2 89.2 3 Wastewater volume (thousands m3) 128 144 4 PRTR (t) 0.6 0.7 1 All Sysmex Corporation business oﬃces, subsidiaries in Japan, factories and regional * Note: We have revised the scope of data in ﬁscal 2012, as indicated at headquarters left. We have revised the data for ﬁscal 2011 according, and as a result 2 All Sysmex Corporation business oﬃces (excluding branches and sales oﬃces in recycling rate) ﬁgures in some categories will diﬀer from those contained in and factories the Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012. Also, emission factors for 3 Sysmex Corporation business oﬃces and factories handling products and chemical substances the volume of greenhouse gases emitted employ emissions factors 4 All Sysmex Corporation business oﬃces and factories in Japan announced annually by electricity providers, so emission factors used 5 Sysmex Corporation and Sysmex International Reagents oﬃces that have acquired ISO 14001 in ﬁscal 2012 diﬀer from those used for ﬁscal 2011. certiﬁcation 27 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 Fair Operating Practices Pursuing Fair Business Practices with Business Partners To ensure the fairness of its business activities, Sysmex makes a thorough eﬀort to work against corruption such as extortion and briery and ensure ethics compliance. We also strive to promote CSR activities throughout the entire value chain, as we strive to maintain favorable relationships with suppliers, distributors and other business partners. Anti-Corruption Respecting Property Rights Encouraging Fair Transactions in Accordance Preventing Infringement of Other Companies’ with Promotion Codes Intellectual Property Rights Sysmex is striving to prevent corruption based on the 10th principle Dedicated to intellectual property management, Sysmex strives of the Global Compact, that “Businesses should work against to protect and utilize its own intellectual property rights, corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.” as well as to prevent infringements on the intellectual property Sysmex Corporation has established a Sysmex Promotion rights of other companies. Code (SPC), which stipulates the core behaviors for preventing Each new product development project involves a patent bribery and other inappropriate acts and maintaining fair trade. review to decide what patents to apply for to protect our own The Fair Trade Promotion Committee, established in ﬁscal 2008, intellectual property and review third parties’ intellectual oversees training and conducts surveys on an ongoing basis property information. As a part of this review, a patent in an eﬀort to bolster employee awareness of SPC compliance. application study committee is convened, where Intellectual We revised the SPC in April 2012, adding operational rules Property members and R&D engineers draw up patent on providing food, drinks and entertainment to clinical professionals. application policies and plans for technologies under We also conducted training sessions concerning the new development. At the same time, the committee investigates operating rules and SPC-related case studies, and tested the status of third-party intellectual property rights, thereby employee understanding of the SPC in October. minimizing any risks associated with intellectual property. In ﬁscal 2012 we implemented patent reviews even after Anti-Corruption Education Conducted in Fiscal 2012 product launch, and we are using the results of such reviews Theme: “New operational rules on providing food, drinks and in subsequent product concepts. entertainment” and “Transparency guidelines” * e-learning In ﬁscal 2012, we ﬁled 100 patent applications in Japan Period: July−August and 195 overseas. As of March 31, 2013, patent holdings in Japan Subject: Employees involved in product promotions (about 1,600 totaled 624, with 899 overseas. Six of our patent applications employees) were environment-related. Theme: SPC case studies Period: Throughout the year Subject: Departments involved in product promotion R&D Ethics Compliance Establishing a Committee Including Security Export Control Outside Members Being involved in clinical research and development and human Establishing a Security Export Control Structure genome and genetic analysis research, Sysmex has adopted Sysmex strives to reinforce its security export control system the Ethics Regulations on Clinical Research and Development based on the Security Export Control Regulations, thoroughly and Human Genome and Genetic Analysis Research, whose verifying the destinations and purposes of our exports. basic policies include respect of human dignity and thorough At each department in Japan, a security export control protection of personal information. Sysmex has also manager is appointed to take responsibility for ensuring established a Research Ethics Examination Committee, security export control and employee training on the issue which includes outside members such as legal and science experts, at his or her department. In ﬁscal 2012, we implemented in order to review research content. a companywide e-learning program on the themes of Security The list of committee members and examination results Export Control Regulations and Export Administration are disclosed on our website, thus ensuring transparency. Regulations in the United States. We are also making progress in implementing systems for cooperation with regional headquarters and make our controls more eﬃcient to strengthen the groupwide control structure. Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 28 CSR Promotion Aiming to Improve the Quality throughout the Value Chain of Supplied Parts and Raw Materials To supply products with reliable quality to customers in a stable manner, it is essential to maintain and improve Procurement Policies the quality of supplied parts and raw materials. We prepared To contribute to healthcare through the supply of superior products a Quality Assurance Agreement that deﬁnes the quality To achieve mutual growth and development based on mutual requirements in 2009, and after also preparing a handbook trust with business partners to improve understanding of the content we have since been Better partnerships concluding this agreement with suppliers. Fair, transparent procurement We also provide suppliers with a checklist that allows Compliance with applicable laws, confidentiality Environmental considerations them to self-check their quality management system, and we conduct new transaction inspections and audits to help them improve quality . We audited 19 instrument parts suppliers Holding Quality Policy Brieﬁngs and 15 reagent materials suppliers in ﬁscal 2012. We create opportunities to meet with suppliers and brief them on the course of our business and purchasing policy, Fostering Compliance Awareness thereby forging even stronger relationships with them. in the Procurement Process In August 2012, we held a Quality Policy Brieﬁng that was In order to comply with the Act against Delay in Payment of attended by 158 people from 74 companies. We introduced our Subcontract Proceeds, Etc., to Subcontractors, Sysmex provides businesses and quality improvement eﬀorts at the brieﬁng, education through companywide e-learning. In addition, we and asked for their cooperation. established the Sysmex Trade Mission (STM), an electronic purchasing system for prevention of unreasonable payment reductions and refunds. Each year, we also provide training on the system. In ﬁscal 2012, 29 people underwent this training, including new employees assigned to R&D departments. In Distributor Relationships, Focusing on the Key Issue of Compliance Sysmex rigorously ensures compliance to build sustainable and fruitful partnerships with its distributors. We prohibit employees from abusing any dominant bargaining position, oﬀering excessive entertainment, presents or the like when dealing with distributors. At the same time, we take advantage of opportunities presented by product brieﬁngs, which are held on occasions such as new launches, to share our policies Quality policy briefing and activities with our distributors, helping them to deepen their understanding of the importance of compliance. We engage in continuous communications with our overseas distributors through regular meetings at their locations as well as teleconferencing and meetings. 29 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 Consumer Issues Pursuing Quality and Satisfaction That Exceed Expectations While attending to constant improvement of the quality of our products and services, Sysmex is endeavoring to create a system that allows us to ensure that customers can conﬁdently use such products with safety and ease. We aim to provide satisfaction that exceeds expectations by deepening our understanding of “what customers truly want.” Quality Assurance strengthening our response to product regulations and the quality assurance system. *1 ISO 13485: Quality management system for the design and manufacture Quality Policy of medical devices *2 EMEA: Europe, the Middle East, Africa By shaping the advancement of healthcare, our global business activities contribute to the creation of a fulﬁlling and healthy society. Core behavior 1. We understand our customer’s needs, and provide products and solutions that meet or exceed their expectations. 2. We act based on our customer’s viewpoints by realizing that “Quality is customer satisfaction”. 3. We seek to reassure our customers by establishing the highest quality assurance standards and using them to enhance the quality of all aspects of our business. 4. We continually create innovative value for our stakeholders by developing and applying new and unique technologies and knowledge. 5. We comply with all relevant national or regional regulations and standards to provide safe products. Global RAQA Meeting 6. We maintain and continually improve the eﬀectiveness of our quality management system. Ensuring Product Quality 7. We establish quality objectives consistent with this quality Used in clinical testing, Sysmex’s products play a vital role policy, and measure our performance against them. in protecting people’s lives and good health. Being fully aware Revised in May 2007 of this responsibility, Sysmex is making constant eﬀorts to maintain and improve product quality by building various systems, not to mention complying with safety standards Building a Global Quality Management System around the world at the design and development stages. Sysmex has constructed a system to ensure compliance In the product development stage, we verify product with laws and regulations around the world based quality by setting ﬁve “quality gates” in the process leading up on the “Sysmex Corporation Quality Compliance Policy,” to market launch. Also, when we market products that are and we act accordingly. manufactured by others, we verify their quality by conducting All Group companies involved in development and production periodic audits of the manufacturers and meticulously have acquired certiﬁcations for ISO 9001 and ISO 13485*1 inspecting the products. quality management system. As of March 31, 2013, 28 of the 46 The Sysmex global quality complaint processing system, Sysmex Group companies had acquired ISO 9001 certiﬁcation, which was implemented in April 2011, allows us to gather quality with 14 Group companies also having acquired ISO 13485 information in a timely way from markets around the world. When certiﬁcation. we receive information about a bug or malfunction, we immediately Sysmex also conducts management reviews and quality look into the cause and cease distribution of the product. We are audits of quality activities at its principal Group companies also constructing an e-document control system that will be useful to conﬁrm that the management system is operating properly. in responding to regulations and improving work quality. We have established quality policy training for all employees, Furthermore, in ﬁscal 2012 we strengthened the Group’s as well as quality training matching departmental work structures for dealing with pharmaceutical laws and regulations type/level and regional needs. to respond to the pharmaceutical-related regulatory systems of all In addition, once a year we hold the Global RAQA countries, such as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA*), (regulatory aﬀairs/quality assurance) Meeting, at which Quality and expanded our product lineup. Assurance Department managers from Sysmex Corporation, * FDA: This U.S. government agency is dedicated to the approval and regulation of food products, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, medical instruments and other the regional headquarters in the Americas, EMEA*2, China, and items. It evaluates product safety and eﬃcacy, regulates clinical trials the Asia Paciﬁc region, and aﬃliates gather to share information, and performs other similar functions. Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 30 Safety and Quality Information After-Sales Support Collection and Repair Information Posted on Responding to Inquiries Rapidly and Responsibly Our Website In Japan, Sysmex Corporation maintains a Customer Support Sysmex posts information about product collection and repair Center, where experienced staﬀ members with expert knowledge on its website under “Important Product Notices.” No voluntary cater to customers 24 hours a day, 365 days a year (separate collection and repair occurred in ﬁscal 2012. agreement required). By creating a database containing maintenance histories and the details of past inquiries from Sharing Customer Feedback on Product Quality customers to ensure quick reference, the center responds to and Safety within the Company inquiries and requests both quickly and carefully. At Sysmex, information on product quality and safety is centrally We also maintain customer service contacts at controlled at the Vigilance Division. our regional headquarters in the Americas, EMEA*, China This division investigates and analyzes such information and the Asia Paciﬁc region. from customers, and feeds their analysis results to relevant * EMEA: Europe, the Middle East, Africa customers while also sharing them with design, manufacturing and other related functions, so that these ﬁndings may be applied to quality improvement and product development. Product Quality and Vigilance Control System Patients Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare Efficacy/Safety Proper testing/ Pharmaceuticals and Information diagnosis Medical Devices Agency Direct reporting Medical technologists and other clinical professionals Customer Support Center Provision Instructions/ Reporting of medical guidance Gathering information Information of Efficacy/ Partners both Safety Gathering provision, in Japan Inquiries to Customer Support Center response Information of Efficacy/ Information and Abroad Safety Sharing, Consultations on data Complaints Information cooperation 3.1% 0.2% Information Information Others provision, Sharing, Subsidiaries Inquiries on operating 12.4% response cooperation and affiliates Customer Vigilance procedures Sales reps outside of Information Gathering Division 4.9% Japan Inquiries on quality Total for • Literatures both control ﬁscal 2012: Information provision/ from Japan and 3.7% transmission abroad • Academic 95,612 Requests for Gathering of Efficacy Gathering Information repairs / and Safety Information Inquiries on products • Research Data 6.7% maintenance • Information on 69.1% new developments Sysmex Group Supporting Customers’ Quality Control Calling Attention to Counterfeit Reagents on a Daily Basis To assure accurate testing results, Sysmex asks its customers At hospitals and other healthcare facilities, instrument at healthcare facilities to use Sysmex-branded instruments precision is controlled to maintain consistent testing data and reagents together. In recent years, however, reagents reliability. In most cases, the condition of instruments is disguised as Sysmex reagents have been found in circulation checked by comparing the measurement results of materials in some Asian countries. The use of such counterfeit known as “control samples” with reference values and results reagents cannot guarantee the reliability of testing results on a daily basis. and, in some cases, can be harmful to patients’ health. Sysmex supports quality control by providing control Sysmex continuously monitors markets for counterfeit materials. Customer instruments are connected to the Customer reagents. When they are discovered, we seek cooperation from Support Center via our online Sysmex Network Communication local governments and, when necessary, we bring cases to court. Systems (SNCS). Measured values of control samples sent via 31 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 the SNCS from customer instruments are received Customer Satisfaction Surveys in Each Region by the Customer Support Center, which detects signs Sysmex Group companies in each region are also focused of abnormalities and returns the analysis results to the customer. on understanding customer needs. As with quality control, SNCS also contributes to instrument For example Sysmex Shanghai, the subsidiary in China, failure prediction and preventive maintenance. We will continue conducts an annual customer satisfaction survey, and Sysmex to strengthen our remote maintenance support by utilizing this Wuxi also conducts a similar survey in the support of Sysmex “predict and prevent” support service and network. Shanghai’s service department. The information acquired through these surveys is shared with all the departments within the companies, and is used to improve products and services. Instruments Registered with the On-Line Quality Jinan Sysmex was commended as a Grade A Trusted Medical Control Service (worldwide) (Units) Device Manufacturer by the Jinan Food & Drug Administration 25,000 23,829 in June 2012. The Food & Drug Administration surveys all 20,000 19,436 companies involved in medical device manufacturing 16,595 in Shandong Province and evaluates factors such as treatment 15,000 13,464 10,659 of employees and compliance with standards and regulations. 10,000 A total of 10 companies received the commendation. 5,000 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) Stable Supply of Reagents Ensuring Accurate In Vitro Diagnostics, Selected as No. 1 in Customer Which Is Indispensable to Treatment Satisfaction Survey Sysmex is expanding support structures and facilities to ensure stable product supplies. In ﬁscal 2012, we completed upgrades In the IVD Service Monitor 2012, an annual survey of five major companies handling hematology analyzers in Germany, Sysmex to the Ono Factory, increasing the factory’s production capacity Europe was chosen No. 1 in customer satisfaction survey for to 1.5 times its previous level. We also rebuilt the reagent the second year in a row. production factory in Jinan, enabling it to respond ﬂexibly to demand for greater production. We are moving forward with revising the materials procurement process as part of our disaster response. Providing Products and Services with Increasing For example, we are seeking to disperse risk by enabling our Customer Satisfaction overseas factories to manufacture the products that have Sysmex distributes questionnaires to attendees at the been made in Japan, which allows for delivery to our overseas symposiums and exhibitions it participates in throughout Japan, customers without in which the Company asks about dissatisfaction or suggestions delay. We are also for improvement in dealing with customers. We also conduct proceeding to specify surveys about the functions and operating procedures of our the materials that new products. The results of these surveys are provided are a procurement as feedback to the relevant departments, and are used risk and ﬁnd to improve products and customer relations. alternatives for them. In addition to such eﬀorts, we are also creating a customer relationship management (CRM) system that can comprehensively Completion ceremony at the Ono Factory manage a variety of data about each customer, to enable a more individualized approach to customer service. Scientific Activities Sysmex Journal International Available in More than 100 Countries We distribute the Sysmex Journal International to healthcare facilities and college libraries in more than 100 countries around the world, thus keeping many clinical professionals updated on current clinical medicine and healthcare testing. In ﬁscal 2012, we newly published a Chinese edition in addition to Japanese and English editions. Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 32 Publishing Picture Books Explaining Diseases Holding Scientiﬁc Seminars and Healthcare Testing for Clinical Professionals Sysmex compiles educational picture books on diseases Sysmex keeps clinical professionals updated on scientiﬁc and healthcare testing, which we distribute to hospitals, clinics information by sponsoring seminars and study sessions for and other healthcare facilities to keep in their waiting rooms. doctors and medical technologists. Introducing the characteristics of diseases and procedures In June 2012, ﬁve venues in Kobe, Tokyo, Sendai, Nagoya of healthcare testing and treatment in an easy-to-understand and Fukuoka were linked by satellite relay in conducting the 35th way, the picture books present stories that hold the interest Sysmex Scientiﬁc Seminar under the theme of “New Aspects of children and other readers who may lack medical in Hemostasis and Platelet Studies—for Controlling Thrombosis” knowledge. We also hold seminars in China, Taiwan and Thailand. (See below for details.) Seminars in China Training Program Aimed at Standardization of Clinical Testing Technologies Sysmex keeps clinical professionals updated on scientific information by sponsoring seminars and study sessions In July 2012, we held a training program in Jinan, Shandong for doctors and medical technologists. In fiscal 2012, Province, to provide technical support for clinical Sysmex Shanghai held the 15th Scientific Seminar and XN technologists concerning clinical testing standardization launch event after receiving approval in China for the in cooperation with the Chinese Society of Laboratory XN-Series, our flagship model in the hematology field. Medicine and the Chinese Hospital Information We held lectures by specialists and information Management Association. Around 150 clinical technologists sessions on themes such as clinical testing in attended. As the sole sponsor of this public clinical the medical system reform currently underway in China, technologist program, in addition to participating Sysmex as well as an XN-Series introductory presentation. These Shanghai spent around two months preparing it. were attended by 1,200 clinical professionals from This program constituted the largest-scale training around China. project in Shandong, and everyone, including the public agencies, showed great appreciation for Sysmex’s support. 15th Sysmex Scientific Seminar in China Training program aimed at testing standardization 33 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 Community Involvement and Development Contributing to a Global Society Sysmex is aware of the responsibilities as a good corporate citizen, and actively contributes to society across a broad range of ﬁelds, including healthcare. As a global company, we are developing these activities from Kobe, Japan, our home base, to the rest of the world. Basic Policy Funding of University Courses Since ﬁscal 2004, Sysmex Corporation has contributed funds Sysmex established its Policy on Corporate Citizenship Activities to a course at the Kobe University Graduate School of Medicine. and Philanthropy in May 2012, indicating how the Company will The course, entitled “Assessment of Clinical Testing (Sysmex),” pursue behaviors and commitment as a good corporate citizen. consists in research into new clinical testing technologies, including the research and study of autoimmune diseases such as connective tissue disease and rheumatism. Advances will Policy on Corporate Citizenship Activities continue to be made in the development and veriﬁcation and Philanthropy Sysmex actively carries out corporate philanthropic activities of the utility of new clinical testing methods, bringing about to promote a healthy society and vibrant community, the realization of personalized medicine, which is one and also facilitates our employees’ personal participation of the challenges of recent years. In addition to achieving in volunteer efforts. accuracy in diagnoses, this research also contributes to Contribution to a healthy society the establishment of methodologies that can provide patients Sysmex actively utilizes its resources in the healthcare field with eﬃcient treatment with few side eﬀects, and we expect to carry out philanthropic activities and promote the building the research to make signiﬁcant contributions to society. of a healthy society. In addition, Sysmex promotes advances in electronic Cooperation toward a vibrant local community measuring technology through the Nakatani Foundation, Sysmex acts as a responsible and socially-conscious corporate which was founded in 1984 and changed its name in 2012 to citizen by cooperating with the local community the Nakatani Foundation for Advancement of Measuring through donations, sponsorships and involvement Technologies in Biomedical Engineering. This foundation in philanthropic programs. provides awards and research grants for research in the ﬁeld Facilitation of employees’ volunteer efforts of in vivo measuring and related technologies. In ﬁscal 2012, Sysmex will facilitate employees’ participation in volunteer 11 grants totaling ¥16 million were awarded, bringing the total efforts as citizens of the world, members of Sysmex group that contribute to healthcare in the world, and emphasize since the foundation was launched to 300 grants and total community involvement and development. amount of ¥554.79 million. Established May 2012 Endorsing “Pink Ribbon” to Support Breast Cancer Patients Since 2004, Sysmex has continuously supported the Pink Ribbon Japan Campaign, which promotes the early detection and treatment of breast cancer, by sponsoring symposiums and through Participation in the Kobe Medical Industry other activities. We also actively support Pink Ribbon Development Project Campaign awareness such as by placing “Pink Ribbon vending The Kobe Medical Industry Development Project aims to create machines”*1 at our oﬃces. a focal point among healthcare industries in Kobe through *1 Pink Ribbon vending machine: A vending machine from which 1% of the drink sale proceeds is donated to the Pink Ribbon Smile Fund*2. industry–government–academia cooperation. Sysmex established * 2 Pink Ribbon Smile Fund: A Japan Cancer Society fund for the placement of the Sysmex Asano Laboratory at the Translational Research diagnostic equipment at medical institutions as well as patient support. Informatics Center (TRI), one of the core facilities of this project. Under the direction of Dr. Shigetaka Asano (Professor Emeritus, Participation in the Ecocap Movement University of Tokyo), a leading expert on hematology, we are Sysmex has participated in the Ecocap Movement since 2008. conducting research toward development of immunodiagnostics PET bottle caps are sent in, and donations corresponding to technologies for proper diagnosis of autoimmune disorders the number of caps are then sent to developing countries to and improved cell therapy eﬃcacy and safety. pay for vaccinations for children. The number of caps sent in ﬁscal 2012 corresponded to about 300 vaccinations. Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 34 Supporting Youth Education Accepting JICA Trainees Sysmex Corporation accepts ambitious students on internship Every year, Sysmex Corporation provides training on the use programs every year. In ﬁscal 2012, we provided work experience of instruments to researchers from developing countries who opportunities to 15 interns, three of whom were our ﬁrst from visit Japan on a program oﬀered by the Japan International India, in research and other departments. Corporation Agency (JICA). In addition to accepting students from local communities, In ﬁscal 2012, Sysmex on three occasions accepted we also cooperate in the Try-yaru Week workplace experience trainees from Africa, who toured plants and oﬃces program held annually for Hyogo Prefecture junior high school and received technical instruction. students. In addition to these eﬀorts, in ﬁscal 2012 we held workplace tours for children in August. Some 18 children of Group employees were given showroom and oﬃce tours and took part in activities making crafts and picking bitter gourds planted as “green curtains.” We also took part in the Science Fair in Hyogo, an event participated in by companies, universities and research institutions, at which Hyogo Prefecture math and science high school students annually present their research results. JICA trainees Support for the Letters for the Future Project Sysmex Corporation is a corporate supporter of the Letters for the Future Project sponsored by the non-proﬁt Japan Philanthropy Association. Through this project, derivation of a name and stories of family members associated with the birth of a child are put in a letter for future viewing. In January 2013, we held an event related to this project at the Sysmex in-house daycare center, at which parents put Science Fair in Hyogo their thoughts and feelings in letters to their children, strengthening family ties. Special Sponsorship of the Kobe Marathon 2012 Words from an Employee Sysmex Corporation was a special sponsor of the Kobe Our Support Helped Marathon 2012, held in November 2012, for the second the Runners Participate year in a row. In addition to providing the bib numbers to with Confidence. be worn by the approximately 20,000 runners, we Kozue Nagai exhibited at the Kobe Marathon EXPO 2012, and Sysmex IR & Corporate Communication Department employee volunteers provided comprehensive event Sysmex Corporation support by supplying water and other efforts. Sysmex was a special corporate sponsor of the 2nd Kobe Marathon, and I took part in a company project to help make the event a success. The goal of the project was to Kobe develop the marathon’s theme of “Thanks and Friendship,” Marathon 2012 so employees formed teams to provide water and encouragement to the runners, and also provided information at the EXPO and through the Sysmex Kobe Marathon Special Website. This made for a livelier meet and inspired confidence in the runners. I believe that the 3rd Kobe Marathon, to be held in November 2013, will contribute to the enlivening of our home-base of Kobe. 35 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 Community Events Group companies also continued with environmental Every year, Sysmex Corporation invites community residents eﬀorts. For example, Sysmex RA participated in the Clean to its oﬃces to strengthen its relationship with the local Shiojiri Partner System run by Shiojiri City in Nagano community. Prefecture. More than 80 employees actively took part in We opened the Japanese garden at Technopark to Satoyama preservation, eco-work and other activities. the public in May 2012, and had about 500 visitors. In November, we held an exhibition of our collection oil paintings by Isao Nishimura , who is associated with Kobe, at the Solution Center. Tsurukabuto Forest Eco-work (Sysmex RA) afforestation project Post-Earthquake Reconstruction Support through Our Products Open house event at the Technopark garden In July 2012, Sysmex Corporation loaned diagnostic instruments and provided the advisory services of our in-house dieticians Local Community Development Support to the Akita Association of Medical Technologists for use Sysmex Corporation supports local development through in the health checkups it provides free-of-charge to victims donations and sponsorship. of the Great East Japan Earthquake. On the date of the health • Kobe Luminarie checkups, it provides ranging in age from young children Sysmex is a regular sponsor of Kobe Luminarie, an annual illumination to the elderly were provided services such as hematology event that originated as a memorial for the victims of the 1995 Great testing, urinalysis and measurements of visceral fat. Hanshin−Awaji Earthquake and which is held in the hopes of reconstructing/restoring Kobe and all of Hyogo Prefecture. • The Kobe Oji Zoo Animal Sponsor Program The program invites individuals and businesses to support the zoo by sponsoring particular species of animal at the institution. We elected to support the giant pandas, among the most popular of the zoo’s inhabitants. • Sponsorship of the Kobe Flower Picture Blanket Event We sponsored the Kobe Flower Picture Blanket Event to bring attention to ﬂowers, one of Kobe’s famous products. Flower beds were arranged using ﬂowers produced in Kobe to form a large ﬂower picture tens of meters across. • Sponsorship of Construction of Dedicated Training Facilities for a Women’s Soccer Team Securing a training ground is a big concern for women’s soccer teams, the INAC Kobe Leonessa Soccer club included. Sysmex Corporation sought Health checkups for Great East Japan Earthquake victims to provide support by sponsoring construction of the Kobe Ladies Football Center, Japan’s ﬁrst training facility dedicated to women’s soccer, Relocation of Sysmex Women’s Track & Field Team which had been proposed by the city and two related organizations. Sysmex Corporation operates the Sysmex Women’s Track & Field Team with members such as world-class runner Mizuki Environmental Contribution Noguchi and other top young athletes. An Eco Team formed by Sysmex Corporation employees Up to now the Sysmex Women’s Track & Field Team had who are interested in environmental preservation activities been based in Ukyo Ward, Kyoto, but in April 2013 the team has been conducting various activities since ﬁscal 2008. moved to practice facilities in Kobe, Hyogo Prefecture, As it did in the previous year, in ﬁscal 2012 the Eco Team where Sysmex’s head oﬃce is located, to further energize carried out a cleaning operation at Suma Beach in Hyogo interactions with the local community in Kobe and create Prefecture and an aﬀorestation project in the Tsurukabuto Forest a spirit of oneness with the employees. on Mt. Rokko, which is also located in Hyogo Prefecture. The family members of employees also participated in these activities. Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 36 The Americas Supporting Local High School Students (North, Central and South America) Sysmex America is an active member of the “Aim High Urban Mentoring Initiative,” a program organized by the non-proﬁt Events for Children organization “Center for Companies That Care,” which was Sysmex America invites children to visit its workplaces every established to inspire employers to encourage volunteer year, oﬀering them a variety of experiences. activities among their employees. Sysmex America’s In ﬁscal 2012, the children formed teams and engaged employees serve as advisors to three students at Chicago in a variety of activities and games. Afterward everyone had public high schools and also provide ongoing ﬁnancial support. lunch together, helping to deepen the bonds between parents and children. Donating Diagnostic Instruments to Healthcare Institutions Central and South America face many healthcare issues. In ﬁscal 2012, Sysmex Brazil provided a hematology analyzer to a hospital in the city of Apurimac, Peru, with the aim of boosting healthcare in the local community. The hospital is managed by Diospi Suyana, an NPO that aims to establish medical infrastructure in the Peruvian Andes. Children who participated in the event Sysmex Named to Companies That Care Honor Roll for its Corporate Citizenship Activities Sysmex America was selected for 2013 Honor Roll status by an NPO in the United States. Sysmex has been awarded this honor for five consecutive Hematology analyzer donated to Diospi Suyana years since 2009 in recognition of the company’s efforts to encourage corporate citizenship activities create a motivating workplace, and other practices. Support for NPO Engaged in Blood Cancer Research Grants and Patient Support Sysmex America continuously supports the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society (LLS), which provides funding for blood cancer research and patient support. Volunteers from Sysmex America joined in LLS’s fundraising “Illinois Man & Woman of the Year” campaign. Participants in the campaign planned and executed fundraising activities, with the monies raised donated to LLS. During this year’s campaign, volunteer employees invited employees, their families, friends, and local residents to a dance event, beach party, and golf event, to gather money for donations totaling $78,803. Sysmex America also provides support to the American Presentation of donation to the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society Cancer Society and the American Heart Association. Sysmex employee volunteer (with a child receiving support through the campaign) 37 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 Contributing to Local Communities Europe and Africa from a Variety of Perspectives Sysmex Brazil engages in diverse corporate citizenship Contracting out Work to Organizations activities by supporting culture, sports and healthcare. Supporting People with Disabilities Principal activities for ﬁscal 2012 are as follows: Sysmex Europe and Sysmex Deutschland contract out work • Sponsorship of Christmas events, such as daily musicals (São Paulo/São such as materials selection and carton stacking to organizations José dos Pinhais) that help people with disabilities becoming more self-reliant. • Sponsorship of environmental event featuring exhibition of art based These organizations dispatch workers with disabilities to on photos of natural scenes (São Paulo/San Jose dos Campos) • Donations to the Development of High Performance Athletes Project Sysmex’s manufacturing line. supporting over 1,000 young tennis and soccer players as well as other athletes (Minas Gerais/Belo Horizonte) Donating PC Monitors to Local Schools • Five years of continuous support for pediatric healthcare projects Sysmex Deutschland initiated the “Sysmex Helps Children” executed by hospitals in the state of Paraná (Paraná/Curitiba) project for donating used PC monitors to local schools in ﬁscal 2009. In November 2012, the company collected 40 company monitors for donation to two elementary schools and three high schools. Christmas event in São José dos Pinhais Hosting University Students for Company Visits Children with donated monitors Sysmex Brazil invited students of pharmacology and biomedicine at two Brazilian universities to tour the company in April 2012. Donation to a Cancer Wing On the day of the visit, the students heard lectures on quality Sysmex Europe holds in-house Christmas charity events control for ensuring the reliability of testing data as well as annually. In ﬁscal 2012 employees gathered 1,500 euros, the latest information on hematology testing. They also observed which when combined with the company contribution came the reagent manufacturing process. to a total of 6,000 euros, and donated this amount to the cancer wing of a hospital in Karlsruhe, Germany. Observing the manufacturing process Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 38 Support for NPO Building Medical Infrastructure Visiting a Child Welfare Facility in Kenya In January 2013, employees of Sysmex Malaysia paid a visit Sysmex Corporation supports ILFAR, an NPO dedicated to to a local welfare facility for children with disabilities. The children building HIV/AIDS treatment infrastructure in Kenya. had fun playing games that had been planned for them. ILFAR conducts regular free testing to prevent the spread of HIV. More than 2,000 people took part in such a program conducted in the village of Pumwani, Kenya, in September 2012. Visit to a child welfare facility Providing Relief to Flood Victims Free testing to prevent the spread of HIV Flooding due to heavy rains forced the evacuation of over 30,000 people in the Indonesian capital of Jakarta in January 2013. Sysmex Indonesia sought to provide material China and Asia Pacific and emotional support to the victims, particularly in the poorer areas of the city. Conducting Beach Cleanups The company provided water, food, baby supplies and other In July 2012, Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc executed a cleanup items to evacuation shelters. Volunteers from the company also of the eastern shore of Singapore, where the company is based. worked to keep victims’ spirits up. They also set up a “massage Volunteers collected 20 bags of trash in about three hours. corner” at a shelter in the Penjaringan district, as well as engaging in recreational activities such as sing-alongs Participating in a Family Run and games for kids. Sysmex Malaysia employees and their families participated in the Family Run event in October 2012. Eight orphans from a local child welfare facility were also invited to participate on the day of the event, and they joined the employees and their families to form 17 teams, deepening ties of friendship. We also presented the children with new running shoes as mementos. Visiting a Children’s Self-Reliance Support Facility In October 2012, 50 Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc employees visited a children’s self-reliance support facility in Singapore. In addition to playing games and conducting activities, they donated S$5,000 as well as daily necessities, games and other items. Loading up supplies 39 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 Taking on Interns from India Sysmex accepts students seeking work experience as part of our support for employment in the regions where we conduct business. While up to now we had taken on interns from South Korea, China, Russia, and other countries, in May 2012 we invited three Indian students to Japan, where they toured plants and got experience in instrument maintenance. This was the first time Indian students had done internships at Sysmex. These efforts provide opportunities for Sysmex to gain the interest of students overseas. We will continue such internship programs as part of our efforts to foster regional Work experience of interns from India development in tandem with the growth of our business. Support for a Sewing Learning Center in Malaysia Sysmex Malaysia donated RM3,000 toward by well-known local designers at a low cost for housewives the establishment of a sewing center operated by Jumble and single mothers who need income-producing skills. Station, a community outreach initiative of Parents The women are able to cover living expenses once they without Partners Bhd, an NGO created to gather can take dressmaking orders. donations to assist single parents. In the future the center plans to hold English class 22 representatives of Sysmex Malaysia and two from as well as arts and crafts classes for children, along with Sysmex Asia Pacific attended the center’s opening sewing classes. Sysmex Malaysia will continue to support ceremony in May 2012. the center, to assist community development. The center is offering training of sewing classes Jumble Station Sewing Learning Center Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 40 Independent Opinion On Reading the Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 ISO 26000-Based Editing As it did last year, Sysmex has focused the construction of its sustainability report on the seven ISO 26000 core subjects, again this year producing a report that is comprehensive and easy to understand. During the ﬁscal year covered in this report, Sysmex established a Mid-Term CSR Plan, creating a structure for activating Katsuhiko Kokubu the PDCA cycle for CSR activities and resolving social Professor, Graduate School of Business Administration, issues. I give them high marks for this eﬀort. I believe Kobe University the report can be enhanced and taken to the next level by speciﬁcally describing achievements and issues that remain to reach the objectives. Clearly Enhancement of Global CSR Information showing the relevance of the Company’s eﬀorts Sysmex provides extensive information in this report to the newly launched Mid-Term Management Plan is about the CSR eﬀorts it conducts outside Japan. also important. I believe that this projects Sysmex’s attitude of placing importance on its overseas eﬀorts. CSR eﬀorts Revision of Sysmex Group Environmental Action at the global level are extremely signiﬁcant, so I give Plan (Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020) and Establishment the Company high marks in this area. I hope Sysmex will of Mid-Term Environmental Objectives continue to make progress on systematic and eﬀective Sysmex has revised the long-term objectives in Eco-Vision CSR activities by analyzing the signiﬁcance of CSR 2020 by consolidating the issues categorized in each of the regions in which it operates. For example, as “environmental consciousness in product life cycle conducting materiality analyses in each region would, process” and “environmental consciousness I believe, make it easier to gain local understanding at business oﬃces,” revising the objectives and setting and cooperation. Furthermore, I hope the Company will forth mid-term objectives. These have made continue to enhance CSR eﬀorts that are prevailing the environmental objectives more concrete globally, such as the trend toward integrated reporting. and management easier. There is considerable To enhance its reporting in this way, I believe the next diﬀerence in terms of environmental conservation step is for Sysmex to establish key performance activities between the product life cycle process indicators (KPIs) to evaluate CSR progress. I look forward and activities in the business oﬃces, so this is to observing the Company’s future CSR developments. a reasonable approach. There is a worldwide trend toward companies addressing environmental issues across their supply chains. I believe that the next issue for Sysmex to consider is the possibility of a supply chain-oriented environmental response. 41 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 Corporate Data Corporate Overview Company name SYSMEX CORPORATION Line of business Development, manufacture, sales, and export/import of laboratory testing Established February 20, 1968 instruments, reagents, and related software Paid-in capital ¥9,711 million (As of March 31, 2013) Main customers National and other public hospitals, private hospitals, universities, research laboratories, Representative Hisashi Ietsugu, Chairman and CEO other healthcare facilities, etc. Head Oﬃce 1-5-1, Wakinohama-Kaigandori, Chuo-ku, Export destinations More than 170 countries Kobe 651-0073, Japan Subsidiaries 44 (7 in Japan, 37 abroad) Business Activities Diagnostics ﬁeld and quality of laboratory operations. R&D of technologies for predicting The diagnostics ﬁeld involves instruments, the eﬀects of anti-cancer drugs slated reagents, and software for analyzing samples Life sciences ﬁeld for commercial launch. Our ultimate goal of blood, urine, and cells. Our instruments Tapping into the wealth of technological is to contribute to better patient QOL. for measuring the number and functions know-how that we have amassed of blood cells (hematology) and determining in the diagnostics business, Sysmex applies Other ﬁelds (Healthcare, etc.) the activity of blood hemostasis (hemostasis) the latest technologies for gene and protein We commercialize and sell devices that can enjoy a high reputation with customers, analysis to the creation of innovative estimate hemoglobin levels without blood who place us as the number one brand testing and diagnosis technologies. sampling, and a series of support software in each market segment. By combining quality Our priority R&D area here is the deﬁnitive for health management and childcare instruments with a broad range of other diagnosis and recurrence prevention services. We are also involved products and services, such as reagents, of cancer, and we are currently introducing in the development of particle measuring software, instrument maintenance services, technologies for rapid detection of cancer analyzers for industrial ﬁeld, utilizing and academic support, we are oﬀering cell metastasis in lymph nodes to markets the particle analysis technology that was solutions that increase the eﬃciency around the world. We are also involved in originally developed in the diagnostics ﬁeld. Financial Data Consolidated net sales Consolidated operating income / Net sales by destination Consolidated net income (¥ million) (¥ million) AsiaPaciﬁc 150,000 145,577 24,000 134,743 21,804 7.3% 124,694 19,205 111,842 116,174 18,288 18,000 15,134 15,708 100,000 14,165 China Japan 11,411 12,007 16.8% 27.6% 12,000 9,764 Consolidated 8,013 net sales FY2012 50,000 6,000 145,577 EMEA (¥ million) Americas 0 0 (Europe, (U.S., Canada, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 the Middle East, and Central and (FY) (FY) Africa) South America) Operating income Net income 27.2% 21.1% R&D expenditure Consolidated total assets Number of employees (consolidated) (¥ million) (%) (¥ million) 9.6 9.7 9.9 22,500 8.8 8.3 10 200,000 6,000 173,010 4,596 4,848 8 142,285 4,500 4,248 150,000 130,059 3,913 15,000 12,380 11,904 12,119 118,521 120,702 3,550 10,771 11,238 6 100,000 3,000 4 7,500 2 50,000 1,500 0 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) (FY) (FY) R&D expenditure R&D expenditure per net sales Sysmex Sustainability Report 2013 42 1-5-1, Wakinohama-Kaigandori, Chuo-ku, Kobe 651-0073, Japan Tel +81-78-265-0500 Fax +81-78-265-0524
