RAHIMAFROOZ BATTERIES LIMITED GInRHImRFnooz Ea-soo2centied 705, West Nakhalpara, Tejgaon agl fA\ Dhaka 1215, Bangladesh TI l 'll:,i;:'Tel:Fax(88-02) 9113696, 9113522,9118163,9126969 il'i: (88-02) 8115305 O Email : rbl@banqla.net 21 December 2013 Georg Kell Executive Head Global Compact Sub: Submission of Communication on Progress Dear Mr. Georg KelI, I am pleased to submit Communications on Progress (COP) for the year 2013 from Rahimafrooz Batteries Ltd that signifies supports to the ten principles of the Global Compact in respect to human rights, Labor rights, the protection of the Environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to support and advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We support pubiic accountabilitl and transparency that reflects in this COP. Sincerely Yo Feroz Rahim Managing Director coP 2013 / Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS principle l: (Business should support and respect the protection of internationally pr o claimed human ri ght s) COMMITMENT; Committed to protect human rights through complying with national and international laws appropriate to our business activities. SYSTEM ; .Every year we conduct training on HR policies and procedures and established a strong compliance team to monitor the policies and system violence, analyze and investigate compliance failure' -\CTIVITY : Provide financial support to employees who may face sudden economic hardship from employee welfare fund. conducting training on our company values and I+10 habits. \leasurement of outcomes : 1. Total444 man-hour training on values and 70 man-hour training on HR policies har-e been conducted last Year. l. Tqo,.ri1\ coffrmunication regarding company's activities has increased. DIPROVE\,IENT OVER THE LAST YEAR: Employees have become more polite and professional in terms of verbal and physical communication. Blaming culture has been reduced drasticallY' principle Zz (Business should make that they are not complicit in human rights abuses): COMMITMENT : We set high standards of ethics and moral virtue for ourselves. We v firmly believe in religious, ethical, social and legal righteousness and we strictly adhere to those. SySTEM : Employees are directly involved rnhazardidentification, risk assessments and health determining .ontrolr, incident investigation, development and review occupational & safety Policies objectives. ACTIVITy : Through employee participation and consultation RBL set weight lifting limit and safety standard in all its activities' PERFORMANCE : Awareness on safety precaution among the employees are continuouslY increasing. Rahimafrooz Batteries Limited (RBL) coP 2013 Nleasurement of outcomes : Peoples' are now feeling better and safe. Number of incidents has reducedto 25 (including property damage) from 30 in last six months. Principle 3z (Business should uphold the freedom of association und the effective recognition of the right to collective barguining )z The company respects the right & the labors of the company have freedom of association, but the workers (labors) have not formed a Trade Union as the company en.ourages open communications with workers and goes beyond the labor code in pror iding the employees with monetary & non-monetary benefits. S\-STEM : We formulated our Canteen and Welfare policy where workers participated e;,:a111' and gave their feedback for improvement. 1^TIVITY: RBL review its employee salary & other benefits every year through :,..ecting the classified information from Bangladesh Consumer Association and v : -,,:rladesh Bank regarding inflation rate, consumer price index and make adjustment in ,-.s:1arr accordingly. :TOR\IANCE: Workers' representative actively parlicipated in selecting candidate -.. S;holarship program. -:-. --::ieen committee meeting workers' representative spontaneously participated and : ::n ,, in decision making. )Ic asurement of outcomes : The present minimum GTH (Gross Take Home.; is 5'121 Tk. ( l-n'e thousand four hundred twenty one) which was 5146 Tk. ( five thousand one hundred forty six) in the previous year. On the other hand government declared minimum uase is 3000 Tk. Principle 4: (Business should upltold the elimination of ullforms offorced flnd cotrrpulsory lubor): COMMITMENT : As our aspiration statement reads, we want to be the most admired and trusted organization, by excelling in everything we do and following ethical business practices. SYSTEMS : We are sincerely following the Bangladesh labor code -2006 for working hour guideline of employees which is monitored and inspected by the Factory inspection department. ACTIVITY: Each employee of the company is getting holiday and leave as mentioned in the law and in addition we reduce the working hours of worker from eight hours to six hours in the month of Ramadan so that they get time for prayer and spend time with farnily. Rahimafrooz Batteries Limited (RBL) coP 2013 / PERFORMANCE: For oveftime duty each employee get double benefits of his/her basic salary. Measurement of outcomes : Now all employees get salary through Bank transfer which ensures on time (1't day of month) salary disbursement without backlog. Principle 5: (Business should uphold the effective abolition of chikl labor )z COMMITMENT : We are committed to not engage any one below the age of 18 in any tbrrn of labour, SYSTEMS : Our recruitment policy does not support enrollment of child labor in any kind ofjobs. -\CTIVITY: During recruitment of worker we ask for the birth certificate or national ID ibr aqe veriflcation. \l:;surernent of outcomes : In our company the minimum acceptable age of workers is il',ears. Even the a_se group tiom 18 to l0 1'ears in 2011-12 u'as belou' 10% of the population. IIIPROVEMENT OVER THE LAST YEAR: Our education scheme for employees' children under rvelfare policy supports them to continue their education up to SSC level and not forced in to child labor. Last year RBL has supported 15 students of different education levels (primary & secondary) whereas it was only four in the previous year. v Principle 6: (Business sltould uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of entployment sncl occ upatio n) : COMMITMENT : The company has been providing equal opporlunity. Rahimafrooz never compromises on ethical business practices. One of its prime concern is to respect and promote the principle of non-discrimination in all levels of our Human Resources. Our recruitment, tlaining and career development policy reflects the commitment and respect. SYSTEMS: Our HR Vision to Drive business excellence and create a rewarding workplace through people encourage in building performance oriented culture which is a reflection of nondiscrimination and respect to the individuals. Rahima lrooz Batteries Limited (RBL) coP 2013 / ACTIVITY: During recruitment every candidate has undergone a unique scrutiny process. From that the best performer has been selected irrespective of gender, religious consideration. Ivleasurement of outcomes : Last year RBL has recruited 106 employees through a c on-iprehensive recruitment process. L\IPROVEMENT OVER THE LAST YEAR: The company encouraging women employees in a1l positions and role get equal benefits in all aspects. Principle 7: Business should support to a precautionary approach to environmental Challenges : CO\IMITMENT: To address environmental challenges, this is a policy of Rahimafrooz B;neries Limited to consider environmental viability of its activities including planned or neu' developments in the overall assessment process. S\ STE\,I: Undel existing environmental management system RBL sets new Elr ironmental objectives, targets and programs to control the aspects having significant in:::ct on the environment. -\CTI\-ITY: RBL set objectives to reduce water consumption and fuel consumption in J-r.::l:o: in tite F\'1011 -13. To achiere the objectives. initiatives \vere takento reuse ih: cooling \\.ater of negatir.e plate drier to n'ash negative plates. \rigilance u'as increased to check an1' misuse of fuel in generator' PERFORMANCE: Both rvater and fuel consumption has reduced compared to last fiscal' Measurement of outcomes : Fuel consumption in generator operation has reduced by 33% from the last year. Water consumption-for plate-washing has reduced by 66 *3 pe, day compared to last year. Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental resPonsibilitY COMMITMENT: For sustainable development in the earth Rahimafrooz Batteries Limited (RBL) utilizes the available scopes for the development of environment to a greater extent. SYSTEM: In the process of continual improvement of environmental management system, initiatives are taken that have impact on environment to a greater extent. Rahimafrooz Batteries Limited (RBL) r' coP 2013 ACTIVITY: RBL is carrying out its activities to collect used batteries from the end users. The used batteries are being recycled to reclaim lead. Along with own arrangement RBL has engaged third parly to recycle the used batteries. pERFORMANCE: Last year number of collected used batteries were 455,903 (N50 std.) Measurement of outcomes : Last year RBL managed to reclaim about 7000 MT lead thlough recycling plocess which is 100% more from the previous year' principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies CO\4MITMENT: As a parl of its policy to prevent environmental pollution for sustainable growth, Rahimafrooz Batteries Limited (RBL) is keen to adopt environmentally friendly technologies. SySTEM: During installation of new machinery and implementation of new projects eco-friendliness is considered as a prerequisite. -\CTl\rlTy & PEI{FORMANCE: Automation in pasting operation has been introduced r,,i.lch has resulted in minimizin-e solid n'aste and effluent generation' Nleasurement of outcomes : Effluent generation in pasting operation has been minimized b1'22.71m3 .o*pured to last Year. principle L0: Business should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. COMMITMENT: Employees of the company are committed to live up to one of the company,s core valuei inregard to integrity. Rahimafrooz Batteries Limited (RBL) *u,ri, to be the most admired and trusted organization through excelling in everything done by the organization and following ethical business practice. One of the values maintained by the organization is Integrity in all our dealings . SySTEM: The issr-re integrity and ethical business practice is mentioned in all dealings with our suppliers and vendors Serious actions ur. tui..r, against employees for any activities in regard to comrption. Rahimafrooz Batteries Limited (RBL) coP 2013 ACTIVITY: RBL has regularly maintained supplier communication on ethical business to develop a congenial work environment by maintaining integrity and fairness. All the vendors and suppliers have signed the Statement of Commitments & Integrity which is in other word a commitment for being lauful, honest, fair, trustworthy and ethical. Measurement of outcomes : RBL evaluate its suppliers and vendors every year through maintaining a evaluation form and take decision to continue business on that evaluation Tmprovement over the last year: On last September RBL has evaluated all its approved suppliers and vendors. ++***** * * >k Rahimafrooz Batteries Limited (RBL)
