CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2012 & Outlook 2013 | Progress initiatives Relative business impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement Sustainability Report 2012 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2012 & Outlook 2013 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2012 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 2 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement CEO STATEMENT Progress continued – new groundbreaking initiatives expect this initiative to further consolidate our profile as a leading susOur commitment to the UN Global Compact is the foundation of our tainability supplier of moulded-fibre egg packaging. sustainability work and a key element of our license to operate as a global business. As strong as ever, this commitment is firmly embedded Also on the product side, we launched imagic2® a new and unprecin our organisation as a Guiding Principle. Integrity and compliance are edented packaging solution that offers both eco-efficiency and strong basic pillars of our sustainability profile which we continuously seek commercial benefits. to enhance through taking responsibility for the impact of our business activities. With our climate calculations being third-party verified On the internal lines, we met our safety target in 2012, which has in 2012, we are providing transparency and credibility of our sustainspurred us to get faster to our ultimate goal of zero accidents. From ability effort. 2010 to 2012 we halved the number of accidents, and we intend to repeat that again this year through further boosting our safety culture. Again in 2012, we continued our sustainable development with the targets for the year fully met. Finally, we took the first steps towards FSC certification of our products. Being certified by FSC – Forest Stewardship Council – acknowlIn tandem with the 2020 climate goals set by the European Union, we edges a responsible use of recycled paper and new fibres, marking a are taking the long view with our new CO2 target of a 25% reduction major milestone for Hartmann. by 2020. The positive trend we have witnessed since 2007 has induced us to seek this target which we regard as both ambitious and realistic, Sustainability is integrated in our business whether corporate, global given a solid effort. or local. Our 2012 results strongly testify to this, and we are looking forward to taking our business further along this road in 2013. With Further along this line, we developed and successfully tested CO2 neunew targets and ambitions, we will work hard to deliver on the goals tral products during the year. CO2 neutrality is a way of offsetting our we have set. carbon footprint by planting trees to restore the forests in areas where they have been destroyed. The ongoing forestry project in Africa is a success story both for the local community and for Hartmann. This sets a new standard for environmentally oriented businesses and aligns modern-day consumer requirements with our customer offering. We Michael Rohde Pedersen CEO Sustainability activities in Hartmann are centered around a care philosophy. This is rooted in a holistic and life cycle based approach, where material issues are addressed throughout our sphere of influence. The care ambition is to be the preferred supplier of sustainable moulded-fibre s­ olutions with a high level of qualified care services for customers. See page 6 for an overview of initiatives in 2012 2 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2012 & Outlook 2013 | Progress initiatives Relative business impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement Finland Production Production and sales Sales Denmark Denmark England Poland Germany Germany Canada France Hungary USA Switzerland Croatia Italy Serbia USA USA USA Israel Hartmann at a glance Hartmann is one of the three largest producers of moulded-fibre egg Customers packaging and one of the world’s largest producers of machinery for Hartmann sells egg packaging to producers, distributors and to retail producing moulded-fibre packaging. Hartmann’s market position can chains, which are increasingly seeking Hartmann’s expertise in the marbe ascribed to its strong technology know-how and extensive experiketing of eggs. Hartmann’s technology and related services are sold to ence of production of moulded fibre since 1936. producers of moulded-fibre egg packaging. Hartman has more than 1,500 customers in 50 countries, and most of these customers have Sustainability long-standing relations with Hartmann. Sustainability and environmental considerations are integral elements of Hartmann’s business model and strategy. All of Hartmann’s products Organisation are based on recycled paper; a renewable, CO2-neutral and biodegradHartmann has about 1,500 employees, and its head office is situated in able resource. Hartmann works closely with its customers to support Gentofte, Denmark. Production takes place at Hartmann’s own manthe need for sustainable products in the retail trade, and the company ufacturing facilities. Five of these facilities are located in Europe, one is the first to offer FSC-certified and CO2-neutral retail packaging. is located in Israel and one in Canada. The group has sales offices in twelve countries. Markets Hartmann’s egg packaging is sold globally. The group’s principal markets The Hartmann share consist of Europe and North America, where Hartmann has strong Hartmann’s shares have been listed on NASDAQ OMX Copenhagen market positions. Hartmann is the market leader in Europe and has A/S since 1982. The company has one share class, and each share carries a small share of the North American market. Hartmann’s technology, one vote. Interested parties can receive financial reports and comincluding machinery and services, is also sold globally outside its key pany announcements by subscribing to Hartmann’s news service at markets. www.investor.hartmann-packaging.com. 3 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2012 & Outlook 2013 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2012 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 4 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement Sustainability timeline Hartmann receives EU Award for Hartmann signs the UN Caring for Systematic labour rights ­Environmental & Sustainable Management Climate agreement assessments completed First Group Environmental Launch of group sustainability 22% energy reduction Report published principles achieved since 2007 1995 1998 2000 2002 2003 2006 2007 2008 2011 2012 Hartmann joins UN Global “Choose fibre. Save Nature®” Third-party verification Compact ­marketing campaign launched of climate calculations First production site certified acc. to ISO14001 Hartmann site certified acc. to SA 8000 Anti-corruption programme ­environmental management standard Social Accountability standard introduced Corporate memberships Danish Council for Sustainable Development (RBE) The Confederation of Danish Industry – Network for Sustainable Development UN Global Compact UN Global Compact – Caring for Climate European Moulded Fibre Association (EMFA) 4 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2012 & Outlook 2013 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2012 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 5 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement Highlights Outlook 2012 2013 • imagic2®, new eco-efficient product • Energy efficiency improvements • CO2 target for 2020 defined • Anti-corruption training completion • Climate calculations third-party verified • Safety culture further strengthened • CO2 neutral products introduced • FSC® certification completion • FSC® certification process initiated • CO2 neutral product expansion • Safety target met and new target set • Anti-corruption training initiated 5 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2012 & Outlook 2013 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2012 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 6 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement PROGRESS INITIATIVES Click on each progress initiative below to read more The below colours are used in the report to identify each sustainability theme. For a description of each of the ten principles, see Appendix 1. HUMAN RIGHTS • LABOUR RIGHTS • ENVIRONMENT • ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW OF 2012 PROGRESS ACTIVITIES RELATED TO EACH GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 PROGRESS INITIATIVE Safety standards, efforts and progress X X Social responsibility status project completed X X X X New group recruitment policy outlined and tested X Green Industry Platform X X X Climate protection – CO2 reduction target adopted X X X CO2 accounting and customer carbon footprint third-party verified X X X CO2-neutral products on offer X X X FSC certification initiated X X X EcoDesign – Imagic2® X X X Transport optimising X X X Anti-corruption training X Kempen Universe X X X X X X X X X X Hartmann Croatia wins CSR award X X X X X X X X X X 6 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2012 & Outlook 2013 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2012 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 7 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement Relative business impact of Global Compact themes Our suppliers and customers are mainly located in Europe, with few suppliers in high-risk countries. All suppliers are required to respect and support our commitment to the ten UN Global Compact principles1. Business relevance of Global Compact themes Global Compact theme Environment Labour Rights Human Rights Anti-corruption Business relevance At Hartmann, our main focus lies on reducing CO2 emissions by reDue to increased international focus on corruption and the legal develducing energy consumption at our production sites. Life Cycle Assessopment in the field, Hartmann has increasingly focused on this Global ments2 show that this is typically our most significant environmental Compact theme in the recent years. impact. 1) See Appendix 1 for an overview of the UN Global Compact’s ten sustainability principles and Hartmann’s commitment to these. 2) Source: European Moulded Fibre Association, and numerous internal LCAs 7 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2012 & Outlook 2013 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2012 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 8 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement HUMAN RIGHTS Human and labour rights on site level are managed with the Hartmann STEP® Human management model. For an overview of the model, see www.hartmann-packaging.com. Safety standards, efforts and progress Safety remained high on the agenda for Hartmann operations throughout 2012. New group-wide standards were introduced in 2011 and successfully implemented during the past year. The standards include: • Requirements for Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) the long term goal of zero accidents, experience shows that the deci• KPIs for comparing production sites sive factor is employee behaviour and attitude. A basic example is that • Procedures for accidents personal protection equipment is useless unless worn in the right situ• Procedures for near miss situations and other preventive measures ations. This is why a safe production environment must be combined with risk awareness and a strong safety culture on the shop floor. At Towards the end of the year a project group conducted a plant asmanagement level we are working with this aspect by setting a good sessment at Hartmann’s biggest production site to establish the safety example, making it visible and bringing it up in many different contexts standard and suggest improvements. The project team consisted of as well as by rewarding employee safe behaviour. internal as well as external experts, who examined all aspects of the on-site safety. This resulted in a knowledge lift and a comprehensive reThe results of this intensive focus and group-wide best practice sharing port, which is used to implement improvements across the Hartmann are reflected in the accident statistics. Hartmann has achieved its short production facilities. term target of reducing the accident frequency by 50% compared with the 2010 level. Keeping in mind the long term ambition of eliminating Hartmann has come a long way by ensuring the availability of safe mawork accidents altogether, the target for 2013 is a reduction of accichinery, processes and safety equipment. However, when aiming for dents by another 50% based on the 2012 frequency. accident statistics Indeks (2010 = 100) 125 With the right safety precautions 100 around machinery, processes and safety 75 equipment in place, the long term target of 0 accidents requires a constant focus 50 on employee behaviour and awareness 25 0 2010 2011 2012 2013* * Target 8 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2012 & Outlook 2013 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2012 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 9 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement LABOUR RIGHTS Human rights and labour rights on site level are managed with the The assessments are based on SA8000 requirements, UNGC princiHartmann STEP® Human management model. For an overview of this ples and ILO conventions among others just as they take into account model, see www.hartmann-packaging.com. specific national and local risks. Social responsibility New group recruitment policy status project completed outlined and tested In 2011 we initiated a project to ensure a high level of social responDuring 2012, a new group-wide recruitment policy and process for sibility in terms of labour rights and also some human rights. Our prowhite collar workers was outlined and tested in the recruitment of duction sites in Hungary, Denmark and Croatia were assessed in 2011, a number of new employees. Early 2013, the policy will be formally and the project was finalised in 2012 with the completion of systemadopted within the company and applied in all white collar recruitment atic audits of Hartmann’s production sites in Israel, Finland, Canada and processes. This policy provides clear guidance for managers in relaGermany. Minor gaps identified in the audits have been closed or action to selection and appointment of new employees. It covers new tion plans initiated. recruitments and internal transfers, and applies to both permanent and temporary positions. The decision to carry out the social responsibility project is based in Hartmann’s STEP® Human management model, which stipulates that The new policy addresses the issue of non-discrimination and formalproduction sites implement improvements one step at a time. During ises the recruitment process. It stipulates how this process must always the past 10 years gradual improvements have been implemented, and be conducted in a standardised, documented and objective way leavthe results of the social responsibility project finalised in 2012 show ing less room for discrimination based on personal likes or dislikes. An that the benefits come from a clear focus on these issues. example of this is the standardised job profile description which every applicant will be assessed against and which must always be approved These are the results of the social responsibility project: by HR. Another example is the advertising guidance in the policy, which can help prevent nepotism in cases where e.g. friends or family of a • Clear picture of social responsibility at each production site (labour manager could otherwise be recruited in discretion. rights and certain human rights topics) • Closing of identified gaps • Sharing best practice among sites • Implementation of corporate standards and tools, which assist the sites by providing useful and systematic work processes aimed at preventing violations of Hartmann’s sustainability principles • Introduction of the integrated sustainability principles and training of local employees in these, see Appendix 1. “The exchange of knowledge between Hartmann production sites, which has taken place as part of the Company Assessment, has provided us with valuable insights about how labour rights are ensured throughout the Hartmann sites. This is the essential element that cannot be measured by any analysis or device, and I believe it’s at the heart of success in all things: the power of knowledge sharing and the ability to use it effectively. In Hungary we have for instance used these insights in connection with our local grievance system and in the implementation of a collective bargaining system.” Ramóna Szilvási, HR manager, Hartmann-Hungary 9 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2012 & Outlook 2013 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2012 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 10 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement ENVIRONMENT The site level environmental impacts are managed with the Hartmann Climate protection STEP® Environment management model. For an overview of the mod– CO2 reduction target adopted el, see www.hartmann-packaging.com. Hartmann endorsed the United Nations “Caring for Climate” charter in 2007, and set an ambitious target of reducing energy consumption ISO 14000 certificates for environmental management were mainby 20% per kg product by the end of 2011. The subsequent energy tained or renewed in 2012 for all our European production sites. improvements were based on the involvement of experts and a steep development curve of the internal good practices within energy. Investments and activities led to a 22% energy reduction, thus exceeding the target. The positive trend has continued throughout 2012 as shown in the graph. Looking ahead, rising energy prices, CO2 emission costs and a continuous strong focus on climate change have motivated Hartmann to set the following new target: GROUP CLIMATE EMISSION TARGET: 25% reduction in CO2 emissions by 2020 – based on the 2012 level With climate protection at the heart of our care philosophy, we have opted for a CO2 target instead of a pure energy target for 2020 seeing that it will help take Hartmann to the next level of energy usage and Hartmann supports Green climate protection. The basis for the targeted 25% reduction is the Industry Platform CO2 emissions from energy consumption at our factories (electricity The Green Industry Platform is a voluntary multi-stakeand drying energy) relative to the product quantities sold. holder partnership established by UNIDO, UNEP and partner UN organisations. It is designed to provide a Progress on the target will be achieved through innovation and comframework for participants, individually or in groups, to mitted efforts within the following areas: take specific and measurable action to advance Green Industry and move beyond ‘business as usual’ in all countries • Investments in new process technology and business organizations and at all levels: international, • Improvement and optimisation of existing equipment regional, national and local. • Product development • Waste reduction By encouraging a more efficient use of energy and raw • Replacement of fossil energy with renewable energy materials in manufacturing processes and services, the Platform will contribute to a cleaner and more competitive industrial development. This will help reduce pollution energy savings and reliance on unsustainable use of natural resources. % savings Formally the Green Industry Platform was launched dur25 ing the RIO+20 conference in June 2012. Hartmann was one of the founding companies. 20 15 Read more at: www.greenindustryplatform.org 10 5 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 10 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2012 & Outlook 2013 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability Report business 2012 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 11 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement CO2 accounting and customer This verification gives credibility to Hartmann’s climate calculations and carbon footprint third-party verified is an assurance that calculations are complete and in compliance with In 2011 Hartmann’s corporate CO2 accounting scopes 1, 2 and partially the standards. With this verification, calculations can be used externally scope 3 were completed in accordance with the GHG Protocol3. In towards customers and for claiming climate neutral products, see the 2012 the figures were also third-party verified by the external companext chapter. ny Climate Partner. Also Hartmann’s methodology for calculating product carbon footprints according to PAS20504 was third-party verified. Please find the verification statement in appendix 2. Climate Partner is a climate protection consultancy offering a range of services in this area. They have extensive experience with climate calculations and are specialised in the paper and printing business. Climate Partner is TÜV certified and a member of international committees such as the Greenhouse Gas Stakeholder Advisory Group and DIN norm committees. For more information see www.climatepartner.com 3) The Greenhouse Gas Protocol is the most widely accepted international standard for accounting for corporate greenhouse gas emissions. 4) P  AS2050 was developed by the British Standards (BSI) and came into effect in October 2008 and was revised in October 2011. Being the first widely acknowledged standard for ­product carbon footprints, this standard has been applied by many companies worldwide. 11 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2012 & Outlook 2013 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2012 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 12 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement CO2 neutral products on offer The compensation of CO2 is ensured by only selecting projects that With the introduction of a new sustainable marketing concept in 2012, carry a gold certification, which means they are guaranteed by credible Hartmann strengthened its position as the leading supplier of environorganisations such as the Rainforest Alliance. Reforestation projects ofmentally friendly moulded-fibre packaging solutions. fer a number of additional benefits for the local community, such as: Hartmann cooperated with a customer and Climate Partner about • Wood harvested from the reforested area reduces the incentive to the development of CO2 neutral packaging. After a successful testing exploit the surrounding forests period this concept is now offered to Hartmann customers who pri• Increase in local food production due to improved land productivity oritise sustainable solutions and who may in turn benefit from conveyand better awareness of land-use practices ing the green message to environmentally conscious consumers. • Greater awareness of the use of natural resources • Special training offered to women leads to improved gender equality A CO2 neutral product does not emit any net CO2 emissions and • Protection of threatened species through awareness-raising and therefore does not contribute to climate change. preservation of natural habitats Hartmann claims CO2 neutrality first of all by reducing emissions draRead more about the forestry project at www.climatepartner.com/ matically and secondly by compensating remaining emissions from prooffsetprojects by selecting Forestry, Mozambique, Sofala. duction and transportation of the neutral products. This compensation adds a premium on carbon emissions from the neutral products, which The message of a climate friendly product is conveyed to end-confurther increases the company’s incentive to reduce life cycle climate sumers via a special logo from Climate Partner. Consumers can see all emissions. details about the supported project by entering a certification code from the logo on Climate Partner’s website. Compensation is provided by planting trees, which sequester CO2 as they grow. With climate change being a global phenomenon, emissions Before introducing the concept of CO2 neutral products, Hartmann from the production of the products can be offset elsewhere on the completed a thorough consumer segmentation study in selected planet. The currently supported reforestation project takes place in countries. The study revealed a generally positive view on the coneastern Mozambique. This is a perfect match to our products, which cept and a grading of the consumer segments with the highest affinity are made from recycled paper which ultimately comes from wood. towards this concept. This study allows us to target our sustainability offering towards customers where it will have the highest effect and to convey to our B2B customers that sustainability is a priority for their consumers. 12 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2012 & Outlook 2013 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2012 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 13 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement FSC certification initiated A number of Life Cycle Assessment studies testify to the sustainability profile of Hartmann’s products. However, throughout various product categories, the retail sector has seen frequent cases of green washing in the past years. As a result, consumers have become increasingly sceptical and the need for documentation and transparency has increased accordingly. The fibre raw material for Hartmann’s products originates from responsible sources and we want to help our customers communicate this to the consumers. Therefore, we have initiated a certification process to become Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC) certified. FSC is a recognised and highly credible organisation whose logo signifies the responsible use of wood fibres. Hartmann’s moulded-fibre products are primarily made from recycled paper such as old newspapers or magazines. FSC acknowledges that recycling paper products contributes to protecting the world’s forests. Any use of virgin paper in Hartmann’s products, such as paper labels, is FSC certified. This means that the paper originates from well managed forests that follow the best social and environmental practices. These forests are guaranteed to protect biodiversity, indigenous peoples’ rights, workers’ rights as well as other areas of significant environmental or cultural importance. Certifying forests according to FSC helps Forest Stewardship Council – FSC both local communities and society at large to enjoy long-term benefits FSC is a global not-for-profit organisation dedicated to the of managing forests in a responsible way. promotion of responsible forest management worldwide. The FSC facilitates the development of standards, ensures The FSC logo is most commonly known from hard wood products monitoring of certified operations and protects the FSC such as garden furniture, but in recent years paper based packaging has trademark so consumers can choose products that come become the fastest growing category of FSC products. from well managed forests. In 2013, all of Hartmann’s European production sites will be certified, Learn more at www.fsc.org allowing our customers the possibility to display the FSC logo on the packaging of their products. 13 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2012 & Outlook 2013 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2012 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 14 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement EcoDesign5 – imagic2® Hartmann is working intensely on implementing the improvements needed to be part of a future green economy where only products that are optimised from a sustainability point of view have a future. This perspective makes innovation key to developing the business in the right direction and is one reason why product development efforts have been intensified over the past years and Hartmann employees have been trained in EcoDesign. Optimising transport Our insistence on sustainability goals in business and product developDuring the year, Hartmann launched a project to streamline ment has resulted in the development of our most recent egg packagour transport processes and increase transport efficiency. ing product – imagic2®. This is an innovative, high-end product with strong sales properties in the form of improved stacking quality and “We will integrate our transport set-up as a service offered communication space. Imagic2® is also optimised for eco-efficiency. in the sales process and make the elements of that service Compared with its predecessor, it has a reduced weight and due to visible to the customer”, says Tom Danielsen, Supply Chain its special design, imagic2® products can be compressed better when Development Manager and head of the transport project. He stacked, resulting in significantly reduced transport and storage needs. continues: The result is a product which consumes less raw material and reduces the overall environmental emissions. “In consequence – by putting requirements on our customers about minimum orders and shipment sizes, we can increase Looking ahead, innovation and the introduction of new sustainable drop sizes and better utilise transport loads. And obtain a retechnologies are high on our agenda and will be Hartmann’s foundaduction in the overall emissions as a result. At the same time tion for an intensified sustainable development in the years to come. our selection of transport service providers now includes stricter requirements as to the environmental emissions from the vehicles as well as the safety standard of the vehicles.” The benefits of this project are expected to be fully implemented in 2013. 5) Product design and development, which addresses the environmental impacts from the product 14 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2012 & Outlook 2013 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2012 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 15 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement ANTI-CORRUPTION Anti-corruption training To ensure that Hartmann employees fully understand what is exAt Hartmann we want to be good citizens, and we do not accept corpected of them in these matters, we have launched an anti-corruption ruption or bribery in our business, which is why we have taken meastraining programme. The programme consists of an e-learning module, ures to avoid involvement in such cases. a test of the employees’ understanding of the issues and a document, which the employee must sign, stating that they have understood and In 2011 Hartmann adopted a new comprehensive policy guideline, will adhere to the policy. During 2012, Hartmann top management which covers all types of corruption and bribery – in all parts of the completed the training programme, which will continue in 2013 involvvalue chain – and also provides guidance as to giving or accepting gifts, ing a large number of senior and higher risk employees. gifts of hospitality, meals, entertainment, etc. 15 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2012 & Outlook 2013 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2012 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 16 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS Hartmann included in the Kempen/SNS SRI Universe During the year, Hartmann was subject to a thorough screening by the ethical fund Kempen/SNS SRI Universe in which we met its stringent criteria. This means that the fund considers Hartmann as a company that demonstrates a clear strategy towards Corporate Social Responsibility. For more details see www.kempen.nl Hartmann Croatia wins a third CSR award For the third year running, Hartmann Croatia has received the Index The CSR Index is a tool for tracking corporate and social responsibilCSR award for mid-sized companies. The award was given at a cerity through a company’s strategic, economic, environmental, social and emony in Zagreb on 23 March. local community performance in a given year. The companies have answered 120 questions within these areas, and Hartmann achieved the highest score in its category. “The award recognizes that in our daily work, operations and general business approach we are focused on achieving high business standards in consideration to all stakeholders,” says Marko Stefan, Marketing Manager. An example of community proactivity is the Easter workshops, this year with the Association of the Blind, the County Association of Persons with Disabilities and the Orphanage Sunrise. Two weeks’ efforts resulted in an exhibition and sale of moulded-fibre Easter eggs with the funds from the sale going to the three associations. 16 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2012 & Outlook 2013 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2012 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 17 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement APPENDIX 1. HARTMANN GROUP COMMITMENT TO THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES The original wording of the ten UN Global Compact principles can be found at www.unglobalcompact.org HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES LABOUR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Hartmann will make an effort to promote the conditions outlined in Principle no. 3: each of the human rights principles in companies that are part of the Freedom of association and value chain to which the Group belongs. the right to collective bargaining Hartmann recognizes the right of its employees to be members of a Principle no. 1: trade union and to negotiate pay and working conditions collectively. Human rights – support & respect The Group further recognizes the right to organize and collective Hartmann will support and respect the protection of internationally bargaining in companies forming part of the value chain to which the proclaimed human rights. Hartmann’s commitment includes, but is not Group belongs. limited to, the following: Principle no. 4: Hartmann will endeavor to secure the well-being of employees and Rejection of forced labour their families by means of relevant local initiatives, practices and proHartmann will support the elimination of all forms of forced and comcedures that are in keeping with local traditions, conditions and needs. pulsory labour and does not accept the use of forced labour – neither inside the Group nor in companies forming part of the value chain to Hartmann will endeavor to secure fair wages by means of a wages which the Group belongs. policy, which is consistent with the situation prevailing in other local industrial companies, and which enables the Group to attract and retain Principle no. 5: qualified employees. The effective abolition of child labour Hartmann will not employ persons below the minimum age and the Hartmann will endeavor to secure health and safety in the workplace, Group will apply preventive procedures and practices accordingly. The by means of cleaner technologies, procedures and practices as well as Group will make an effort to promote that similar procedures and by the development of competences and efforts to change attitudes practices are applied by companies forming part of the value chain to among the employees. which the Group belongs. Hartmann will endeavor to secure good relations to the local comPrinciple no. 6: munity by means of active participation in social and business-related Non-discrimination activities at local level and by setting a good example to others. Hartmann will endeavor to prevent discriminatory practices and secure equal opportunities by means of the application of procedures Principle no. 2: and practices to prevent discrimination in connection with recruitment Human rights – abuses or dismissal, career development, training and education, or the grantHartmann will make sure that it is not complicit in human rights abuses. ing of staff benefits. Hartmann will endeavor to promote non-discrimination and equal opportunities for employees in companies forming part of the value chain to which the Group belongs. 17 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2012 & Outlook 2013 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2012 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 18 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE Hartmann will endeavor to protect, respect and safeguard environPrinciple no. 10: mental values by means of the systematic and proactive integration of Refraining from bribery and corruption environmental considerations in its daily business activities, by the deHartmann will work against corruption in all its forms, including extorvelopment of environmentally friendly production methods and prodtion and bribery. ucts, by training its employees in environmental issues, and by influencing the stakeholders in the value chain to which the Group belongs. It will do this by means of openness towards relevant business partners and by setting up a set of guidelines specifying how to avoid bribery Principle no. 7: and corruption. Hartmann will also contribute to minimizing bribery A precautionary approach and corruption in companies forming part of the value chain to which Hartmann will support a precautionary approach to environmental the Group belongs. challenges. Principle no. 8: Environmental responsibility Hartmann will undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle no. 9: Environmentally friendly technologies Hartmann will encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 18 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2012 & Outlook 2013 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2012 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 19 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement APPENDIX 2. Verification statement VERIFICATION STATEMENT ClimatePartner hereby confirms that the accounting for the carbon dioxide emissions generated by Brødrene Hartmann A/S, Ørnegårdsvej 18, 2820 Gentofte, Denmark, was performed in compliance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. The allocation of these emissions to the products was performed in compliance with the general requirements and principles of the Publicly Available Specification PAS 2050:2011 Specification for the assessment of the life cycle greenhouse gas emissions of goods and services. The organisational system boundaries were the production sites in Denmark, Germany, Hungary, Croatia, Finland, and Israel. The primary activity data reviewed reflects the production during the period from January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011. The operational system boundaries include all emission sources from Scope 1 and 2, as well as relevant emission sources from Scope 3. The emission sources accounted for include: Heating (steam, natural gas, district heating) Scope 1 & 2 Electricity Scope 2 Fuels (diesel oil, gas) Scope 1 Collection of recycled paper Scope 3 Production of the product labels Scope 3 Plastic wrapping used for transportation Scope 3 Transportation of employees with company and other cars Scope 1 & 3 Transportation of employees by airplane Scope 3 For the allocation of the emissions to individual products, the functional unit chosen is kg CO2 per kg product. The system boundary is cradle-to-gate, meaning that carbon dioxide emissions are included that were generated up to the point where the product leaves the organization. Additionally, the methodology for calculating carbon dioxide emissions from the transportation of the products from the production site to the customer has been approved based on a sample calculation for one customer. The carbon accounting performed by Brødrene Hartmann A/S accurately portrays the carbon dioxide emissions related to the company’s productions at the different production sites. It is an appropriate basis for offering climate neutral products by offsetting the carbon dioxide emissions of particular production volumes. ClimatePartner Deutschland Gmbh Munich, August 14 2012 Ainmillerstrasse 22 80801 Munich Germany Simon Köppen, Assessor Moritz Lehmkuhl, Managing Director climatepartner.com | Munich | San Francisco | Athens | Tokyo | Vienna | Yerevan | Zurich 19 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2012 & Outlook 2013 | Progress initiatives Relative business impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement Brødrene Hartmann A/S Ørnegårdsvej 18 DK-2820 Gentofte Denmark Tel. (+45) 45 97 00 00 Fax: (+45) 45 97 00 01 e-mail: bh@hartmann-packaging.com Web: hartmann-packaging.com CVR no. 63 04 96 11
