REPORT OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PLATINUM BANK 2012 FOR SOCIETY Small Stories Of The Great Success 1 YEAR OF FOUNDATION — [2005] [1 500 000] CLIENTS [4 528] EMPLOYEES [73] REGIONAL BRANCHES [52] SERVICE CENTRES FOR CLIENTS [1 500] POINTS OF LOAN SALE [4 047 907 000 UAH] OF ASSET VALUE HEAD OFFICE: [Kyiv, 12, Amosova St. ] THE BANK WORKS ONLY ON THE TERRITORY OF UKRAINE. OUR PROMISE TO THE CLIENTS: SIMPLY, ACCESSIBLY, RELIABLY AND FRIENDLY 2 REPORT STRUCTURE REPORT STRUCTURE MESSAGE FROM CEO CONTRIBUTION TO THE COMMUNITY Financial education BANK IN THE BIG SYSTEM Education of the Highest Level Strategy: establishing a reliable bank Corporate volunteering Transparent management Volunteers in OHMATDYT Simple financial products Responsible Bankers’ Day Quality mark Race for the child’s life Donorship STAKEHOLDERS OF PLATINUM BANK Shoulder to shoulder PLATINUM BANK AND ENVIRONMENT Important issues of reporting Reduce, recycle and reuse Paper in the life of the bank BANK’S EMPLOYEES “Platinum Standards” IMPLEMENTING PLATINUM BANK’S PLANS IN 2012 Team building Team developing PLANS FOR 2013 Salary and remuneration There’s no such thing as “no solution” ABOUT THE REPORT HONEST BUISNESS PRACTICES TABLE OF GRI INDICATORS Transparent tenders Fight against fraud TERMS AND ABBREVIATIONS Responsible marketing ANNEXES 3 MESSAGE FROM CEO MESSAGE FROM CEO Dear readers, In your hands is the full version of sustainable deour employees in various projects really exceeded velopment report by Platinum Bank for 2012. This our expectations. We truly felt like we are not only year brought many challenges for Platinum Bank. a united team, but a wholesome organism. PlatiAnd yet – we made it! We widened our product num Bank is us, no matter the position, experience line, offered our clients profitable terms, launched or phone brand. Recalling 2012, with the feeling of a simple and understandable internet-bank Platideepest appreciation, I want to say: our bank is a num Click for anarcho-capitalists. We became more unique Platinum corporate culture. accessible and reliable for our clients. And for our stakeholders as well, as the bank actively developed Due to our team and culture established, accordthe corporate social responsibility projects, estabing to the results of 2012, our bank entered a TOPlishing new and efficient partnerships. Undoubt3 of CSR companies of Ukraine and became №1 edly, we reached a new level of realizing both busiamong the companies of financial sphere. We are ness and CSR projects – we can see the qualitative not planning on resting on our laurels – we have changes. more ambitious plans. We face a complex and, as “It doesn't matter what you do so long as you change something from the way it was before you such, exciting task – developing CSR in the regions. The key to our success is our employees. They Also it is necessary to strategically move from chartouched it into something that's like you after were involved in projects, proposed their ideas, took ity projects to sustainable development projects. you take your hands away. The difference between part as volunteers in charity races, blood donorship Our plans are abundant and thus – our business the man who just cuts lawns and a real gardener programmes, “Responsible Bankers' Day” and other strategy includes the efficiency indicators on CSR, in is in the touching. The lawn-cutter might just as social activities of the bank. I’m very proud of our particular: the index of employee involvement and well not have been there at all; the gardener will employees and I want to express my sincere gratiTOP-3 in CSR-ratings. be there a lifetime”. tude to them! It is them who became the heroes of small stories, which eventually became the great We will go on strictly adhering to the principles This is the mission and the goal of our bank – success – the success of our bank. And from the of the Global Compact, and trying to do more than we came to Ukraine to stay. pages of this report you’ll learn about all our stories. is expected from us. We strive for innovation and for being not only an organization “cutting the Enjoy your reading, Special thanks go to our CSR Committee memgrass” (or “the green”, as some stakeholders may Greg Krasnov, bers, who strategically build our relationships with rephrase), but real gardeners. This is one more CEO of Platinum Bank the community. I thank our employees, who share beautiful citation from my favourite author – Ray our Values and “Platinum Standards” of the bank Bradbury (I don’t want to break this tradition : and promote them in their relationships with clients, partners and community. The involvement of 4 BANK IN THE BIG SYSTEM BANK IN THE BIG SYSTEM A banking institution, as is generally known, is In 2012 the level of profits for Platinum Bank created for providing financial services. There are reached 20%. This level hasn’t been reached yet 176 banks operating in Ukraine. Each of them deby any other bank in Ukraine. Besides, its stable 1 5 bn UAH velops in its own way: some – stably and steadily, and positive development was confirmed by the others – dynamically and aggressively, and some rating agency [“Credit-Rating”3]. People learned – follow their own special tactics. In 2012 the demore about Platinum Bank. Every forth Ukrainian 2 In 2012 the share of the market of foreign velopment of the banking system in the whole was in 2012, according to GFK research, recognized capital banks (except or the Russian ones) during not very stable and all of the banks felt it. On the the bank (with a hint). At the same time, 6.5% of the year reduced by 4% from 24% to 20%. one hand, after the losses of 2011, the banks finally the population distinguished Platinum Bank from got some [profits1]. People started to trust banks other Ukrainian banks even without a hint. The more, to open deposits, as well as continued to take bank entered the TOP-15 of the most recognizable 3 The bank got A+ rating. The prognosis of loans. On the other hand, seven banks left Ukraine. banks among the people of Ukraine. the rating stable. 450 bank branch offices [were closed2]. Part of these banks is now owned by the state, and a part In 2012 the success of Platinum Bank was was acquired by the banks with private Ukrainian marked by important awards. The bank en4 25.8% with a hint capital. As such, 2012 became a rather uneasy year tered: for banks. • TOP-30 leading banks of Ukraine (TOP-50 If we look at 2012 from the Platinum Bank’s Leading Banks of Ukraine, “Kommersant”); 5 The only bank in the rating prospective, it will appear successful and eventful. • TOP-10 Most Reliable Banks (“Expert”). And the success of the last year is not just sheer • TOP-5 /№4/ Most Electronic Banks of luck. There is a good proverb: “Success is 99% of Ukraine (“Investgazeta”). hard work and only 1% of luck”. In 2012 all em• [ТОP-105] “Inspiring Companies” (“Comployees did their 110%. The main indicators of the panion”). bank are shown in Table 1. • TOP-3 Socially Responsible Companies of «We’ve put in extra effort, we did the imposUkraine (“GVardia”), №1 among socially responsible, and we worked selflessly and well-co-ordisible companies in the financial sector (“GVardnately. This is why we were recognized as one of ia”). the most successfully operating banks of the last year». – Greg Krasnov, CEO, “Financier of the Year” What are the reasons for the bank’s suc(National Awards “Person of the Year-2011”) and cess? The reasons for success are simple. The bank “Responsible Leader” in Ukraine (according to porhas a right kind of strategy and directions of CSR. It tal “Delo”, “CSR Development” CENTRE and CSR pays a lot of attention to the transparency of corReview). porate management and to the quality of client 6 BANK IN THE BIG SYSTEM servicing. There is no other way, as the bank’s Bank, is unique. The employees believe in what shareholders include [international funds6]. They they are doing and support all bank’s initiatives 6 Major shareholders of Platinum Bank are were the ones who established high standards of with their ideas and participation. international investment funds: Horizon management. Products, offered by the bank, are Why are we successful in it? Because we beCapital, East Capital Financials Fund, bank simple and they evoke trust. The bank actively colieve in what we are doing. We trust our clients and management and IFC (World Bank subsidiary). operates with other companies and organizations. listen to them, introducing changes in our work, It is a member and active participant of [11 assotaking into consideration the wishes of our stakeciations7], including the Deposit Guarantee Fund. holders , – Viktoriia Mykhno, Head of Corporate And the corporate culture, created by Platinum Communications, member of the CSR Committee. Table 1. Main indicators of Platinum Bank, 2010–2012 7 Independent Association of the Banks of Ukraine, Ukrainian Credit-Banking Union 2010, 2011, 2012, Changes, compared to (UCBU), Forum of Leading International Financial indicators thousands thousands thousands 2011, % Financial Institutions (Forum), Association of Capital stock 380 567 380 567 380 567 No changes the Taxpayers of Ukraine (ATU) and Banking Income 350 442 951 536 1 555 424 + 64 Club of ATU, European Business Association After-tax interest 227 776 526 418 795 272 + 51 (ЕBА), Association “Fund Partnership”, Payments to the budget 25 250 13 270 85 300 + 543 Ukrainian Interbank Association (EМА), Global Compact Network Ukraine, “CSR Development” [Income tax ] 8 6 562 11 902 52,205 +340 Centre. [Tax remissions ]9 Operational costs /expenses 88 549 414 783 593 540 + 43 Administrative and other operational costs 198 588 524 443 593 540 + 13 8 Adjusted for deferred income tax Costs of the creation of resources 59 429 169 851 254 258 + 50 Net profit 9 409 30 484 175 666 +480 Undivided income 89 418 83 150 258 893 +210 9 10 180 900 UAH – the sum of profit, which Total assets value 4 047 907 New indicator is exempt from taxation in accordance with Business 2010 2011 2012 % the obligations of international agreements of Bank’s clients 500 000 1 000 000 1 500 000 +50 Ukraine, 9 860 300 UAH – insurance funds. Payments to the capital providers (thousands) 69 100 88 276 32 243 -63 Number of branch offices of the bank 32 69 72 +4 Loans provided 592 027 New indicator Increase of deposit brief-case 328 738 items New indicator 7 BANK IN THE BIG SYSTEM Human resources 2010 2011 2012 % Number of full-time employees 1 633 4 181 4 528 +8.3 Salary and other payments to employees 78 017 185 283 286 238 + 54 Number of women among employees* 1 218 3 139 2 409 -26 Number of women in management 2 2 2 No changes Number of sick leave days (average amount of There was not 2.7 5.3 days per 1 employee)** records 2010, 2011, 2012, Community % thousands thousands thousands Investment 108 595 1 215 +104 Bank’s charitable support 161 147 172 +17 * In 2012 the amount of employees-women diminished in connection with their output in vacation on pregnancy and births (sick-leave authorization of 126 k.d.), upon termination of which employees passed to vacation on the care of child to 3th. ** Increase of middle index of amount of days on hospital related to growth of number of employees in a decree.. Strategy: establishing a reliable bank To be a successful bank among a great numThe “Gazelle” system is extremely simple. Everyber of professionals, it is necessary not only to be thing in it works for achieving the goals: values, the best, but also the most prudent and forwardmission, targets, tasks and actions of the organizalooking organization. tion. The “Gazelle” method was elaborated by an Every company chooses its own way and refAmerican businessman Verne Harnish. It is used erence points, adapting foreign and Ukrainian for strategic planning by many world-famous groundwork in strategic management. In 2012 companies. This system fits a quick-changing Platinum Bank reached its pre-planned [indicaUkrainian market rather well. The characteristic tors10]. In strategic planning the bank uses a “Gatraits of this approach are the simplicity, demonzelle” system: strativeness and high speed of implementation. Every morning, somewhere in Africa a gazelle That is why the bank is using it for elaborating and wakes up. It knows that it must run faster than lion updating its strategy. to stay alive. It knows that it must run faster than The strategy helps answering the questions, 10 1) The bank became unique in the market other gazelles to get food. It’s not important who which are important for the bank’s development of Ukraine. 2) Financial brand Platinum Bank you are: a lion or a gazelle. The important thing is: (img. 1). is recognized by people. 3) In various ratings when the sun rises – you must run! the bank takes prizes as the best retail bank. 4) CSR has its stable place in the everyday life of the bank. 8 BANK IN THE BIG SYSTEM Img. 1. “Gazelle” method Strategic questions Strategic answers For establishing a long-term stable business. To do business What does the bank responsibly, for the benefit of clients, stakeholdres and community. To work for? progress and to help its employees to progress as well. To do it all in the atmosphere of mutual respect, trust and cooperation. To get the maximum WOW-effect in meeting the requirements of all its target groups: clients, stakeholdres, employees, community. At Why does the bank work? that, to offer simple and understandable products and provide simple and truly valuable things: predictability, systemacy and reliability. In Ukraine, with a focus on retail services, via the most efficient mix Where does the bank work? of online and offline channels. Originally, [targets11] were developed on the ents, employees and the community in the whole. basis of bank’s corporate values. Bank’s corporate The bank is ready to progress constantly and values are reflected in the unique “Platinum Stanto help progress its employees in the atmosphere dards”. All employees are aware of them and folof mutual respect, trust and cooperation. The 11 The bank elaborates its targets according low them in their daily work. When new targets achievement of new strategic targets the bank to the SMART-system. Targets must be were formulated, we took into consideration not builds on adhering to 4 key principles of work: Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Relevant, only the values, but also the balance between the simplicity, reliability, accessibility and friendliness Time-bound. interests of bank’s stakeholdres: stakeholdres, cli(img. 2). Img.2. Principles of Platinum Bank’s strategy RELIABILITY SIMPLICITY ACCESSIBILITY FRIENDLINESS implement international stansupport people in acquiring organize the work of branch ofprovide high quality services to dards of business management; simple and understandable prodfices, service centres and points all clients irrespective of the type diligently improve the quality of ucts and services with the help of of loan sale in locations, conveof cooperation; services for clients; consumer loans and cash loans; nient for clients; be ready to answer any question become a part of the commuprovide maximally profitable be in constant dialogue via soand to help deal with financial isnity in solving educational issues terms of deposit products for the cial networks and internet forums sues. with regard to improving finanbest growth of clients’ funds. – where it is convenient for the cial literacy of the population clients to communicate. and computerizing the schools of Ukraine; be a reliable employer and provide comfortable working conditions for employees. The strategy of the bank was formulated in a ment of a well-balanced business. Besides variway that would reflect and ensure the establishous financial indicators (sales, risks, etc.), for the 9 BANK IN THE BIG SYSTEM first time the [new indicators12],were elaborated Today CSR is the same usual part of Platinum and included in the evaluation, which can demBank’s everyday work as financial success. It is re12 1) employee involvement index, 2) high onstrate the contribution of the employees into flected in the 4 key directions, approved by the positions in CSR-ratings the sustainable development of the bank and the CSR Committee. Platinum Bank will continue focountry in the whole. This is one more proof of cusing its efforts on these directions (img. 3). corporate social responsibility becoming an integral part of the bank’s business-strategy. Img. 3. Directions of Platinum Bank’s CSR CORPORATE MANAGEMENT STANENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY EMPLOYEES DARDS Bank’s everyday Business practice Educational Creating optimally work in accordance “Go Green” programmes for comfortable working with international financial literacy, conditions, developing standards for corporate supporting the skills of employees, management orphanages (providing supporting them in equipment, fundunforeseen situations, raising, improvement a programme for of territories), hiring people with supporting schools special needs with new equipment All the decisions of the Board are only approved indicators. This allows the bank to operate with on the basis of their influence on every one of the the consideration of interests of all target groups, four key indicators of the bank, including the CSR which means – in a well-balanced way. Transparent management The success of an organization in many aspects for the transparency of management, because the depends on its founders. As such, the founders organization’s stability and reliability depends on and major stakeholdres of Platinum Bank are wellhow it was built and how it is managed. The bank’s known international funds. Back in 2005, the year management structure is demonstrated in img. 4. they founded the bank, they laid the groundwork 10 BANK IN THE BIG SYSTEM Img.4. Functional structure of Platinum Bank 13 Additionally approves the reports on plan General Meeting of Stakeholders fulfilments and yearly achievements, makes Supervisory Council Internal audit decisions about the changes in the amount department of authorized capital of the bank and Board introduction of amendments to the Charter, Financial Risk Operational Sales Marketing IT and Compliance Human approves the reports and findings of the department management activities department and product communications department resources department department development department department auditing commission, external auditor. department Superior body of bank management is the GenBoard of Platinum Bank is an executive body. Its eral Meeting of Stakeholders. All major decisions remain task is to ensure the operation and developgarding the choice of activity direction of the bank ment of the bank in accordance with the legislation 14 Supervisory Council designates the external or allocation of profits are made by the [General of Ukraine and the strategy approved. The Board auditor for exercising independent control. In Meeting of Stakeholders13]. General supervision of consists of 9 members. The Chief Executive Officer the reported 2012, the functions of external the bank’s activities is performed by the Superviis Greg Krasnov. In 2012 the Board of the bank had auditor were performed by the Auditing sory Council. The Council is comprised of the repre7 active Committees for managing the spheres, Company “Kadastr Audit” (regarding sentatives of stakeholders and independent memwhich present risk for the bank’s operation (img. local standards) and “Deloitte” (regarding bers – a total of 6 people. The Supervisory Council 5). Committees are collegiate bodies and they are international standards). is chaired by Youriy Blashchuk. [To the Council14] subordinated to the Board. The Committees are is subordinated the Internal audit department. The chaired by the Board members. Img. 5. Committies of Platinum Bank Board Platinum Bank Comittees Subcommittee Assets and of loan examiRisk liabilities Credit Tender nation under Tariff Comittee management IT-Comittee management Comittee Comittee the Credit Comittee Comittee Comittee Approval of a Evaluation and Company’s part of daily Elaboration of Strategy and elaboration of Procurement policy regarding credit solutions tariff and price policy of informathe strategy policy of the the management without the policies, as well Risk managetion manageand tactics for company, its of assets and involvement of a as controlling ment ment, as well as managing credit implementation liabilities, as well full complement adherence to controlling its and operational and control as other issues of Credit comthem implementation risks mittee 11 BANK IN THE BIG SYSTEM Also, three committees on the group level were created (img. 6). Img.6. Platinum Bank Committees on the group level CSR Comittee Compliance Comittee HR Comittee Organizing and realizing projects on Supporting the Board of the bank in the issues regarding the management of compliance risks in Working with the development of corporate social accordance with inner regulatory documents of the employees responsibility company Platinum Bank’s operation is ensured by the Policies (img. 7), which can be found at the webwork of eight departments. Current activities of site: http://www.platinumbank.com.ua/view.polithe employees of Platinum Bank are regulated tician/ by the Policy system. In the total, the bank has 11 Img. 7. Platinum Bank’s Policy system Equality Policy Gifts and Leisure Policy Colleague relationships Policy Counter-corruption Conflict of interests Policy IT-resources usage Policy Policy Sexual harassment zero Informing Policy External communications Policy tolerance Policy Eco-practices Policy “Go Green” Financial support of employees Policy 15 In 2012 the bank had 72 branch offices, 52 All employees are acquainted with the bank’s Policies. In their everyday activities they act in compliservice centres in malls and over 1 500 points ance with them. of loan sale, as well as 88 our own ATMs! Simple financial products What is important for every client in his or Our bank has always been characterized by her work with a bank? Simplicity, convenience its fast and dynamic development. We opened and accessibility – and that is exactly what Platibranch offices and points of loan sale, we elabonum Bank offers. As the simpler the product, withrated new products and services. And now we are out excessive commissions and hidden details, certain, that the people of our country can get fithe easier it is for clients to find their way in the nancial services in every corner of our homeland , complex world of financial services. – Kateryna Ladyzhenskaya, Sales Deputy Director. In order to make simple [products accessible, In 2012 were opened 3 new branch offices of the bank opens its branch offices, services centres the bank in Sevastopol, Poltava and Vynnytsya. By for clients and points of loan sales in various cities the end of the year, all new branch offices showed and towns15] of the country. high results (Table 2). 12 BANK IN THE BIG SYSTEM Table 2. Results of the principal activity of new Img. 8. Platinum Bank products branch offices of Platinum Bank, 2012 What does Platinum Bank offer? Deposits, % Loans, % Consumer loans and cash loans Department Increase Increase Deposits for individuals Branch office in Savings account for anarcho-capitalists 125 136 Poltava in the internet bank Branch office in Platinum Click 119 89 Vynnystya Deposits for business and business Branch office in banking 110 110 Sevastopol Debit and credit As can be seen from Table 1, the clients like cards bank’s products. Well, in Platinum Bank anyone, be it an individual or a legal entity, can find their All bank’s products were elaborated to meet, “own” product for themselves (img. 8) and sometimes even anticipate, the requirements of the clients (img. 9) Img. 9. Bank’s solutions for clients YOU ARE – THE CLIENT WHO WANTS TO: Take a loan, in order to buy Get a profit and increase the new home appliances Have constant access to your income or furniture funds at any time of night or day But it’s general knowledge that the loan must be repaid every month. Sometimes the monthly On the bank’s web-site, there is a special payment must be done on the day, when there online deposit calculator, which allows for is no salary yet. And one has to take the money the quick choice of “your” deposit. On the from the family budget, which were previously very same site, as well as at the branch office, The bank offered an internet bank Platinum allocated for other purposes. one can learn about all the bank’s offers. Click. At any time any user of the system can For the regular clients there are loyalty check one’s funds, transfer money, replenish Platinum Bank offers its clients to choose programmes, which allow increasing the an account or open a savings account for the convenient loan repayment income even more. For example, in 2012 anarcho-capitalists. date themselves. This helps to protect the bank offered a bonus of additional 1% the family budget of the annual for deposits in UAH and 0.1% in USD. clients. All bank’s product solutions are in demand. But, situation. This leads to the inability to make the as it is well-known, advancement is the drive force loan repayments and arrears appear. That is why of progress, that’s why Platinum Bank doesn’t rest in 2012 a project named “[LLP16] was elaborated, on its laurels, but constantly evolves. basing on the ideas of the employees. For two 16 Which means Long Lost Provision – Sometimes the bank faces negligent clients or months the employees submitted [their ideas17] reserves for covering the losses in loans clients, who found themselves in a hard financial regarding the possible ways of improving the 13 BANK IN THE BIG SYSTEM process of timely loan repayments. As a result, 51 and clients received services in a simple, conveof these ideas were successfully implemented. nient and accessible way. Moreover, due to the 17 500 ideas were submitted, 85 of which This project proved once again that the employnew products, Platinum Bank became №2 in the entered the “LLP” project. ees of the bank became a unified team in their nomination “Most Innovative Bank” (“Ukrainian work at the bank. Banker Awards 2012”, according to “Investgazeta”). As such, in 2012 Platinum Bank was dynamically developing, bank’s products were improving, Quality mark Quality – above all! This is the motto of Platiare lots of opinions about our bank and its service num Bank in its communication with clients. Qualquality. It is important for us to hear every client ity of provided services is not just a slogan for Platiand to improve our operation accordingly. I think, 18 The level of politeness was evaluated by num Bank. It’s the whole philosophy of the bank, that if a person submitted a proposition regarding clients at 3.24 points out of 5. hard every-day work of all employees. In 2012 the the improvement of our work, it means a lot, as specialists of the bank analysed the expectations this person spent one’s personal time to do so. It is 19 Remote Client Servicing Department, Card of clients. It turned out that for clients 4 things are wonderful, that in response to this feedback we can Operations Support Department, Client important: make our service quality even better , – Tatyana Correspondence Department, Informative Mass • Reliability and financial stability of the bank Zalouzhnaya, Head of the Sales and Client Services Newsletter Department, Contact Centre. • Quick, high quality and uninterrupted proviQuality Control Department. sion of banking services Clients of Platinum Bank have the possibility to • Simple, efficient and optimal solutions, which address any question or issue via the phone, e-mail, maximally correspond to the clients’ needs Skype or a personal talk to the bank representative • Personal and respectful treatment of clients at the branch office or at the point of loan sale. The In 2012 all the work of the bank was focused on bank has 2 support phone lines: one – general, anachieving maximum results for all these indicators. other one – for the card holders. The lines work 7 Simple financial products were elaborated and imdays a week. There also is a voice menu of 24-hour proved. Stability of the bank was confirmed by the communication for obtaining the information on credit agency “Credit-Rating”. The bank worked on agreements. In general, clients are happy with the monitoring and improving the quality of service. services they get at Platinum Bank. Moreover, they [Employees18] of the bank strived to improve their are eager to recommend the bank to their friends indicators of friendly attitude towards various cliand acquaintances. As a result of the survey, the ents. bank received 7.08 points out of 10. [Five departments19] of the bank are involved in Interesting facts about bank’s communication communications with clients. with clients: We have lots of clients and it means that there • In 2012 the contact centre received 1 296 398 14 BANK IN THE BIG SYSTEM calls. 89% of these calls were answered by the oprequests for information on banking services or erators. In 80% of contacts the client’s waiting for request for information about the status of the connection was rather short – the time of waiting agreement with the bank, and 28% – complaints. in line was under 20 seconds. • Out of all the complaints received, 34% • Informative mass newsletter department has complaints on employees, 20% were concerned sent 2 033 488 letters (img. 10), among which with the correctness of the loan repayment sums, were: 560 996 welcoming letters to new clients; 13% about the potential breach of legislation by 1 052 894 letters notifying about the client’s debt the bank. More detail about the issues, raised in to the bank; 419 598 letters notifying about the the complaints, can be found in img. 10. loan re-assignment; advertising letters, etc. It is important to mention, that the bank really • The Client correspondence department relooks into every complaint in great detail and received 20 178 messages, out of which: 51% – noplies to it within the time frame, stipulated by the tifications about the closure of accounts, 21% – legislation. Img. 10. Categories of received complaints, 2012 The terms for providing About the next answers to clients request payment by Collection 3% The employees of the 7% contact centre. 11% Employees of a 34% branch office The provision of 12% information on the status of the loan 13% The correctness of the Bank’s breach of 20% loan repayment sums legislation Surveys of the bank’s clients To improve the quality of its services, the bank constantly surveys the opinion of its clients. There are three types of client surveys (img. 11). 15 BANK IN THE BIG SYSTEM Img. 11. Programmes of client surveying in Platinum Bank [ Programme Online survey Phone surveys “Contribute your 5 kopecks”20 ] The programme was implemented in 2010. The programme was implemented in June Clients can fill out the feedback form paper 2012 on the corporate web-site. The politeness in the shape of “five kopecks”. In the form one can express one’s gratitude, evaluate the level of the personnel, promptness, simplicity of explanations, completeness of information in 20 According to the results of the questionnaire Client surveying has been conducted since of service or give recommendations for the the replies to requests – these are exactly the 2012. Every month the bank employees conduct “Contribute your 5 kopecks”, the dynamics improvement of the bank’s work. The clients criteria, according to which Platinum Bank put filled out forms into a special box with offers its clients to evaluate the level of services telephone surveys. The results of these surveys of the client’s level of satisfaction with the are summarized each quarter. According to its their own hands, in order to comply with the principle of confidentiality and honesty. All in the bank. First survey results showed that over 80% results, the average indicator of satisfaction quality of bank’s services in two years hasn’t with the quality of provided services is 4.8 out forms are submitted to the Service Quality of people surveyed were satisfied with their of 5 points. changed and remains in 2012 at 4.94 points Control Department, where they are studied in cooperation with the bank and are ready to great detail. Further on, all recommendations recommend it to their friends. Other respondents out of 5. are used for the improvement of quality of the pointed out the areas of developing banking bank’s services. services, which the bank plans to improve. Received feedback and recommendations the any branch office of Platinum Bank. bank uses to improve the quality of its services. 5. Now clients receive an SMS notification Due to the feedback from clients in 2012, Platiabout the end term of their deposit. num Bank has realized 8 new projects: 6. Due to the clients’ initiative, the windows of 1. The bank increased the amount of branch branch offices were equipped with jalousie, prooffices working on week-ends and with longer tecting the inside from sun. working hours (till 20:00). 7. Additionally were introduced corporate 2. ATMs were installed in branch offices. clocks and bowls with fruit drops, to make branch 3. In the text of all deposit agreements the offices more comfortable for clients and employsum of the deposit, its term and interest rate are ees. now written in bold font for the convenience of 8. Regular clients can get the [credit card “Zolothe client. taya Rybka [Goldfish]” 21]. According to the results 4. The bank started issuing debit cards. Now of the survey, the majority of clients gave the bank each client can withdraw or replenish the funds rather high points in the range from 4.89 to 4.96 on his or her current, deposit or card account in (with 5 being the maximum, img.12). 21 With the credit limit of 75 000 UAH available on the card. 16 BANK IN THE BIG SYSTEM Nikolay Reshetnikov: I want to express my gratitude to the employees of Platinum Bank. I’m an entrepreneur and I deal in information business. A year ago I took a loan to start off my first project and now it is quickly developing. It’s not a secret for anyone, that a business project doesn’t provide profits right from the launch, but due to high professionalism of the employees and client-oriented policy of the bank I always could agree upon mutually satisfying system of monthly repayments. I have several credit products in different banks, and I can say with certainty, that Platinum Bank offers the most beneficial conditions for loans, as well as very convenient and polite service. Thank you. Img. 12. Client survey results regarding the satisfaction with the quality of service The attitude I was spoken to I was provided with It was explained to towards me was in a clear and The service was answers to all my me, what was being respectful and understandable prompt questions done at the moment friendly language 4.96 4.97 4.97 4.89 4.91 As such, the bank is ready to hear its clients and improve its services, in order to continue receiving from the clients a high quality mark further on. 17 STAKEHOLDERS OF PLATINUM BANK STAKEHOLDERS OF PLATINUM BANK Shoulder to shoulder Do you know a great basketball player Miis on the team of Platinum Bank? These people 22 Stakeholders of the bank are defined by the chael Jordan? It was him, who once said a truly and organizations the bank calls [stakeholders22]. CSR Committee. genius phrase: “Talent wins games, but teamwork (img. 1) They are interested in the bank’s decisions and intelligence win championships”. To achieve and they influence the activities of the bank. success, you need to have a good team. So who Img. 1. Stakeholders of Platinum Bank STAKEHOLDERS OF PLATINUM BANK SHAREHOLDERS, EMPLOYEES CLIENTS COMMUNITY INVESTORS MASS MEDIA, PARTNERS CONTRACTORS ORPHANAGES, SCHOOLS PUBLIC ORGANIZATIONS The team of Platinum Bank is comprised of: • Clients of the bank – they are also a part • A wonderful team of employees. Perof the team, with the help of which the bank wins sonnel are a valuable resource. The bank develops its “championships”. Platinum Bank highly values 23 These forms of communication are the most the skills and knowledge of its employees, pays ateach of its clients, creating comfortable condiefficient, according to the feedback from the tention to their personal growth, as the success of tions for cooperation and constantly studying clients. employees is the success of the bank itself. their interests and opinions. The bank actively • Shareholders of the bank, who have communicates with clients at the [forums and in considerable influence on the operation of the social networks23]. bank. Thus, it is very important to know and take • Community or the people of cities and into account their interests. regions, where the bank operates. This is the most 19 STAKEHOLDERS OF PLATINUM BANK heterogeneous group, as it includes partners, web-site and pages in social networks, takes part in mass media, [contractors24], public organizations discussions on the pages of mass media. The bank 24 According to the rating “Marketing Media and orphanages. The bank actively cooperates with even has its own mass media – corporate newsReview” (April 2012, Ukraine), the bank this group as it realizes its important role in the depapers “Platinum News” and “Vestnik [Bulletin]”. The entered TOP-10 of companies, which organize velopment of both the community and the country. main task of all these activities is to hear each other the most ethical tenders for advertising For example, one of the bank’s projects – promotion and to understand what is supported by the stakeservices. of financial literacy – in future will contribute to the holders and what is not. And afterwards – to make a economic and financial development of the country. well-balanced decision. Types of cooperation with the stakeholders are So, this is the team of the bank. In some aspects very diverse. The bank organizes forums, round – very diverse, as everyone has one’s own interests, tables, conferences, seminars, trainings and invites plans and desires. And very alike in other aspects, 25 For example, improving the products or the stakeholders. It also is a member and active paras every one of them is glad to cooperate with the realizing a new project. ticipant of many associations. The bank organizes bank. And in this cooperation, sometimes the bank meetings, provides consulting services and asks offers its shoulder in support, and sometimes the stakeholders to fill out the questionnaires. As well, stakeholders help the bank with advice or recomthe bank prepares a financial report and a sustainmendations regarding the [improvement of someable development report, supports a corporate thing25]. Important issues of reporting How often do you take time to think – tions in mass media; what is the most important thing for you? • studied the protocols of CSR Committee As, if you want it all and want it now, or have no meetings, corporate policies and other docutargets at all, the advancement and development ments; of the human being becomes a chaos. Defining • collected opinions, expressed by the stakean important issue or desire in your life helps to holders at various events; concentrate on it and to achieve it much quicker. • analysed the results of global and national The same is true about the organizations. Every research studies regarding important issues in the organization needs to define its important issues. banking sphere; Cooperating with the stakeholders, their opinions • evaluated the results of questionnaires and regarding the importance of this or that issue also statements from the clients and business partners. help the bank to create the matrix of important And this is how the summarizing matrix of the issues. In order to reflect the issues in the matrix in most important issues for the bank and its staketheir fullness, the bank: holders was created (img. 2). • conducted a complex analysis of publica20 STAKEHOLDERS OF PLATINUM BANK Img. 2. Matrix of essential issues of Platinum Bank (based of the analysis of the industry) shareholders employees clients community High concern, low High concern, High concern, high importance middle level of importance importance Effect on the environment Bonuses for top-managers Reputation, reliability and stability of the bank Interest rates Payment of taxes Quality of products and Ethical conduct services and their prompt provision Development of employees Understanding and closeness to the clients, their satisfaction Transparency in business management Compliance with the legislation Procurement Accessibility of services Labour rights of the employees Responsible financing Accessibility of bank’s branch offices Honest business practices Economic stability Middle level of Middle level Middle level of concern, low of concern, concern, high importance middle level of The issue of importance importance stakeholders’ Philanthropy and Corporate culture Access to finance for the concern charity vulnerable groups of population Balance between work and family life Anti-corruption practices and Active participation in fight against bribery and fraud establishing a stable financial Support of the public system organizations Innovation Protection and confidentiality of data Dialogue with stakeholders Financial literacy Health and security of employees Development of education Work with contractors CSR management Employee involvement, corporate volunteering Low concern, low Low concern, Low concern, high importance middle level of importance importance Human rights State policies IT-security Climate change Social influence Bank’s leadership Green office Partnership with the bodies of state authorities Importance for the development of Platinum Bank 21 STAKEHOLDERS OF PLATINUM BANK The matrix reflects 50 issues. If we compare the essential issues [of 201126] (Table 1), one can see how significantly the essential issues changed in just one year. For example, in 2011 there were 3 blocks of 26 The full list of essential issues in 2011 you essential issues, and in 2012 – the number of issues has grown and 4 issues of the utmost importance can find in the non-financial report 2011. for the bank and its shareholders were identified. http://www.platinumbank.com.ua/upload/ files/PTB_2012_web.pdf. Table 1. Changes in essential issues 2011-2012 Essential issues 2012 (for the bank and for the Sets of essential issues 2011 stakeholders) Reputation, reliability and stability “Platinum Standards” Quality of products and services Understanding and closeness to the clients, their Accessibility of financial services satisfaction Financial literacy of the population Responsible financing 27 The quality of client’s life improves as he or she doesn’t need to seek out the money with which to repay the loan. Reputation, reliability and stability of the clients and if they are satisfied. In Platinum Bank bank create trust. And for the bank, the trust beany client has the opportunity to express one’s tween the bank and the client is essential. That point of view and get an answer to any question. is why Platinum Bank does all it can to keep its reputation spotless, so that none of its partners Responsible financing – this is an essenwould get even the slightest doubt in its reliability tial issue for Platinum Bank. First of all, the bank’s and stability. employees explain to the client all the details of the agreement. The client must be sure, that the Quality of products/services, their prompt terms and conditions are not subject to unilateral provision – this is what a client wants, entering a change.[Secondly, the bank provides loans only bank. Platinum Bank knows this and understands to the people for whom the monthly load of loan it very well. That is why the bank constantly develrepayment is not likely to become an intolerable ops innovative products and works on improving burden for the family budget. 27]. their quality and promptness of their provision. Many essential issues of the matrix are reflected Understanding and closeness to the cliin this report of the bank. As such, the bank chose ents, their satisfaction – this is the next level for itself the main goals to strive for. of relationships with clients. The bank constantly conducts surveys and polls to learn the opinion of 22 BANK’S EMPLOYEES BANK’S EMPLOYEES Any company is, first of all, people. Platibank employed [4 528 people 28] (Table 1). num Bank is proud of its employees. 2012 the 28 In the branch offices of the bank worked Table 1. The employees 718 people, in the Express channel 2 410. Employees 2010 2011 2012 Total number of employees 1 633 4 028 4 528 Full-time employees 1 624 4 018 4 528 Part-time employees 9 10 0 Age of employees < 30 890 3 268 3 628 31-50 656 662 753 >51 87 98 147 Number of women-employees in the bank 1 218 (75%) 3 285 (81%) 2 409 (53%) Number of men-employees in the bank 415 (25%) 743 (19%) 2 119 (47%) Women in top-management positions 2 (20%) 2 (20%) 2 (20%) Men in top-management positions 8 (80%) 8 (80%) 8 (80%) Amount of sick-leave days per 1 employee There was not records 2.7 days 5.3 days Number of employees with special needs (total/ The programme was 220 /36 117/38 in the programme) being elaborated The bank has the Employee Policy. This docuon the timely basis. The bank also supports openment stipulates clear responsibilities of the bank, ness in the replies to complaints from the employ29 For example, top-managers are responsible [top-managers 29] regarding the employees. It ees, and takes measures if someone in the team for comfortable atmosphere, finding the best also stipulates the obligations of the personnel todemonstrates inappropriate behaviour. At the solutions to the task in front of them, giving wards the bank. For example, Platinum Bank is resame time, the obligations of employees include incentives to their subordinates. sponsible for giving incentives to the employees, working in the interests of the bank. The employtreating them with respect and informing them ee must adhere to the legislation and regulatory 24 BANK’S EMPLOYEES documents of the bank, uphold the principle of Now the personnel call this office their home. confidentiality. All these norms, on the one hand, I think that the premises where we work are in 30 Collection and Card Operations might seem simple. But on the other hand – it is the first place! – Victoria Mikhal, Contact Centre important to clearly articulate them once again, Operator. so that everyone (employee, bank, top-manager) ...good conditions, naturally, motivate us for knows the area of one’s responsibility. more productive and efficient work! And we are Undoubtedly, the efficiency of employees’ work sincerely grateful for it to our top-management! is influenced by the working conditions provided. – Maryana Yourchenko, Sales Manager. This is the responsibility of the bank. In 2012 PlatiBesides good working conditions, the bank num Bank opened a new office for [two departworks on improving corporate culture and implements30]. The employees liked the premises right menting “Platinum Standards”. A lot of attention away. New office has a cosy kitchen, a recreation is paid to forming and developing the Platinum room, where one can play table football and darts. Bank team. “Platinum Standards” Every person has his or her own system “Platinum Standards” were elaborated for two of priorities and ethics. Priorities can be differgroups. One group includes all of the employees. ent. Depending on them, people act differently in For them, these are the main standards of behavcertain situations. The same can be said about coriour in their everyday execution of job duties. The porate priorities. They help the organization in its other group includes top-managers. These “Stanwork and development. The priorities of Platinum dards” stipulate the roles and responsibilities of Bank are described in “Platinum Standards”. They all top-management of the company in creating serve as guidelines for employees, helping newand maintaining efficient working atmosphere. comers to adapt in the team, supporting, inspiring All employees must be acquainted with “Platinum and educating employees. Standards”. When “Platinum Standards” entered our evIn 2011 a first evaluation of employees’ knowleryday work, at first it wasn’t clear how they can edge of “Platinum Standards” and Policies took help us do our work. But we have been working place. The testing covered 83% of all employfor three years now, following “Standards”, and it ees, out of which 91% showed adequate level of makes our jobs much easier. Now we all speak a knowledge (scoring 70+ points out of 100). common language and understand that we not only have a common goal, but common ways of And in 2012 96% of all employees took part in reaching it as well. This is real teamwork , – Mathe test, out of which 91% showed adequate level rina Ryabovol, Leading Specialist of Corporate of knowledge (scoring 70+ points out of 100). Communications. How efficiently are employees implementing 25 BANK’S EMPLOYEES “Platinum Standards”? This question can be annel (points of loan sale). The employees appeal swered by the Platinum Delegates of the bank. regarding various issues. For example, issues with This informal position was introduced to help emworking on weekends, working hours, inadequa31 In the reported year, as Platinum Delegates ployees in solving difficult situations. To the posicy of the dinner break time, compensations paywere elected three employees: Yegor Gnatenko – tion of the Platinum Delegate the employees elect ment or relations between employees and their ”Express“ Channel Trainer, Yana Kostritskaya such colleagues whom [they trust most of all31]. managers. These appeals help the management – Head of the Banking Documents Audit, In 2012 the Platinum Delegates have reviewed of the bank to study problematic issues and find Control and Storage Department, Yelena 38 appeals from co-workers (img. 1), out of which solutions for them. Kobylyanskaya – deputy CFO. 72% (33) – from the employees of “Express” chanImg. 1. The range of Platinum Bank employees’ appeals to Platinum Delegates regarding the “Express” channel, 2012 working hours ● Total amount of appeals from absence of 11% a dinner break the “Express” channel employees – 33 (72% of the total amount of 5% appeals) the payment of compensation 34% ● 5 reasons out of 8 (41%) 14% working on weekends technical work of the line and holidays manager ● Compensations payment 3% – online report on bonus working in promotion rewards+calculation papers+answers to questions 8% incorrect documentation of 24% attitude of the manager, ● Manager’s attitude – Platinum labour relations incompliance with Platinum Management Culture values This practice of choosing Platinum Delegates is unique for Ukraine. And due to this, at the 4th National Competition of CSR Cases (Ukraine) this practice entered the TOP-3 of winners in the nomination “Organization Management”. 26 BANK’S EMPLOYEES 32 In accordance with the approved document, Team building in the recruiting process can participate both employees and external candidates, in the Tatyana Hunisheva, where to turn to, what and how to do and what is majority – representatives of local population, Senior Specialist of the better to do not. and discriminating on the basis of age, gender, Human Resources Departnationality, creed, sexuality, health or physical ment. One of the important programmes of the disabilities is prohibited. bank is [providing jobs 33] to people with special Team building is a needs. [All people are equal, we all know that34], very important process. but in Ukraine it is difficult for the people with speIn order to transform staff cial needs to find a job. Due to the employment into a team, it is necesprogramme in 2012, 4 more people with special 33 By the end of 2011 the bank employed 36 sary for all employees to needs became the employees of the bank. people with special needs share the values and be aware of their contribution into the development The bank has a whole programme for adapting of the company. One of the important stages in employees in their new jobs. It is called “Employee 34 Platinum Bank has the Equality Policy, which team building is recruiting personnel. You have On-boarding”. Every new employee of the bank reguarantees the absence of discrimination. Also, to choose the professionals, who share the bank’s ceives the Platinum Guide and goes through the the rights and interests of employees are values. That is why special attention must be paid adaptation period at Platinum School. In Platinum protected by the Platinum Delegates. If there to recruiting. And that is exactly what Platinum School the employee gets all necessary knowlis an incident, the employee can talk about it Bank does. edge about the bank, its values and policies. The either to the Platinum Delegate or to one’s materials of the programme are updated every line manager. In 2011-2012 many branch offices of the bank quarter or as needed. After studying all the matewere opened on the regional level. And they had rials, [the employee passes a test 35] on the knowla lot of questions regarding the recruiting of peredge and understanding of processes. In 2012 this sonnel. That is why in 2012 we updated[the Reguprogramme was passed by 2 500 employees. 35 The test results show the employees what lations for recruiting and hiring personnel32]. aspects they should be paying more attention We had also successfully implemented a proto in future. It is very important to know what makes the gramme “Building a Platinum Team”. The procompany tick when you start working in it, what gramme rewards the employees for recommendare the main guidelines, which should be adhered ing candidates for vacant positions. If the person 36 After the initial probationary period to. The programme of adaptation helps new emrecommended [was hired36], тthe employee gets ployees to get acquainted with the values, polia monetary reward. This way, in 2012 were successcies, procedures, rules and standards of the bank. fully covered about 10% of sales network vacancies Due to it, the employee doesn’t find himor herand nearly 27% vacancies in the Head Office. self in informational vacuum, but understands 27 BANK’S EMPLOYEES Building a team for us it is not only attract staff agility: we are constantly monitoring the yield point and the quality of their adaptation, but also the and closing/opening point in very short terms in retention of employees. We monthly rate monitor different areas of the country. We are aware all this the fluid bank officials. In terms of the 3 main dileads to increased strength personnel. The average rections of the bank, the figure was up 2012: lifespan of a company this category of staff is small, but we are working to keep the programs and time • Head office – 17% Development (the career growth of substitution va• Department of Departmnet of Soft cancies and internal reserve etc.). The effect of the Collection – 31% introduction of a number of programs already (flow index decreases, the best employees grow within • The Department of Sales 60%. the company, the average increases the life of the The main category of personnel, which gives us employee). We further plan to pay attention to the highest turnover rates are Sales staff and Operaqualitative recruiting. Additionally, Platinum Bank, tions that work directly with clients. In one of the is developing programs that are aimed to avoid laymultiple sales channels – Channel Express (cash offs of employees by their own. For this purpose we loans and loans for purchasing goods) we attract strive to close vacancies with the internal reserves people with no work experience with the motivaand strengthen the system of a career growth. And tion to get a first experience and first earnings. An also continue to develop unique Platinum culture. additional difficulty create the required business Team development Alexander Pavlov, Head sales, time-management, team-building. We find Specialist in Personnel what is now important for the bank, what topics Training and Developing. are interesting for the employees and start our creative process. Every trainer puts a part of his or One shouldn’t stand her heart into the process of training elaboration, still! In our bank everyas it is a process, which requires inspiration. But a thing is always dynamicaltraining well-done, with tired but happy faces of ly evolving. For example, I our trainees – it is always a great reward for us. used to work as a manger Also, trainers tell the employees about “Platiin a branch office, and num Standards”. In 2012 the bank organized a now I’m teaching experts Platinum Team Day. On this day a big-scale teamin the points of loan sale. As a coach, I must “keep building training was organized. [The training was my eyes on the ball” at all times. We develop and conducted for 50 employees with the participaconduct trainings on the great variety of topics: tion of top-managers of our bank37]. 28 BANK’S EMPLOYEES In 2012 two types of trainings were conducted for the mangers at the Head Office (Table 2). 37 After the training, the top-mangers came Table 2. Trainings for the HO managers, 2012: to the conclusion that the values became a part of employees’ life. Topic Number of trainings Number of trainees Development of values-oriented 10 122 management in Platinum Bank Platinum Manager. Module 1 13 166 The training became an impressive discovery can’t wait till the next year, when I can study the for me. I have never been taught so positively and topic “Planning” in more detail – Mikhail Babeninterestingly. And, at that, I acquired many useful ko, Project Manager. skills in organizing my work and my subordinates, and these skills I’m now actively implementing in The bank works, mainly, in retail, so a considermy daily work. An interesting aspect was that we able amount of trainings is organized for the Sales were taught management skills on the basis of our Department (Table 3). For the employees of this Values, and thus we got double benefit: obtaining department were organized such [trainings as 38], new skills and revising what we already know. I “The 1st Convention of Business Sharks Hunters”. Table 3. Trainings for Sales Department employees, 2012 Position Training/coaching, hour Distance teaching, hour 1 year 2 year 1 year 2 year Expert 32 8 184 144 Senior Expert 32 16 164 144 Branch Office Manager 44 16 248 208 38 6 blocks of master-classes and sessions HO Manager 44 8 184 144 39 The cost of education comprised 163 014,10 UAH. Collection Operator 78 8* 48 48 * – training is under elaboration at the moment, realization – July 2013. In total, in 2012 the average amount of [training hours 39] per one manager a year was 32 hours. Expenses for external trainings amounted to 1 307 000 UAH. 29 BANK’S EMPLOYEES As you can see, the progress of employees desire of employees to change with the bank and to pends on joint efforts from the great amount of change themselves. The employees of Platinum people: in-house and external trainers, employees, Bank have this desire. top-management. Especially important is the deSalary and remuneration Lyubov Lelyakova, the legislation of Ukraine. That is why 100 % of Head of Personnel Adpersonnel are getting “white” salary, with all taxes ministration. duly paid. [All employees 40] are on full-time emSalary is the reward ployment. for work. What is imIn our bank employees are highly valued as the portant for the emmost important resource. That is why the interacployee? For the salary to tion between the bank and its employees is based 40 100% of employees are covered by the be respectable. It is also on the protection of employees’ interests. Collective Agreement. important for it to be The minimal salary is variable. It all depends on “white”, with all taxes duly the place of work and job position. It starts with paid. This way, in a certain 1 500 UAH (in the regions) and 3 500 UAH (Head time period, the pension of the employee also will Office). It should be mentioned, that in 2012 the be respectable, as the organization is paying taxes. average salary in Platinum Bank was 2-2.5 times That is why salary is also a form of care for the emhigher than the average in Ukraine (the data are ployee, both now and in future. comparable: the comparison was made for the Platinum Bank does care about its employees. same region – the city of Kyiv, img. 2). All employees are employed in compliance with Img.2. Correlation of average salary in Kyiv and in Platinum Bank, Kyiv 10000 Average salary in Platinum 9000 8000 Bank (Kyiv), UAH 7000 6000 Average salary in Ukraine 5000 (Kyiv), UAH 4000 3000 2000 1 000 41 One trip charge cannot exceed 70 UAH. 0 ry y ar il ay e y Ju st to be ua ruar ch Ap r M Ju n l AuSe No r Ja M guptem ve m be n Fe b be Oc De ce m r r be r 30 BANK’S EMPLOYEES Additionally, we have the procedures for givpositions are compensated by the bank for repreing bonuses to employees. As of today, there are sentational expenses (inside the limits of the de42 Additionally, in accordance with the Collective 17 such procedures and they are covering all the partment’s budget and of the Gifts Policy). Agreement, the employees of the bank in 2012 employees. For example, all personnel are insured. received 529 265 UAH of financial aid. Some employees get compensations for using Platinum Bank values its employees. They are personal cars in business-matter trips (there is the most important resource of the bank. That is a fixed limit), others – business-matter usage of why the interaction between the bank and its empublic transport. Also, there is a compensation ployees is based on the protection of employees’ for [taxi tariffs 41] for business-matter trips (if the interests. This is also demonstrated by the remucompany car is unavailable). Employees on certain neration policies of the bank. There’s no such thing as “no solution” Elena Mardal, Internal these, albeit impressive, but dry numbers, behind Communications Manevery appeal – there is a desire of our employager. ees to help. Dropping banknotes into the special 2012 was rich in sucboxes, even if the sum is very small, we brought a cess stories and imporperson closer to the chance to recover or to save tant achievements for one’s nearest and dearest. That is worth a lot! the bank. Together the Employees helped from the bottom of their employees rejoiced when hearts. And [the bank doubled43] their help and important business projforwarded it to those in need. Here are some of 43 The bank has a project titled “Financial ects were realized, when the examples, showing the work of such help: Support of Employees”. It is aimed at the bank showed good • Due to the aid from her colleagues, our providing assistance to employees, who found financial results and won top-positions in various employee’s husband, after a very grave traffic acthemselves in a difficult situation. For example, ratings. cident and spine trauma, received all necessary an employee finds himself or herself in a Life showed, that even riding the wave of succare and treatment, and he can now walk and his difficult situation, which requires considerable cess, our employees know compassion, support general state of health is satisfactory. financial expenses. It can be medical treatment and mutual aid. So much pain and hope was in • Our employee’s mother got an opportunity for a child, wife/husband, in connection with the appeals for help from our colleagues – health to continue cancer treatment, and even though a life threatening condition or a force-majeure problems of children, parents, employees themshe still needs chemotherapy sessions, she has a situation (fire, flooding, etc.).In such cases, selves. So very different and at the same time chance at recovery. there is a call for fundraising among the similarly difficult situations. This year, together • Our other employee’s father underwent the employees of the bank for the financial aid. we managed to help 24 people. Due to the joint heart surgery, due to which he is now alive and The sum, collected by the employees, is doubled efforts of bank’s team they received a general well. by the bank. amount of over [300 000 UAH42]. And behind 31 HONEST BUSINESS PRACTICES • Our employee, who was diagnosed with and their relatives, who received aid, express their pancreas cancer, underwent a course of treatsincere gratitude to their colleagues and to the ment and is now back “in the ranks” and is working. bank for supporting them in the time of need: • After a severe beating of our employee’s Many thanks to all, who were charitable and mother, who received very grave injuries, she redidn’t deny their support to our employees in her ceived and continues to receive necessary treattime of need. May GOD reward you with doubled ment and feels much better now. good health, happiness, luck and kind people on There are many stories like that. All employees your life path. All the best to you all! HONEST BUSINESS PRACTICES Do you know, that the word “bank” originess. It’s twice as important in the financial sphere, nated from the Latin word meaning “table”, as banks work with money on the daily basis. on which Roman money changers placed their coins? If the money changer started to Fighting fraud, corruption and bribery is one swindle, his clients could break his table – “banko of the priorities of Platinum Bank. The bank pays rotto”, and this is where the word “bankrupt” comes a lot of attention to honesty, both of its employfrom. Turns out, from the ancient times the words ees and of relations between them and clients or “swindle” and “bankrupt” are closely tied. This conpartners. The bank strives to create the corporate nection is even stronger in our days. If the compaculture of responsibility, implementing “Platinum ny is dishonest, it will, sooner or later, go bankrupt. Standards” and its Policies (img. 3). That’s why honesty is so important in doing busiImg. 3. Platinum Bank’s documents regarding honest business practices. Regulations on conducting Anti-corruption policy tenders Platinum Bank Conflict of interests Policy Gift Policy 32 HONEST BUSINESS PRACTICES Conflict of Interests Policy in Platinum Bank Story 2: prohibits the [employees from actions44], related The Head Manager of one of the sales departto the conflict of interests. For example, employments married her subordinate. One month beees cannot forward confidential information to fore the wedding, the manager turned to the HR the third party or act as consultants for another Department asking to clarify the bank’s Policy. As 44 In the case of conflict of interests incident, company, etc. The existence of such Policies helps a result, the employees were offered several varithe employee is obliged to inform the bank prevent future risks. The important part is to get ants of solutions. None of the variants was realimmediately. the information about a conflict of interests in ized, as offered vacancies in different departments time. And that is what happened in 2012, when didn’t appeal to the employees, and recommendthe bank faced the early stages of two cases of ed quickened career promotion of the wife in other conflict of interests of employees in the regional branches of the oblast was impossible due to the sales departments. absence of vacancies at the moment. The conflict was resolved, when soon after marriage, one of the spouses has left the company. Story 1: One manager wanted to employ his child for In accordance with the Gift Policy, the bank’s the lowest position in his regional branch. On the employees cannot present gifts or provide serone hand, the manager wouldn’t have been the vices to the candidates of political parties, emline manager of his child, but on the other hand ployees of the bodies of public authorities or in– he could influence on his child’s promotion or reternational intergovernmental organizations (i.e., ward with a bonus. The managers of this branch the UN). Moreover, even gifts due to professional turned to the HR Department asking to clarify the holidays (such as Accountant’s Day, Civil Servant’s bank’s Policy and solve the issue in question. As Day) must be approved by the Audit Department a result, the bank didn’t hire the relative at that (compliance). branch office, but recommended to consider the candidate for the vacancy in the sales channel of the neighbouring region on the equal terms with other candidates. 33 HONEST BUSINESS PRACTICES How employees can present gifts to How employees can accept gifts from 45 In 2012 one employee was presented with business partners business partners a gift of tickets to the football match. The The bank’s gift policy allows its employees to The employees can receive gifts and services employee submitted them to the Corporate present gifts to the business partners worth worth no more than 800 UAH. In exceptional Communication. A charity auction was organized from 800 to 4 000 UAH, under the condition cases, employees can accept infrequent gifts in the HO (as the match was in Kyiv). Tickets that such gifts are one-time only, due to the worth up to 2 400 UAH, but about such gifts were sold and the money was spent for buying company’s jubilee or a professional holiday. they are obliged to inform their manager. If things for children in orphanages. the clients or partners present gifts more expensive than 2 400 UAH, they cannot be accepted and must be returned. In some cases it 46 In 2012, 10 online tenders were conducted. is difficult or awkward to return such a gift. In these cases, the employee [submits45] the gift to the Corporate Communications. Further on, 47 Tender is conducted for the purchase of it will be used at the charity auction and will over 200 000 UAH. If the purchase is within help those in need. the limits of 20 000-200 000 UAH – the bank and the contractor are signing an Agreement. As such, honest business practices, be it in refraud) help the bank to become a stronger organiIf the purchase is less than for 20 000 UAH gard to gifts or conflict of interests or any other zation with Platinum corporate culture. – it is done by properly documented invoice. aspects (conducting honest tenders and fighting Transparent tenders Conducting honest tenders is one of the the international standards. important tools for counteraction towards Additionally, in 2012 the bank introduced the corruption and bribery, a marker of how online system of tender procurement – [BUYER transparent the organization is. Pro46]. All actions of the system users are strictly In 2011 Platinum Bank signed the Declaration controlled and fixed in the archive of actions, on Responsible Business-Partnership in relation to which makes [procurement procedures47] of the partners and contractors. The bank aims at reachbank absolutely transparent. ing the level of conducting tenders according to 34 HONEST BUSINESS PRACTICES Img. 4. Groups of influence in Platinum Bank Employees-members of the Members of the Board Partner Programme of the bank Groups of influence Members of the Tender Observers of the Board Commission We have set for ourselves such goals as: transprice bid and step-by-step rates in the purchase parency of the procurement process, optimization are available for viewing. At a certain time all bids of all processes, creating a unified database of supare opened, further on they are evaluated and appliers and simplification of centralized control over proved, and after that – passed to the next round. the procurement process. I can say that we achieve The BUYER Pro system ensures absolute protecall these goals with the help of the new system for tion of the information and totally excludes its conducting tenders online. This system allows all leakage/disclosure or the human factor in evaluparticipants to monitor the situation developating the materials submitted for tender. More dement continuously. And we uphold the principle of tailed information can be seen on the web-site of honesty and transparency. , – Nikolay Rudnitskyi, Platinum Bank in the section “Tenders”: Head of the Administrative Department. http://www.platinumbank.com.ua/view.tendersb Interestingly, the names of the competitors are Online tender system proves once again the unknown for the tender participants, but the best systemacy of bank's approaches to establishing honest partner relationships with contractors. Fight against fraud Andrey Ihntov, is very important to expose the fraud activities at Deputy Director of the early stages. In particular, at the point of loan Risk Department. sale, when providing a loan, the client is photoIn accordance graphed, asked to show the passport. It is neceswith the Countersary for the employee to have a very good look at corruption and Anthe passport of the potential borrower. Although, ti-fraud Policy, Platquite often the clients provide passports in very inum Bank strictly poor state, and sometimes even with incomprenips in the bud all hensible handwriting. What could be done it such cases or attempts at corruption activities. It cases? 35 HONEST BUSINESS PRACTICES In 2012 Platinum Bank asked its employees to provided loans, using the documents without the propose ideas for exposing fraud. 150 employees knowledge of their owners. Due to the prompt re48 Now all 1 500 points of loan sales have took up the call and proposed simple, but efficient action of the security service, the violations were magnifying lenses. measures, which were introduced into the daily acexposed and [the perpetrators49] were declared tivities of the bank. One of these wonderful ideas to the law-enforcement authorities. was [providing the employees at the points of loan On the national level, the cooperation of banks sale with magnifying lenses48]. The usage of magnialso helps to efficiently prevent fraud. For exam49 As a result of the investigation, the exfying lenses allows for better verification of the seals ple, in 2012 Platinum Bank chaired the Working employees of the bank were held criminally liable in the passport and other documents of the client. Group on Activation of Interaction between the with the obligation of recovering damages to Besides, the process of verification itself, when the Credit History Bureau and banks under the Forum Platinum Bank. expert diligently studies the passport through a of International Financial Institutions. The Working magnifying lens, makes fraudsters nervous. Group elaborated a series of propositions regardPlatinum Bank is constantly working on preing the improvement of the Credit History Bureau’s venting possible fraudulent activities. We are work and amendments to the Law of Ukraine “On happy that our employees show enthusiasm and the formation and circulation of credit histories”. propose new ways of solving problematic issues. The propositions concerned the enhancement The usage of magnifying lenses allows for better of Bureau’s access to the information in state regverification of the seals in the passport. Besides, isters. This would allow for the banks to conduct this new addition also helps in communications more thorough check-up of clients, improve the with elderly clients, who can use it to read the loan quality of the bank’s credit portfolio and in general agreement. to improve the stability of the banking market. There are also obligatory trainings for the emAlso, our bank cooperates with two bureaus ployees of the bank regarding the prevention of of credit histories: The First All-Ukraine Bureau of external fraud. Due to all this and the activity of Credit Histories (FABCH) and Ukrainian Bureau of employees, in 2012 were exposed 3 fraud cases Credit Histories (UBCH). In FABCH Platinum Bank during the acquisition of the loan. is the largest shareholder among all the members As well, there are traditional secret inspections of the Bureau and is an active participant of partof employees, who work with clients, with the aim ner relations. of exposing corruptive or fraudulent activities. Unfortunately, in 2012 two employees illegally 36 HONEST BUSINESS PRACTICES Responsible marketing 50 With the example of its product line (“Cash Monthly” deposit), Platinum Bank Alexander Davydenko, clients, and one of these principles is honesty. demonstrates the honesty and transparency of Head of the Department for That is why in our advertising campaign we deits deposits placing conditions. Development and Support cided not to invent something, but simply to tell of Marketing Communicaabout the rules we follow in our work , – says Antions . drzej Olejnik, Chief Marketing Officer. Responsible marWe also share our experience with other com51 The working group on the elaboration of the keting – means creatpanies. Platinum Bank took part in the elaboGuide also included marketing directors of such ing real value for cliration of the Guide on Responsible Marketing. companies as: МЕТRО, Prikarpatyeoblenergo, ents, which improves [The initiators of this work51] were the Centre TetraPak, BDO, life:) their quality of life, and honest advertising, “CSR Development” and “Women’s Consortium of which is aimed at this value. Responsible marUkraine” with the support of Democracy Grants keting is also the ethical treatment of competiProgram of the US Embassy in Ukraine. The ortors, which we bring to the sales manager. ganizers planned to elaborate guidelines for raising the awareness of responsible marketing, as Platinum Bank practices responsible marketwell as to form responsible marketing culture in ing. In all our advertising layouts we maximally Ukrainian business. In December 2012 the Guide reflect the detailed legal interpretation, in order on Responsible Marketing was presented to the to provide exhaustive information to the clients stakeholders. and to comply with the requirements of all regulators in the banking market. One more example Taking into account today’s reality, what we can be the large-scale advertising campaign need is exactly the steps from socially responsible [“Rules of honest deposits”50]. The bank formucompanies on the endorsement of a code (of ethilated for its clients some simple and understandcal principles) of responsible marketing, as it is able rules, which demonstrate the benefits of in the European countries. Only the advertisers placing deposits. themselves, representatives of the business, can raise the advertising to a higher level and make it a I want to stress that “Rules of honest deposits component of their socially responsible approach. by Platinum Bank” – is not another advertising One of such steps became the creation of this event with a limited term of effect. These are the Guide for the companies on responsible marketprinciples, which we are using in our work with ing. I’m grateful to Platinum Bank for the support 37 HONEST BUSINESS PRACTICES of this initiative and participation in it , – Marina year. Despite the fact that the legislation is not Alekseenko, President of Women’s Consortium of regulated in detail what needs to be disclosed for Ukraine. legal transcripts for advertising layouts (no commitment as indicated in the advertising fee for Every day we are learning with the market a loan, the monthly fee for the service, which is and working hard to do the right thing. Howcompulsory credit life insurance), paid a fine, and ever, in our history, there are difficult moments. we took into account the recommendations of So, in 2012, Zhytomyr regional territorial office of the Antimonopoly Committee. the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine (AMC [RM1]) has fined Platinum Bank on 50 th. for the This experience taught us that we should not fact that our marketing materials did not contain just comply with the law. He taught that we must complete information about the service. In parput yourself in the customers and advertising ticular, the advertisement contained the phrase, supplement such information, which may not Spring loans and spring gifts 0% share with be governed by the laws. This has helped us to an indication of where you can find detailed increate a kind of filter for the conduct of ethical formation and time of such action, and without and responsible marketing. And it's not just proany information about the sum of all costs for the motional materials, and all of our employees who use of consumer credit, which is about 35 % per work directly with customers in the field. 38 CONTRIBUTION TO THE SOCIETY CONTRIBUTION TO THE SOCIETY Even in the early Rus people strived to not only provides jobs, but also organizes the help the needy: poor families, educational adaptation programmes. Also, in 2012 the bank 52 Before installing ramps, the audit of branch facilities, etc. All that had a word for it “vklad” installed [ramps or buttons for calling a manager offices was performed. Now all of the 73 – “contribution”. At that, giving someone your for help52] in all its departments. This way the bank branch offices are equipped with a ramp or a “vklad” was a serious and well-weighed decision. takes care of the needs people with special needs. button for calling a manager for help. And that’s why you couldn’t take your “vklad” back. Additionally, the map of branch offices was elaboPlatinum Bank has a serious and well-weightrated with a special marker “access for people with ed approach to its contributions to the society special needs” and it was placed in the web-site of as well. One of the important programmes conthe bank (http://www.platinumbank.com.ua) for cerns people with special needs. Platinum Bank the convenience of clients. Financial education Elena Shcherbina, pass adequate finical knowledge to their children. Head of the Sustainable We studied the USAID research on the topicalDevelopment. ity of this issue and decided that we, as a finanPlatinum Bank has cial organization, are simply obliged to conduct been improving the meetings for improving financial literacy. And level of people’s finanthat’s how the programme “Platinum Posidelki” cial literacy [for three appeared. Its popularity continues to grow and years53]. A financially we continue to develop and improve it. literate person can comNow children in any region of our country can 53 25 000 children attended “Platinum petently control one’s attend the meetings and get new knowledge Posidelki” in 3 years. Children have learned more expenses and income, about the world of finance absolutely for free. about money, how to manage it responsibly plan family or personal budget. And that is why it [The meetings54] have a non-formal atmosphere. and use properly. should be taught from school. As in future, on the The highest attendance of financial literacy lesfinancial literacy of the population depends the sons from Platinum Bank was by the children in economic development of the country. Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Zhytomyr, Lougansk, 54 In 2012 were organized 364 meetings with Unfortunately, so far, in Ukraine the level of fiCherkassy, Chernygiv and Kharkiv oblasts, and in the participation of 8 523 children within nancial literacy is rather low. Only 28% of adults the AR of Crimea (img.1). the framework of the programme “Platinum can answer correctly three simple questions Posidelki”. about finances. It means that such adults cannot 40 CONTRIBUTION TO THE SOCIETY Table 1. “Platinum Posidelki” in 2012 Meetings Children Department Adults present Leading regions conducted attended Nikolaev oblast, Kharkiv oblast, “Express” channel 255 5 938 646 Lougansk oblast Dnipropetrovsk, Novomos“Branch” channel 109 2 585 218 kovsk, Nikopol, Krivoy Roh, Dniprozderzhynsk, Pavlograd Employees-volunteers tell interesting stories to deposit his money into a bank – the money he about the origins of money and banks, invent got as a birthday present from his Grandpa. It is games with practical pieces of advice. For exnice to know, that our meetings not only provide ample, in the game of “Monopoly” the schoolchildren with interesting information, but also children have a choice: they can put the money help them in understanding the value of earned aside, can buy one enterprise or wait till there money and why it shouldn’t be wasted on the unis a possibility to buy another, bigger one. This necessary things , – Galina Kotsyubyichuk, Head way children learn how to manage money and of the Branch Office, Kyiv in future this skill will come in handy for them as adults. In total, within the framework of the We regularly organize “Posidelki” in our programme were elaborated 6 lessons for varibranch office. Every week children come to us and ous age groups: for kids of 7-12 and for teens of learn more about finance. Many already know 14-16. about our “Posidelki” and we are often invited to The main symbol of these meeting is the – schools for organizing the meetings for the whole [fish Monia (Monetka [Coin]), widely loved by the class , – Zhanna Daineko, Head of the Branch Ofschoolchildren55]. The bank receives positive feedfice, Zaporizhzhya 55 Monia tells its young audience interesting back on the programme “Platinum Posidelki” from Programme “Platinum Posidelki” is supported stories and educational facts on the topics: schoolchildren, their parents and teachers. by our employees, clients and partners. In 2012, “Many a little makes a mickle”, “Money of Lessons of financial literacy “Platinum Posideat the third exhibition of social and environmental different countries: rouble, dollar, euro”, lki”, conducted by the employees of Platinum projects of companies “CSR MarketPlace” the pro“Ukrainian hryvnya and pocket money”, Bank, were very interesting and useful for pupils, gramme was voted №3 by the visitors. “Journey to the Bank Country”, “Personal who study the subject “Economics , – Svetlana Anyone can attend a meeting or invite “Posidebudget”, “Profession: a Banker”. Viktorovna Kovpak, Principle of the Melitopol TEC lki” together with the main symbol of these meet№ 16 “Kindergarten-school-HEI”. ings – a fish called Monia. On the proper attitude of children towards finances depends the develThere was an interesting case, when one boy, opment of the country in the whole, including an after our meeting with the topic “Many a little individual family and business. makes a mickle”, came home and asked his Mom 41 CONTRIBUTION TO THE SOCIETY Education of the Highest Level There are about [20 000 comprehensive applications from the schools in various regions educational institutions56] in Ukraine. Acof Ukraine. [The panel of experts58], consisting 56 Out of which 13 000 are located in villages. cording to the data of the Ministry of Science and of the representatives of partner companies of Education of Ukraine, 87.2% of schools are comthe project, defined 12 winner-schools. The bank puterized. But sometimes the status of “computerhelped to equip computer rooms in these schools ized” is given to a school with just a few very old with 120 laptops and 12 multifunctional devices 57 In total, during the operation of the computers. Quite often in the boarding-schools (scanner-printer-copier device). As such, 3 000 project were opened 36 computer classes. and in village schools there are no computer more schoolchildren now got the opportunity to rooms, and there is little chance to get them as a study with the usage of computer technology. gift from parents. That’s why, [for the third year in I’m happy to have won this competition. Now 58 The partner of the competition “Education a row,57] Platinum Bank conducts the All-Ukraine my pupils and I can work on serious projects, which of the Highest Level”-2012 was the Competition for Schools “Education of the Highwere inaccessible for us before. There are over 1 International Charity Fund “Centre of Future est Level”. The aim of the competition is to com000 pupils in our school and all this time they were Social Projects”. puterize the educational process and to make using the computers of the 90’s, which were very it both interesting and useful. According to the limited in their abilities. Now I have loads of ideas competition’s rules, the teachers, together with as to how the bank’s gift can be used. I’m sure that pupils, elaborate game-like lesson-projects for the children will greatly appreciate the new computer subject “Basics of Economics”, with the obligatory room , – Zoub Natalya Mykhailivna, teacher of usage of computers. As a result, winner-schools computer science in CTEC “Vsesvit”, Matvyivka, Zaget equipped with the computer classes (one per porizhzhya oblast. school). For the third year, the partner of the project is Nowadays everything happens very fast, the company “Microsoft Ukraine”. that’s why for a modern young person it is very Within the implementation framework of the important to obtain computer knowledge. If you Microsoft program “Partners in Learning”, we supdon’t have the skills of computer literacy – autoport the Platinum Bank’s initiative. From our side, matically you are losing millions of opportuniwe organize practical trainings for teachers regardties. We want the new generations of Ukrainians ing the usage of IT for improving the quality of eduto have the opportunity for on par competition cation and efficiency of the school administration’s with their peers from European countries. As such, work. Such complex approach ensures qualitative we strive to introduce modern technology and changes in the system of secondary education and methods of teaching into such Ukrainian schools, gives the pupils more opportunities in realizing their which need it the most , – Viktoriia Mykhno, Head potential in this very country , – Olga Svyridenko, of Corporate Communications. Coordinator of the “Partners in Learning” program For the competition in 2012 were received 37 with “Microsoft Ukraine”. 42 CONTRIBUTION TO THE SOCIETY Also, in winner-schools the employees of Plati“Windows for Education”, “Work with Microsoft Ofnum Bank organize the lessons on financial literfice 365”. acy for the pupils – “Platinum Posidelki”. And the During the time of the project, the bank has company “Microsoft Ukraine” conducts trainings already granted about 300 computers to schools on the following topics: “Digital Technologies”, and orphanages in various oblasts of Ukraine. Corporate volunteering In 2012 Platinum Bank continued to conduct its annual [charity actions59] (img. 1). Img. 1. Results of charity Platinum Bank actions – 2012 “Pampers-Fever” – covered 92 babies in 5 orphanages and oblast “Back to school” – granted 207 “St. Nikolay’s Day” – provided Mother and Child Care Centres, school sets for the sum of support for 341 little dwellers 19 346 UAH were gathered for 13 445 UAH. of 5 orphanages. purchasing diapers for the Centres . 59 Organized 11 regional charity actions Considerable attention was paid by Platinum late their partners with New Year not by means of Bank in 2012 to the development of corporate presenting post-cards, but presenting [CSR certifivolunteering. Any organization is, first of all, its cates60]. In 2012 were presented 395 certificates employees. That’s why the support of any initiafor the total sum of 78 800 UAH. These contributive by the organization without the involvement tions allowed for congratulating children with the of its employees often leads to the cancellation holidays and presenting them with development of the project or to the employees being sceptigames, warm clothes, footwear, personal hygiene cal about such initiatives. Platinum Bank does it means and sweets. 60 In the certificate were stated the sums differently. In 2012 the amount of volunteers has from 100 to 300 UAH, which were accumulated grown. Moreover, the employees can propose the The clients are also involved into the social projby the bank, and the purchase of necessary organization, which they consider to be in need of ects of the bank. As more and more people learn things for supporting orphanages took place. help. From its side, the bank offers the opportunity of the charity projects of Platinum Bank, they turn to take part in such initiatives during the working to the bank for a piece of advice. For example, time, provides transportation and helps in procurthe bank’s client from Kharkiv, Yevgeniy Vorobyov ing necessary materials. wanted to give part of his finances for charity. He turned to the bank. As a result, the bank bought In 2012 Platinum Bank involved its partners in 3 boxes of tinned stewed meat for the Lyubotyn its charity projects. The bank decided to congratuMother and Child Care Centre in Kharkiv oblast. 43 CONTRIBUTION TO THE SOCIETY I had a strong desire to give a part of my fiThey found out about the needs of the supported nances for charity, so that they would be useful. Mother and Child Care Centre. And in a run-up Knowing that Platinum Bank is a socially responto the cold winter we bought 3 boxes of tinned sible bank, I was sure that with their help the funds stewed meat. I wanted to help and I’m happy I will be used according to the intended purpose. managed to do so . Volunteers in OHMATDYT Alexander Popov, was prepared by the trainers of Platinum Bank toHead of the Business Cligether with the psychologists of the hospital. ents Department. [At the sessions, children and bank’s employRecovery is outright ees ] make collages, do origami, appliqués, etc. 62 dependent on positive Curator-psychologists of OHMATDYT greatly apemotions. That’s why preciate the participation of bank’s volunteers in organizing creative meetthe life of their little patients. According to them, ings with the kids which children with chronic illnesses at hospitals need undergo long-term treatcommunication most of all. Due to these meetment is very important. This is also the way the ings children get in the good mood, and that employees of Platinum Bank help children in the really influences the recovery. And for many emSpecialized Hospital for Children “OHMATDYT”. ployees of Platinum Bank this was not only a brave step, but also an opportunity to discover some For me, every visit to OHMATDYT is a possibilnew qualities in oneself. ity to give a piece of your time, consideration and care to those, who really need it and who do not Our meetings with the kids from OHMATDYT 61 In 2012 the action “Volunteers in have, at the moment, a possibility to normally – it’s the call of both heart and soul. Although the OHMATDYT” took place for the 7th time. 33 communicate with either parents or peers. hospital psychologists and trainers from the bank employees took part. prepared us for this event, there was no certainty. Little patients from the departments of paeBefore the first trip there we were all very nervous. 62 In 2012 during several hours children, diatrics, endocrinology and the clinic for treating And when we arrived, for a few minutes we didn’t together with our employees, were cutting AIDS/HIV of OHMATDYT [have already attendknow how we could be maximally “useful”. But out the snowflakes, fur-trees and made ed61] the art-therapy sessions with the volunteers after we started communicating with children, applications with New Year theme. from the bank. The programme of such sessions everything got together. We understood, that out 44 CONTRIBUTION TO THE SOCIETY attention and care, smiles and optimism mean a I’m not even sure – did we give them or did they lot for them. I’m eager to take part in such meetgive us more? Must be the latter. It’s so unfortunate ings next time as well , – Tatyana Uryupova, Leadthat I don’t have some sort of magic wand to wave ing Specialist of the Advertisement and Brand Deit and make all children healthy! , – Tatyana Hunivelopment Department. sheva, Senior Specialist of the HR Department. It’s been a long time since I got such a boost of Mothers of children were very touched: positive emotions. I went there with the aim of givDear volunteers! We want to express our deeping the warmth of my heart and care, to show kids est gratitude to you for the emotional atmosphere, that they are not alone, that we need them, but display of care and selfless devotion towards our ended up receiving so much more. I’m so inspired children. Thank you for being you! . with the gratitude and response from their side. Responsible Bankers’ Day Ruslana Terletskaya, Head of the Salary PayI have been participating in this project for ment Cards Department. several years already and every time I wait for May anxiously, wait for the “Responsible Bankers’ Day” at Any professional our bank. It is nice, that the bank not only cares holiday can be celebratabout the improvement of the city and oblast, but ed in a variety of ways. also allows the employees of the bank to show One can book a table at the initiative and to propose the organization, which restaurant, or set the tables needs help. For me, the “Responsible Banker’s Day” at the office, or go on a is a project of good deeds of the bank’s employees. picnic in the country. Platinum Bank decided to make this a holiday for others, those who need help. On the [20th of May63], on the Ukrainian “Bankers’ Day”, the employees of the bank help the institutions, which are in need 63 In 2012 the employees of Platinum Bank of repairs or territory improvement, painting of chilorganized 8 actions and contributed to the dren’s playgrounds, etc. (img. 2). life conditions improvement of 300 people. 45 CONTRIBUTION TO THE SOCIETY Img. 2. Results of the “Responsible Bankers’ Day” RESULTS OF THE RESPONSIBLE BANKERS’ DAY -2012: 217 employees spent 1 388 volunteering hours Kindergarten (Kyiv): CF Karitas (Kyiv): 17 employees laid Animal shelter Pysanky-making 10 employees the floor, painted (Gostomel): class (Kyiv): 11 conducted creativity and decorated 30 employees, employees painted lessons for children three verandas, dug cleaning, tools were windows, doors, from problem up the seedbed, left for the shelter walls. families and families painted the tyres, as a gift. with many children. etc. Specialized sanatorium for children State Centre of “Barvinok” (Boyarka, Kindergarten (Kyiv): Tourism and Local Kyiv oblast): 89 10 volunteers History, Geography employees cleaned cleaned trees and Lake Beloye (Kyiv): and Culture for the forest, mowed bushes, dug up the 36 employees in schoolchildren the grass, painted the seedbeds, planted 2 hours collected (Kyiv): 14 employees children's playground, over a hundred garbage and collected and windows, doors on plants and made filled over 150 big removed garbage the floor (for 20 years several decorations garbage bags. (a truck of 5 tons there were no repairs), from natural capacity was full). fixed the furniture. materials. The grass-mower was presented to the sanatorium. 46 CONTRIBUTION TO THE SOCIETY Race for the child’s life Victoria Stoletova, the equipment for timely discovery and prevenRegional Director of the tion of this sort of disease. The bank became a 64 Some of them came from other cities Branch-sales Department partner of these charity races, and its [employees (Donetsk, Dnipropetrovsk, Bila Tserkva) “Dneprovskyi 1” became66] the race participants. specifically to take part in the marathon of good deeds. Our bank has been I’m very happy to have had the opportunity to participating in the Kyiv do something useful for my city. In Dnipropetro65 In 2012, the charity marathon was held in: charity race “Run Under vsk almost a hundred of our employees took part Dnepropetrovsk (September 8), Kremenchug the Chestnut Trees” for in the race, together with their friends and rela(September 22), Poltava (September 23), and several years. In 2012, tives. Many came from other cities to support our Kherson (September 29). [ 435 members 64 ] of our team, together with their team. That day we all ran not for the victory, but friends and relatives ran the marathon. The youngfor our help to be real and useful for the children. est participant from the bank’s team was only half In 2013 we will run again the distance of good and 66 180 regional employees of Platinum Bank a year old! As a result, the Centre of Cardiology I’m sure that our team will be even bigger. took part in the races. and Cardio-surgery for Children received a cheque from the organizers for 160 000 UAH. There is a part in this aid, contributed by Platinum Bank. In 2012 the employees of the bank for the first time took part in the regional races. [In four65] Ukrainian cities took place the social initiative of “Danone” company – “The race with hope at the heart”. The aim of these races was to collect a sufficient sum of money for purchasing necessary equipment to treat children with heart (valvular) diseases in oblast hospitals for children. Unfortunately, Ukraine is №1 in Europe for the amount of infant heart diseases: 10-12 children out of 1 000 are born with this disease. Timely diagnosis of a heart disease helps to save children’s lives. So far in Ukraine only very few medical institutions have 47 CONTRIBUTION TO THE SOCIETY Donorship Valeriy Cherkasov, At 9 o’clock in the morning in our Head Office 67 At that all conditions were met: the Head of the Cross-Sales was organized the mobile point of blood donaemployees were beforehand informed about the Department. tion. For that, Platinum Bank allocated a special conditions for blood donation, medical workers room, which met all the requirements of the prepared all necessary instruments, every 14th of June 2012 medics. [Within one day67] all volunteers passed employee underwent a special test, etc. was an international the necessary procedures and check-ups, after “Donor’s Day”. Platinum which they donated blood. Bank took part in the project “Donorship” for the This time we collected 33 litres of blood. 74 second time. Our partner employees got an opportunity to become a doin this project was the nor. Half of them gave blood for the first time. Oblast Centre for Blood Transfusion. Everyone, who gave blood, was rewarded by the bank management with the day off. Ukrainian hospitals are in constant need of donor blood. We are glad, that Platinum Bank The project allows manifesting a moral rejoins the honourable mission of donorship for the sponsibility towards the community, because second year in a row. Today is extremely imporin some cases you have to sacrifice a part of tant, that there should be such companies and yourself in order to help someone. Blood can be people, who voluntarily and selflessly donate needed by both little children and adults, durblood, helping medics to save lives. We hope, that ing planned surgeries and in extreme cases. One the example of Platinum Bank, that implemented blood donation, usually, helps to save two lives. this initiative with the support of our Centre, will Donating blood, we, probably, give someone a be followed by other companies , – Sergey Korotgift of second life. Due to the bank’s initiative, I’m korouchko, Director of Kyiv Oblast Blood Centre taking part in this good deed. 48 PLATINUM BANK AND THE ENVIRONMENT PLATINUM BANK AND THE ENVIRONMENT Since 2008 Platinum Bank has an active employees of the bank due to the real, both big eco-policy “Go Green!”. And since then, ecoand small, success stories of their colleagues and 68 210 active employees friendliness became one of the principles of the bank in the whole. bank’s operation. And there are real success stories. The bank 69 Bank’s employees obtained the possibility to The employees were inspired by the “green constantly works on decreasing its environmental identify a bar-code on the scanned documents ideas” and implemented them into their work. For footprint in three directions. and check the credit cases of clients in the example, within six month [the employees52] proFrist direction – sustainable operational electronic database. Introduction of EDM posed and realized over 8 projects on the reducactivities. For the bank it means such operational allowed for the triple reduction of the tion of paper consumption. About these bank’s iniactivities, which minimize the impact on the ensearching time for credit cases and considerably tiatives was shot a video with the participation of vironment. The employees are regularly informed quickened the processing of requests from the employees themselves http://www.youtube. about the necessity of saving and rationally using other departments of the bank. com/watch?v=LkFESjtHyoE. For the whole day materials. Also, in 2012 Platinum Bank introduced the employees became the movie stars: undergo[Electronic Document Management69], electronic 70 For seven months of the 73% of all credit ing make-up procedure, working on rehearsals of database of legal entities and individuals, e-signastories and shooting stories in several takes. It is ture (img. 1). decisions were signed with a digital signature. nice to witness the feeling of proudness from the Img. 1. Eco-initiatives of Platinum Bank Electronic Document Account Portability Project [Electronic70] Management signature (e-signature) Used for credit solutions, considerably increased the Created an e-database of all legal efficiency of departments’ work entities and individuals, both new Allowed to considerably clients and old. Due to this, clients [ having reduced by 70% the time simplify the processing and can be served in any branch office ] for providing a loan71 , decreased archiving of big volumes of operational expenses, improved of the bank irrespective of where information, reduce searching informational security, increased they took a loan, which is very time and the workload with the the speed of data interchange convenient in case of frequent documentation. between the departments. For travels or moving to another place of residence. clients it means less time spent waiting for official processing and obtaining a loan. 50 PLATINUM BANK AND THE ENVIRONMENT Second direction – “green” products and came a winner of the competition “BEST CIO 2012” services, offered by the bank. In 2012 Platiin the nomination of “Small and mid-size banks” 71 In only 1 month – August 2012 – the bank num Bank worked on making its services more (publication “Kompyuternoe Obozrenie [Computsaved 35 000 sheets of paper. accessible. For example, clients can open a deposer Review]”). it in one branch office of the bank and replenish As of now, my pride and joy is the IT-team of it in another one – closer to their home. As such, Platinum Bank, which is a strong side of the bank. the bank saves not only the time of its clients, but Today we can say that the tasks, which business 72 Readers voted for the best e-bank among 30 also reduces time they would otherwise spend on had put in front of us for 2012, we have successfulbanks with internet banking services provided travel. And what about the СО2 emission, which ly fulfilled and our team has demonstrated a high for individuals according to the key criteria. would take place if the client had to get back to “triple” reliability and efficiency , – Sergey Popov, the branch office, where he or she made a deposit, Chief IT Officer. in order to close it or to replenish? Moreover, now Third direction – promotion of eco-culture, you can manage your funds remotely. In 2012 creating an atmosphere of general participathe internet bank Platinum Click was launched. tion in the protection of the environment. So now clients can review their accounts, transOne bank cannot change everything. But it can fer funds, open deposits and repay loans 24/7. work with employees, clients, partners, changThis service ensures the access of bank’s clients ing their attitude. For example, within the frameto quality services all over the territory of Ukraine. work of the “Responsible Bankers' Day” about 200 And even now the internet bank has already obemployees of Platinum Bank worked with nontained the recognition of clients. According to commercial partners, helping them in cleaning the readers of “Investgazeta”, Platinum Bank has the territory, doing repairs and painting premises entered [TOP-572] of the most electronic banks of (img. 2). Ukraine. And its Chief IT Officer, Sergey Popov, beImg. 2. Eco-initiatives of the “Responsible Bankers’ Day” [Specialized sanatorium for children “Barvinok” ] 73 (Boyarka, Kyiv oblast) State Centre of Tourism and Local History, Geography and Cleaned the territory, painted the children's playground, Culture for schoolchildren (Kyiv) walls, windows, doors in the rooms and in the corridors After 2 hours, a truck for 5 tons was full with garbage. on one of the floors, fixed the furniture. Out of 2 grass mowers, one was presented to the sanatorium. Kindergarten (Kyiv) Lake Beloye (Kyiv) Cleaned trees and bushes from garbage, dug up several In 2 hours, over 150 big garbage bags were filled. seedbeds, planted over 100 plants and made several decorations from natural materials. 73 No repairs in 20 years! 51 PLATINUM BANK AND THE ENVIRONMENT The bank’s employees were so inspired by the There are many other different ways to follow in “green ideas” at work, that they try to reduce the “Go Green” direction. Anyone can do that in their consumption of water, electricity and eco-harmful own home and try to decrease their environmensubstances n their own homes. tal footprint . Svetlana Arkhipova, Leading Analyst of the Also, the bank tries to involve in such initiatives Marketing Department. its “neighbours” in the business centre, where the Head Office of the bank is situated. For example, For several years in our the project of bank’s employees regarding the bank has been actively imcollection of paper for recycling is now supportplemented and developed ed not only by the Platinum Bank team, but also the direction “Go Green”. by the employees of other companies, offices of Each of us says a phrase which are located in the business centre “Horizon “We support ‘Go Green’!” Park”. Such companies, as 3М, Cicklum, Life, Merat least once a day. And we topolis, American Chamber of Commerce gladly do that not only at work, but at home as well. Here supported the eco-initiative of Platinum Bank. All is, for example, what I do at home: the paper for recycling is submitted for producing secondary raw materials. In three such joint col1. Stopped using chlorine and phosphatelections, together with partners, the bank saved based detergents completely. They are harmful 100 trees. Now centralized collection of paper for not only for the one, who’s doing the cleaning, recycling is done in the Head Office every quarter, but also for those, who later inhale the remains of and in future the bank plans to install a big conthese detergents from the surfaces. tainer for collecting used paper from all the residents of the business centre “Horizon Park”. 2. Replaced in the toilet the aerosol air fresheners with aroma-oils, which are both more healthy These attempts of Platinum Bank to involve and cheaper. other people not only help to realize the “green” efforts of the bank, but also make a significant 3. Soda – is a great cleaning aid, which doesn’t contribution into the preservation of the planet, corrode the surfaces of things (sink, bath, etc.), as it changes the behaviour of partners. And they, and, at that, does very well in fighting dirt without in their own turn, have partners, whom they will harmful impact on the environment. influence as well. The bank hopes, that this chain of eco-kindness will reach everyone. [The theory 4. In the kitchen I replaced gel detergents with of six handshakes74] has proven its efficiency. 74 Theory, according to which any two people mustard powder. It removes the grease and dirt on Earth are only five handshakes away from perfectly and doesn’t remain on the dishes. each other (five mutual acquaintances). 52 PLATINUM BANK AND THE ENVIRONMENT 75 168 man-hours Reduce, recycle and reuse 76 Chlorine is not used for whitening such Have you heard of the “3R”-rule? “Reduce, lamps in the Head Office of Platinum Bank. In the paper recycle, reuse”. Platinum Bank uses this approach summer of 2012, in the Head Office of the bank in its everyday operation. The bank strives to dewere installed sensor switchers of light. Now the 77 without harmful substances in them crease its environmental footprint, recycle waste bank saves even more electricity. and even reuse some materials. These measures are more expensive for the Recycled stationery and eco-detergents. In bank, as eco-friendly office stationery costs much all offices of Platinum Bank is used the paper remore than the usual one. Platinum Bank takes this cycled from [secondary raw materials76]. Besides, socially responsible step as a sign of its profound the employees use markers, pencils and other ofcommitment to the principles of “Go Green” and fice stationery made from the wood processing understanding of the importance of neutralizing industry recycled waste. Special attention is also one’s environmental footprint , – Yurii Beliak, paid to the choice of [eco-friendly77] detergents. Head of General Procurement Support. Garbage bags and tissues are bought basing on the criterion “decomposition time of the materials Printers: in the bank all printers work in the is no more than 6 months”. Using eco-detergents regime of “toner economy”. This helps to prolong is important not only for environment, but first the service life of the cartridge. It also helps to and foremost – for the health and well-being of reduce the price of printing one page. Often the the employees. employees use “draft” regime in order to reduce the toner consumption. Used batteries. In 2012 the bank installed special boxes for collecting used batteries in the Collection of paper and plastic: active emHead Office of the bank, in the branches of Kyiv ployees of the bank collected 3 460 kg of paper and Lviv. The employees started bringing used and 450 kg of plastic, which were submitted for batteries from their homes, from their friends’ recycling. homes as well. Bank’s clients also could hand in used batteries. All efforts united, over 35 kg of difVideoconferences: the employees of the ferent batteries were collected and submitted for bank held [59 videoconferences75] between the recycling. Head Office and regions. This helped the bank to save 15 000 UAH. Centralized collection of paper: Platinum Bank has been practicing the paper collection for Sensor lamps: One more way to decrease recycling for quite some time and it engages its one’s environmental footprint – installing sensor employees in the process as well. The employees 53 PLATINUM BANK AND THE ENVIRONMENT are eager to save more trees. [That is why the branches appeared new containers for collecting amounts of collected paper are constantly growpaper. The amount of collected paper is a good 78 For example, in July 2012 the bank gathered ing78]. In March 2012 the bank joined an eco-soindicator for the inner competing of departments. 120 kg of paper for recycling, in October cial project “Green Publishing House”. The project In a year the employees collected 1 849 kg of pa2012 – already 500 kg. was initiated by the holding [“Evolution Media”79] per. — the bank’s partner. In the Head Office and in Kyiv 79 “Evolution Media” – are the publications “Commentarii (Comments)”, Kyiv Weekly, as well Paper in the life of the bank as sites: comments.ua, umgk.info, pnt.ua. The amount of paper used for signing ployee. The aim of the e-mail is to decrease the agreements and contracts is huge. The bank amount of printed out pages by conscientious decided to reduce the amount of paper, used in employees. With those employees, who use the 80 This practice was introduced in 2012 and it the daily operations of the bank. Certain rules for biggest amount of paper we conduct personal already has substantial effect. paper usage were introduced. conversations. Also, the ratings of employees can be observed at the inner bank’s portal “My PlatiNow the employees know that: num”. 81 In the monetary equivalent, the bank saved • sending an e-mail to the colleague is a bet26 695 UAH. ter idea than printing information out and showAs a result, the employees of the bank saved ing it to the colleague; about [57 000 sheets of paper81]. • printing must be done on both sides of the The principle of two-sided printing is also insheet of paper; troduced into the agreements with partners and • line and paragraph spacing must not exceed 1; contractors. The bank is sure, that “green” princi• printing out unnecessary copies is prohibited; ples of the bank can inspire other companies as well to save paper and not to waste it. • for drafts, copies and faxes you can re-use paper (use the other side of the paper that already has something printed on one side). The IT department has a special programme, which allows tracking how many pages of paper were used by each employee. As such, [every month80] the IT-department sends an e-mail to the Heads of Departments. In these e-mails they state the amount of paper used by each em54 REALIZATION OF PLATINUM BANK’S PLANS FOR 2012 REALIZATION OF PLATINUM BANK’S PLANS FOR 2012 Plans for 2012 Conducted activities Results 1. Integrating “Platinum StanConducted the second quiz on the Prompt correction of integration dards” in the daily activities of the employees’ knowledge of the rules. zones of “Platinum Standards”. bank. 2. Increasing the level of interaction between departments and Introduced electronic document Reducing operational expenses decreasing negative impact on the management and e-signature. and environmental footprint. environment. Activated the process of transferring to recycled paper for all 3. Decreasing negative influence bank’s departments, changed the Considerable decrease of negative on the environment. procurement rules for purchasing impact on the environment. stationery, having included goods with the Eco-Friendly label. Elaborated and implemented the 4. Improving the factor “Career Facilitating personal and profestraining “Platinum Manager. ModDevelopment”. sional growth of the employees. ule 1. Planning.” Elaborated and implemented Prompt correction of develop5. Improving the quality of client online polls of clients with the aim ment zones in our servicing of the servicing. of operative monitoring of the clients. quality of banking service. Conducted an online poll for dis6. Involving employees in the Increasing the level of employee covering institutions, for which the charitable support from the bank. involvement. bank’s support was provided. Involving the new age group of 7. Developing the programme Elaborated a new lesson: “Personal children – 14-16 and preparing “Platinum Posidelki [Platinum budget”. them for adult life in the world of Parties]”. finance. Helping in computerizing schools 8. Developing the programme Conducted the All-Ukraine Contest in the regions, located far from the “Education of the Highest Level”. for schools and boarding schools. centre. 56 TABLE OF INDICATORS Platinum Bank’s compliance to the UN Global Compact Sphere Principles of the UN Global Compact Pages Principle 1: Business community should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Human rights 64-67 Principle 2: Business community should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3. Business community should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Business community should uphold the elimination Employment relaof all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 67-68 tionships Principle 5: Business community should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Business community should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Business community should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Business community should undertake initiatives to Environment promote greater environmental responsibility. 50-54 Principle 9: Business community should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Counter-corrupPrinciple 10: Business community should work against corrup10-12, 32-38 tion activities tion in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 57 PLANS FOR 2013 PLANS FOR 2013 Essential issues Plans for 2013 Expected Results for 2013 Bonus of the management incentive Corporate relate not only to financial, Expected Results: Enter in the Top 5 CSR Mangement but also non-financial performance. responsible company Standarts The indicators included in the annual KPI of tions (according to the GVardiya ). Each top manager. In 2013 the research will become annual with the usage of the methodology by “Ernst&Young”. We Increasing the level of employee aim at reaching no less than 69% of involveinvolvement. ment and showing the highest level of employee involvement among Ukrainian banks. Employees Evaluation is conducted via the anonymous Managers receive feedback from subordiprovision of feedback from direct nates regarding their compliance with the subordinates to the managers of all levels corporate culture of the bank. (about 300 managers). Expected level of compliance – no less than 84%. Conducting no less than 3 centralized Developing the project on collecting the collections of paper for recycling and paper for recycling. involving the neighbouring companies in the Environment project. Introducing centralized collection of used Installing boxes for used batteries in all batteries. branch offices and in the Head Office. Realizing regional projects “Responsible Developing CSR projects in the regions. Banker’s Day”, “Bookcrossing”, “Verdurization of Hospitals”. Elaboration of 1 new lesson for the senior Community Developing the project “Platinum age group of children. Conducting in 2013 Posidelki”. meetings for no less than 10 000 children. Increasing the quantity of men-hours spent No less than 4 500 men-hours. for corporate volunteering. 58 ABOUT THE REPORT ABOUT THE REPORT Every year, for the last three years, Platithe experts. The Contest is held annually by the num Bank fulfils its obligations according Centre “CSR Development”. 82 Report for 2010 “Business with a Human to the UN Global Compact. The bank provides Face” and the report for 2011 “2011: a a report regarding the realization of the 10 prinIn the bank’s report of 2012 are disclosed the Road to Sustainable Future” can be found ciples of Global Compact in its activities. In the essential (important) issues, which demonstrate on the web-site of the bank http://www. time period from April to September the work at bank’s contribution to the sustainable developplatinumbank.com.ua/view.creports/. the bank is in full swing: non-stop flow of requests ment of Ukraine. The bank still pays special attento different departments and branch offices about tion to the development of corporate culture on the achievements of the bank, its implemented the basis of “Platinum Standards” and Policies of projects, the impact of such projects on the life the bank, as well as to the progress of the em83 This indicator on salary for 2012 is of the bank and the community. Six months of ployees. The bank is implementing programmes incomparable with the indicator for 2011. In working on a report, involving many employees, on financial literacy for children, improving their 2011 it was calculated according to the salary preparing and re-writing of chapters. What is all knowledge about money. Platinum Bank pays a with taxes. In 2012 the calculation was done this work for? For the bank’s shareholders to know lot of attention to strengthening the trusting reon the basis of salary after tax deduction. what it is that the bank is doing now and what it is lationship with the clients. And in the foundation planning on doing in future. And for them, as they of these initiatives and programmes of the bank learn about it all, to be able to advise the bank reis the unique involvement level of the bank’s emgarding the improvement of some projects or reployees. garding the issues, which require more attention. If you have any ideas or comments – please, write. The report [“Platinum Bank for the Society: The bank will consider all suggestions and answer Small Stories of the Great Success” covers the inall questions. dicators of operating activities of all branch offices of the bank in Ukraine83]. Financial indicators of The third report of the bank is named [“PlatiPlatinum Bank are in more detail presented in the num Bank for the Society: Small Stories of the Annual Report of the Bank 2012. Full characterGreat Success”82]. It has combined the stories istics of the bank’s activities can be found here: from the bank’s life, stories of its employees and http://www.platinumbank.com.ua Also, the bank clients. This bank’s report, as well as the report for didn’t report on several indicators as they are not 2011, is done in accordance with the GRI guideapplicable to the activities of the organization in lines (version G3), “B” level of implementation. It is the sphere of banking. All the indicators disclosed worth mentioning, that the bank’s report for 2011 by the bank fully or partially, can be found in the won the second prize at the Contest of Non-finanTable of Report Indicator Correspondence to the cial Reports “Readers’ Choice Award”, according to GRI Guidelines. 59 ABOUT THE REPORT The report by Platinum Bank for 2012 is • Measurement precision of the source done on the basis of principles of non-financial data and provided indicators: information is reporting: provided on the basis of physical, labour, monetary methods of measurement; calculation • Essentiality (importance) of the providtechniques for data in relation to the indicators ed information: the bank pays attention to the of previous years (2010 and 2011), in most of the most important activities of the reported period. indicators, remained unchanged. • Focus on the interests of stakeholders: • Accuracy and clarity of text narration: the report describes the relationships with stakebank’s activities in the reported year of 2012 is deholders and issues, which are important to them scribed in the form that is understandable to the in their cooperation with the bank. reader, without complex definitions and terms. • Sustainable development context: the • Accessibility of the report’s informabank, in its report on sustainable development tion: the document is done in three languages pays attention to the importance of the pro(Ukrainian, Russian, English), with all three versions grammes and projects of the bank and their imdownloadable from the bank’s site: a small numpact on the economic, social and environmental ber of report copies was published. spheres with the aim of sustainable development of the community. • Balance of the material: information is provided in the report in a well-balanced man• Credibility of the information providner and includes both positive and not so positive ed: the information, provided in this report, was tendencies. The bank is sure that this is the only verified by the bank’s employees and the Inner way to improve its operation. Audit Department; all data can be supported by the documentation. The bank plans to report on its activities annually further on. • Impartiality of the information: all of the provided information reflects real situation and activities of the bank, all the evens described took place in 2012. • Completeness of information: the report describes all important events in the activities of the bank, which took place in 2012. 60 TABLE OF INDICATORS TABLE OF INDICATORS GRI indicaPage in the Disclosure level of Description of indicator tor report the indicator Statement of the highest position decision-maker of the 1.1 organization regarding the importance of sustainable 4 disclosed development for the organization 1.2 Characteristics of key impacts, risks and opportunities 6 disclosed Organization’s characteristics The bank operates in accordance with the License of the 2.1 Name of the organization National Bank of disclosed Ukraine # 217 of 20 October 2011 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 13 disclosed 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 10 disclosed 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 2 disclosed Number of countries where the organization operates, The bank operates and names of countries with either major operations or 2.5 2 only on the territory that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues of Ukraine covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 7, 11 disclosed 2.7 Markets served 2 disclosed 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 2, 7 disclosed Significant changes during the reporting period regard56, 59 2.9 disclosed ing size, structure, or ownership including No changes 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 6 disclosed Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided 59 disclosed 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 59 disclosed 62 TABLE OF INDICATORS 3.3 Reporting cycle 59 disclosed Contact point for questions regarding the report or its 3.4 79 disclosed contents 3.5 Process for defining report content 20-21, 59 disclosed 3.6 Boundary of the report 59 disclosed Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the 3.7 No limitations disclosed report Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other No other enti3.8 disclosed entities that can significantly affect comparability from ties period to period and/or between organizations Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying 3.9 59 disclosed estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of inforwithout 3.10 mation provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for substantial disclosed such re-statement alteration Significant changes from previous reporting periods in without 3.11 the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied substantial disclosed in the report alteration Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclo3.12 62-69 disclosed sures in the report No assurance report is enclosed. Policy and current practice with regard to seeking exterInformation in the 3.13. disclosed nal assurance for the report report is proved by the meeting with stakeholders Interaction with stakeholders Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body 4.1 10-12 disclosed responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance 4.2 11 disclosed body is also an executive officer 63 TABLE OF INDICATORS For organizations that have a unitary board structure, No independent state the number and gender of members of the highest 4.3 and/or non-execudisclosed governance body that are independent and/or nontive members executive members Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 4.4 recommendations or direction to the highest gover10-12 disclosed nance body Linkage between compensation for members of the Awards and 4.5 highest governance body, senior managers, and execudisclosed bonuses, 58 tives andthe organization’s performance Processes in place for the highest governance body to 4.6 10-12 disclosed ensure conflicts of interest are avoided Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest gover4.7. 8-12 disclosed nance body and itscommittees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, 4.8 8-10 disclosed environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, in4.9. 8-10 disclosed cluding relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance withinternationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s 4.10. own performance, particularly with respect to econom10, 56 disclosed ic, environmental, and social performance Explanation of whether and how the precautionary ap4.11 8-10 disclosed proach or principle is addressed by the organization Externally developed economic, environmental, and 4.12 social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which 7 disclosed the organization subscribes or endorses Memberships in associations (such as industry associa4.13 tions) and/or national/international advocacy organiza7, 34, 37 disclosed tions 64 TABLE OF INDICATORS 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 19 disclosed Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 4.15 19 disclosed with whom to engage Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including 4.16 frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder 19-20 disclosed group Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 4.17 21-22 disclosed responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting EC Management approaches to economic performance 6 disclosed Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compenEC1 7, 8 disclosed sation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to In 2012 the bank didn’t receive any EC4 Capital providers and governments financial assistance disclosed from the government Significant financial assistance received from governEC5 30, 73-74 disclosed partially ment The bank doesn’t have a policy in accordance to which it would give preferRange of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender ence for either local or foreign EC6 compared to local minimum wage at significant locapartners in such disclosed tions of operation procedures. But in practice the majority of supplier companies are registered in Ukraine. 65 TABLE OF INDICATORS Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior EC7 management hired from the local community at loca27 disclosed tions of significant operation Development and impact of infrastructure investments EC8 and services provided primarily for public benefit 8 disclosed through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement Management approaches to environmental perforEN 50 disclosed mance EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 53-54 disclosed Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and EN7 53 disclosed partially reductions achieved Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of prodEN26 50 disclosed ucts and services, and extent of impact mitigation LA Management approaches to labour practices 24-25 disclosed Total workforce by employment type, employment LA1 24, 71 disclosed contract, and region Total number and rate of new employee hires and emLA2 24 disclosed partially ployee turnover by age group, gender, and region Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not LA3 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by 30-31 disclosed significant locations of operation Percentage of employees covered by collective bargainLA4 100% disclosed ing agreements Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational 2 months (stipulated in the LA5 changes, including whether it is specified in collective Collective Agreedisclosed agreements ment) Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and No such LA7 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by incidents in the disclosed region and by gender reported period 66 TABLE OF INDICATORS Education, training, counselling, prevention, and riskcontrol programs in place to assist workforce members, LA8 28-29 disclosed their families, or community members regarding serious diseases Average hours of training per year per employee by LA10 29 disclosed partially gender, and by employee category Programs for skills management and lifelong learning LA11 that support the continued employability of employees 28, 74 disclosed and assist them in managing career endings Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, LA13 71 disclosed age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity HR Management approaches to human rights 25 disclosed No incidents of disTotal number of incidents of discrimination and correcHR4 crimination in the disclosed tive actions taken reported period Operations and significant suppliers identified in which No incidents of the freedom of associathe right to exercise freedom of association and collecHR5 tion and collective disclosed tive bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, bargaining were and actions taken to support these rights at risk Operations and significant suppliers identified as havThe bank doesn’t ing significant risk for incidents of child labour, and use child labour HR6 disclosed measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition in its operational activities of child labour Operations and significant suppliers identified as havThe bank doesn’t use forced or ing significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory HR7 compulsory labour disclosed labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of in its operational all forms of forced or compulsory labour activities No incidents of Total number of incidents of violations involving rights violations involving HR9 disclosed of indigenous people and actions taken rights of indigenous people Management approaches to interaction SO 32 disclosed with the community 67 TABLE OF INDICATORS SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 32-36 disclosed Public policy positions and participation in public policy SO5 36 disclosed development and lobbying Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to The bank doesn’t SO6 political parties, politicians, and related institutions by support political disclosed parties country Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive No incidents of legal SO7 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their actions for anticomdisclosed petitive behavior outcomes Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Таких случаев не SO8 non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws было disclosed and regulations PR Management approaches to product responsibility 12 disclosed Practices related to customer satisfaction, including PR5 14-17 disclosed results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance PR9 with laws and regulations concerning the provision and 38 disclosed use of products and services Management approaches in the sector of financial FS 12 disclosed services Policies with specific environmental and social compoFS1 40, 50 disclosed nents applied to business lines Initiatives to enhance financial literacy, by the type of FS16 40-43 disclosed their beneficiaries Initiatives to improve access to financial services for FS14 27, 40 disclosed disadvantaged people 68 69 TERMS AND ABBREVIATIONS TERMS AND ABBREVIATIONS BB – business banking. Insider – a member of the group, who possesses information, which only this group has. Board member – a voting member of the Board. ISFR – International Standards of Financial Reporting. Board Observer – a non-voting member of the Board. LLP – Long Lost Provision. Cash-in ATMs – ATMs with a function of reMiddle Manager – manager of a middle rank. ceiving cash funds. NBU – National Bank of Ukraine. Collection – management, which is engaged Platinum Branch – channel of sale, classic in measures for early repayment of a debt, but not bank branch offices, located in the cities with the implying personal meetings with the debtor colpopulation of over 1 Mio. lector. Platinum Express – mobile points of loan sale. Compliance department – a special department in the company, which ensures the estabPoints of sale – points of loan sale. lishment and functioning of the ComplianceReport on sustainable development – doccontrol system and provides for the coordination ument, containing the results of company’s activiof actions related to the changes in regulatory reties in social, environmental and ethical spheres quirements, evaluation of compliance risks, deals for the certain period of time. with compliance incidents, as well as coordinated actions, concerning any relations with the RegulaScoring – system for evaluating the creditwortors. thiness (credit risks) of a person, based on quantitative statistical methods. Coach – educating trainer. Stakeholders – groups or individuals, who CSR – Corporate Social Responsibility. can influence on or who are influenced by the Electronic Document Management – autoachievement of organizational targets. mated document management processes, related SME – Small and medium enterprises (busito various kinds of processing e-documents. nesses). GDP – gross domestic product. GRI – Global Reporting Initiative. 70 ANNEX 1 ANNEXES Proportion of men and women in Platinum Bank Proportion of men and women in Platinum Bank Men Women Senior 7 (0.3%) 2 (0.08%) Middle 137 (19.4%) 249 (6.5%) Staff 559 (80.3%) 3 572 (93.5%) Ratio of women’s salary to men’s salary in Platinum Bank Senor + Middle Staff 78% 66% Education of Platinum Bank employees Basic Vocational secondary Secondary Higher Total% higher education education Senior 9 (100%) 0 0 0 100% Middle 360 (93.3%) 11 (2.8%) 15 (3.9%) 0 100% Staff 2 473 (59.9%) 579 (14%) 885 (21.4%) 194 (4.7%) 100% Age categories of Platinum Bank employees < 30 31-50 > 51 Total% Senior 0 8 (89%) 1 (11%) 100% Middle 172 (44.6%) 206 (53.4%) 8 (2%) 100% Staff 3 454 (83.6%) 539 (13%) 138 (3.4%) 100% 71 ANNEX 2 Correlation of average salary in Ukraine and in Platinum Bankin the Western region for 2012 5000 4500 4000 Average salary in Platinum 3500 Bank (Western region), UAH 3000 2500 Average salary in Ukraine 2000 1500 (Western region), UAH 1000 500 0 ar y y ar Ap ay ne ly t us be to be nu ar ch ril M Ju Ju r Nove r Fe br M Au g pt m be Ja u em OcDe ce m r Se be r Correlation of average salary in Ukraine and in Platinum Bankin the Kyiv region for 2012 Average salary in Platinum 12000 Bank (Kyiv region), UAH 11000 10000 Average salary in Ukraine (Kyiv 9000 8000 region), UAH 7000 6000 5000 4000 2000 0 ar y ru y arch Ap il ay Ju e y Ju Au ber tobe r nu ar r M n l gu pt Nove Ja Fe M st em OcDe mbe r b ce m be Se r Correlation of average salary in Ukraine and in Platinum Bankin the Central region for 2012 Average salary in Platinum 5500 Bank (Central region), UAH 5000 4500 Average salary in Ukraine 4000 3500 (Central region), UAH 3000 2500 2000 1500 1000 0 ar y y ar il ay Ju y st to be ruar ch Ap M ne Ju l Au Se No r Ja r gu pt ve m nu Fe M em OcDe be r b be ce m r ber 72 ANNEX 2 Correlation of average salary in Ukraine and in Platinum Bankin the South region for 2012 10000 9000 8000 Average salary in Platinum 7000 Bank (South region), UAH 6000 5000 Average salary in Ukraine 4000 3000 (South region), UAH 2000 1000 0 ary y ar Ap ay ne ly t us be to be nu ar ch ril M Ju Ju r Nove r Fe M Au pt m be Ja br u g em OcDe ce r Se m be r Correlation of average salary in Ukraine and in Platinum Bankin the North-eastern region for 2012 Average salary in Platinum Bank 6000 (North-eastern region), UAH 5500 5000 Average salary in Ukraine 4500 4000 (North-eastern region), UAH 3500 3000 2500 2000 1000 0 ary y ar il ay Ju Ju us ber to be ruar ch Ap r M ne ly t No r Janu M Au g pt ve m be Fe b em OcDe cem r Se be r Correlation of average salary in Ukraine and in Platinum Bankin the East region for 2012 Average salary in Platinum 5500 Bank (East region), UAH 5000 4500 Average salary in Ukraine 4000 3500 (East region), UAH 3000 2500 2000 1500 1000 0 ry ar y ar il ay Ju Ju Sept st Ja ch Ap r M ne ly Au em be r nu ru M gu Oc to be a Fe b No ve m be r r De ce m be r 73 ANNEX 3 Programmes of employee recognition One of the main competitions, which takes The winners are those, who get the highest inplace for the second year in a row, is the dicators in sales and portfolio integrity (i.e., credit League of Masters. The League of Masters – is risks). During the evaluation, such indicators as a corporate recognition programme for regional service quality and results of professional testing Sale Departments’ employees of all levels, which are taken into consideration as well. 2012 saw 317 has 12 nominations. winners (10% of all participants, many won several times), out of which: Programme’s goals: • Winners-2012 in Express : 191. • Stimulating the personnel in sales to • Winners-2012 in Branch : 117. achieving outstanding results via just evaluation and recognition of their services rendered • Winners-2012 in Business: 9. to the company. • Supporting healthy competitive spirit between employees. The programme covers 72% of all employees, notably: 3 Sales Departments (total of 3,247 people in 2012): 1. Department of Branch -sales (strength by the end of 2012 – 680 people); 2. Department of Express -sales (strength by the end of 2012 – 2,532 people); 3. Department of Business Clients Sales (strength – 35 people). Becoming a member of the League of Masters means high recognition, as these employees are the best in their field, role models for everyone else. 74 ANNEX 4 Winner schools of “Education of the Highest Level” competition in 2012 1. Zaporizhzhya multisectoral lyceum №99 7. CI “Zaporizkiy Sechevyi boarding school(Zaporizhzhya). collegium” (Zaporizhzhya, Zaporizhzhya oblast) 2. Chernivtsi specialized school ORT №41 8. Terebovlya gymnasium-specialized-boardwith profound study of Jewish ethno-cultural ing-school (Terebovlya, Ternopil oblast). component (Chernivtsi). 9. Kazatske educational complex “Compre3. Konotop specialized school of the І-ІІІ level hensive school of І-ІІІ level — pre-school educa№3. (Konotop, Sumy oblast). tional institution” (Kazatske, Sumy oblast). 4. EC “Vsesvit” (Matveevka, Zaporizhzhya 10. Khortytsya national educational-rehabilioblast). tating multisectoral centre (Zaporizhzhya, Zaporizhzhya oblast). 5. EC “School-gymnasium” №3 (Armyansk, the AR of Crimea). 11. Fontanka comprehensive school of social rehabilitation (Fontanka, Odessa oblast). 6. Melitopol EC №16 “Kindergarten-schoolHEI” (Melitopol, Zaporizhzhya oblast). 12. Volodymyr-Volynskyi specialized boarding school (Volodymyr-Volynskyi, Volyn oblast). 75 ANNEX 5 Institutions, supported by the bank In two years of implementing social programmes Platinum Bank provided substantial support to 51 institutions (Table 10) Table 10. Social support from Platinum Bank to community, 2011-2012 Orphanages and Mother and Child Care Opened computer classes in: Centres (traditional actions) in: Kyiv oblast Zaporizhzhya oblast Kharkiv oblast Odessa oblast AR of Crimea Cherkassy oblast Donetsk oblast Kirovograd oblast Zaporizhzhya oblast Ternopil oblast Dniproperovsk oblast Lviv oblast Cherkassy oblast Kharkiv oblast Chernigiv oblast Dniproperovsk oblast Kherson oblast Donetsk oblast Lougansk oblast AR of Crimea Nikolayev oblast Total 15 Total 25 76 FEEDBACK QUESTIONNAIRE FEEDBACK QUESTIONNAIRE Platinum Bank – is a dynamically developing responsible bank. Your opinion of this report and of the initiatives we realize within our CSR strategy is very important and valuable for us. We are eager to receive your feedback and recommendations via fax, (please, address to Elena Shcherbina): (044) 288 40 77 or via e-mail: pr@platinumbank.com.ua 1. General impression of the report. Choose from 1 to 5, where 5 is the highest mark. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 2. How well does the report comply with the principles of informativeness and usefulness? Choose from 1 to 5, where 5 is the highest mark. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 77 FEEDBACK QUESTIONNAIRE 3. What should be changed and improved in the social report in future? • More quantitative indicators • More illustrations and photo-proofs • More attention should be paid to the stylistic execution • More attention should be paid to a certain part (specify which) __________________ • More attention should be paid to achievements and non-financial indicators 4. Your recommendations regarding the improvement of the company’s activities in the sphere of corporate social responsibility _______________________________________________________________________________ _______________________________________________________________________________ _______________________________________________________________________________ 5. Specify, please, to which group you belong: • our client • other bank’s client • investor • our employee • CSR specialist • company representative • representative of the state authorities • representative of the state regulatory bodies • representative of mass media • representative of a public organization • other (specify) ________________________________________________________________ 78 EShcherbina@platinumbank.com.ua +38 (044) 492 90 92 http://www.platinumbank.com.ua We are eager to receive your feedback and recommendations, please, address to Elena Shcherbina, Head of Sistainable Development REPORT IS PRINTED ON RECYCLED PAPER
