UN Global Compact Progress Report 2011/12 Contents Management’s CSR review 5 Raw materials and animal welfare 22 About Danish Crown 7 Purchasing 25 Danish Crown’s CSR policy 8 THE WORKPLACE 27 27 9 HR Corporate Governance in Danish Crown Working conditions 28 FOOD SAFETY AND HEALTH 10 Human rights 32 10 Food safety Anti-corruption 33 Nutrition and health 11 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE 13 Environmental policy 13 Climate strategy 13 Impact of Danish pork on climate change  13 Water and waste water 14 Energy and the climate 14 Chemicals 15 Waste 15 By-products 15 Food waste 15 Environmental key figures for Danish Crown’s slaughterhouses in Denmark 16 Key figures for energy consumption 16 Environmental key figures for DC Foods (processing activities) 20 Management’s CSR review Danish Crown is one of Denmark’s biggest companies and thereroutines across the group has thus been launched. The present fore an important part of Danish society. report, the group’s second CSR report, will reflect how the UN Global Compact guidelines are being integrated in the company For a food company like Danish Crown, CSR is particularly importo promote socially responsible behaviour. tant in relation to the company’s employees, in relation to the animals received for slaughter, in relation to the environmental In practice, our support for the UN Global Compact is expressed and climatic impacts of its activities and in relation to food through the formulation of a climate strategy and the continued safety. implementation of measures to reduce our impact on the environment and climate. In relation to the company’s employees, Following the adoption of the DC2015 strategy plan, Danish the company is focusing more on occupational injuries and job Crown’s CSR policy has been introduced as a management tool satisfaction and well-being. The purchasing function is incorpoin all group companies. rating CSR and UN Global Compact principles when negotiating contracts and conducting supplier audits. In addition, a number Today, Danish Crown has activities in many countries around the of projects are being undertaken relating to healthy foods and world which are characterised by considerable cultural diversity food safety as well to the UN Global Compact’s other principles. and widely differing labour market conditions. In 2011, the company introduced regular reporting within the CSR area, so that Throughout the entire value chain, Danish Crown’s chief ­priority the reporting and the quality of the key figures is continually is to ensure proper and decent conditions for animals, people being improved as part of the implementation of the company’s and the environment. Danish Crown has consider­able experience CSR policy. at helping employees who have been made redund­ant find new work, setting animal welfare standards and improving technolIn 2011/12, Danish Crown’s CSR policy was rolled out to a far ogy for the sake of the environment. The strategic focus within greater extent than previously. Joining UN Global Compact in this area will ensure a high degree of responsibility and propriety 2011 meant that the group’s first CSR progress report was within future CSR activities. published in June 2012. The group’s CSR policy was incorporated into the DC2015 strategy plan from 2009 and communicated to Kjeld Johannesen the group’s subsidiaries. The task of integrating CSR in the daily Group CEO Page 5 of 34 About Danish Crown Since 2010, all operating activities in the Danish Crown group Company structure have been carried out in limited companies. The primary slaughtering activities take place in the parent company Danish Crown Danish Crown’s primary activity is the slaughter and sale of A/S, which is still wholly owned by L­ everandørselskabet Danish the pigs and cattle supplied by members. In recent years, the Crown AmbA. Leverandør­selskabet Danish Crown AmbA follows processing activities have grown considerably. The reason is a traditional ­democratic principles in Danish agricultural cooperdesire to ensure a more stable sales platform and to bring the atives. Among other things, this means that the company is added value derived from the processing activities home to the wholly owned by Danish farmers and that the company focuses cooperative members in Denmark. on the i­nterests of its cooperative members. The slaughtering of the animals supplied by members takes place in the fresh meat divisions DC Pork and DC Beef. Results ­Processing activities fall under DC Foods, which comprises the subsidiaries Tulip Food Company, Tulip Ltd, Plumrose USA Inc. In 2011/12, Danish Crown realised a growth in sales, ­primarily and the partly owned Sokołów S.A. Tulip Ltd and Sokołów S.A. as a result of higher prices, improved exchange rates and also slaughter animals supplied by ­non-members. the a­ cquisition of new companies. The competitive situation remains tough, but the company succeeded in returning a profit The subsidiaries have independent profiles with their own almost on a par with last year’s result. In 2011/12, the settleboards of directors, executive boards, defined key markets, ments paid to the suppliers were again at a competitive level. brands and products. There is emphasis on ­decentralised ­management, with central coordination and strategic ­development of the group’s combined activities. Primary activities in 2011/12 Danish Crown’s strategy plan DC2015 includes a goal of creating Cooperative owners a more balanced company. This goal was to be realised, for example, through consolidating the company’s presence in Danish Crown is owned by 9,031 cooperative members in the main markets in northern Europe while at the same time Denmark. Of these, 3,479 members supplied pigs, sows or increasing the processing activities in the subsidiaries. So far, both for slaughter, while 6,077 supplied cattle. The number of the slaughterhouse DC Fleisch in Germany has been acquired in cooperative members is continually declining, as has been the 2010/11, and in 2011/12 many resources have been allocated trend for the past many trends. This is the result of structural to optimising operations. In addition, supplementary processdevelopments in Danish agriculture, where a decreasing number ing activities have been acquired in the UK. Work on building a of farmers are producing more; there were 9,577 members in new processing factory has started in the US. In Poland, a new 2010/11, while in 2011/12 there were 546 fewer. slicing factory has been built. And in Denmark, a new cattle slaughterhouse is taking shape in southern Jutland. The Danish Crown subsidiary DAT-Schaub has invested in a US company for integrating with an existing enterprise. Page 7 of 34 Danish Crown’s CSR policy Danish Crown’s CSR policy was drawn up for the first time in the Human rights strategy plan DC2015, where it reads as follows: 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection As a global player, the Danish Crown group recognises a growing of internationally proclaimed human rights need and desire for a CSR policy as such – it is a concept that 2. Businesses should make sure that they are is becoming increasingly important both in Denmark and on not complicit in human rights abuses. the international scene. For example, the new Danish Financial Statements Act requires that CSR is included in annual reports. Therefore, a proper CSR strategy for the Danish Crown group has Labour been prepared with the title “It’s all about decency”. 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and Today, Danish Crown is part of a global community, a position the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining that puts it under certain obligations. Social responsibility 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all has been on our agenda for many years and, while respecting forms of forced and compulsory labour ­cultural differences, we are constantly working to disseminate 5. Businesses should uphold the effective best practice internationally. abolition of child labour 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination It's all about decency. Both in relation to the company’s emin respect of employment and occupation. ployees, in relation to the live animals received for slaughter, in relation to the environmental and climatic impacts of the company’s activities and in relation to supplying safe food products Environment to consumers worldwide. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary Today, the Danish Crown group has some of the most ­modern approach to environmental challenges production facilities in the world. Getting to this stage has 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to involved the implementation of new technology which to a very promote greater environmental responsibility large extent puts more focus on safety at work, repetitive strain 9. Businesses should encourage the development and injury, the environment, climate change and animal welfare. diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Danish Crown has activities in many countries around the world which are characterised by considerable cultural ­diversity and Anti-corruption widely differing labour market conditions. ­Consequently, some parts of the company have come a longer way than others in 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all terms of implementing social responsibility in their operations. its forms, including extortion and bribery. The starting point for Danish Crown’s CSR strategy is participaCompanies joining the UN Global Compact initiative must draw tion in the UN Global Compact. Global Compact is a voluntary up an annual progress report – or Communication on Progress – initiative aimed at establishing a partnership between the UN to be published together with their annual reports. and the international business community with a view to promoting corporate social responsibility in a global context. Global The annual progress report focuses increasingly on the group’s Compact is based on ten principles: activities within the three business areas DC Pork, DC Beef and DC Foods. Under the individual business areas a description is provided of special activities which show the progress being made within the CSR area. The increased ­focus on group activities has meant that several of the group’s key subsidiaries refer in their own annual reports to the group’s CSR report and policy. The DAT-Schaub group is one example. These subsidiaries and their operating units are included in the group figures and descriptions which form the basis of the CSR report. In the coming years, Danish Crown will strengthen its CSR ­activities; this will include describing and disseminating CSR policies for its subsidiaries in Denmark and abroad as well as the establishment of follow-up and reporting procedures. ­Participa­tion in the UN Global Compact initiative involves working actively to ensure progress within the individual areas – it is not about providing an ultimate guarantee of complete compliance within all areas. Page 8 of 34 Corporate Governance in Danish Crown The primary parent of the Danish Crown group is a cooperative The Executive Board reports regularly to the Board of Direccompany, but the group is also organised as a public limited tors on the company’s financial position through monthly company with Danish Crown A/S as the secondary parent. In and ­quarterly reports. Moreover, budgets, large investments, the 2011/12 financial year, all shares in Danish Crown A/S were strategy plans and annual reports are presented to the Board owned by the cooperative parent. of Directors for consideration and adoption. The company’s business risks are regularly assessed and reported on, and the Board of Directors considers the company’s risk management Leverandørselskabet and control systems on an annual basis. Danish Crown AmbA Danish Crown A/S Corporate governance in Danish Crown A/S and the group in general Subsidiaries The corporate governance of Danish Crown A/S and its subsidiaries focuses on optimising the value creation from the group’s Corporate governance in Leverandørselskabet Danish and foreign business activities. The purpose is to generDanish Crown AmbA ate the largest possible return in the short and long term as well as to increase the value of the group. The corporate governance Leverandørselskabet Danish Crown AmbA is a primary cooperaalso focuses on developing positive relations with the c­ ompany’s tive owned by the majority of the company’s Danish suppliers of customers, employees, members and other stakeholders, as animals for slaughter and managed with reference to its Articles reflected, among other things, in a written CSR policy. of Association and accepted Danish cooperative principles. At the end of 2011/12, Leverandørselskabet Danish Crown AmbA The Board of Directors of Danish Crown A/S is elected by Leve­ had 9,031 cooperative members. randørselskabet Danish Crown AmbA as the sole shareholder and has in 2011/12 had the same size, composition, chairman The corporate governance of Leverandørselskabet Danish Crown and vice-chairman as the Board of Directors of LeverandørselAmbA focuses on the cooperative’s overall objective of selling skabet Danish Crown AmbA. However, an analysis of the future member deliveries in the best possible way. Furthermore, the composition of the Board of Directors has been initiated with a corporate governance aims to develop responsible and genuine view to strengthening the business focus and the competencooperation with the company’s other stakeholders. cies of the board members as well as clarifying the division of work between the limited company Danish Crown A/S and the The Board of Representatives is the supreme governing body of cooperative. Members of the Board of Directors are elected for Leverandørselskabet Danish Crown AmbA and currently consists one year at a time. of 202 representatives elected by the cooperative members and 21 representatives elected by the employees. Members of the The Board of Directors holds regular meetings with the com­ Board of Representatives are elected at local district meetings pany’s auditors in connection with the presentation of the for a period of three years at a time by and among the compaannual report and the auditors’ records. Moreover, the Board of ny’s cooperative members. The two district meetings which are Directors meets with the auditors without the Executive Board normally held a year are also used to inform members about the being present. In 2011/12, the Board of Directors set up an company, including the annual report. In addition, the dialogue audit committee, which reports to the Board of Directors. with the cooperative members takes place on a ongoing basis, primarily via electronic weekly newsletters. The Executive Board reports regularly to the Board of Directors on the company’s financial position through detailed monthly The Board of Representatives receives general information and quarterly reports. Moreover, budgets, large investments, about the current state of the company and quarterly reports strategy plans and annual reports are presented to the Board with financial statements and comments on the group’s of Directors for adoption. The company’s business risks are business activities, which are elaborated on further at the regularly assessed and reported on, and the Board of Directors meetings. The Board of Representatives receives information considers the company’s risk management and control systems about or adopts, based on a recommendation from the Board on an annual basis. of ­Directors, matters of significance to the group, including its strategy plan, capital structure, annual report, distribution of The boards of directors and executive boards of the individual profit and amendments to the Articles of Association. subsidiaries have been composed to meet individual requirements, but with a general focus on precise reporting lines and The Board of Directors of Leverandørselskabet Danish Crown the delegation of decentralised and market-based responsiAmbA is in charge of the overall management of the company bilities for results and development such that group activities and elects a chairman and a vice-chairman once a year. The are primarily coordinated at the strategic level. All transactions Board of Directors consists of fifteen members, of whom ten between the group’s business units are conducted on an arm’s are elected at regional electoral meetings by and from among length basis. the members of the Board of Representatives. Two independent members are elected by the Board of Representatives upon the In the large companies, the boards of directors and executive recommendation of the Board of Directors, and three members boards are primarily composed of members of the Board of are elected from among the company’s employees. All members Directors and Executive Board of Danish Crown A/S and, to an of the Board of Directors are elected for three years at a time. As increasing extent, independent board members possessing regards members elected by the cooperative members, not all expertise within the various relevant business areas. members are elected in the same year. Page 9 of 34 Food safety and health Food safety As a food-producing business, Danish Crown depends on the This is done both through internal audits and cooperation with trust that customers and consumers have in its products. Food the authorities, which regularly inspect our production sites to safety is therefore a high priority and is integrated in the group’s ensure that all procedures comply with the regulatory requireinternal quality programmes. Food safety is regulated through ments laid down for food production. legislation, and Danish Crown is therefore subject to official hygiene and health requirements from Denmark and the EU More than 95 per cent of production takes place on facilities as well as those of a number of non-EU countries which place certified by an independent third party in accordance with the special demands. Moreover, customer-specific requirements requirements and rules applicable in the countries where the regarding food safety must be met. products are marketed. Danish Crown’s facilities are primarily certified on the basis of the following standards: GRMS (Global Danish Crown exports and sells foods to countries in the world Read Meat Standard), SQF (Safe Quality Food), IFS (Interna­ with the highest food safety standards and the most demandtional Food Standard) and BRC (British Retail Consortium). ing customers. It is thus necessary to ensure that the group generally meets the highest hygiene and health standards. Food The IFS and BRC standards have become more exacting during safety and hygiene are regularly checked and optimised. This the past financial year, so it is now harder to obtain these certitakes place by means of: fications. Therefore, the Danish Crown companies have further developed their quality assurance activities, and all facilities 1. Danish Crown’s internal control procedures, which certified according to the two standards have fulfilled the new have been approved in advance by the authorities and stricter requirements, thereby maintaining certification at 2. Daily inspections by the authorities at the the highest level. production site before production start 3. Checks by external inspection authorities of our procedures In addition to internal audits and audits conducted in connection with reference to HACCP, IFS, BRC and USDA certifications with certifications, Tulip’s production is regularly inspected by 4. Reviews and checks of special customers and the authorities through announced and unanrequirements made by customers nounced visits; these have all been satisfactory for all parties in 5. Systematic registration of and follow-up on complaints the 2011/12 financial year. 6. Food safety is an integrated part of the group’s product development and supplier selection processes. An important aspect of the food safety work is identifying any product contamination/defects before products leave production Due to the high degree of automation at the slaughterhouses, and are shipped to the customers. This has been another focus a special concern is the prevention of cross-contamination. area in the financial year, and the total volume of recalls was The slaughtering process is continually monitored to ensure more than halved in 2011/12 to 38 tonnes, which corresponds that products leaving the slaughterhouse are safe for human to 0.001 per cent of the company’s total tonnage. consumption. The quality and safety of the group’s products is given ­extremely high priority. Consequently, we are continuously working to improve internal procedures to guarantee the highest possible level of food safety for the sake of consumers. Page 10 of 34 Nutrition and health The Danish Crown group is aware of its responsibilities with to reduce the salt content of certain product groups. The work regard to consumer health, and efforts are continuously being has primarily taken place at the processing companies, which made to reduce the salt and fat content of its products. In use most salt to ensure reliable shelf-lives and the consistency 2011/12, the share of products living up to national or internaof processed products. tional nutritional standards increased yet again from 100,000 to almost 104,000 tonnes. Again this year, the Danish Crown group’s work with the company’s products has been noticed by external business It is Danish Crown’s intention to increase the number of partners and independent players such as the American Heart products living up to official nutritional recommendations in Association, which has its logo on 75 per cent of Plumrose USA’s the coming years. Therefore, the group is working actively with luncheon meat products to indicate that they live up to the ­national and international authorities and organisations to association’s requirements for nutritionally correct products. prepare recommendations on, e.g., the salt and fat contents in a number of product groups, taking into account factors such as Moreover, Tulip Food Company’s efforts to produce more userhealthy eating, shelf-life and taste. friendly packaging have not gone unnoticed – the company has received the Danish Rheumatism Association’s prestigious The companies in the Danish Crown group have also completed ­‘Mobilepris’ for developing packaging which is easier to open for several large projects in the financial year which are all designed people with rheumatism or impaired functionality in their fingers. Page 11 of 34 Page 12 of 34 Environment and climate Environmental policy As a leading food producer, the Danish Crown group acknowl­edges environmental efforts and environmental performance its environmental responsibilities and endeavours to protect to ensure continuous environmental improvements the environment and the climate in connection with its opera• Actively consider the impact of the company’s tions and the continued development of the company through products on the climate and work to minimise the ­systematic efforts and the careful employment of resources. impacts attributable to the group’s activities • Encourage other links in the value chain to promote climate The set of environmental values adopted by Danish Crown is considerations in relation to the company’s products translated into the policy outlined below: • Reduce the use of unnecessary packaging and additives in dialogue with the company’s customers to minimise the • Focus on minimising the consumption of resources environmental impact to the greatest possible extent and the environmental impact of its activities • Open and constructive dialogue must be developed • Motivate, train and actively involve all relevant with the public regarding relevant environmental employees in the day-to-day environmental efforts factors, for example in relation to the individual • Use and develop management tools which are intended companies’ neighbours and surroundings. to optimise and document the employment of resources, Climate strategy The focus in recent years on whether greenhouse gases affect • Developing technologies, processes and logistics the global climate has made it necessary to consider greenhouse to minimise the climate change impact from gas emissions in the development of society, industry and the the stable door to the group’s customers markets. Danish Crown is aware of its responsibility for assisting • Involving customers in developing new climatein reducing the harmful effects of its activities on the climate. friendly products and packaging, and • Involving cooperative members and suppliers in the Danish Crown views climate change concerns as an ­integrated work to promote climate change considerations part of its environmental efforts, and climate change has in raw materials, additives and services. therefore been incorporated into Danish Crown’s environmental policy. Danish Crown considers the impact of its products on the Widespread cooperation is important to tackling these climate and works to minimise the impact of its own activities ­challenges as Danish Crown is unable to change the situation and those of the rest of the value chain so that climate change on its own. Therefore, it is vital that priority is given to this area considerations prevail throughout the entire value chain. in the form of public research resources so that the necessary progress can be made. It is, of course, also important to assess In cooperation with industry organisations and the outside the entire meat production value chain, and take steps where world, efforts are focused on: the scope for improvement is greatest. • Developing new methods for mapping the impact of meat production on climate change Impact of Danish pork on climate change Danish pig production is among the most efficient in the world, of transport on climate change is far less than the impact of which has a bearing on its climatic impact. Feed consumption feed consumption, and the overall impact of Danish pork on the per kilogramme of pig meat produced in Denmark is lower than climate is therefore lower. in many other countries. Danish Crown is one of the world’s biggest pig meat exporters, with products being exported to both European and overseas markets. Danish pork sold in, for example, the UK is transported significantly further than English pork. However, the impact Page 13 of 34 Water and waste water Water is an important resource in connection with slaughtering In Germany, the slaughterhouse activity in Essen has reduced and processing. Cold water is used for cleaning non-production its water consumption by 13 per cent since it was taken over in premises while hot water is used for cleaning production rooms, January 2011. The group continues to focus on this issue, and in for disinfection, scalding of pigs and cooking products. Water 2011/12 consumption at the German slaughterhouses did not evaporates in connection with cooling, cleaning and drying, but deviate significantly from that of the Danish slaughterhouses. most of the water is discharged as waste water. At DAT-Schaub’s European production units, water consumption per quantity produced has also decreased. At the pig slaughterhouses, targeted efforts are being made to reduce water consumption and improve the quality of At the cattle slaughterhouses, efforts have primarily concendischarged waste water. In the 2011/12 financial year, many trated on technical solutions, and secondarily on behavioural projects have been initiated. Generally speaking, the projects measures. Technical solutions include new sterilisers in the have involved changing employee behaviour as well as technical slaughter line and a change of the nozzle size of cleaning hoses. measures. At the facilities which are due to close in connection with the establishment of the new cattle slaughterhouse in Holsted, The behavioural measures include efforts to reduce nozzle Denmark, the initiatives implemented have primarily been sizes, optimise water consumption for cleaning and inform behavioural measures. key staff members of the development in water consumption within d­ efined areas. These measures have increased focus The foreign cattle slaughterhouses in Germany, Sweden and on water consumption, so that it is now lower. The initiative Poland are also focusing on reducing water consumption. In the also ­comprises carriers who wash their vehicles after having past four years, the largest reduction in water consumption has ­unloaded live animals for slaughter. been achieved by the Polish cattle slaughterhouses, while consumption at the German and Swedish slaughterhouses has been At the pig slaughterhouses in Sweden, the UK, Germany and relatively constant. The three slaughterhouses are not readily Poland, water consumption has been reduced as a result of a comparable as the scope of the processing activities varies from large number of initiatives, including the exchange of standards one country to another. among local slaughterhouses and the sharing of experience across borders. In Sweden, water consumption per quantity of The processing activities comprise the activities of Tulip Ltd, fresh meat produced has thus been reduced by 25 per cent over Tulip Food Company, Plumrose USA and Sokołów. For the group the past four years. In the UK, Tulip Ltd’s ­slaughterhouses have as a whole, water consumption has been decreasing slightly. reduced their water consumption by 20 per cent. In Poland, In 2011/12, Tulip Ltd successfully implemented a pilot project Sokołów’s slaughterhouses have reduced their water consumpfor reducing water consumption at one of its large facilities. tion by approx. 7 per cent; several of these plants engage in a This project will now be implemented at the company’s other combination of fresh meat and processing activities. facilities. Energy and the climate Energy and resource savings as well as the recycling of biological lifting in the packing department has been replaced by smaller waste have been a strategic focus area for the pig slaughterdevices which may be turned off individually as opposed to houses for more than two decades. In this context, DC Pork has previously where one apparatus operated several lifting devices primarily worked with technical measures. whether these devices were running or not. Furthermore, cold stores are closed down at weekends, and efforts are being made At the foreign pig slaughterhouses, several energy consumption to change employee behaviour. measures have also been implemented, resulting in a reduction in both energy consumption and CO2 emissions. The biggest At the cattle slaughterhouses, new hot-water tank control decrease in energy consumption and CO2 emissions at the systems have been introduced, and compressors and circulation foreign pig slaughterhouses can be seen in the UK, where the pumps have been replaced. transition to natural gas has resulted in a 20 per cent reduction in CO2 emissions; this trend can also be observed in the Polish In the processing companies, energy consumption has been slaughter­houses. The German slaughterhouse in Essen, which slightly reduced, while CO2 emissions remain constant. The Danish Crown acquired in 2011, has also cut its energy conresponsibility for environmentally and energy-friendly measures sumption and CO2 emissions since the takeover. as well as the promotion of CSR is increasingly being handled in cooperation with the retail sector. In this connection, Tulip Ltd In particular, the optimisation of cooling systems, including the has received several awards for its work on such measures from operation of condensers and compressors, has paid off. Work is its business partners. Plumrose has joined the latest standards now going into mapping no-load losses in production lines and in this area as well as CSR programmes involving the reporting insulating hot-water pipes. Vacuum suction apparatus used for of environmental data to the public authorities. Page 14 of 34 Chemicals Cleaning and hygiene is very important to food safety, and The experience gained by the Danish slaughterhouses will be most of the chemicals used by the group are used for the daily shared with the foreign slaughterhouses. cleaning of the facilities. For several years, the group has worked to reduce the use of the most frequently used disinfectant – At the Danish cattle slaughterhouses, efforts have gone into sodium hypochlorite – which may have an impact on aquatic reducing the number of plastic containers for chemicals by using organisms. The disinfectant is effective and difficult to do larger containers instead. This reduces the risk of accidents in without, but its use can be reduced, and one facility has phased connection with handling. it out completely. Furthermore, the processing facilities have tried to reduce At several Danish slaughterhouses, sodium hypochlorite the chemicals used for cleaning, and the consumption of such has been partly substituted by a product less harmful to ­chemicals per quantity produced has been reduced by 8 per cent the e­ nvironment. The substitution takes place gradually as over the past four years. ­experience with the new disinfectant is gained. Waste The challenge is to view waste as a resource, and the manage­ All companies in the Danish Crown group are striving to increase ment of waste affects the way it can be converted into a the sorting of reusable waste fractions, primarily plastic and renewable resource. Several years of carefully recording waste cardboard. However, there has also been considerable focus on types and economy have provided new knowledge about waste iron and metal – an area with a significant tonnage where the types, waste management and the potential of waste. Based on right sorting is vital for recycling. the knowledge acquired, Danish Crown and Tulip Food ­Company have entered into new contracts with external providers of In many of the group’s foreign subsidiaries, a number of measwaste management services. The purpose is to professionalise ures relating to the environment, resource efficiency and waste Danish Crown’s waste management, thereby leading to the have also been implemented. ­recycling and reuse of even more waste. By-products The company strives to exploit as much of the animals supplied pig and cattle can be sold and used for human consumption for slaughter as possible for food products. Waste is reduced by while reducing the loss of animal proteins. The by-product processing parts of the animals that were previously used for area has been turned into a separate business area with a view energy production into food products. Both from a resource and to strengthening resource optimisation and identifying new a financial point of view, it is important to optimise the use of markets and alternative uses for the waste products which are all parts of the animal. By exploiting differences in the various currently being destroyed. food cultures around the world strategically, much more of the Food waste Food waste has an environmental impact throughout the prokitchens. Last year, Danish Crown joined the Danish Ministry of duction chain. Considerable attention has been devoted to this the Environment’s charter against food waste and launched a type of waste in recent years; it has been called one of the main number of activities aimed at reducing waste in the company’s invisible contributors to climate change. It has been shown that own production, but also the waste generated by professional most of the waste comes from households and professional kitchens and consumers. Page 15 of 34 Environmental key figures for Danish Crown’s slaughterhouses in Denmark Danish Crown has identified a number of key figures as being • Pig slaughterhouses with appurtenant the most important for activities involving food production cutting and processing activities based on animal raw materials. A number of these figures • Sow slaughterhouses are presented below for Danish Crown’s slaughterhouses in • Cattle slaughterhouses with appurtenant Denmark. cutting and processing activities. Environmental key figures for the foreign slaughterhouse are All the key figures are calculated relative to the total volumes covered to some extent in previous sections. In the next few of finished products produced. This means that, in calculating years, work will be done to expand data gathering and key figure the key figures, many of the variations between the individual calculations to cover all companies in the group. facilities are evened out. The explanations for the key figures are therefore of a general nature. The key figures are divided into the following categories: The key figures do not include consumption and emissions from DAT-Schaub’s departments at the slaughterhouses. Key figures for energy consumption Danish Crown has been implementing environmental imas approx. 65,000 MWh of heating is recovered at the Danish provements for many years, which also have a bearing on the plants which is not included in the figures. However, in relation company’s climate change impact. Significant progress has to the preceding years there has been a significant change as been achieved through targeted benchmark programmes and CO2-neutral fat is no longer used for heating production. Instead, development projects. natural gas is used to a considerable extent. Figure 1 shows a continuing downward trend in energy conStrategic efforts are being made to reduce energy consumption, sumption for the pig slaughterhouses. The relative consumption and these are initially focusing on the most energy-intensive for sow slaughterings increased in 2011/12, primarily because processes such as power for process cooling. Initiatives include the number of pigs being slaughtered decreased by 10 per cent the ongoing optimisation of condenser pressure and air separawithout it being possible to reduce energy consumption accordtors in existing cooling plants and the heat recovery systems ingly. This also applies to the cattle slaughterhouses, where which have been installed. The temperature at Danish Crown’s much of the increase is due to a slight decrease in deliveries facilities is a critical factor for ensuring food safety, and process from 2010/11 to 2011/12. cooling for rooms and freezing of products are the primary ­energy consumers. To maintain high food safety standards, Figure 2 shows the distribution of energy consumption by stricter drying requirements in production halls have been energy type. The distribution between electricity and heating introduced, and it has thus been necessary to enlarge cooling is almost equal. Heating consumption is a net specification and drying capacity. Figure 1 Figure 2 Indexed development in energy consumption Distribution of energy consumption 130 110 electricity fossil fuel 90 district heating 70 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 cattle pigs sows Page 16 of 34 Climate Large industrial cooling systems are able to use various refrigerures 3 and 4. Figure 3 shows the distribution of total emissions ants. Many cooling systems use synthetic refrigerants; these are between the three types of slaughterhouses. The pig slaughterpowerful greenhouse gases which can have an adverse impact houses account for the highest levels of activity and thus also on the environment. In Denmark, Danish Crown almost only the highest emissions. Figure 4 shows CO2 emissions per tonne ever uses ammonia as a refrigerant, which has a limited climatic of finished product. impact. Knowledge about cooling system operations is shared with subsidiaries in countries where ammonia is not traditionally The processing plants have higher emissions than the slaughterused as a refrigerant. house as many products are boiled and roasted, which requires a lot of hot water and rapid cooling, with many of the products The calculated CO2 emissions stem from burning fossil fuels also being frozen. for heating, stunning animals, gas for packing, electricity and district heating. The development in emissions is shown in figFigure 3 Figure 4 Total CO2 emissions CO2 emissions per tonne finished products 0,14 0,12 0,10 Cattle 0,08 Pigs 0,06 Sows 0,04 0,02 0,00 Sows Pigs Cattle Key figures for water consumption and organic waste in the waste water Figures 5 and 7 show the indexed development in water slaughterhouses. For the cattle slaughterhouses, it is primarily consumption and discharges of organic matter with the waste due to the increased water consumption which means more water. For many years, water consumption at the pig and sow water flowing out of the production halls during slaughtering slaughterhouses has been decreasing. This is attributable to two and cleaning. For Tulip Food Company’s facilities, the primary main factors. Most production sites have set up so-called water reason is a slight increase in the concentration in the discharged and energy-saving committees, which are constantly seeking to waste water. However, this does not necessarily equate to a bigimplement environmental-technological improvements. Initiager environmental impact as the organic matter often makes a tives are being launched which are aimed at changing people’s positive contribution to the purification process at the municipal attitudes. In addition, the possibilities for investing in plant and sewage treatment plants. equipment etc. are being explored, such as installing meters to monitor consumption, auto-closing valve systems etc. Figures 6 and 8 compare the distribution of water consumption and TOC discharges per tonne of finished products. The TOC At the cattle slaughterhouses, water consumption has increased discharge is fairly equally distributed between the pig and cattle due to the fact that more water is being used for cleaning and slaughterhouses. because of a slight decrease in finished product volumes. The volume of discharged organic matter, measured as the total amount of carbon bound in an organic compound (TOC), has generally increased. However, this does not include the pig Page 17 of 34 Figure 5 Figure 6 Indexed development in water consumption Water consumption per tonne of finished products 130 2,5 110 2,0 90 1,5 70 1,0 50 0,5 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 Sows 0,0 Cattle Pigs Sows Pigs Cattle Figure 7 Figure 8 Indexed development in TOC discharge TOC discharge per tonne of finished products 130 3,0 2,5 110 2,0 90 1,5 70 1,0 50 0,5 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 0,0 Cattle Pigs Sows Sows Pigs Cattle Cleaning chemicals The waste water will contain small volumes of cleaning agents; cleaning chemicals used per produced quantity. For sows, the cleaning is an important process for maintaining high hygiene increase is primarily due to more focus on cleaning hygiene and standards at the facilities. Acidic and alkaline cleaning agents thereby stricter requirements as regards the use of cleaning are used for cleaning. After cleaning, disinfectants are used, agents. including acetic acid and sodium hypochlorite. Figure 9 shows that reduction in the use of cleaning chemicals over the past three years has continued for the pig slaughterhouses while there has been an increase at the sow and cattle slaughterhouses. The use of cleaning chemicals is determined by the number of facilities, their size and their equipment. The bigger the production at the facility, the smaller the volume of Page 18 of 34 Figure 9 Figure 10 Development in the use of cleaning chemicals Cleaning chemicals per tonne of finished products 130 0,9 0,8 110 0,7 0,6 90 0,5 0,4 70 0,3 50 0,2 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 0,1 Cattle Pigs Sows 0,0 Sows Pigs Cattle Waste The level of and development in volumes of non-organic waste deposited in landfill sites. When changes are made to buildings can be illustrated as follows: or machinery, the volumes of concrete and metal waste can increase dramatically. These fractions therefore have a significant The graphs in figure 11 show a very non-uniform development impact on the overall development. Generally, efforts are being in waste volumes. An increase in the volumes of non-organic made to increase the volume of reusable waste which is sorted waste does not necessarily reflect a negative development. The at source such as plastic, wood, cardboard etc. The volume of waste volume comprises both the recyclable fraction (cardboard, reusable waste is included in the figures. plastic, wood, metal, concrete etc.) and waste which is burned or Figure 11 Development in non-organic waste 150 100 50 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 Cattle Pigs Sows Page 19 of 34 Environmental key figures for DC Foods (processing activities) DC Foods comprises the subsidiaries Tulip Food Company, Tulip gas. It should be noted that the decrease has been strongest Ltd and Plumrose USA Inc. as well as Danish Crown’s joint venin the UK and Polish slaughterhouse divisions – whereas CO2 ture company in Poland, Sokołów S.A. The companies primarily emissions from the traditional processing facilities have basically produce cold cuts, sausages, bacon, salami and similar processed been constant. foods. Tulip Ltd and Sokołów also engage in slaughterhouse activities. The processing facilities have bigger emissions per tonne of ­finished products than the slaughterhouses. This is because The companies strive to ensure that their production activities these plants boil and roast the products, which then have to protect the environment and the climate to the greatest possible be rapidly cooled and sometimes frozen. Moreover, the heatextent. The previous general section on environmental key ing ­consumption is almost unrelated to production as boiling ­figures describes a number of initiatives in the group’s pro­ processes, for example, require the same amount of heating cessing companies. irrespective of volumes. Tulip Ltd and Sokołów’s activities within slaughterhouse operaWater consumption per produced quantity has also decreased tions make comparing the key figures difficult, and therefore the throughout the period as a result of numerous measures within combined figures for DC Foods are shown. this area. In 2011/12, Tulip Ltd successfully implemented a pilot project aimed at reducing water consumption at one of its large Over the four-year period, the produced volumes have increased facilities. This project will now be implemented at the company’s by 10 per cent. In the same period, natural gas and electricity other facilities. consumption have increased by 3 per cent. Thus, there has been a significant improvement in energy productivity – less In the processing companies, energy consumption has been energy used per produced quantity. The consumption of fuel oil slightly reduced, while CO2 emissions remained constant. The and other fossil fuels has also decreased. Likewise, natural gas responsibility for environmentally and energy-friendly measures consumption has decreased over the past year, primarily at the as well as the promotion of CSR is increasingly being handled in Danish processing facilities. cooperation with the retail sector. In this connection, Tulip Ltd has received several awards for its work on such measures from CO2 emissions per produced quantity have also been steadily its business partners. Plumrose has joined the latest standards decreasing throughout the period, partly as a result of higher in this area as well as CSR programmes involving the reporting energy efficiency but also due to the increasing use of natural of environmental data to the public authorities. Figure 12 Energy key figures for DC Foods 115 110 105 100 95 90 85 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 Water consumption (m3) per produced quantity Total CO2 emissions per produced quantity Consumption of electricity (MWh) per produced quantity Consumption of natural gas (Nm3) per produced quantity Page 20 of 34 Raw materials and animal welfare Danish Crown’s raw materials constitute supplies of animals training requirements on the operators who perform this work. from cooperative members in Denmark as well as the production This applies not only in Denmark, but also in the other countries or purchase of animals in Sweden, Poland, Germany and the in which Danish Crown has slaughtering activities. UK. In 2011/12, Danish Crown slaughtered 21.6 million pigs and 547,000 cattle. The Danish pig producers must live up to The suppliers of live animals for Danish Crown’s companies Danish Crown’s Code of Practice. Similar programmes have been in Denmark and abroad are characterised by a high level of established in Germany and the UK, although the standards are ­diversity. Some farms are small hobby-like undertakings, while adapted to the individual countries. others are large-scale and intensive production units. All suppliers must live up to our requirements regarding decent animal welfare, for which reason audit programmes for the suppliers of Code of Practice (CoP) live animals to Danish Crown have been set up. In 2002, Danish Crown introduced a code of practice which Danish Crown’s animal welfare principles have been imple­mented Danish pig suppliers are obliged to follow and which concern with due regard to local legislation and local norms. New experithe suppliers’ forms of production and treatment of animals. ence is continuously being gained as regards the best ways of enThe CoP lists requirements for ensuring food quality, including suring the welfare of animals during transporting and slaughterrequirements concerning the use of medicine, feed and infection ing. Such experience is exchanged among the group companies, control. Requirements are also imposed on the ways in which contributing to ongoing improvements in animal welfare. the pigs are treated on the farms to ensure proper animal welfare. At the same time, the CoP includes a description of It is deemed that the group adheres to sound animal welfare control measures and sanctions in the event of the rules being practices when looking at reported deviations, best practice breached. The CoP is a valuable tool which states what Danish in the industry and the number of remarks received from the Crown expects of its suppliers and which also documents the authorities. quality of the raw materials for customers. The CoP makes it possible for Danish Crown to realise the added market value of the higher standards in markets where customers share these Alternative products preferences. Danish Crown wants to give producers and consumers a choice by promoting the sale of alternative food products which have Animal welfare been produced subject to special requirements as regards animal welfare and the environmental impact of production. In Denmark, Danish Crown’s primary raw materials are animals for slaughter, many of these activities take place in Friland, where suppliers are and we demand that the animals are treated decently on the able to supply organic pigs and cattle as well as free-range pigs farms and during transport to the slaughterhouse and in connecand cattle. Danish Crown also produces, s­ laughters, processes or tion with herding and stunning so as to prevent unnecessary sufmarkets products from organic animals or animals which have fering. Danish Crown requires the company’s Danish ­suppliers of been reared outdoors in Sweden and the UK. pigs to comply with a Code of Practice. Similar requirements are imposed on carriers transporting pigs to the Danish slaughter­ In DC Pork and DC Beef, similar production concepts have been houses. In the UK, suppliers for the BQP concept are subject to conceived which go a step further than the high Danish standards similar requirements, and in 2011/12 the company received a within a number of areas to do with animal welfare and feed. special award for implementing a policy for high animal welfare standards. In the other countries, certifica­tions are continuously being improved while the frequency of audits is steadily increasDalehead ing. As for cattle, similar rules have been introduced in connection with the Danish Veal concept, and these rules will gradually In the UK, Tulip Ltd’s subsidiary Dalehead produces organic and be imposed on other supplier categories. free-range pigs and lambs at 250 farms. The animals are sold to the UK supermarket chain Waitrose, which makes a number of Danish Crown has a special responsibility for the animals during animal welfare requirements that go beyond UK and European transport and slaughtering. The collection, transport and unlegislation. Waitrose also imposes certain requirements with loading of animals for slaughter must be as gentle as possible regard to slaughtering and meat processing quality. Production and must be performed within reasonable time limits. Consetherefore takes place at dedicated facilities. Dalehead is the UK’s quently, the group has prepared a special Code of Practice for biggest pig producer. the transportation of animals, which also includes requirements for the use of suitable vehicles. Moreover, Danish Crown imposes Page 22 of 34 Page 23 of 34 Purchasing To ensure that Danish Crown’s activities have the least possible These criteria have been incorporated into the framework impact throughout the value chain, the company imposes agreement (FWA) regulating the trade between large suppliers ­certain requirements on its suppliers. and Danish Crown. The FWA was introduced in 2009/10 and has since then been revised and extended to include several Suppliers are selected according to a number of criteria. In companies in the group. ­addition to documenting their compliance with applicable ­legislation, each supplier must: In general, the FWA must be used for suppliers of consumables which will come into direct contact with foods. The FWA is also • Respect and support UN Global Compact used when a supplier’s annual trade with the Danish Crown • Implement a food safety system group exceeds DKK 1 million. The table below shows the number • Continuously reduce their negative environmental impacts of specific supplier agreements which have been based on the • Maintain high quality standards at all times FWA since its introduction. • Maintain high reliability of delivery at all times. Total number of agreements No. of agreements % of agreements for the concluded with suppliers of concluded with suppliers of supply of consumables based consumables consumables on FWA terms on FWA terms 2009/10 132 65 49 % 2010/11 145 106 73 % 2011/12 143 136 95 % As can be seen from the above, since 2009/10 there has been The table below shows the development in the number of a substantial increase in the number of FWA-based ­supplier audited suppliers: agreements. The increase shows that Danish Crown has imposed stricter terms when renewing contracts. The number Financial year No. of audited suppliers of supplier agreements has grown in the period, and so the increased FWA coverage is not due to a reduction in the number 2008/09 48 of supplier agreements. 2009/10 43 The FWA stipulates that Danish Crown – or a competent and 2010/11 69 independent third party at Danish Crown’s request – may carry 2011/12 72 out audits of both suppliers and their subsuppliers. The decision as to which suppliers to audit is based on a systematic review where food safety, the supplier’s level of certification In case of material deviations, the suppliers are asked to draw and, for example, CSR policy are assessed. Concurrently, the up and implement action plans to rectify the situation. Danish suppliers’ reliability of delivery, number of complaints etc. are Crown will subsequently conduct regular follow-up to establish assessed. Moreover, ensuring a good geographical spread is a whether the action plans are being realised. In the 2011/12 key priority, for which reason Asian, European, Middle Eastern financial year, cooperation with one supplier has been disconand Danish suppliers are audited. tinued as a result of the audit. The contract was terminated by Danish Crown as a result of inadequate implementation of the The purpose of supplier audits is to inspire and acknowledge established action plans. local initiatives which exceed statutory requirements and to identify potential focus areas. Supplier audits not only look As a direct consequence of the supplier audits carried out, at the supplier’s implemented CSR policy and food safety several suppliers have decided to join UN Global Compact and/or ­methods, but may also be extended to comprise documentation introduce a certified food safety system. and quality and environmental management systems. Page 25 of 34 The workplace HR The driving force behind and the precondition for the commercial • Relevant professional and personal development of the Danish Crown group is a dedicated staff development for all employees. focused on quality and results. In 2011/12, the average number of employees in the group was The employees must, at all times, be conscious of their own 24,066, working in 23 countries. efforts and the fact that constructive cooperation across the organisation is decisive to meeting all customer requirements Danish Crown keeps a constant eye on its staff turnover as and wishes. an indication of the employees’ motivation and commitment. Despite the increased focus on streamlining and restructurings The Danish Crown group wants to be perceived as an attractive in the period, the group has realised a 0.3 per cent decrease in workplace. Therefore, the management focuses on ensuring: staff turnover. • Employment of well-qualified staff for all positions • A high level of motivation in all departments 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 Avg. no. of employees 23,305 23,557 24,066 No. of resigned employees 4,522 4,604 4,615 % of resigned employees 19.4 % 19.5 % 19.2 % Employee and manager surveys A new performance appraisal interview system for salaried employees was launched in 2010/11, and in 2011/12 it was Every other year, the group carries out various employee surveys. introduced in a number of Danish and foreign subsidiaries. Up until the next survey in 2013, the group is using the results from the 2011 survey constructively. Action plans have been The group’s HR wheel is helping to support a targeted focus prepared at all levels of the organisation. The plans have been on motivation, commitment and business understanding at all prepared by the managers and their employees jointly to ensure levels in the organisation. that the individual department’s action plan contributes to the positive development of that department. Targeted competency development Employee development Based on the performance appraisal interviews, in the above-mentioned companies each employee was found to have The ongoing development of the group’s competencies is a an average of one and a half ‘development wishes’. Development precondition for its positive development. In order to ensure needs have been identified within 23 different areas, from spethe necessary development for the individual employee, Danish cific vocational development needs and general IT and language Crown focuses on the dialogue between employees and manneeds to needs within different areas of personal development. agers in the day-to-day management work as well as through During the period, internal training activities have been initiated performance appraisal interviews. Based on this dialogue, any based on specific competency needs. necessary professional and personal development is initiated. Page 27 of 34 Management development out the group. In 2011/12, 255 managers participated in various management development programmes, corresponding to The day-to-day management is a very important precondition an increase of 29 per cent compared to the year before. In the for ensuring motivated and dedicated employees. Therefore, coming period, the group will continue to focus on the training focus is on the development and training of managers throughof managers at all levels. Recruitment 1. People Snapshot Check (every second year) Measurement  Sept. Result + Action plan  Nov. 2. People Dialogue Performance Appraisal  Dec. Jan. Feb. HR WHEEL 3. People Overview  Feb. Mar. Spotlight Management tool Performance, Personal Flexibility and Management 4. People Development Academy/Management development Other courses Coaching/Sparring Teambuilding Department development On-the-job training Working conditions Danish Crown has drawn up a CSR charter for working condiber of initiatives have contributed to improving the well-being of tions. This is published on the DC website, incorporated in the employees, training and cooperation for the benefit of individual DC2015 strategy plan and presented at management meetings employees and Danish Crown. for all divisions and subsidiaries in the group. Moreover, the CSR charter has been presented and discussed at meetings in the The Danish Crown group gives high priority to safety and health group’s liaison committees, both in Denmark and internationally. for all employees, and our aim is to have a workplace that is This will regularly be followed up on, both in relation to Danish healthy and free from danger for everyone. Crown’s own employees and in connection with supplier audits. Danish Crown is dedicated to reducing and preventing accidents In addition to working conditions, the CSR charter covers Danish at work. We are actively involved in reducing repetitive strain inCrown’s human rights, child labour and anti-corruption policies. juries. This is done in the planning of work routines and through The charter can be found in full at the following link: Danish the introduction of new technology, including an increased level Crown’s CSR charter. of automation. Danish Crown strives to ensure that individual employees enjoy The proactive approach to health and safety for the group’s emordered working conditions and terms of employment. We focus ployees means that Danish Crown meets or exceeds the requireon both the physical and psychological working environment and ments set out in applicable legislation, rules and regulations in on providing safe and functional workplaces at all times. A numthe countries in which it operates. Page 28 of 34 Working environment Accidents at work Improving the working environment is important for Danish In recent years, efforts have gone into reducing the frequency of Crown as accidents, repetitive strain injuries and mental strains work-related accidents in the group. These efforts have reduced can have serious consequences for employees. Improvements the number of accidents across the group companies. are achieved by sharing experience among facilities and com­ panies, among other things. In this way, best practice is used to The number of accidents in DC Fresh Meat has decreased improve the working environment. significantly. The largest decreases, however, are seen in DC Foods where all units have recorded a decline in the number A number of activities were launched during the financial year of accidents at work and accident-related absence. Tulip Ltd in to reduce the occupational risks which lead to accidents at work, particular has achieved a large decrease in the number of accirepetitive strain injury and thereby disease. The most important dents from 2008/09 to 2011/12. At Plumrose, the number of activities are mentioned below: accidents has also decreased significantly compared to last year. Overall, there has been a significant decrease in the number of accidents at work across the companies in the group. For Danish Crown group: Incidents Absence per injury 80 20 72 18 Incidents (injuries per 1,000 employees) 64 15 16 14 56 13 14 Absence per accident 12 48 12 40 10 32 8 24 6 16 4 8 2 70 59 49 34 0 0 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 Page 29 of 34 For Danish Crown’s Fresh Meat divisions: Incidents Absence per accident 80 20 72 17 18 16 Incidents (injuries per 1,000 employees) 64 15 16 56 14 Absence per accident 48 12 10 40 10 32 8 24 6 16 4 8 2 72 61 65 53 0 0 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 For Danish Crown’s processing divisions (DC Foods): Incidents Absence per injury 80 20 20 72 18 16 Incidents (injuries per 1,000 employees) 64 16 56 14 Absence per accident 48 12 10 40 9 10 32 8 24 6 16 4 8 2 70 58 37 20 0 0 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 Danish Crown has been working intensely for several years to Crown is now following up on the working environment groups’ reduce the number of accidents at work, and the results are analysis and prevention of accidents to ensure that serious speaking for themselves with a dramatic decrease in accident accidents also see a decline. numbers. However, the number of absence days per accident has not decreased correspondingly in 2011/12. Consequently, Danish Page 30 of 34 Repetitive strain injury For example, the employee and manager surveys which have been conducted identified problems with bullying at some workAs regards workplace routines which lead to repetitive strain places. Consequently, during the year, a number of employees injury, the group companies have been working for some time to who had actively participated in bullying were dismissed. identify and minimise these strains. The most important challenges relate to noise and manual processes, specifically lifting and repetitive routines. Working environment level: Danish Crown is constantly working to improve the health of its The pig and sow slaughterhouses in Denmark are certified and employees and their ability to return to work after injuries or therefore covered by the OHSAS 18001 working environment long-term sick leave. standard. This ensures ongoing accreditation and improvements to the working environment. DC Life All employees at the group’s Danish facilities have access to The DC Beef and Tulip Food Company facilities in Denmark the health portal DC Life, a development project tailored to the are not certified according to working environment standards. needs of Danish Crown employees. It enables the employees The Danish Working Environment Authority has conducted to set up their own exercise and diet targets, and it contains risk-based inspections, focusing on accidents, the psychological healthy recipes, running and walking routes and other ideas working environment and ergonomics. In addition, the authority on how employees can adopt a healthier lifestyle. The portal has checked all working environment requirements. The inspecalso contains industry-specific muscle-building exercises and tion showed that the working environment at the facilities was microbreak exercises. at the highest level, and that green smileys would therefore be awarded. The DC Life portal is offered for free to all employees and their families with a view to promoting a healthy lifestyle for the entire family. The portal can be used just as actively as, for Noise and acoustics example, Facebook, i.e. you can form relevant friendships, set up running and walking groups and exchange experience. The Noise levels are a considerable challenge at the facilities. The aim of the DC Life portal is, of course, to increase employees’ increased degree of automation, which, among other things, motivation to live healthier lives both at work and at home. The contributes to reducing strains on our employees, has led to portal is updated regularly with news, trends and good ideas. higher noise levels in several places. Consequently, work is being done to reduce noise levels, both centrally by the group’s DC Life health project: technical department and locally through measures planned and The aim of the DC Life health project is to get employees to implemented at the individual facilities. assume responsibility for their own health and well-being and thereby ensure better working lives and leisure time, but also Food production companies often face problems with high noise to give Danish Crown the knowledge it needs to offer the right levels due to technical requirements concerning the choice of health-related initiatives to its employees to prevent repetitive floor, ceiling and wall materials. Danish Crown is working actively strain injury. to reduce the general strain caused by noise and acoustics on the individual employee. Fit for Life project: In the spring, Danish Crown’s management decided to start Consequently, efforts are continually being made by the group’s working with the National Research Centre for the Working technical department to mitigate noise levels as well as through Environment on the implementation of a large research project various initiatives being introduced at the facilities. Last year, a which is to increase knowledge on whether muscle-building Danish project was launched to cut noise levels at the facilities. exercises can reduce arm and shoulder pain in slaughterhouse This resulted in an acoustics industry agreement being signed workers. The project has been implemented at DC Fåborg and between the Confederation of Danish Industry, the trade union DC Herning. NNF and the Danish Working Environment Authority. Danish Crown expects a lot from the research project, the results The numerous food safety and hygiene requirements imposed of which are expected to be ready at the beginning of 2013. on the food industry thwart attempts to meet noise level If the project shows that targeted muscle-building exercises ­requirements. With the industry agreement, Danish Crown is can prevent pain and reduce the number of repetitive strain able to take a targeted approach to reducing noise in all areas. injuries for employees, it may, together with the DC Life project, pave the way for completely new and healthy initiatives for the At the moment, noise levels are being mapped in detail at employees. all the Danish facilities. The noise to which all employees are exposed on a daily basis has been mapped, and action plans are being prepared for all the factory departments setting out initiaPsychological working environment tives that can reduce noise levels for the individual employee. A poor psychological working environment may result in absence due to sickness, increased staff turnover and lasting damage. Danish Crown does not accept a poor psychological working ­environment and is thus working to identify and reduce the mental strains to which the employees are exposed. Page 31 of 34 Human rights In step with increasing internationalisation and the establishDC2015 strategy plan and presented at management meetings ment of activities in new countries, it is necessary to ensure for all divisions and subsidiaries in the group. Moreover, the compliance with internationally recognised human rights. A CSR charter has been presented and discussed at meetings in culture will be fostered which ensures that the diversity which the group’s liaison committees, both in Denmark and internais already found in the organisation will be further developed tionally. Regular follow-ups will be conducted. The charter will as a natural consequence of the fact that the group is changing also be ­incorporated into the update of the Danish Crown group from being a Danish company with exports to an international ­strategy, which will start in spring 2013. enterprise. The full CSR charter can be found at the following link: Danish In 2010/11, Danish Crown drew up a CSR charter which, among Crown’s CSR charter. other things, describes the company’s attitude to human rights. The charter is published on the DC website, incorporated in the Page 32 of 34 Anti-corruption Danish Crown holds the view that bribery in connection with As previously mentioned, in 2010/11 Danish Crown drew up business or other activities is not acceptable under any circuma CSR charter which, among other things, makes clear the stances. No instances of bribery were observed in 2011/12. The com­pany’s stance on anti-corruption. The charter is published work to prevent bribery will continue, in step with the increasing on the DC website, incorporated into the DC2015 strategy focus on the issue, among other things given the roll-out of the plan and p­ resented at management meetings for all divisions UN Global Compact and national initiatives. and sub­sidiaries in the group. Moreover, the CSR charter has been presented and discussed at meetings in the group’s In 2011/12, the Bribery Act was adopted in the UK. The act liaison ­committees, both in Denmark and internationally. is expected to have a knock-on effect in many countries. In This will be subject to regular follow-up. The charter will also particular, when establishing activities in countries where pracbe ­incorporated into the update of the Danish Crown group tices differ from those in Denmark there will be more focus on ­strategy, which will start in spring 2013. anti-corruption. This applies to both the business as a whole and to sales and purchasing, which several years ago updated their The full CSR charter can be found at the following link: Danish strategy in this area to reflect modern ethical standards. Crown’s CSR charter. Compliance with national rules is ensured in all markets. Page 33 of 34 Danish Crown group Randers, 29 November 2012
