CIB Group Sustainability Report 2012 OUR VALUES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Our values Integrity We pursue our goals with honesty, fairness and responsibility in full and true respect of the rules and professional ethics and in the spirit of signed conventions and agreements. Excellence We set ourselves the goal of continuous improvement, farsightedness, anticipating challenges, and cultivating extensive creativity aimed at innovation; moreover, we recognise and reward merit. Transparency We are committed to making transparency the basis of our actions, advertising and contracts, in order to allow all our stakeholders to make independent and informed decisions. Respect for local characteristics and differences We seek to achieve the appropriate balance between the global nature of our operation and the special requirements of the local market and, while maintaining a broad vision, to never lose sight of these. Equality We are committed to eliminating all forms of discrimination from our conduct and to respecting differences in gender, age, race, religion, political and trade-union alignment, and language, and to respecting the rights of those with disabilities. Values of the individual The value of every single person serves as a guide for our modus operandi: we use listening and dialogue as tools for continuously improving our relationships with all our stakeholders. Responsible use of resources We aim to use all our resources sparingly. In this regard we promote conduct that is based on the best use of resources and on the avoidance of waste and ostentation. We give priority to solutions that have been designed with sustainability in mind. 2 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS OF CIB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Key Performance Indicators of CIB Group 24 million The CIB Foundation donated HUF 24 million in 2012 to a total of six civil-society organisations, for the implementation of eight different social programs. 1 million During a charity fundraising event last December, employees managed to raise a HUF 1 million donation for the International Petô Institute. 62 thousand We directly helped approximately 62 thousand sick or healthy children and adults in need in 2012 again, either by provid­ ing financial support or equipment, or through voluntary work. 7476 The solar panels on the roof of our head office buildings saved a total of 7476 cubic metres of natural gas, which is roughly equivalent to the annual gas consumption of our large branch in Pilvax köz. 1885 In 2012 we selectively disposed of 1885 PET bottles, twice as many as in the previous year. 500 Last year 500 of us took part in CIB voluntary programs. 101 Cycle racks with a capacity of 101 bicycles are available at our Budapest head offices. 100 During the national food drive weekend held at the end of November we managed to collect around 100 tons of non-perishable foodstuffs with the help of 400 CIB employees. 58 In 2012 we deposited 58 tons of paper for recycling. Our annual paper use was 288 tons, 8 percent of this amount is recycled paper. 42 Our support as a strategic partner enabled 42 sick children to attend summer adventure camp at Bátor Tábor (Camp of Courage, a therapeutic recreation camp). 3 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS OF CIB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP 40 At the end of 2012 some 40 of our branches had children’s play corners, compared to 36 in 2011. 31 We found an equitable solution to the problems of our customers in 31% of our complaints handling cases, which is more than double the ratio achieved four years ago. 7 The CIB Group has seven core ethical values: integrity, excellence, transparency, respect for local characteristics and differences, equality, values of the individual and the responsible use of resources. 2 It is a two-hour journey from Budapest to the Fairytale Therapy Centre in Paloznak, of which the CIB Foundation is a key sponsor, and where severely traumatised children in state care are rehabilitated. 1 We have one planet, one country and one environment: together we can always do more! Key performance indicators of the CIB Group 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Number of customers 727 110 720 8511 717 247 681 517 638 233 Number of employees (persons) 3 657 3 279 3 091 2 945 2 755 Percentage of female employees (rounded 66% 66% 66% 67% 66% to the nearest whole number) CO2 emissions from energy 3.24 3.18 2.31 2.38 2.52 consumption per employee (tons) Energy consumption 35.7 30.44 28.23 29.04 33.91 per employee (GJ/persons) Total waste generated (kg) 29 688 63 682 66 548 42 025 88 500 Amount allocated and paid in support of public-benefit organisations 62.6 51.7 34.6 45.3 24.9 (CIB Foundation) (HUF million) Total economic value distributed 85.029 50.636 31.768 -5.108 -92.465 (HUF billion) Proportion of locally-based suppliers 98.17% 98.11% 97.75% 96.7% 97.2% Number of trade union members (persons) 355 311 323 293 303 As of 31 December. 1 Adjusted in 2010. 4 OUR MOST IMPORTANT COMMITMENTS FOR 2012, AND THEIR FULFILMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Our most important commitments for 2012, and their fulfilment The commitments listed below are described in detail in the sections relating to the individual groups of our stakeholders. Fulfilled, project closed or extended Mostly fulfilled, but project not yet closed Partially implemented and in progress, or closed Implementation has begun Implementation has not yet begun COMMITMENT FULFILMENT STATUS Corporate governance Continued organisational integration of the environmental policy • A set of sustainability requirements to be fulfilled during Communication and HR events has been introduced. Further development of the Rules of Ethics Procedures • The Rules of Ethics Procedures have been expanded in order to improve the process on the basis of the experience gained since their introduction. For our employees Preparation of an internal ethics training program • The preparation of the training program is complete, and the launch is scheduled for May 2013. Elaboration and launch of a bank group-level benefits strategy • The launch has taken place. Renewal of the performance evaluation process and system • The launch has taken place. Elaboration and launch of a career and talent nurturing system • Preparations have been completed, and the launch is scheduled for May 2013. Expansion of initiatives to boost employee commitment and satisfaction • A considerable number of new initiatives got under way in 2012. For our customers Simplification of the product range • The simplification of the entire product range continued. Engagement of our customers • We continued to conduct our “100% Listening” surveys. For our suppliers Further incorporation of sustainability and ethical considerations into the supplier selection process • Sustainability requirements applicable in the course of the procurement processes related to the organisation of our events have been introduced. Community relations Maintaining the operation of the CIB Foundation • Support has been granted to a new initiative in addition to those of our existing strategic partners. Further expansion of voluntary programs • Negotiations have begun with the Fairy Tale Therapy Centre in Paloznak. Elaboration of new forms of cooperation with civil-society organisations • Negotiations have started regarding the sharing of banking skills on a voluntary basis. For our environment Introduction of a policy setting out environmental guidelines related to the organisation of events • The policy has been introduced. Inclusion of more head office buildings in the selective waste collection system • Preparations are under way to include two head office buildings and the branch network. 5 OUR MOST IMPORTANT COMMITMENTS FOR 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Our most important commitments for 2013 COMMITMENT Corporate governance Continuation of simplification and rationalisation steps For our employees Launch of ethics training Launch of a talent management system for the Bank Group Development and launch of a new, complex management development system Review, reshaping and publication of HR processes and policies For our customers Simplification of the product range Development of our interactive channels For our suppliers Further incorporation of sustainability and ethical considerations into the supplier selection process Community relations Holding of voluntary-work days Holding of charitable events, exhibitions For our environment Increasing the proportion of environmentally-friendly paper use Further communication of the environmentally-friendly aspects of our operation Expanding the scope of selective waste collection 6 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO AND CHAIRMAN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Message from the CEO and chairman significantly reducing our operating costs and achieve improvement in our processes and efficiency. We remain committed to our mission, which is to become the bank of choice for highly discerning retail and business customers, differentiated by its outstanding quality of service, and to work hard to retain staff and develop their skills and potential through the application of transparent and performance-based HR mana­ gement principles, while focusing more sharply on protecting the added value that we create. Right in this tough year we have increased our investments to fuel the transformation of our corporate culture and business processes to consolidate our ethical foundation in terms of basic values and principles. We also succeeded in keeping the level and diversity of our already substantial investments in social causes and through our various The CIB Group treats and applies sustainability not as a series of direct and indirect programs we assisted 62 000 people in need. initiatives, but as an in-built attitude that permeates the whole of company management, along the lines of solid ethical values This is a figure we could never have been achieved without the and principles that apply to the bank group as a whole. In line active participation of our numerous third-sector partners and na­­ with ISP Group we believe that the best practice is for the whole turally our dedicated employees. We report on the CIB Group’s susof the organisation, through its basic operation, to reflect the tainability performance, and its individual programs, continuous­­ly principles of sustainability. and in detail in the Sustainability section of our website. In contrast to the majority of market participants, the cornerstone This year again, please read through the report carefully – which of the CIB Group's sustainable development strategy is to adopt a also contains the level of compliance with the principles of the UN fundamentally different approach to structuring its CSR activities: Global Compact for the fifth consecutive year and share with we primarily work on forward-looking initiatives that are deve­ us any thoughts and comments that you might have, so that by loped taking the views and expectations of our stakeholders into taking them into consideration we can perform even better in the consideration, and which in many cases will only bear fruit after year ahead, to the satisfaction and benefit of all our stakeholders. several years. All this takes place in a fundamentally different context to that which we have become accustomed to in recent years and past decades. The year 2012 proved to be an even tougher period than expected. We had to continue all the efforts that were necessary to restore balance to our financial and business situation, while coping with having to support customers who had run into difficulties, as well as with the realities of a declining loan market, a regulatory Fabrizio Centrone environment that had turned negative. We had to manage all this CEO and chairman 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Contents Our values . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Key Performance Indicators of CIB Group. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Our most important commitments for 2012, and their fulfilment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Our most important commitments for 2013 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Message from the CEO and chairman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 1. CIB’s business strategy and priorities, business results and objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 1.1. Significant external impacts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 1.2. Distribution of income, from a stakeholder’s perspective. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 2. Long-term programs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 2.1. Customers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 2.2.Employees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 2.3. Suppliers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 2.4. Our social impacts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 2.5. Managing our environmental impacts in 2012. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 3. Corporate governance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 3.1. Organisational structure. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 3.2. Decision-making bodies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33 3.3. Selection and evaluation of managers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 3.4. Promoting ethically-sound and responsible operation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 3.5. CSR management and communication. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39 4. Annexes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 4.1. CIB Bank – core data. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41 4.2. Branch Network. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42 4.3. CIB Bank in figures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 4.3.1. Business data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 4.3.2. Authority proceedings. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44 4.3.3. Human resources data. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45 4.3.4. Membership of associations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49 4.4. Awards and accolades. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49 4.5. Compliance with the principles of the UN Global Compact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50 GRI Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52 About this report. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56 Imprint . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57 8 1. CIB’S BUSINESS STRATEGY AND PRIORITIES, BUSINESS RESULTS AND OBJECTIVES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP CIB’s business strategy and priorities, business results and objectives 9 CIB’S BUSINESS STRATEGY AND PRIORITIES, BUSINESS RESULTS AND OBJECTIVES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP CIB Bank and its subsidiaries, taking into account the steady the primary retail bank for its customers. This goes hand in deterioration in the external environment and the declining hand with the ability to further improve deposit collection growth prospects of the Hungarian economy, continued in activity, and the provision of high-quality wealth manage2012 to pursue a strategy that is focused on the development services. On the lending side, the bank’s aim – besides ment of an organisation and business methodology that is retaining its leading market position – is to develop mortcapable of ensuring long-term sustainability and reacting gage products that will stimulate home renovations. The to changes in the environment. The basis for this is groupCIB Group continues to develop its own bank assurance based corporate operation (with all the benefits that this brokerage division, with the help of which it is expanding brings), and what is referred to as the segment-based busiits service portfolio with a full range of insurance products. ness model. The other priority of CIB’s medium-term strategy is the CIB provides numerous channels for direct feedback from financing of the real economy, to which end it is further its customers, and based on the evaluation of the results of developing its products and services aimed at SMEs and this process, and taking them into consideration, it endeavmicro enterprises. As a part of this, the bank is focusing ours to introduce innovative solutions in order to improve specifically on supporting the manufacturing and service the quality of its services. Among its medium-term plans sectors. As a start, CIB has established a dedicated SME particular emphasis is placed on ensuring that customers network in its main branches, through which the bank choose the CIB Group, as a bank that offers one of the wishes to further expand its complex banking and leasing best value propositions in the market, to be their primary services. Besides corporate loans and leasing services, CIB financial service provider. CIB’s further objective, in line Bank offers other means of financing to companies, e.g. with the above strategy, is to apply a coordinated, carethrough its factoring business line. fully considered and focused approach in the course of the fine-tuning of its business model. Key elements of this are While the above sectors are currently the main areas of the simplification of processes and increasing the level of focus, CIB has set new goals to maintain the performance of satisfaction of its customers. In this spirit, the CIB Group its large corporate business, which has always represented a intends to stand out from among its competitors by applying key segment. During the coming years CIB will build on the quality processes and providing exceptionally high-quality advantages offered by its owner, Intesa Sanpaolo, thereby services in all of the segments that it has targeted. strengthening its presence in the multinational sector. The primary objective is to establish a uniform, and therefore The “New Bank” program transforming the bank’s operation transparent and cost-effective, service structure. continued in 2012. Beyond the standardisation and simplification of the product portfolio, this initiative is also aimed at CIB is committed to improving the quality of the services developing core activities and customer service through an provided by the bank to multinational corporations in the improvement in the efficiency of internal and customer proareas of cash management and trade finance. Beyond these cesses. This will enable the CIB Group to respond to market objectives, boosting the effectiveness of customer relationneeds with high-quality, reliable services. The group seeks ship management, increasing the corporate deposit ratio to achieve sustainable growth by providing real value to its and deepening cross-selling activities are also priorities. customers, and this basic principle will guide the group’s future market behaviour. To help safeguard the quality of the group’s loan portfolio, the group had already set up a special unit known as the As the corporate division continues to show stable perWorkout division, which ensures the bank group’s ability formance, the CIB Group’s primary objective is to achieve to achieve the best possible rate of recovery on its nonbusiness growth in the retail and SME segments. An imporperforming loans. By developing this area CIB aims to furtant part of this was the setup of a network of dedicated ther enhance its collection processes and capabilities with relationship managers for micro enterprises throughout the the purpose of ensuring the general stability of the institubranch network covering the whole country at the end of tion, which will contribute to ensuring the equilibrium of 2012. A critical focus in the years to come will be on enerthe ba­lance sheet and making it possible to strike a healthy gising commercial activity in order to secure the bank’s balance between growth and sustainable losses. future revenues and maintain its market position. CIB will place particular emphasis on the further development of its retail business, and accordingly, the bank aims to become 10 CIB’S BUSINESS STRATEGY AND PRIORITIES, BUSINESS RESULTS AND OBJECTIVES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Business results • The CIB Group’s equity totalled HUF 194.4 billion. • N ew impairment recognised in the reporting period • The group closed the year 2012 with a loss of HUF 152.9 amounted to HUF 155.6 billion, while in 2011 it was HUF billion. The negative profit was due to a deterioration in 105.7 billion. New impairment related to loans totalled the external environment and the high ratio of non-perHUF 128 billion, more than half of which was related to forming loans, as well as the growing financing costs and the Project Finance Division, owing to the deterioration of the extraordinary tax on banks. this portfolio and prolonged recession. New impairment • The CIB Group’s balance sheet total amounted to HUF 2 119 recognised in the retail division decreased by 48 percent billion at the end of December 2012. The smaller asset portin comparison with the previous year, as 2011 was negafolio was mainly attributable to the ongoing shrinkage of tively affected by the losses resulting from fixed-rate loan the customer loan portfolio. redemptions. The cost of lending (Provisions/Loans) was • At the end of December 2012, the CIB Group’s consolidated exceptionally high at 10.2% in 2012. gross customer loan portfolio totalled HUF 1 832 billion. Within the overall portfolio, the proportion of retail loans The CIB Group did not receive any government subsidies in (mortgage, car financing and others) reached 32.4% by 2012 (just like in previous years). the end of the period, a figure that was negatively affected by the fixed-rate mortgage redemptions, while real estate financing contributed 21.5% of the portfolio. The share of large corporate and SME loans increased slightly during the course of the year. Demand for new financing was low throughout the entire period, although retail production grew by more than 88% (which was largely due to the refinancing of loans redeemed at a fixed exchange rate; without this factor no improvement can be observed), while new leasing transactions rose slightly in comparison with the previous year’s low figure. The sale of non-performing loans caused the loan portfolio to decrease by HUF 52 billion. • The quality of the CIB Group’s loan portfolio deteriorated in line with the situation in the Hungarian banking sector as a whole. The proportion of loans overdue by more than 90 days grew by 3.8 percentage points, with the most marked increase occurring in the retail segment. The redemption of foreign currency loans at a fixed exchange rate had a negative impact on portfolio quality. In the real estate financing segment the quality of the portfolio continued to worsen. To cover potential losses from non-performing loans, CIB set aside provisions of HUF 128 billion during the course of 2012. • The CIB Group’s revenues amounted to HUF 83.2 billion, and its operating expenses to HUF 56 billion, excluding the bank tax. CIB’s senior management has implemented a number of cost-cutting programs in recent years. As a result, personnel costs decreased by 2.3 percent in 2012, commensurately with the lower number of employees (-190 persons), while the administrative costs arising from normal operations decreased by 7.5 percent in comparison with the previous year. 11 CIB’S BUSINESS STRATEGY AND PRIORITIES, BUSINESS RESULTS AND OBJECTIVES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP 1.1. According to data from the end of November 2012, more than 105 thousand borrowers (some 23.3 percent of those affected) had joined the exchange rate cap scheme. Special tax on financial institutions Significant The Hungarian banking sector was affected by numerous government measures in previous years. external impacts • Extraordinary bank tax The extraordinary bank tax remained in effect also in 2012, and amounted to HUF 200 billion at annual level for the bankThe government’s Home Protection Program ing sector as a whole. This tax burden is considerably higher The Hungarian government introduced several new reguthan similar taxes levied in other countries of the European lations in 2012, with the aim of improving the situation of Union, and damages not only the growth prospects but also households with foreign currency-denominated loans. the profitability of the players in the banking sector. It considerably erodes the banking system’s return on equity, as Partial waiver of loan receivables overdue for more well as its ability to support the real economy through its than 90 days lending activity. As a result, the sector is less competitive Mortgage loans that were more than 90 days overdue on than its peers in the region. 30 September 2011 can be converted from foreign currencydenominated (CHF, EUR and JPY) to forint-based loans. • Transaction duty During conversion the financial institution is required to The banking sector’s financial burdens were further increased waive 25% of the debt. by the new transaction duty. The Act on the Financial Transaction Duty entered into force on 1 January 2013. The Under the mandatory scheme HUF 23 billion foreign currency rate of the transaction duty is 0.2 percent of the value of the loans were converted, and the total amount converted (includfinancial transaction, with the exception of cash transactions, ing voluntary conversions) was more than HUF 55 billion. in which case it is 0.3 percent, although it has been capped at a maximum of HUF 6 000 per transaction. All debit transacNational Asset Management Agency tions are subject to the transaction duty, except for book The most socially disadvantaged debtors who are unable to transfers between the customer’s own accounts. service their mortgage loans can apply to have the National Asset Management Agency purchase the property serving Changes in the banking environment as collateral for their loan. The Asset Management Agency The main challenges for the Hungarian banking sector in buys the property at a discounted price, and the debtor can 2012 were rent the property back at a discounted fee. • the deterioration in the external environment, which was principally a consequence of the protracted debt crisis in Exchange rate cap scheme the eurozone; When a fixed exchange rate is set, the payment obligations • the continued worsening of growth prospects for the of foreign currency borrowers are reduced for a temporary Hungarian economy; period of up to 60 months. During this period they repay the • the government measures affecting the banking sector, foreign currency-based mortgage loan at a fixed exchange which significantly reduced the profitability of Hungarian rate (HUF/CHF 180 for Swiss franc loans, HUF/EUR 250 for banks and altered the domestic operating environment; euro loans and HUF/JPY 2.5 for Japanese yen loans), while the • t he high ratio of non-performing loans that resulted difference between the fixed exchange rate and the actual from the deterioration in the quality of the corporate and exchange rate is only paid after the grace period has expired. retail credit portfolio as a consequence of the changed The principal part of the exchange rate difference is borne by environment; the customer, while the burden of the exchange rate differ• the continued rapid outflow of external funds from the ence on the interest payments is shared at a ratio of 50-50% banking sector; however, the banking sector’s liquidity by the lending financial institution and the state. improved concurrently with that of the financial markets. 12 CIB’S BUSINESS STRATEGY AND PRIORITIES, BUSINESS RESULTS AND OBJECTIVES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP The deepening of the debt crisis in the European Monetary portfolio. Due to the slow rate at which the non-performing Union carries the possibility of a new financial crisis, and is exacportfolio is being cleaned up, the ratio of non-performing erbating the global recession. In response to the crisis, financial loans could remain high for a long time. The growth in new institutions became more cautious in their lending practices, and non-performing loans damages profitability by making it their risk appetite has declined. At the same time, due to the ne­cessary to recognise new impairment. The high NPL portdecline in corporate investments and retail consumption, the folio can reduce willingness to lend, it weakens liquidity, demand for credit remained negligible. As a consequence of compromises maturity matching and draws away funds that this, the upturn in the banking sector’s lending activity is being could be used to provide new loans. delayed further in both the retail and corporate sectors, contributing to a slower-than-expected economic recovery in Hungary. The retail property market will continue to be under pressure, which damages business opportunities for retail mortgage The strict lending terms – especially in the corporate market – loans and has a negative impact on the banking sector’s have been causing a shortage of credit for a long time now. willingness to lend in this segment. On the supply side, the key factor in the drop in corporate lending is a decline in the willingness to lend. In contrast to The market of commercial properties is suffering due to the corporate credit market, the retail segment is dominated the surplus capacities built in the past, which makes banks by demand-related factors. Government interest subsidy subextremely cautious when it comes to the financing of new stantially reduces the initial interest cost (to 8–9%), which real estate projects. could lead to an increase in demand. The leasing market, in which CIB is one of the largest playThe most important challenge for the domestic financial interers, was also profoundly affected by the crisis, as the market mediation system is the management of the deteriorating loan shrank and the quality of the portfolio deteriorated. 13 CIB’S BUSINESS STRATEGY AND PRIORITIES, BUSINESS RESULTS AND OBJECTIVES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP 1.2. (revenues) and the cost of goods purchased and services used (consumption). We performed the calculation of this data using the methodology applied by Intesa Sanpaolo. More information on the Bank’s business results can be found in the 2012 Business Report and the Annual Financial Statements Distribution of that include it. A breakdown of the economic value generated and distributed is given in the following table. income, from The 2012 data continue to reflect the protracted difficulties faced by the Hungarian economy, and the impact of a stakeholder’s the substantially altered tax regime. Last year was closed with a negative profit, and there was no dividend payment. Another change with major implications last year was the perspective introduction of what is referred to as the bank tax, which substantially increased our payment obligation towards the state. Overall, the explanation for the changes of 2012 can From the standpoint of sustainable development we use an be summed up in the key points below: approach that examines the movements of income (income “Total value generated” decreased due to the fall in inte­ transfer), resulting from the company’s business operations, rest revenues; between the various participants – customers, suppliers, “ Total consumption” increased due to the growth in employees, shareholders, the state, the third sector – opera­ impairment; ting within the economic community of which the CIB Group “D” turned negative due to the losses realised on reposis also a part. The data pertaining to the gene­ration and sessed properties; distribution of economic value reveal how the organisation the tax line shows revenue due to the deferred tax calcucreates well-being for its stakeholders. The total gross value lated on the losses, while we were able to reduce the bank added is the difference between the total value generated tax by the amount of the losses from loan redemptions. Economic value generated and distributed (HUF billion) 2010 2011 2012 Total value generated (A) 212.354 197.434 172.067 Total consumption (B) 180.758 201.288 238.686 Gross value added from core business activity (A-B=C) 31.597 -3.854 -66.619 Revenue from the sale of fixed assets (D) 0.172 -1.254 -25.846 Total economic value generated (C+D=E) 31.768 -5.108 -92.465 2010 2011 2012 Shareholders (dividend) 0 0 0 Employees (wage payments) 27.966 24.744 24.161 State (direct and indirect taxes) 18.481 -0.723 24.491 Third sector (donations and contributions) 0.844 0.882 0.725 Corporate sector (profit reserve and depreciation) -15.523 -30.010 -144.842 Total economic value distributed 31.768 -5.108 -92.465 14 2. LONG-TERM PROGRAMS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Long-term programs t the CIB Group, our efforts to achieve sustainability are based on a long-term commitment, and thus in 2012 we again launched several new initiatives, as well as continuing our projects that had been launched earlier. In the following sections we give an account of these initiatives and our related practices, separately for each of our most important stakeholder groups. 15 LONG-TERM PROGRAMS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP 2.1. accessible via the queue ticket dispensing machines in the branches, which last year helped us to elicit 710 000 feedback responses from our customers. The questionnaires, which are updated quarterly and are tailored specifically to the individual branches, have made it possible to initiate targeted improveCustomers ments in the branches with adequate speed. With respect to complaints management – although there was a slight, 2% decrease in the number of complaints relative to Besides taking steps to mitigate the impacts of the economic the previous year – we continued to face similar challenges. The crisis, we focused particularly on ensuring that our custommajority of complaints were about current account and deposit ers receive a high-quality service. This involves being attenproducts, and related to the various conditions and fees. In 2012 tive to customers’ needs, providing appropriate and suitable the number of complaints related to mortgage loans rose sub­ information, listening to and investigating their comments stantially, amounting to 10% of all complaints. and complaints and, in short, maintaining active, two-way communication. It remains important for us to be capable of We continued to follow our previously introduced practice offering products and services that are suited to the needs of taking an equitable approach to the assessment of comp­ of disadvantaged groups within society, thus providing them laints. As a result of this, last year we found an equitable with easier access to banking services. We also believe we solution to the problems of our customers in 31% of cases, have a mission, through the provision of targeted services which is more than double the ratio achieved four years ago. that can be accessed at preferential terms, to help our cusThe CIB Group continuously cooperates in the interviews and tomers cultivate a responsible attitude towards money, and consultations held by the Financial Arbitration Board that a greater willingness to save. (For supplementary data and began operation in mid-2011 (and which mediates between tables related to the section below, see Annex 4.3.) financial institutions and consumers in the resolution of certain disputed matters), in the interest of reaching settlements Customer satisfaction and complaints management based on customer-oriented solutions. In 2012 we marked the fifth year of our “100% Attention” program, within the framework of which we strengthened our With effect from 1 January 2013 the statutory environment for efforts to raise the satisfaction level of customers, while the complaints management has been changed, as the Hungarian changes in the economic environment presented the Bank, Financial Supervisory Authority (HFSA) set out its expectations and often our customers too, with a new set of challenges. and principles relating to this activity in a new decree and the related package of recommendations. In the interest of comp­ We carried out continuous segment-specific customer lying with this statutory regulation we modified our internal sa­tisfaction research: in keeping with the practice employed processes, and we are also doing everything we can to adopt for many years we continued our surveys of retail and SME and incorporate into our practices as far as possible also those customers and users of CIB Internet Bank, we repeated the of the supervisory authority’s recommendations that are not survey of large corporate customers that was first carried mandatory. Our complaints handling process already complies out in 2011, and for the first time we also interviewed our with a substantial proportion of the recommendations, and in Private Banking customers. 2013 we plan to adopt further elements. In our efforts to continuously improve our services, in addiLast but not least, the CIB Group takes part in all cooperation to the regular surveys we also placed particular emphasis tive initiatives that might deliver a solution for those of our on the systematic collection and evaluation of direct cuscustomers whose situation has become untenable as a result tomer feedback. We made further improvements to the of the economic crisis, with the aim of preventing or reducing system introduced in 2010, based on a short questionnaire the number of future complaints. 16 LONG-TERM PROGRAMS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Number of complaints investigated Complaints by type by Voice of Customer (the complaints management department) at the CIB Group 20081 2009 20081 2010 2009 2011 2010 2012 2011 2012 20% 28% 33% 50% 42% 13% 18% 12% 14% 15% Terms and conditions, Communication and and their application customer information 16 332 18 148 17 697 17 237 16 880 Adjudication of complaints in 2012 20081 2009 12% 14% 9% 10% 10% 55% 50% 46% 26% 33% 2010 Transactions Other 2011 2012 With respect to abuses of personal data, a total of 82 comp­ laints were received (in 2011: 83), a significant proportion of 15% 21% 24% 27% 31% Acknowledged in which were related to external bank card fraud detected at external a goodwill gesture locations. Ensuring access to services We take seriously our obligation to ensure that everybody, including those of our customers who have disabilities affecting their movement, sight and hearing, or who are handicapped in other way, can gain equal access to our services. A part of this stems from fulfilment of our statutory obliga50% 36% 42% 40% 32% 35% 43% 34% 33% 37% tions, while other initiatives are undertaken voluntarily. Substantiated Unsubstantiated • On 31 December 2012 some 69%, or 75, of our 108 branches were barrier-free, and one was equipped with a portable ramp. (In 2011, of 128 branches 81 were barrier-free, Complaints by type of service in 2012 which represents 63%). The main entrances to our central office buildings, and the bank branches housed within them, have also been made barrier-free. •B  y the end of 2012 the bank’s branch network consisted of 108 units, and 171 CIB-operated ATMs were available to our customers. As in 2011, the CIB Group did not have any Product / Service Number of complaints representative offices in 2012. Investment products 356 • At the end of 2012, despite the branch closures, compared to Transfers 961 Credit and shopping cards 2 248 the previous year four more of our branches, a total of 40 Debit cards 1 820 Credit products 453 (in 2011: 36) had children’s play corners, making it easier for Current accounts and deposits 4 028 our customers with small children to do their banking. Mortgage loans 1 731 Insurance products 465 Electronic channels 1 334 Leasing 2 389 Products for customers with special requirements Other 1 095 • The CIB Group also offers services to individuals and legal entities Total 16 880 with special requirements. We continued to market our products and services developed to suit the specific needs of youth and senior citizens, a campaign which we supported with special promotions. In 2012 we offer special account products for retirees, people with large families, students, non-profit associations and 1 Due to data correction, we have modified the 2008 figure from 16 335 to 16 332. apartment buildings. 17 LONG-TERM PROGRAMS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP 2.2. prescribed by the Labour Code. They were relieved of duties but permitted to remain in an employment relationship for a significantly extended period, which improved their social insurance status as well as their Employees chances of finding another job. • If a job opportunity later arose at another branch, we gave preference to past employees during the hiring process, and thus we were able to reemploy many of The guiding principle in our employee relations is to our former colleagues. forge relationships based on true partnership with our • We also continued to assist our laid-off employees in colleagues, and we promote a corporate culture that their search for new employment with the help of a is initiative, performance-based, transparent, consistspecialist partner. ent and rapid in decision-making. Moreover, from 2012 onwards we are devoting particular attention to identifying, retaining and developing key personnel and talent. In 2012 the Human Resources division focused on the following areas, all of which are integral to the comprehensive culture „In 2-3 years I would like to see a bank that functions efficiently, development process under way at the Bank Group: as a strong and highly motivated community, where the employ• introduction of new HR Systems (performance management, ees are happy to come to work and where they know precisely career management, competencies system) and human what their work is worth, and what the future holds for them.” resource development; Quote from the Human Resources Strategy • elaboration of a new remuneration strategy; • strengthening of employee commitment; Our employment policy • achieving operational excellence with cutting-edge HR soluIn 2012 we continued to implement our human resources tions and a high level of customer satisfaction. strategy elaborated in the previous year. Our objective, by launching HR initiatives of key importance to the organisation, Introduction of a new performance management system is to build a banking group that functions cooperatively and In 2012 we introduced our revamped performance assessment efficiently as a strong, highly motivated community. system, which is based on performance indicators, in the interest of making it easier than before to measure the achievement of Alongside the newly launched HR initiatives we also had to set objectives. The process is based on a system that allows for continue the process of headcount rationalisation in 2012. greater transparency and performance-based remuneration, and We carried out the headcount reduction in full compliance is also user friendly. During the performance assessment period, with the Labour Code, in several stages that were timed to a series of panel discussions held throughout the organisation coincide with the end of each quarter. We also continued ensure the consistency of the evaluations between the managewith programs to help colleagues affected by redundancy ment levels and the individual divisions. measures find new employment, which were concluded successfully with a reemployment rate of close to 90%. Human resource development through structured career planning and talent nurturing that opens up new horizons An unwanted effect of the crisis: layoffs In the past year we also introduced a new process and system for • Due to the negative market changes, our retail bankcareer management. The main objectives of the process are for ing division was forced to close more branches in 2012. us to identify and retain our talented members of staff, for every • We made efforts to find suitable positions for the colemployee to have the opportunity to carefully consider what leagues concerned at other branches that remained open, career path he or she would like to follow within the CIB Group, and thus the number of employees laid off was far lower for managers to deliberately plan succession within their team, than the headcount of the closed branches. Due to the and to promote career mobility among the various divisions. staff transfers, the number of dismissals remained well below the headcount that would technically constitute The new processes described above are based on a newly a mass layoff. introduced system of competencies, which ensures that • Those of our colleagues who were laid off were able we communicate clear expectations to our employees with to leave with more favourable benefits than those regard to competencies. This also serves as the basis for every HR-related management system. 18 LONG-TERM PROGRAMS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Establishment of a new remuneration system Concurrently with this we began the detailed breaking down of In 2012 we introduced a new remuneration strategy with the the remuneration elements in the developed strategy, and the purpose of creating a more transparent system that is more launch of the elaborated development steps. In the third stage closely linked to performance and also takes the market environwe created the conditions for the remuneration strategy and for ment into account, and which is based on job evaluation. Our the practical operation along the lines of the new job evaluation aim with the new strategy is to successfully compete with our system that serves as the basis of the remuneration strategy. competitors for talent, eliminate internal disparities, link elements of remuneration directly to the achievement of business Naturally, this new remuneration strategy does not function objectives, and encourage employees to deliver outstanding in isolation, but is closely related to various other HR systems: performance by offering a competitive package. • Performance management: from now on the annual salary increase does not depend primarily on a manager’s decision, In the first stage of developing the strategy – in conjunction but is determined, in addition to the pay category, by the result with the Italian company Mercer and with the active participaof the annual performance assessment. The performance tion of our managers – we laid the foundations for the new expectations and objectives are determined on the basis of system of jobs, and used objective methods to determine the duties and responsibilities set out in the job description, the value of every job at the bank. and the position occupied within the organisation. • T he appraisal of the individual and collective perforIn connection with this we revised the so-called Job Manual, mance of senior managers – which also determines which contains the job descriptions for all managers and general their remuneration – is approved by the owner based on employees in a consolidated format. These job descriptions the recommendation of the CEO. The appraisal, and thus do not only cover the purpose, key duties and responsibilities the remuneration, is based on the following factors, in the of the job, but also the expectations that must be inevitably following order of importance: the company’s profitability, met in order to hold the given position. These include, among the performance of the division/business line overseen others, professional competencies, behavioural competencies, by the given senior manager, and thirdly, the manager’s professional qualifications/training, language skills and any other individual contribution towards setting the organisation on knowledge/skills (e.g. computer skills) that may be needed. a new development path. The evaluation of performance, in the case of all employees, takes place in the context of The second stage saw the determination of the new strategic formal appraisal interviews, during which the ful-filment principles of remuneration based on performance orientation, of the economic/social/environmental targets relevant to market competitiveness, internal harmony and transparency, which the given employee are jointly reviewed. were approved by the Board of Directors in September 2012. • Talent and career management: the career steps and develop­ ment needs are defined in terms of upwards and lateral moveThe strategy addresses the following principles and elements ments. Promotion is based on the job hierarchy system. of remuneration in detail: • Recruitment and selection: the pay scales are definitive when • the base salary, including the definition of the payscales, determining the base salary of new employees. the regulation of salary increases, pay for substitution, and • Remuneration management: all wage-related decisions are the determination of special job-related allowances; made on the basis of performance and the pay category. • the recording of bonus systems, including the performance The other elements of remuneration (bonus, non-wage bene­ bonus, sales incentives systems, project bonuses, staff retenfits) are also linked to the job evaluation. tion bonus programs; • fringe benefits such as company cars, cafeteria benefits, tele­ Strengthening employee commitment communication services and non-monetary incentives. In the interest of strengthening employee commitment and loyalty, we continued our CIB Spirit programs, and from the The General Services Department has been assigned to the second half of the year these became the hallmark of the Bank Human Resources division, and within this to the department Group’s comprehensive process of culture change. Besides a responsible for setting remuneration principles, to ensure that number of new initiatives, a so-called “Team of Ambassadors” the revision of several elements of the remuneration strategy made up of enthusiastic employees agreed to contribute to the (company car, mobile telephone, parking spaces), and their success of the corporate culture change with their work. subsequent operation, follows a set of uniform principles. 19 LONG-TERM PROGRAMS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Engaging employees is essential for the success of the the opportunity to find his or her own role and function in the culture change process launched within the Bank Group. organisational development process. To give as many employees as possible from outside the individual specialist areas (HR, Communication) and We consider it important for employees, in the course of their senior management the opportunity to help make eleday-to-day activities, to come into contact with tangible initiaments of the new CIB culture more distinctive and widely tives that serve the above objectives, so in 2012 we launched visible, the 150-strong “Team of Ambassadors” was a high number of employee programs. In addition to this we established, constituting a sort of “company within the continued running the CIB Club, which is a series of informal company”; they jointly determine their own operating events that we hold every month or two in Budapest. The framework and management, and devote a maximum purpose of the CIB Club is to provide employees with an of 10% of their working time to these duties. opportunity for informal gatherings that promote a strong sense of togetherness, in surroundings that markedly differ At a two-day event the ambassadors identified a series from the corporate environment. As a part of the Club initiaof important issues as their “coup de coeur” (personal tive we held seven events during the year, offering a variety causes), and began seeking for solutions to these. The of musical and entertainment programs. ambassadorial representatives (7 persons) elected by the team from among its own members deliver the solutions In 2012, by courtesy of our contracted service providers, to the personal causes to the management, and then employees of the CIB Group had a wide selection of discoordinate their implementation. Their task is, with the counted shopping opportunities to choose from. In 2012, supervision and support of our Bank’s management, to upon presentation of a CIB access card, some 33 outlets become a real driving force behind the shaping of our offered discounts of between 10 and 15% (for the purchase culture, to provide inspiration and to involve as many of clothing and electronic goods, services, dental treatment, people as possible in the work. beauty services, perfumes and cosmetics, fitness club membership and theatre tickets). Among its other initiatives the team, which was formed in the last quarter of 2012, participated in the establishAchieving operational excellence with cutting-edge HR ment of the new awards system, and revised a number solutions and high customer satisfaction of existing initiatives at the Bank (e.g. the “Thank You With the purpose of both making our most important HR Card” campaign, the “Simply Better” program), which processes and regulations more efficient and up-to-date, and will be relaunched in their revised form in 2013. of improving the quality of our data reporting, in 2012 we launched a comprehensive review of our HR processes. We drafted new training, recruitment and selection, remuneration Through our various initiatives, in 2012 we worked to make CIB and labour regulations, the approval of which is expected to an even more attractive workplace, one that we can be proud take place in 2013. of. We want to build a strong and attractive employer brand, which will help us to recruit and retain talented employees, thus Fringe benefits contributing to the achievement of our business objectives. We The wide-ranging system of fringe benefits is an important part have defined the guiding principles of our new corporate culture, of the CIB Group’s new remuneration strategy. and naturally continue to observe our ethical values. The value of the benefits package provided under the cafeteWe used an internationally recognised diagnostic methodology ria system to full-time employees in 2012 remained at HUF to evaluate our existing corporate culture and the one that would 17.5 thousand per month. Part-time employees are entitled be ideal for us, and we will repeat this exercise in 2014 to obtain to receive cafeteria benefits proportionately to their working objective data regarding the success of our work. We briefed hours. In light of the statutory changes we have modified the Bank Group’s entire management team on the key steps in the range of items that can be selected under the cafeteria the culture change process, then with the help of our trainers system. To ensure the satisfaction of employees we continuwe launched a series of programs aimed at ensuring that every ously monitor the opportunities for offering benefits, and single employee learns about the results of the survey and has the changes to the law. 20 LONG-TERM PROGRAMS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Our general benefits package continues to be made Training courses up of the following elements: • The average number of hours of training per employee • Mandatory: occupational health services, reimbursement was 38 hours, which means that each employee received of travel expenses, prescription spectacles; an average of 5 days of training over the year. • Provided voluntarily: cafeteria system, Voluntary Pension • A total of 1 124 people took part in training courses related Plan, preferential banking services and discounted bank to new HR-related processes. cards, staff loans, staff lease-financing plans, group per• 2 379 people attended skills development training courses sonal insurance. Besides these, we continue to offer, as and workshops in 2012. We ran workshops to assist all of optional benefits, a family mobile telephony plan and the Bank Group’s divisions in the culture change process and vacation opportunities in Hungary and abroad, as well as in other organisational development needs. We provided discounts on purchases. skills development training as necessary in response to • Our temporary or part-time employees are also entitled to ad-hoc requirements, and also assisted non-management all of the above benefits, with the proviso that quantifiable colleagues in the new performance management and career benefits are granted proportionately to the number of hours management processes. worked. All our employees are only eligible to receive ben• In 2012 we commenced the development of our long-term efits under the cafeteria system, and the employer’s cont­ management training system. ributions to the Voluntary Pension Plan, upon expiry of the • The preparation and holding of professional training courses three-month trial period; and certain preferential staff loans related to the projects to standardise operations in the retail are only available after one or two years of employment. banking division is under way. • Participation in all the periodical vocational and profes• We have started developing the training system of the sional aptitude and fitness tests prescribed by law naturally retail banking division in order to reduce ad-hoc training continued to be compulsory for all of our staff in 2012. For requirements to a minimum. managers above a certain job grade, owing to the higher• A total of 490 employees participated in our orientation risk environment, in 2012 we provided executive medical programs. By the end of 2012 we had transformed the screening as part of the annual occupational health examinew retail orientation program in order to ensure that new nation. The screening tasks continue to be performed by employees joining the Retail Banking Division are better the Oxyvit medical group, which has provided occupational prepared to begin carrying out their duties. health services since 1994 and today has a countrywide • We provided the SME Division with training to assist in network. transforming and boosting the efficiency of their internal • Since 2007 we have provided all our employees – through lending processes. our partner insurance companies – with basic life, accident • In 2012 a total of 949 people attended the English and and illness insurance cover, which can be supplemented Italian language courses supported by the Bank Group. according to individual requirements. Employees working in the provinces could choose an accre­ dited language school near to their place of residence, while We are Intesa Sanpaolo Group colleagues in Budapest had the opportunity to improve their In 2012, our international banking group continued the “We language skills in training courses held in small groups. In are Intesa Sanpaolo Group” programs, established with the addition to this, we offered our employees the chance to aim of ensuring unified internal communications and a conattend intensive, speech-centred English language courses. sistent corporate culture. • In 2012 a total of 25 new training packages were uploaded • The CIB Banking Group offers its employees, and, in certo the Bank Group’s electronic training portal, and employtain cases, their family members, discounted holidaying ees successfully passed a total of 38 900 exams. opportunities at destinations both in Hungary and abroad. With the help of our parent bank 50 children enjoyed a trip to Follonica, Italy, while many families spent their summer holidays in Magione and Alassio in 2012. In addition to this, we gave many children the opportunity to attend a summer camp in Hungary. • O ur international banking group holds numerous sporting events, in which our employees can regularly take part. 21 LONG-TERM PROGRAMS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Annual average When preparing and implementing the training programs number of training hours per employee we take special care to respect the values of our natural, economic and social environment, and make an effort to 2010 manage our resources responsibly and without waste. To 2011 this end we give preference to electronic communication 2012 (e.g. in the process of sending out invitations, information or 57.01 42 37.6 training materials), and where paper-based documentation Based on closing headcount as at 31 December. is absolutely necessary we produce this economically, with double-sided printing. In the case of programs implemented off-site with external Number of training hours broken partners, we make efforts to ensure that the service provider down by professional status in 20121 is one that makes efficient use of energy and uses environmentally-friendly technologies and recyclable materials. Specialist and subordinate (female) Specialist and subordinate (male) Executive (female) Employee representation Executive (male) A trade union and Staff Council operate within CIB Bank. Total number of training hours The number of trade union members was 303 at the end of December (in 2011: 293; in 2010: 323). The Staff Council holds regular meetings to discuss, with the chief executive, its position on issues affecting employees. It also actively participates in the internal communication related to these issues. Representatives of the Staff Council and the trade 63732 21498 8258 10095 103583 union make up the employee side of the Social Committee, which has the task of managing certain forms of social support provided to employees. The Staff Council appoints two of the members of the bank’s Supervisory Committee. Number of training hours by gender in 2012 Equal opportunities and positive discrimination The CIB Group ensures equal treatment for its existing and Total female Total male future employees in accordance with the Fundamental Law Total number of training hours of Hungary, the effective statutory provisions and the Bank Group’s Code of Ethics. We offer our employees the opportunity to apply for internally advertised positions (both at CIB and in the international 71990 31593 103583 group), and publish the relevant information on the Intranet. 1 Excluding training carried out in the school system and training provided in distance learning courses. 22 LONG-TERM PROGRAMS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Inclusive workplace program CIB24 centre, which we held in November. The purpose In the first half of 2012 we came up with the idea that we of this was to give the candidates with disabilities and should organise our own program based on the model of the managers and colleagues preparing to receive them a special auction held every year under the name of “Civil a chance to get to know each other before the actual Licit”. We achieved this in two stages: first on 24 April we selection process, and to give them an insight into the held a Civil-Sector Fair in the Petrezselyem utca head office operation of our call centre. We planned to take on two building, where we gave the organisations invited to our employees with disabilities at the launch of the Inclusive auction the opportunity to introduce themselves; then Workplace Program, so after the open house event we employees were able to cast their votes via the Intranet to organised an assessment centre for the eight applicants, decide which initiative we should put into practice. this time for the purposes of the actual selection process. The selection process took place in a very congenial and Some 500 employees got to know the invited organisations relaxed atmosphere, due in part to the pleasant memories on the open house event, and a total of 1 006 votes were of the open house event. After the assessment centre we cast for the programs. The majority chose the “Inclusive gave two applicants the happy news that they had been Workplace” program to be implemented, so the work selected to join the program, but by that time one of them related to this began after the organisations had been no longer had any need of the opportunity offered by us. notified of the results. In this way we progressed to the actual employment stage We held the first meeting with the representatives of the with one candidate from the first round of selection. In the GAK Foundation in the spring of 2012, to discuss what kind meantime we asked our recruitment services partner to of jobs could be suitable for the employment of people with assist us in the search for more people with disabilities, to disabilities, either on a full-time or part-time basis. Jointly fill the other position that still remained open. Thus we met with the heads of the CIB24 customer service call centre, with a new group of applicants at the beginning of 2013, the decision was made to launch the program in the call although this latest selection process is still in progress. centre. Following this we first examined the extent to which the CIB24 working environment can be regarded as accesOn 24 April 2013, the first employee with disabilities started sible. Fortunately the foundation’s representatives found work at the CIB24 Credit and Leasing Customer Service Call the interior layout to be basically satisfactory. Concurrently Centre within the framework of the Inclusive Workplace with this, we began making contact with job-seekers with Program, and we wish our new colleague every success disabilities who would be willing to work at the call centre. and the best of health. We are confident that we will soon We invited eight candidates to an open house event at the be welcoming more new staff in this way. 23 LONG-TERM PROGRAMS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP 2.3. In the CIB Group's procurement processes: • we operate a supplier selection system that ensures trans­ •w parency and equal opportunities;  e provide consistent and favourable payment terms to suppliers; Suppliers • in the course of our HR-related tenders we carry out checks to ensure that the personnel used by our service providers are employed legally; • in certain of our contracts, we stipulate that in the course The key principle when choosing suppliers is to display of fulfilling their obligations suppliers are obliged to use fairness and transparency in the selection process. environmentally friendly technology, products and materials, and make efforts to recycle the waste that is generated. Number of suppliers by geographical location Since 2011 this line of data has also included the suppliers of subsidiaries. Services within the CIB Group have been consolidated since 2011. 2010 data only relates to CIB Bank. Number of suppliers 2010 2011 2012 Hungary 3 526 3 683 3 940 Europe 71 108 97 North America 8 12 12 Asia* 2 5 2 Total 3 607 3 808 4 501 Data as of 31 December Spending on services by geographical location of suppliers (HUF million) 2010 2011 2012 Hungary 19 412 22 250 25 617 Europe 1 612 1 580 2 000 North America 170 134 223 Asia* 17 17 46 Total 21 211 23 980 27 887 Data as of 31 December *Israel is included in Asia. 24 LONG-TERM PROGRAMS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP 2.4. sional organisations (associations, trade federations, chambers) and the third sector (non-profit organisations, foundations, local communities). From the CIB Group’s point of view the most important state institutions among our stakeholders, and those that have the greatest impact on our operations, are the Our social Hungarian Financial Supervisory Authority (HFSA), the National Bank of Hungary (MNB) and the Competition Office (GVH). impacts Developing financial literacy • At the end of 2010, CIB Bank joined the “Financial Compass” program, which is sponsored by the National Bank of Hungary The CIB Group regards corporate social responsibility and the Hungarian Financial Supervisory Authority, and overas a strategic issue that lies at the heart of its business seen by the Money Compass Foundation, with the aim of operations, and not purely an exercise in philanthropy. widely improving financial literacy. The bank continued to The purposeful management of community relations is participate in the program in 2012. a part of the process by which the bank – with the col• At numerous special events we made use of a game designed laboration of its stakeholders – aims to make dialogue into to develop financial literacy, which helps young and old, a fundamental prerequisite for the joint, and thus effichildren and adults alike to assimilate as much useful inforcient, resolution of problems. mation as possible about savings and financial responsibility. Responsible operation, sustainability, community. Grand Social solidarity: the CIB Foundation in 2012 words, but it is sometimes difficult to decipher what they The CIB Foundation was less active in 2012 than before, in line with actually mean at a corporate level. It is only natural that the original plans. We continued with our existing sponsorships, at home we do whatever we can to support our children’s but did not include any new eligible projects, owing to a decrease nursery school, collect paper, selectively dispose of waste in the funds at the Foundation’s disposal. In the course of the where possible, show solidarity with the victims of natural year the Board of Trustees allocated a total of HUF 24.88 million. or other disasters; and another very important thing to bear in mind: we pay taxes, thus providing the funds to pay for those community services that we also make use of. The CIB Beneficiaries of the CIB Foundation in 2012 Group’s efforts to be a responsible member of the commu(payment made in 2012) nity are the same, but due to its size they are on a different Fairy Tale Therapy Foundation scale. We help where we can, using the tools and channels Alliance of Nógrád County Gypsy Minority at our disposal. Representatives and Spokespersons Association for Rainpeople The purposeful management of community relations is a Bátor Tábor (Camp of Courage) Foundation part of the process by which the bank – with the collaboraHungarian Reformed Church Aid Foundation tion of its stakeholders – aims to make cooperation into a (Bódvalenke) fundamental prerequisite for the joint, and thus efficient, resolution of problems. This includes: • developing financial literacy; Donations made by the CIB Corporate Social • relations with civil and professional organisations; Responsibility Foundation (HUF million) • civil partnerships; • social solidarity; 2009 • charitable giving; 2010 2011 • corporate volunteering. 2012 Our definition of community relations includes our relationships with the representatives of state institutions (government, local 51.1 34.6 45.3 24.88 councils, regulatory authorities and supervisory bodies), profesDonations 25 LONG-TERM PROGRAMS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Volunteering as a part of the corporate culture Our branch staff contributed further to the success of Volunteering is an important part of the “DNA” of the CIB our efforts by putting their sales experience to good use Group, and we regard it not only as a reflection of our corpoduring the drive. In addition, some 100 of our colleagues rate citizenship, but also as one of the pillars of our internal corwho took part also brought members of their families porate culture. The CIB Group has a tradition of volunteering, along. In 2012, in addition to the volunteers a number linked to strategic partnerships and individual initiatives, that of Hungarian celebrities also lent their support to the stretches back over many years, and which every year prompts initiative, and together with the media communication a high proportion of our employees, anywhere between 10 accompanying the event this helped to communicate the and 20 percent, to take action. We implement centralised and underlying social message more effectively. Furthermore, local volunteering programs, and regularly participate in the we endeavoured to draw our customers’ attention to the preparation work for the summer programs run by the Camp of importance of the food drive through communication in Courage, and in the voluntary renovation of schools, hospitals, the branches, via our website and in letters to customers. nursery schools and parks. After the drive, the collected donations of non-perishable and packaged foods were distributed among families in need – before Christmas – with the help of civil-sector Corporate volunteering for the benefit of organisations from the same town or village. local communities National Food Drive Weekend organised by the CIB Group As well as the partnership with the Food Bank, the food and the Hungarian Food Bank Association chains that agreed to participate in the food drive also played an important part in ensuring its success, and the In Hungary today, according to data from the Food Bank local specialist charitable organisations and municipal and the United Nations, hundreds of thousands of people institutions took on a key role in the distribution of the are severely malnourished, and there are 10-15 thoucollected donations. sand starving children. While cash donations remain a neces­sary means of assisting Hungarian families in need, Impact: We collected 100 tons of non-perishable foodbesides the financial contributions that often serve shortstuffs for 15 000 families in need at 230 supermarkets in term debt management purposes and are difficult to 135 towns and villages and distributed these with the help monitor in terms of their use, donations of household of civil-sector organisations. We implemented a program items and food also have an important role to play. The with nationwide coverage, in which 400 of our employees latter take on a special importance in the run-up to holitook part as volunteers. The underlying message of the day seasons, as they provide families in need with the initiative was successfully and efficiently communicated experience of cooking together and sharing a family meal. to a broad crosssection of society. The Hungarian Food Bank Association and the National Food Drive Weekend initiative enable a form of charitable Professional organisations cooperation that provides an opportunity for our employ• Our partnerships with professional organisations also ees and customers to contribute in a way that is free from represent an important aspect of our community relations. the influence of business interests, and complies fully with The interests of the various sectors of the economy, and the CIB Group’s corporate social responsibility principles. society, are represented by the associations formed by stakeNegotiations regarding the implementation of the joint holders, each focusing on a clearly defined set of objectives. scheme began in the spring of 2011. Inspired by the results Our participation in these organisations is important for two of the 2011 drive, which mobilised a record number of fundamental reasons. Firstly, it creates an opportunity to CIB volunteers and became the largest national food engage in professional dialogue, and secondly, it provides the collection program of the year, the Food Drive Weekend CIB Group, and the bank sector as a whole, with a means of was implemented again in 2012 with the CIB Group as upholding and protecting its interests as part of a structured its main sponsor. On 23 and 24 November 2012, almost advocacy group. Last year we reviewed and rationalised our 3 000 volunteers, including 400 CIB employees, collected membership of organisations, and at the end of the year donations from the public at 230 supermarkets in 135 we participated in the professional work of a total of 16 towns and villages. organisations. For a list of the organisations, see section 4. 26 LONG-TERM PROGRAMS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP 2.5. the sale of vehicles, to 129; and since 2011 the use of the pool cars has not been permitted between sites in Budapest. • In 2012 we started reporting CO2 emission data on the basis of a different methodology than the one used before. From now on – at the request of Intesa Sanpaolo – we will be reporting in detail on the carbon-dioxide emissions Managing our resulting from mobility, and this data now also includes the carbon-dioxide emissions from business flights and vehicle fleet environmental fuel consumption, which was previously reported together with the bank’s energy consumption data. From 2012 onwards we impacts in 2012 display these items in separate rows. The mobility report contains data on private cars used for company purposes, the vehicle fleet (fuel consumption, CO2 emissions), airline flights and video conOne of the most important steps in 2012 was the expansion of ferences (1 502), through which we have cut down considerably our selective waste collection program, at the beginning of the on travelling, thus saving energy and reducing CO2 emissions. year, to include the CIB24 (customer service call centre) in the Total CO2 emissions resulting from mobility: 780.37 tons. Total Újpest district of Budapest. The program’s objective, through the CO2 emissions from energy consumption: 6 945.13 tons. establishment of a modern waste management system, is to find a • While in 2007 and 2008 we only measured the quantity of solution for the selective disposal of waste generated in the CIB24 photocopier paper used, from 2009 the figures also include the building, thereby reducing the quantity of communal waste and quantity of leaflets, newsletters, envelopes, forms, transaction improving our energy profile. Another objective of the program slips and letterhead. The quantity of recycled paper used in 2012 was, with the help of intensive communication related to the was 23 349.23 kg, representing 8% of the total quantity of selective waste collection scheme, to strengthen our colleagues’ paper used. Overall there was a substantial reduction in paper sense of responsibility towards their environment. The employees’ use, but its composition also changed, and this development is attitude to selective waste collection is very positive; indeed, the also supplemented by a change of service provider. The almost request to establish the system was originally made by them when 50% difference between the annual quantities is partly due to they learned about the program developed in our larger buildings. the fact that customer transactions unfortunately decreased They received the launch of the system with enthusiasm, and have in 2012, as we had to close a significant number of branches, remained committed to this issue. In 2012 the plans for selective and partly due to the changes we made to our processes. The waste collection at the Szabadság tér head office building were purpose of the Branch Excellence project is to replace previously also completed. Implementation is scheduled for 2013. paper-based branch processes with electronic ones, and for this to bring discernible benefits in the short term. • In an important change to corporate governance prac• CIB Bank also does a great deal to ensure sensible and tices, the CIB Group has adopted the parent company’s efficient energy use in relation to hot water supply. The compulsory sustainability principles to be followed solar collectors installed on the roofs of the office building in when implementing external and internal events. The Petrezselyem utca and the two office buildings in Medve utca, requirements influence both the choice of venue and the as well as the CIB24 building, provide hot water to the four details of the implementation of corporate events. central office buildings. Last year the solar panels saved 7 476 •A  s a consequence of our energy-saving measures and m3 of natural gas, which is roughly equivalent to the annual gas the branch closures, our overall energy consumption consumption of our large branch in Pilvax köz.1 The greenhouse has decreased. In the case of electric energy we took gas emissions avoided through the use of renewable energy a number of organisational steps, such as shutting totalled 14.3 tons in 2012. The decrease seen in the case of our down all ventilation systems at night. The decrease solar collector systems was partly due to the lower number of in vehicle fuel consumption was due to the fact that hours of sunny weather, and partly due to the fact that the head during the year we once again significantly reduced the office buildings were empty due to vacations during the hot size of our company car fleet. The 141 cars owned by the summer weather, so hot water consumption was lower anyway. company at the beginning of the year decreased, through 1 Equivalent for achieving the same performance as that produced by the solar collectors, through the use of natural gas (The conversion ratio applied by Intesa was 1 m3 gas=9.5 kWh in 2011 and 2012, and 1 m3 gas=9.6 kWh in 2010, whereas in previous years we applied the 1 m3 gas=9.5 kWh ratio specified by our energy consultant). 27 LONG-TERM PROGRAMS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Greenhouse gas emissions avoided 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 tons, as carbon-dioxide equivalent1 22 24 17.94 16.33 14.3 Unit 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total energy consumption GJ 112 883 103 159 102 089 93 408.65 Electricity consumption kWh 18 755 237 18 648 750 17 653 388 17 077 022 Other renewable energy kWh 111 969 89 061 80 221 71 022 Natural gas consumption m3 893 833 818 460 784 264 780 781 Vehicle fuel consumption l 464 199 250 872 245 505 210 726 Water consumption m3 28 149 33 466 28 612 28 000 number of Vehicle fleet 206 154 141 129 vehicles Paper usage (office A4, A3) kg 235 131 209 779 177 433 175 828 Paper usage2 (office A4, A3 other) kg 329 572 315 184 368 958 287 829.7 Paper usage per employee (office A4, A3) kg/person 71.7 57.41 50.46 63.827 Paper usage per employee 3 (office A4, A3 other) kg/person 100.5 86.26 104.94 104.5 Energy consumption per employee GJ/person 34.43 28.23 29.04 33.91 Energy consumption per m2 of office space4 GJ/m2 1.17 0.93 1.21 1.13 CO2 emissions resulting from energy consumption5 t 10 427 9 085.55 8 370 6945.13 CO2 emissions from energy consumption per employee t/person 3.18 2.31 2.38 2.52 CO2 emissions resulting from mobility6 t 780.37 CO2 emissions from mobility per employee t/person 0.28 Total CO2 emissions t 7725.5 Total CO2 emissions t/person 2.8 Water consumption per employee m3/person 8.58 9.16 8.14 10.16 1  onversion ratio: 1.918 kg/m3 in 2012 (Intesa), in accordance with Intesa’s recommendation we do not take boiler efficiency into account; previously 1.934 kg/m3. C 2 For reasons related to data collection, the 2008 annual data only includes the quantity of photocopier paper used. The 2009-2011 figures also include the quantity of marketing leaflets, newsletters, envelopes, forms, transaction slips and letterhead. 3 For reasons related to data collection, the 2008 annual data only includes the quantity of photocopier paper used. From 2009 onwards the figures also include the quantity of marketing leaflets, newsletters, envelopes, forms, transaction slips and letterhead. 4 W hen calculating the energy consumption per square metre of office space the energy usage (GJ) arising from vehicle fuel consumption is not relevant, and therefore we have also modified the previous years’ data accordingly. Defining the concept of office square metre also took place based on the definition approved by Intesa Sanpaolo; net office area in 2010 102 461,85 m2; in 2011 84 664 m2; in 2012 82 662 m2. 5 In respect of the 2007-2009 period CO2 emissions have been calculated based on the conversion rates set by the Budapest University of Technology and Economics, which are, in the case of electricity, 401 kg/kWh, in the case of natural gas 1.9739 kg/m3, and in the case of vehicle fuel (diesel, petrol), 2.46 kg/l. With effect from 2010, we use the conversion rates recommended by our parent company Intesa Sanpaolo. In 2012, in the case of electricity 319 kg/kWh, in the case of natural gas 1.918 kg/m3, in the case of vehicle fuel diesel 2.672 kg/l and petrol 2.444 kg/l; in 2011, in the case of electricity 335 kg/kWh, in the case of natural gas 1.934 kg/m3, in the case of vehicle fuel diesel 2.352 kg/l and petrol 2.622 kg/l. 6 Source: Based on the list provided by our travel services provider and the recommendation of ISP’s CSR specialist, up to and including 2011 we had been using the CO2 calculator at www.jpmorganclimatecare.com. Starting in 2012 we have been calculating the CO2 emissions resulting from mobility, thus including emissions created by airline flights, using another method, as requested by Intesa Sanpaolo. 7 From 2012 onwards the headcount data comprises the total number of active bank staff, excluding those on long-term leave. 28 LONG-TERM PROGRAMS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Shaping attitudes a social enterprise, has a maximum capacity of 600 tons • A s the first of the financial institutions in Hungary to apply, per year, and besides achieving important environmental we took part again in WWF Earth Hour, as a part of which objectives it also creates jobs for disadvantaged groups – for the purpose of raising awareness – the CIB Group also within society. In 2012 the CIB Group had 25 950 kg of switched off the exterior illuminations of its central office electronic waste transported to the site. The increase buildings for two hours. in quantity was due to the more detailed reporting by the new waste transportation company, the inventory-taking, Transportation branch closures and scrapping, as well as the closure of our • Currently a total of 101 bicycle parking spaces are storage facility in Baross utca. available at our central office buildings in Budapest: • We continue to provide an opportunity to dispose of we installed additional lockers (18 new lockers) in the dry cells, which are classified as hazardous waste, in smaller office building in Medve utca for the use of employreceptacles located in our central office buildings and the ees who cycle to work, so now a total of 175 lockers are CIB24 customer service area. The weight of dry cells available to our colleagues at the central office buildings. collected in 2012 was 330 kg. In our Medve utca buildings we improved the ventilation • Companies can generate high quantities of confidential system in the existing locker rooms, and renovated the documents. After being destroyed, these can go to the rooms themselves. This work continued into early 2013. In paper factory as a secondary raw material. Since 2012 a each of these buildings an extra locker room was added to new service provider has been performing the collection the cycling infrastructure. In all our head office buildings and processing of confidential paper waste from both the heating and hot water are provided all year round, even provincial branches and the head office buildings in Budaoutside the cycling season, for those determined colleagues pest. We have installed collection bins in the corridors of who also cycle to work in the winter. our central office buildings, and from here we hand over • In the large head office building in Medve utca the locker the paper to the service provider already shredded: in 2012 rooms will be expanded in 2013. we delivered 58 130 kg of paper for recycling. The • We plan to launch a cycling club. increase in quantity was due to the more detailed reporting • Our “CIB Bike Sharing” bicycle rental program has been by the new waste transportation company, the inventoryused approximately 500 times since its launch. The bicycles taking, branch closures and scrapping. Although the new were also on show at the “Pilis Pedal” family cycling event process was introduced in connection with the launch of organised by the Szendtendre branch. the selective waste collection system, the company also • Those of our employees who have become attached to removes paper waste generated in our other head office cycling through the “CIB Bike Sharing” scheme receive buildings and the CIB24 building, not only in our smaller a discount on bicycles and accessories from our partner office building in Medve utca. contracted to service the bicycles. (Naturally, the discount is available to all of the Bank’s employees). In 2012 we collected a total of 1 885 kg of PET bottles, twice as much as in the previous year, because owing Development of services to the selective waste collection system employees now • In the case of statements sent to the customers of CIB take more responsibility for their environment and pay Bank, the leaflets used for marketing purposes (newsletters more attention to collecting plastic bottles separately, attached to the statements) are made from recycled paper; and thus the quantity of communal waste has decreased. the number of these in 2012 was close to 3.25 million. One kilogramme of PET consists of on average of 25 crushed bottles, which puts the number of selectively Responsible waste management, with benefits for society collected bottles at a total of 47 125. At the smaller • Three years ago the CIB Group concluded an agreement of our head office buildings in Medve utca we have with the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service regarding the installed new, manual bottle crushers, which are more removal and reprocessing of electronic waste. The environmentally-friendly than the earlier, electrical Charity Service has created the first electronic waste promodels, since they consume no electricity and no toxic cessing site licensed by the environmental authorities, in gases are released when using them. At our colleagues’ the small town of Tarnabod, which is both socially and request, we have installed manual crushers of this kind economically disadvantaged. The facility, which is run as in place of the old ones, or where no crusher was pre­ viously available. 29 LONG-TERM PROGRAMS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Quantity of waste generated by type (kg) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Paper 23 840 52 140 44 980 31 550 58 130 Packaging materials (paper, cardboard and plastic) 1 000 2 220 0 0 0 Office machinery 2 960 6 300 17 920 6130 25 950 Hazardous waste 1 523 1 175 290 220 330 Used dry cells 365 745 155 220 330 Waste that is damaging to the ozone layer 1 158 430 135 0 0 (e.g. refrigerators) Other 365 1 847 3 358 4 125 4 090 Total 29 688 63 682 66 548 42 025 88 500 In past years we collected packaging materials in the building The types of waste we classify as hazardous include dry cells, located in Váci út, Budapest, which was formerly occupied as well as scrapped refrigerators and air conditioning units, by CIB Leasing. However, these premises have since been which we hand over to the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service. vacated, so since 2010 we have had no means of separately In consultation with the CSR specialist from Intesa Sanpaolo, collecting packaging materials. In a new development, since starting from the second half of 2010 we changed the method 2011 the boxes in which photocopier paper is supplied are used for determining the quantity of waste. We now list not now removed by our partner together with the non-confionly the oily sludge generated in car washes and kitchens as dential paper waste. In 2012 the quantity of paper waste “other” waste, but also PET bottles. increased significantly. Reasons for this include the new data reporting system used by the new waste transportation comThe selective waste collection system was put in place in the pany, and the branch closures carried out in 2012. CIB24 building with a minimal capital outlay, and, because the quantity of communal waste has decreased as a result, The increase in the quantity of office machinery waste in 2010 the communal waste disposal service provider now removes was due to the branch closures, internal changes of premises, 37 440 litres less communal waste every year. As a part of inventory-taking, the emptying of the storage facility in Baross the selective waste collection scheme we separately dispose utca, and the scrapping of equipment. of PET bottles, non-confidential paper waste. 30 3. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Corporate governance orporate governance issues are central to the responsible operation of the organisation. As a member of an international group and an important market player, we must set an example and lead the way in terms of responsible corporate governance, not only by fully complying with the legal regulations, but also through initiatives that go beyond our core obligations. 31 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP 3.1. continuous growth in its customer base; however, this trend was interrupted by the financial crisis, which shifted the focus to customer retention and gaining the best possible understanding of client needs. The loan portfolio reflects an even higher degree of risk-awareness than before, with efforts being made Organisational to improve loan quality, while in respect of deposits the aim is to further accelerate the rate of growth. Naturally, profitable structure operation remains an important objective, in the interests of which we are constantly improving our cost effectiveness. These objectives fundamentally serve the long-term stability of the banking group. We provide comprehensive informaOur Bank Group provides commercial banking, leasing, fund tion about our services on our internet site, and in our Annual management and factoring services to private and business Financial Statements, which can also be downloaded from our customers in Hungary. Similarly to the other players in the website. (For supplementary data and tables related to the sector, in recent years it had placed an emphasis on ensuring section below, see Annex 4.3.) The organisational structure of CIB Bank (31 December 2012) Board Supervisory of Directors Committee Human Resources Compliance Internal Audit Organisational Change Anti-Money Laundering & Efficiency Management General Governance CSR CEO Governance Centre Officer, Deputy CEO Voice of Customer Group Legal Services Bank Security Mark eting & Communication Chief Chief Risk Chief Chief Business Workout Officer Operating Officer Officer Officer ng cturi Restru ail Ret kin al an M EB arke SM g ts t pi Ca ce CI & W an BL ry ork Fin ea asu ou t sin g Tre Cre dit Und Corp ance Real E state Portfolio Manageme nt erwr ent orate Banking & Structured Fin iting agem Operation Risk Man s IT Following on from 2011, several significant organisational In March Fabrizio Centrone was appointed as the new CEO changes – affecting the business and operating model – conof the CIB Group. tinued in 2012 as well. One of the most important organisational changes of the period was the continued restructuring The post of Chief Operating Officer (COO) was created to of the retail and SME network. In response to the stricter coordinate and oversee the activities of the Operations and regulations and the protracted financial crisis, in 2012 we IT divisions, and is held by Giorgio Gavioli. Parallel to this, had to further streamline our branch network. Following Eduardo Bombieri now oversees the Credit Underwriting, Risk the closure of 20 branches – while continuing to provide Management and Finance divisions in his capacity as Chief nationwide coverage – as of the end of the year we served Risk Officer. The reason for the change was partly to devote our customers in a total of 108 branches. more attention to the complex operation of the Operations 32 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP and IT divisions, and partly to place even more emphasis In the interests of simplification and boosting efficiency, on the risk-based supervision of the CIB Group’s portfolio. organisational changes were made at all the divisions following a review of the relevant processes. The CIB Group’s To promote efficiency and simplify processes, the Organisation far-reaching and comprehensive restructuring program (the and Project Management departments have ceased to exist New Bank Program) continued also in 2012, as we deployed in their previous form, and the Organisational Change and management and staff resources for the coordinated, careEfficiency Management Division was established in their fully researched and targeted restructuring of our business place. The former Organisation and Project Management model. The focus of the changes continues to be simplificadepartments, as well as two new organisational units, Process tion and customer experience. The prime objective of senior Management and the transforming IT Security and BCM management is for us to stand out among our competitors, departments report to the head of the division. in each of our business lines, through the quality of banking processes and the standard of services provided to customers. The Group Compliance Department has ceased to exist in its previous form, and in future these activities will be conducted by the Anti-Money Laundering and Compliance Offices within the General Governance Division. The Project Finance Division also no longer exists in its previous form, and the part of the division that manages the project finance portfolio now reports to the head of Corporate Banking, while the other half of the team reports to Chief Workout Officer Jon Locke. Another change affecting Workout is that the unit engaged in the management of repossessed assets has split away from the division, and now reports directly to Chief Workout Officer Jon Locke. 3.2. Decision-making bodies Members of the Board of Directors Name Organisation represented Dr. György Surányi, chairman Intesa Sanpaolo Banking Group Paolo Sarcinelli Intesa Sanpaolo Banking Group Giampiero Trevisan Intesa Sanpaolo Banking Group Fabrizio Centrone CIB Bank Eduardo Bombieri CIB Bank Dr. Gábor Király CIB Bank Gábor Plank CIB Bank Jonathan Locke CIB Bank As at 31 December 2012 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Members of the Management Committee Name Position, area of responsibility Fabrizio Centrone CEO (chairman) Eduardo Bombieri Chief Risk Officer Dr. Gábor Király Chief Governance Officer Gábor Plank Chief Business Officer Jonathan Locke Chief Workout Officer Giorgio Gavioli Chief Operating Officer Boglárka Kôszegi Head of Human Resources Alessio Cioni Head of Organisational Change and Efficiency Management Krisztián Horváth Head of Retail Banking Dávid Csont Head of Corporate Banking Csongor Németh Head of SME Banking Áron Vitályos Head of Leasing Zoltán Tóth Head of Treasury and Capital Markets Pavol Tavac Head of Credit Underwriting Zsuzsanna Németh Head of Risk Management Magdolna Juridesz Chief Financial Officer Andrea Wéber Head of Operations Attila Bukovszki Head of Information Technology Zoltán Csordás Head of Workout As at 31 December 2012 The bank’s supreme decision-making body is the Share­ • The Steering Committees are authorised to indepenholders’ Meeting, which is made up of all the shareholders. dently make decisions and launch initiatives affecting the The structure of the other boards is as follows: entire CIB Group, within the scope of authority delegated • T he bank’s executive body is the Board of Directors, to them by the bank’s Board of Directors: the members of which are employed either by the parent • Group Management Committee group or by CIB Bank. • Group Risk Evaluation Committee • The Supervisory Committee is responsible for oversee• Group Regulatory Committee ing the bank's operations, and is chaired by Ivan Sramko. • Group Asset-Liability Committee The Supervisory Committee has two members representing • Group Credit Committee the employees, for whom it represents a means of commu• Group Problem Assets Committee nicating employees’ recommendations to both the owner • Group Legal and Risk Evaluation Committee and the Shareholders’ Meeting. • T he Operative Committees are independent bodies • The Audit Committee, chaired by Christophe Welle, supcharged with the making of non-strategic decisions at the ports the work of the Supervisory Committee, primarily in level of the overall CIB Bank Group. relation to auditing, risk management and compliance• The CIB Bank Group’s Technical Committees, within the related tasks. scope of their authority, have initiation, proposal and advi• T he Executive Committee is authorised to decide on matsory rights. ters determined by the Board of Directors. • Auditor: Ernst & Young 34 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP 3.3. Selection and evaluation of managers A key factor in the success of an organisation’s operation is of their performance, is an important aspect of corporate the expertise of its senior managers. Therefore the selection governance. We go into detail regarding this subject in the and appropriate motivation of managers, and the evaluation section titled “2.2 Employees”. 3.4. Promoting ethically-sound and responsible operation At the owner’s request, but in a continuation of work already parties have until now been unable to ask for help; but commenced by the Bank on its own initiative, in April 2008 it also creates the opportunity to consult and request CIB Bank’s Board of Directors approved the parent company’s advice on certain ethical issues. Code of Ethics, applicable to all members of the international banking group. It also introduced the CIB Group’s Code of The Rules of Ethics Procedures, introduced at the end Conduct. The Code of Ethics is a document that reflects our of 2011 and subsequently amended on the basis of the broader vision of our social and environmental responsibiliinitial experience of its implementation, ensure complities, and which attributes fundamental importance to our ance with the corporate values and principles defined relationships with our stakeholders. It explains those values in the Code of Ethics of the CIB Group, and make it posin which we believe, and which we have made a commitsible to detect any breaches of its provisions. We take ment to uphold. Our ethical values are listed at the beginthe Code of Ethics and the Code of Conduct as the basis ning of this report. for our interpretation of a given report. The Intesa Sanpaolo Group, of which the CIB Group is Rules of Ethics Procedures a member, has established a local ethics ombudsman All companies that operate in compliance with strict system in each country where it has a subsidiary. This ethical norms have established mechanisms that serve essentially means that, with a few exceptions, complaints to reveal risks that have previously, due to their nature, concerning ethics-related issues are investigated and the remained hidden. Ethical risks are typically of this nature. decision is made in the country of the subsidiary bank These can affect not only the company itself, but its concerned. The system makes it possible for the mememployees or even its customers or suppliers. The purber banks to take local conventions into account when pose of the procedural rules is to open up a channel for conducting the investigations and procedures, and based the disclosure of issues in relation to which aggrieved on this the CIB Group has decided to establish an Ethics 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Committee to assist the work of the ethics ombudsman. the prevention of corruption and the criteria for gift-giving. This means that every report is investigated by the Ethics The Code of Conduct has been incorporated into the CIB Committee, which is chaired by the bank’s CSR mana­ Group’s regulatory system as a policy, the breaching of which ger, as the ethics ombudsman. We automatically send may have consequences under labour law. a notification of every report to our head office in Italy. The Bank also clearly defines its fundamental principles perThe system is currently primarily accessible to employees. taining to responsible practices in its Organisational and The Rules of Ethics Procedures serve to reveal concealed Operational Regulations (OOR). By these means, the Bank risks or specific cases of unethical conduct, and to also rejects all forms of discrimination and corruption in both its enable the Ethics Committee to fulfil a preliminary or internal and external communication. Besides the above, even pre-emptive consultative, advisory role. One of the the regulations governing compliance and risk management most important principles of the ethics system is to proactivities also proclaim similar principles aimed at supporting vide the opportunity for anyone who notices unethical responsible operation. conduct to report the matter, anonymously if need be, with full protection of the personal and – in the case Functions supporting responsible operation of an employee – employee’s rights of the person filSupport for the appropriate handling of issues that are essening the report. tial for responsible banking operations is assured by the clear definition of responsibilities, or in certain cases – to emphasise The Ethics Committee – in the spirit of our Code of the importance of the given function – through the creation Ethics – does not impose sanctions. Its task is to judge of a separate organisational unit. From this standpoint we whether the claims made in the report are warranted, regard legal compliance – especially with respect to the preand to take steps to share the lessons learned. Thus, at vention of money laundering – and the appropriate mana­ the end of the investigation there are two decisions that gement of the risks arising from our operation as being of the Ethics Committee can make: it can either dismiss the particular importance. allegation, or it can judge it to be warranted, in which case it hands the case over to the appropriate specialThe purpose of the risk management function is to idenist department or to HR for an eventual decision under tify the risks of the given organisational unit, to measure labour law or a specialist investigation. the identified risks and manage them to ensure that they do not jeopardise prudent operation or the fulfilment of In 2012 two ethics-related investigations were conbusiness objectives. In the CIB Group, the Finance and Risk ducted, and in both cases an ethical transgression was Management divisions are responsible for these activities. found to have occurred. In both cases the reports were made by employees, in the following categories: We regard the continuous strengthening of fraud awareness • unfair practice; within the bank group as being of key importance, whether • management conduct. this relates to the prevention of internal fraud, protecting against external fraud attempts, or the handling of any sucIn all cases that led to a finding of culpability the Ethics cessful incidences of fraud. The most important fraud expoCommittee shares the details of the case, and the lessures within the Bank Group have been assessed, and the sons that can be learned (without compromising the bank has put in place the appropriate control processes, anonymity of those concerned) with the employees. reports and a system of risk-mitigation tools. • Responsible lending In 2012 we produced an interactive training course that all Our framework system for risk assumption supports active employees must study, in order to sit an examination in the but responsible lending. The responsibility is two-sided, since course of 2013. it does not only mean responsibility towards the CIB Group’s shareholders and deposit customers, which presupposes cauThe Code of Conduct is a means of articulating, in the form tious, risk-conscious lending in the interest of safeguarding of regulations, the values enshrined in the Code of Ethics. It the invested funding sources, but it also means responsibi­ goes into detail regarding the rules of personal conduct and lity towards the customers that we finance; in other words, the finer points of banking operations, sets rules pertaining offering financing solutions that are consistent with the custo the expected model of conduct, and deals separately with tomers’ risk profile and creditworthiness. To ensure the latter, 36 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP we precisely assess our customers’ financial capacity, while Our employees participated in distance learning courses and in the interest of the former we maintain a lending policy took electronic examinations in the prevention of money and approval procedures that are based on the Bank Group’s laundering, conflicts of interest and security awareness, via experience and on an analysis of other information, we ope­ the e-learning (MultiLearn) interface. rate a monitoring system, engage in workout activities, and manage our risks in a complex manner, analysing them in In 2012 a total of 1 641 employees at the bank and the sub­ their broader context. High-quality and effective monitoring sid­iaries re­ceived an­nual training in the prevention of money activity is assured by an electronic solution that automatically laundering. The obligatory Code of Conduct, which was computes what are known as early warning signs – informaap­pro­ved in 2008, includes a set of rules on the prohibition tion that can assist in identifying customers that could require of corruption. special help. Besides supporting monthly monitoring, the system is also suitable for the maintenance of action plans As a part of its efforts to combat corruption – in keeping and for reporting, making it possible to measure the results with the relevant guiding principles of Intesa Sanpaolo – the of action taken, which in turn assists in the fine-tuning of CIB Group does not, in any way, support politicians or politithe system and the processes involved, and in the provision cal parties, or institutions with which they are associated. of constant feedback. • Prevention of conflicts of interest • Internal Audit With respect to conflicts of interest, we proceed in accordance Internal Audit is an independent and objective, corroborative with requirements that are stricter than those set out in Act and advisory function, the purpose of which is to improve CXII of 1996 (Credit Institutions Act), Act CXXXVIII of 2007 the operations and effectiveness of the given organisation. (Investment Services Act), and Act XXII of 1992 (the Labour In order to assist in achieving the organisation’s stated objecCode). It is the responsibility of every manager and general tives, the Internal Audit function methodically and systematiemployee to avoid participation in any decision, preparations cally assesses and improves the effectiveness of the audited for a decision, or contract conclusion, that represents a conorganisation’s risk management, governance and control flict of interests for him or her. procedures. • Consumer protection • A ssuring legal compliance As a consequence of the economic crisis, the demand for The purpose of compliance activities is to ensure that the consumer protection in Hungary has strengthened under bank’s financial, investment and other service-provision operpressure from both society and legislators. The CIB Group, ations are conducted within the constraints of the law, and adapting to the new expectations, has developed procedures with a view to mitigating related risk. The Compliance departthat reinforce the protection of consumers. A dedicated spement has developed numerous internal regulations that procialist has been assigned to oversee this task, ensuring that vide the CIB Group with clear guidance regarding the rules to consumers’ interests are taken into consideration in the course be followed in respect of issues that are particularly sensitive of day-to-day operation, and that this attitude becomes an or potentially controversial. In the event of non-compliance integral part of our corporate culture. the Compliance Department regularly informs the senior management about the circumstances of any revealed defiIn 2012 all employees whose work brings them into direct or ciencies and the status of measures taken to resolve them. indirect contact with consumers during their work sat electronic examinations in subjects related to consumer protec• Prevention of money laundering and corruption tion, con ducted via the internal electronic network. A separate team of specialists coordinates activities to combat money laundering. Their task is to screen for suspicious • Risk management, prudent investments transactions, provide staff with training in anti-money launThe necessary purpose of the Risk Management function dering procedures, forward reports of suspicious transacis to identify the risks of the organisation, to measure the tions to the relevant authorities, and to ensure the necessary identified risks and manage them to ensure that they do not flow of information. In 2012, building on previous efforts, jeopardise prudent operation or the fulfilment of business by developing its IT infrastructure the CIB Group increased objectives. Ensuring fully comprehensive risk management the security and effectiveness of its efforts to prevent and requires proper guidelines, appropriate limits and smooth combat money laundering. reporting procedures, for which the appropriate departments are responsible at CIB. 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP In 2009, CIB Bank adopted and in 2010 implemented the management if unavoidable, takes place in accordance with Non-Armament Bank Policy in effect at its parent company predetermined principles. The basis of all decisions related Intesa Sanpaolo, and reviewed its customer portfolio to idento credit risk is the overall exposure of the customers that tify any clients suspected of being involved in arms trading, are related to each other to CIB Bank Group. and to take the appropriate measures in respect of such customers. In the course of conducting its primary business activity the bank has to deal with interest-rate risk. Due to the nature In 2011 the CIB Group formulated its Risk Management of banking operations, a certain level of interest-rate risk Strategy, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The purpose has to be assumed, since this is one of the main potenof the strategy is to describe the internal capital adequacy tial sources of generating profit and creating value. Each assessment process and concept, which encompasses the CIB year, the Board of Directors, under the supervision of the Bank Group’s risk assumption policy, its appetite for risk and Supervisory Committee, determines the risk appetite and the structure of risk control operations. The strategy includes the corresponding limits. The appropriate risk management a detailed definition of all the risks identified within the CIB committees receive monthly reports on the current interestBank Group, and the basic principles and methodology for rate risk position, the content of which is determined in the the qualitative and quantitative measurement of the risks. market risk management policy. In 2012 the CIB Bank Group implemented the “Environmental Special emphasis is also placed on the management of and Energy Policy” of the owner Intesa Sanpaolo, during liquidity and cash-flow risks, due to the high importance of which process the framework for the Bank Group’s activities maintaining the Bank's solvency and ensuring the safety of that have an environmental impact were defined. customer deposits at all times. The CIB Group’s strategy is to ensure that the Group has appropriate and dependable In 2013 the Bank Group plans to implement the so-called liquidity reserves, consisting of good-quality assets, both in “Equator Principles” of the owner Intesa Sanpaolo, under the course of normal operation and under circumstances of which the environmental impacts of projects seeking financstress. In addition to this, the Bank also has a plan for the ing must be taken into consideration in the course of the management of liquidity crises. project finance credit appraisal. Of the various price risks, the Bank Group is predominantly In the course of its business operations, the Bank Group is susceptible to the impacts of changes in FX rates, while mainly, and in the greatest extent, exposed to credit risk. changes in the equity and other prices have a lesser effect. The mitigation of this type of risk is achieved partly through The Bank Group seeks to hedge its FX positions as securely compliance with the statutory requirements and internal as possible: the carefully considered establishment of posilimits, and partly through prudent lending and loss-provitions takes place as a part of the trading activities performed sioning practices. by the Treasury. Legal requirements and the best practices of risk manage• L abour law ment are incorporated into the Bank Group’s daily operations The CIB Group, as a responsible money-market participant, through the internal regulations. The internal regulations complies with the laws pertaining to employment, and with address in detail the procedures related to debtor rating, the relevant provisions of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. By limit-setting, the recognition and evaluation of collateral, adding its signature to the UN Global Compact it has agreed loan and customer monitoring, and the measurement, reportto be bound by the principles set forth therein, and thus – with ing and management of risks, applicable to the various cusrespect to employment – to fully comply with the passages tomers and customer groups. They also specify in detail the prohibiting all forms of child labour and forced labour. lending-related responsibilities and duties of the individual organisational units. In keeping with the requirements of the supervisory bodies and its owner, the Bank Group pursues a prudent policy with regard to the assumption of risk. The management of the lending process, from the initial customer request through the credit approval and monitoring process, to full repayment of the loan, or workout 38 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP 3.5. CSR management and communication The task of the central CSR department is to coordinate An essential part of responsible operation is the engageand oversee the various CSR projects and initiatives, and to ment of stakeholders, and maintaining a continuous dialogue implement uniform internal and external CSR communicawith them. This makes it possible for opinions, ideas and tion. CSR activities have come under the direct supervision proposals to be heard, discussed and incorporated into the of the CEO since summer 2009, although due to resourcebank's operation. In the course of 2011, we continued using distribution reasons the related tasks are performed by the a variety of formats, communication tools and channels to Communication department. A report on CSR activities is engage with our stakeholders. The following are just a few prepared for the senior management at regular intervals, examples, which are explored in more detail in the various presenting the most important achievements of the previous sections of this report: quarter and the challenges of the coming period. • As part of the 100% Listening program, we cont­inued to survey the opinions of our customers and assess Stakeholder engagement their satisfaction, by means of a questionnaire distributed The basis of CIB’s corporate social responsibility activity is in our branches and posted on our website. the ongoing dialogue that it maintains with its stakeholders. • In an Employee Climate Survey, we assessed our employWe regard as our stakeholders all those who may be ees’ workplace sentiment, and their opinions and attitudes affected by the activities and operations of the bank, regarding CIB as an employer. and/or who may have an effect on our organisation. • We held consultations with the Staff Council, especially Of these, the following three groups are of critical with regard to the mass redundancies. importance from the perspective of our operation: • We gave our employees the opportunity to actively volunemployees, customers and the owner. Besides these teer their services in support of the Bátor Tábor (Camp three priority groups, we have identified further stakeholder of Courage) Foundation. groups, which are: suppliers, civic organisations, local com• We have launched initiatives in several towns with the aim of munities and professional organisations. improving financial literacy among the local community. 39 4. ANNEXES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Annexes 40 ANNEXES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP 4.1. CIB Bank – core data Name: CIB Bank Zrt. Territory of operation: Hungary Form of incorporation: Privately-held Joint Stock Company (Zrt.) Ownership structure: Intesa Sanpaolo Holding International S.A. 67.6904% Intesa Sanpaolo S.p.A. 32.3096% As at 31 December 2012 Members of the CIB Group1 Intesa Sanpaolo Holding Intesa Sanpaolo S.p.A. 100% International S.A. 32.3096% 67.6904% CIB Bank Zrt. 145 000 000 000 HUF 100% CIB Leasing Holding Kft.. 500 000 HUF 100% 100% CIB Insurance Brokerage Kft. CIB Real Estate Leasing Zrt. 100% 10 000 000 HUF 100% 52 000 000 HUF 100% 98.2264% CIB Factor Zrt. 94.975% CIB Rent Zrt. 103 500 000 HUF 800 000 000 HUF 1.7736% Recovery Zrt. CIB Investment Fund 10 000 000 HUF 5.025% Management Zrt. CIB Leasing Zrt. 600 000 000 HUF 51 000 000 HUF CIL MNM Kft. 96.67% 3 000 000 HUF Brivon Hungary Zrt. 100% 15 000 000 HUF CIB Car Kft. 100% 10 000 000 HUF As at 31 December 2012 1 Subsidiaries providing business services. 41 ANNEXES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP 4.2. Branch Network Current branch network Kazincbarcika CIB Branches Salgótarján Mátészalka Miskolc I.– II. Nyíregyháza I.– II. Mosonmagyaróvár Eger Esztergom Vác Sopron Szentendre Gyöngyös Tata Piliscsaba Dunakeszi Hajdúböszörmény Gyôr I.– III. Tatabánya Budakeszi Gödöllô Budaörs Debrecen I–II. Törökbálint Vecsés Szombathely Pápa Érd Monor Szigetszentmiklós Cegléd Ajka Székesfehérvár I.– II. Szolnok Veszprém Dunaújváros Keszthely Siófok Kecskemét Zalaegerszeg Békéscsaba Kiskunfélegyháza Orosháza Nagykanizsa Gyula Szekszárd Hódmezôvásárhely Kaposvár Kiskunhalas Szeged I.– III. Baja Pécs I.– II. As at 31 December 2012 Budapest Békásmegyer Csillaghegy CIB Branches Újpest Eurocenter Pólus 1 – Oktogon 11 – Zöldfa Hûvösvölgy Flórián tér Váci út Újpalota Béke tér 2 – Nyugati tér 12 – Fényes Elek utca 7 12 Bosnyák tér 3 – Szent István krt. 13 – Ferenciek tere 8 9 2 19 3 1 10 17 15 Mátyásföld 5 Örs vezér tér 4 – Pilvax 14 – Rákóczi tér 11 4 18 Baross 20 13 6 14 Aréna MOM Park Kôbánya 5 – Károly krt. 15 – Bajcsy 16 Rákoskeresztúr Gazdagrét 6 – Kálvin tér 16 – Ferenc krt. Tétényi út KÖKI 7 – Rózsakert 17 – Szabadság tér Pesterzsébet Pestszentlôrinc I.–II. 8 – Lövôház utca 18 – Blaha Budafok Csepel 9 – Medve utca 19 – Westend Campona 10 – Kékgolyó utca 20 – Allee Skála Soroksár As at 31 December 2012 Our presence across the country 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Bank branches 153 151 145 128 108 Representative offices 42 24 0 0 0 ATMs 228 221 211 186 171 Data as of 31 December 42 ANNEXES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP 4.3. CIB Bank in figures 4.3.1. Business Data The CIB Group’s clientele by segment (number of customers) 2010 2011 2012 627 240 593 418 558 097 90 007 88 099 80 136 717 247 681 517 638 233 Retail Corporate Total Data as of 31 December The CIB Group’s retail customers by age group (percentage) 2010 2011 2012 0–32 years 27.6 27.5 27.3 33–42 years 26.0 25.7 25.0 43–52 years 18.1 18.2 18.4 53–67 years 21.5 21.2 21.1 Over 67 years 6.8 7.4 8.2 Data as of 31 December The CIB Group’s retail customers by length of relationship with the bank (%) 2010 2011 2012 0–1 years 9.2 6.4 5.1 2–4 years 38.3 32.4 25.5 5–7 years 32.7 33.9 34.9 8–10 years 11.9 16.4 20.8 11–20 years 7.8 10.9 13.6 20 years or more 0.1 0.1 0.1 Data as of 31 December Retail product usage (including micro-enterprise customers) 2010* 2011 2012 Retail loans (HUF billion) 767.2 671.3 521.2 Retail deposits (HUF billion) 724.2 819.8 804.7 Number of active bank cards 460 098 419 787 425 369 Number of customers with an active 308 555 324 392 325 910 CIB Internet Bank subscription Consolidated, IFRS data as at 31 December * Updated in 2012. 43 ANNEXES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Corporate product usage 2010* 2011* 2012 Corporate loans (HUF billion) 1 1 376.2 1 230.2 996.7 Corporate deposits2 (HUF billion) 618.9 597.7 506.2 Number of active bank cards 9 880 8 437 8 445 Number of customers with an active 13 026 8 986 8 610 CIB Internet Bank subscription Consolidated, IFRS data as at 31 December *Updated in 2012. Distribution of the loan portfolio by sector (%): (million HUF) 2011 (%) 2012 (%) Commerce 10.29 10.67 Private individuals 30.80 28.65 Real estate investment 25.17 25.10 Other, mainly service sector 15.62 18.00 Food processing 1.75 1.87 Transport and communication 3.47 3.19 Light industry 2.96 2.94 Heavy industry 2.56 2.66 Financial activities 4.55 4.00 Agriculture 2.28 2.35 Chemical and pharmaceutical industry 0.55 0.57 Total 100.0 100.0 Consolidated, IFRS data as at 31 December 4.3.2. Authority proceedings • Number of proceedings launched by the various authorities, the HFSA has also launched consumer protection procedures. concluded in 2012 with the passing of a resolution: 94 (in Almost 95% of these procedures were launched on the basis 2011: 85, in 2010: 20, in 2009: 16) of an individual complaint, and not at the authority’s own • Of these, the number of proceedings in which a breach of initiative on the basis of its “classical” supervisory rights. law was found to have been committed, and a fine was These accounted for HUF 32.9 million. imposed: 64 (in 2011: 46, in 2010: 13, in 2009: 8) • Amount of fines paid in 2012: HUF 33.9 million (in 2011: Competition Office (GVH) HUF 31.1 million, in 2010: HUF 15.9 million, in 2009: HUF and the Equal Treatment Authority3 206.5 million) In 2011 neither the Competition Office nor the Equal Treatment Authority imposed fines on members of the CIB Group. The large statistical difference relative to the data from the previous years is due to the fact that since 1 January 2010 1 Excluding loans provided to members of the CIB Group. 2 Excluding deposits collected from members of the CIB Group. 3 In 2008 the GVH imposed a fine of HUF 90 million for misleading advertising; there is no comparable data from 2007. 44 ANNEXES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP 4.3.3. Human resources data Number of employees of the CIB Group 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Fixed-term 144 99 82 33 16 Indefinite-term 3 513 3 180 3 009 2 912 2 739 Total 3 657 3 279 3 091 2 945 2 755 Data as of 31 December 2010 2011 2012 Number of part-time employees 32 32 34 Number of employees with congenital disabilities 4 0 0 Number of employees with acquired disabilities 22 20 20 Number of agency employees 51 40 45 Data as of 31 December The CIB Group’s employees by age and gender (percentage) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Male, under 30 11.7 10.5 8.8 7.2 5.88 Female, under 30 24.4 25.6 17.7 17.1 13.97 Male, 30-50 20.8 18 23.6 24.7 26.57 Female, 30-50 36.3 40.4 43.4 44.7 46.79 Male, over 50 1.7 1.4 1.5 1.3 1.45 Female, over 50 5.1 4 4.9 5 5.34 Data as of 31 December The CIB Group’s employees by level of formal qualification (%)1 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 University 23.5 47.8 50.9 50.4 48.9 College 30.2 49.5 47.2 47.3 49.0 Other2 46.3 2.7 2.5 2.3 2.1 Data as of 31 December The CIB Group’s employees by professional status (%) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Executive male 4.9 5.1 5.5 5.7 5.95 Executive female 2.4 2.3 3.7 4.4 4.43 Male specialist 9.4 9.8 9.0 9.1 9.66 Female specialist 9.0 9.7 9.5 9.6 10.49 Male subordinate 19.9 18.9 19.4 18.4 18.29 Female subordinate 54.4 54.2 52.9 52.8 51.18 Data as of 31 December 1 The substantial difference in the figures is the result of database cleaning. In 2007 and 2008 the “other” category included those employees in respect of whom detailed information pertaining to formal qualifications was not available at the time of requesting the data. 2 Secondary school, vocational school, technical college, skilled-worker training 45 ANNEXES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Proportion of male and female employees at the individual levels of seniority (%) Male Female Executives 57.34 42.66 Specialists 47.93 52.07 Subordinates 26.33 73.67 As at of 31 December 2012 The CIB Group’s employees by geographical location (number of employees)1 2011 2012 Budapest 2 375 2 232 East Hungary Region 304 278 West Hungary Region 266 245 Data as of 31 December Proportion of employees leaving the company (%, number of outgoing employees/year-end headcount) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Proportion of employees leaving the company 20.4 17.14 19.3 20.6 17.28 Proportion of employees leaving the company, by age group (%) 2009 2010 2011 2012 14 41 .5 16 .4 15 9 15 .4 19 0 16 .8 17 1 19 .3 17 8 17 .1 21 4 22 .3 16 0 30 . 11 91 0 15 .6 7 19.1 8 22.0 0 20.6 0 20.3 7 25.0 2 19.4 1 3. 16 0 .6 12 7 16 1.6 .9 .1 19 9 .2 9 .4 17 1 .0 2 .7 16 9 .3 1 16 .8 .3 5 .3 16 5 .1 1 .1 14 3 .1 5 50 26 .0 20 16 .5 .9 2 21–25 23–30 31–35 36–40 41–45 46–50 51–55 56–60 61– Proportion of employees leaving the company, by gender (%) 2009 2010 2011 2012 Male 19.01 23.8 23.5 18.31 Female 16.19 16.9 15.3 16.75 Employee turnover in the CIB Group (number of persons) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Employees joining 889 230 476 483 317 Employees leaving 747 562 598 621 476 Data as of 31 December 1 Due to changes in the regions, the data is not suitable for comparison with that of previous years. 46 ANNEXES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Composition of the Board of Directors by age group (percentage, number of persons) 2009 2010 2012 37% (3 persons) 25% (2 persons) 63% (5 persons) 37.5% (3 persons) 75% (5 persons) 2011 62.5% (5 persons) 22% (2 persons) 40–50 50+ 78% (7 persons) as of 31 December Composition of the Management Committee by age group (percentage, number of persons) 2009 2010 2012 7% (1 person) 7% (1 person) 14% (2 persons) 47% (7 persons) 25% (5 persons) 47% (7 persons) 77% (11 persons) 35% (7 persons) 2011 44.4% (8 persons) 30–40 40–50 50+ 40% (8 persons) 55.6% (10 persons) as of 31 December Board of Directors and Management Committee combined (%, number of persons): 2009 2010 2012 10% (2 persons) 15.8% (3 persons) 21% (4 persons) 36.8% (7 persons) 25% (7 persons) 69% (13 persons) 47.4% (9 persons) 35.7% (10 persons) 2011 9.1% (2 persons) 30–40 40–50 36.4% (8 persons) 50+ 39.3% (11 persons) 54.5% (12 persons) as of 31 December 47 ANNEXES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Proportion of Hungarian citizens within the Board of Directors and the Management Committee (%, persons, with executives that sit on both committees counted twice)1 2009 2010 2012 36% (8 persons) 32% (6 persons) 57.1% (16 persons) 64% (14 persons) 68% (13 persons) 2011 Non-Hungarian 40.7% (11 persons) 42.9% (12 persons) Hungarian 59.3% (16 persons) as of 31 December The average monthly wage of career starters recruited by the bank in 2012 was HUF 251 430, or 270% of the statutory minimum wage. In 2011 it was HUF 242 108, or 260% of the statutory minimum wage. The base for calculation is the annual statutory minimum wage for jobs requiring professional qualifications. Average annual basic salary of men and women by professional category (HUF million) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Executive male 13.54 13.32 12.30 12.83 11.92 Executive female 11.89 12.44 10.63 10.36 10.32 Male specialist 7.08 7.22 7.66 7.75 7.69 Female specialist 6.91 6.93 7.03 7.03 6.91 Male subordinate 3.77 3.92 4.01 4.2 4.38 Female subordinate 3.35 3.46 3.47 3.52 3.65 Data as of 31 December Accidents at work and the number of working days lost as a result (days) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Number of workplace accidents 12 8 6 8 15 Number of working days lost 161 106 726 222 273 Data as of 31 December Ratio of missed days by reason for absenteeism (%)2 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Illness 28.4 26.7 26.2 17.9 16.58 Accident 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 Maternity leave 63.8 61.5 60.9 71.1 80.97 Other 7.6 11.7 12.8 10.9 2.25 Data as of 31 December 1 E xecutives that sit on both committees have been counted twice. The data is not suitable for comparison with the data from previous years, when the same indicator was measured for a different group of 48 senior executives. In 2008, the proportion of local executives within the senior management was 94%. 2 As a proportion of total days worked ANNEXES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP 4.3.4. Membership of associations Hungarian Banking Association Hungarian SEPA Association Budapest Chamber of Commerce and Industry Italian Chamber of Commerce in Hungary British Chamber of Commerce in Hungary Hungarian Forex Association International Chamber of Commerce ACCA Hungarian Public Benefit Organisation of Internal Auditors ISACA Hungarian Association IIF Hungarian Advertising Association Advertising Self Regulatory Board Hungarian Leasing Association Association of Independent Insurance Brokers in Hungary Hungarian Factoring Association 4.4. Awards and accolades • CSR Best Practice Award exemplary project: National • Certified Call Centre – GfK Hungary Food Drive Day in conjunction with the Hungarian Food •B  ank Card of the Year CIB Café Credit Card – Hungarian Bank Association – Hungarian Public Relations Association University of Fine Arts 49 ANNEXES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP 4.5. Compliance with the principles of the UN Global Compact Global Compact Our performance Related GRI principles indicators Human Rights 1. B usiness should • We have made a commitment to protect human rights in accordance with • 4.8 support and resthe 1948 Universal Declaration on Human Rights. We expect all of our • EC5 pect the protection Hungarian and foreign partners to do the same. • L A7, LA8, LA13, of internationally • In the course of its operation the bank fully respects the Fundamental Law LA14 proclaimed human of Hungary and all other general domestic and international conventions • PR8 rights. on human rights and ethics. • We treat protecting the personal data of our customers as a key priority; we investigate complaints related to data handling, and take steps to reduce the number of complaints to a minimum. • We provide our employees with fair and satisfactory working conditions and pay, as well as a wide range of other benefits (see section 2.2). The average starting monthly wage is almost three times the statutory minimum wage. 2. B usinesses should • In 2012 we continued with implementation of the Code of Ethics, and the • 4.8 make sure they Code of Conduct based thereon. One of the most important steps taken • HR6, HR7 are not complicit in-house in 2012 was the development of the rules of ethics procedures • FS14 in human rights and boosting internal acceptance of the framework. abuses. • We are committed to eliminating all forms of discrimination from our conduct and to respecting differences in gender, age, race, religion, political and trade-union alignment, and language, and to respecting the rights of those with disabilities. • In 2012 we continued with the barrier-free conversion of bank branches, at several branches we launched the procedure to obtain the planning permission for such conversions, and we also carried on with the installation of easier-to-use ATMs. Labour 3. Business should • A trade union has been established to represent the interests of employees, • LA4 uphold the freedom which had 303 members at the end of 2012. of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Business should eli• The Bank abides by the laws of the country and the relevant passages of • HR7 minate all forms of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. forced and compul• We have made a commitment to protect human rights in accordance with sory labour. the 1948 Universal Declaration on Human Rights. 50 ANNEXES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP 5. Business should be ef• The Bank abides by the laws of the country and the relevant passages of • HR6 fective in abolishing the Fundamental Law of Hungary. child labour. 6. Business should eli• We declared in our Code of Ethics that we are committed to eliminating all forms • 4.8 minate discriminaof discrimination from our conduct and to respecting differences in gender, age, • LA13, LA14 tion in employment race, religion, political and trade-union alignment, and language, and to respecting and occupation. the rights of those with disabilities. • Our organisation is willing to appoint physically disabled staff to certain positions. In 2012 a total of 20 persons with acquired disabilities worked at the CIB Group. • We place emphasis on achieving equality between the genders: the difference between men’s and women’s wages is considerably smaller than both the Hungarian and the European average. Our long-term objective is to fully comply with the principle of “equal pay for equal work”. Environment 7. B usiness should • We aim to use all our resources sparingly. In this regard we promote conduct • EN8, EN18, EN26 support a precauthat is based on the best use of resources and on the avoidance of waste • FS1 tionary approach and ostentation. We give priority to solutions that have been designed to environmental with sustainability in mind. challenges. • In certain contracts we stipulate that in the course of fulfilling their obligations suppliers are obliged to use environmentally friendly technology, products and materials, and make efforts to recycle the waste that is generated. • We have launched numerous initiatives aimed at reducing energy and water consumption (for details, see section 2.5), including the installation of solar panels on the roofs of our central office buildings, in order to cut down on the use of non-renewable energy sources. 8. B usiness should • We extended the opportunity for selective waste collection to two more of • EN5, EN18, EN26 undertake initiaour central office buildings. tives to promote • Also last year, on several occasions we held week-long internal commugreat­er environnication campaigns related to environmental awareness topics. On every mental responsiworking day of the week we explored a different topic via the intranet, bility. which is accessible via the internal network. The issues discussed spanned the most important questions related to paper use, energy consumption, environmentally aware transportation and waste management, and em­p­ loyees were also provided with useful advice and practical tips. 9. Business should • We endeavour to assume a role in the promotion of environmentally sound • EN5, EN18 encourage the deveenergy use, and for this reason we support such efforts and work of our lopment and diffusion colleagues and various civic organisations. of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10. Business should • The Bank abides by the laws of the country. • 4.8 work against corrup• The Bank has approved the Code of Ethics and the Code of Conduct setting • SO3 tion in all its forms, forth the standards of behaviour that are expected of our employees, which including extortion also has a section devoted to the prohibition of corruption. and bribery • All employees of the CIB Group have received training in the prevention of money laundering and conflicts of interests, through the e-learning interface (MultiLearn) accessible via the internal network. 51 ANNEXES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP GRI Index Indicator Brief description Page number 1. Strategy and analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation about the relevance 1.1. page 7 of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy 1.2. Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities page 7 2. G3 profile disclosures 2.1. Name of the organisation page 41 2.2. Primary brands, products and/or services page 10, 32, 43 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, operational com2.3. page 41 panies, subsidiaries and joint ventures 2.4. Location of the organisation’s headquarters page 57 2.5. Countries where the organisation operates page 41 2.6. Nature and legal form of ownership page 41 2.7. Markets served page 42 Size of the reporting organisation: number of employees; net sales; total capitalisation 2.8. broken down in terms of debt and equity; quantity of products manufactured, or value pages 43–44 of services provided 2.9. Significant changes in size, structure or ownership, during the reporting period page 56 2.10. Awards and prizes received during the reporting period page 49 3. Report parameters 3.1. Reporting period page 56 3.2. Date of most recent report page 56 3.3. Reporting cycle page 56 3.4. Contact point for questions regarding the report or its content page 57 3.5. Process for defining report content page 56 3.6. Boundary of the report page 56 3.7. Presentation of any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report page 56 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, 3.8. and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/ page 56 or between organisations 3.9. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations page 56 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, 3.10. page 56 and the reasons for such re-statement 52 ANNEXES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or mea3.11. page 56 surement methods applied in the report 3.12. GRI Content Index pages 52–55 3.13. Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report page 56 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1. Governance structure of the organisation page 32 4.2. Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer page 34 4.3. The number of members of the highest governance body that are independent page 33 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations for direction 4.4. page 34 to the highest governance body Link between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior 4.5. page 19 managers, and executives, and the organisation's performance Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure that conflicts of interest 4.6. page 37 are avoided Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest 4.7. governance body for guiding the organisation's strategy on economic, environmental page 19 and social issues Internally developed statements of mission or values relevant to economic, environ4.8. page 2, 35­–36 mental and social performance Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the identification and 4.9. page 35–36, 39 management of economic, environmental and social performance Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly 4.10. page 19, 35–36 with respect to economic, environmental and social performance Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addres4.11. pages 36–37 sed by the organisation Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or 4.12. pages 50–51 other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses Memberships in associations (such as industry/sector associations) and/or national/ 4.13. page 49 international advocacy organisations 4.14. List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation in any form of dialogue pages 39 4.15. Method and principles for selection of the stakeholder groups pages 39 4.16. Approaches to stakeholder engagement pages 39 4.17. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement pages 39 53 ANNEXES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Typically described in the introduction 5. Management approach to the individual sections EC Economic performance indicators Economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, empEC1 loyee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, page 14 and payments to capital providers and governments EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government page 11 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at EC5 page 50 significant locations of operation (national data available) EC6 Proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers page 24 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local pages 19, 48 EC7 community at significant locations of operation LA Labour practices and decent work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region page 45, 46 LA2 Total employee turnover page 46 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or partLA3 page 20 time employees, by major operations No collective LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements bargaining agreement Rate of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and number of LA7 page 45, 48 work-related fatalities by region Education, training, counselling, prevention and risk-control programs in place regarLA8 page 21 ding serious disease LA10 Annual average number of training hours per year per employee by employment category page 22 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning page 21 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews page 19 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees by gender, age pages 33, 34, LA13 group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity 45, 47 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category page 48 HR Human Rights HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken page 35–36 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective HR5 page 35–36 bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights HR6 Measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour page 38 HR7 Measures contributing to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour page 38 PR Product responsibility Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are PR1 page 16 assessed for improvement Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring PR5 page 16 customer satisfaction 54 ANNEXES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Fines incurred for non-compliance with ethical codes related to marketing comPR7 page 44 munication Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and PR8 page 17 losses of customer data Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations page 44 PR9 concerning the provision and use of products and services SO Society SO3 Percentage of employees trained in the organisation’s anti-corruption policies and page 37 procedures SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and page 37 related institutions by country SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly pages 44 practices, and their outcomes SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for pages 44 non-compliance with laws and regulations EN Environmental performance indicators EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy sources page 27–28 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy sources page 27–28 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements page 27 EN8 Total water withdrawal page 27–28 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight page 27–28 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and reductions achieved page 27–28 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method page 29–30 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services page 29–30 Indicators specific to the financial sector FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines page 27, 36–37 FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines page 27 FS4 Processes for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social page 21 policies and procedures as applied to business lines. FS5 Interactions with clients and business partners regarding environmental and social page 26 risks and opportunities FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/ pages 9, 44 large) and by sector Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social FS9 page 36–37 policies and risk assessment procedures FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people pages 17 FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary page 25 55 ANNEXES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP About this possible we use case studies to illustrate the underlying factors related to data, decisions or objectives, and the reasons for report changes. Our ownership structure and size have not changed significantly in comparison to the previous reporting period. Reporting period: calendar year 2012 Our economic data has been stated in accordance with the Date of previous report: June 2012 (GRI B) provisions of the currently effective Accounting Act and the Reporting cycle: annual requirements of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group, while the social and GRI application level: B environmental information is from the company’s internal data recording system. Unless indicated otherwise, the figures have The report contains information regarding the CIB Group’s been arrived at through measurement or calculation. The report organisational units and subsidiaries in Hungary. In all cases only contains re-statements of previously disclosed information the data is group-level data, except where specifically stated where this is necessary in order to comply with the GRI guideotherwise. When determining the content of the report we lines. To ensure comparability over time, the quantitative data drew heavily on the results of various consultations held with used to describe our operations is given for a period spanning civil-society organisations during the year. three years. Where this is not the case, we have specified the reasons separately. Where possible we have also attempted to The focus remains on addressing the issue of the financialfind comparative market data, but at present the availability of economic crisis, and presenting our responses to the crisis sector-wide data is very limited both domestically and interand the changes in the bank’s organisation. Besides this, we nationally. Descriptions of the data measurement techniques naturally also give an account of our long-term initiatives applied, and the bases for calculation, as well as the reasons launched in the interests of ensuring sustainable operation for any re-statements of data disclosed in previous reports are from an economic, social and environmental perspective. We specified in the detailed description of the given data item. have made every effort to disclose all the key information necessary for assessing the extent of our corporate social Contrary to our plans, in 2012 we did not seek external asresponsibility. We paid particular attention to ensuring that surance for the report. the raw data, indicators and comparative tables presenting the changes over a three-year period are accompanied by The report also gives an account of our efforts to uphold the explanations to assist in interpreting the figures, and where principles set forth in the UN Global Compact. 56 ANNEXES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CIB GROUP Imprint Text: Our thanks go to the expert staff of the CIB Group for their Róbert Kanizsai, Ádám Szinai, Emese Horányi help in preparing this report. Publisher: Róbert Kanizsai, Head of Marketing, Communication and CSR Date of finalisation of manuscript: 15 May 2013 CIB Bank Zrt. Head office: CIB Social Relations contact information 1027 Budapest, Medve utca 4–14. E-mail: 1537 Budapest, P.O. box 394 fenntarthatosag@cib.hu Telephone: (+36 1) 423 1000 24-hour customer service call centre Fax: CIB24: (+36 1) 423 6500 06 40 242 242 SWIFT: From abroad: CIBH HU HB (+36 1) 399 8877 E-mail: cib@cib.hu Web: www.cib.hu www.cibalapitvany.hu 57
