Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 1 / 30 Our sustainability work in 2012 Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 2 / 30 Contents The CEO’s comments ........................................................................................................ 3 The Nolato Group in brief ................................................................................................... 4 Current status and further initiatives................................................................................ 6 Sustainable development creates opportunities ............................................................. 7 Our sustainable development strategy ............................................................................ 8 Environmental responsibility........................................................................................... 10 Social responsibility ....................................................................................................... 14 Business partners and other stakeholders ..................................................................... 17 Financial responsibility ................................................................................................... 19 Sustainability-related risks ............................................................................................. 20 Continual improvements ................................................................................................. 21 Sustainability targets ..................................................................................................... 22 About the sustainability report ....................................................................................... 23 GRI reporting ................................................................................................................... 24 COP reporting UN Global Compact .................................................................................. 27 Self-declaration according to ISO 26000 ....................................................................... 28 Definitions and glossary .................................................................................................. 30 Nolato AB (publ), SE-269 04 Torekov, Sweden +46 431 442290, www.nolato.com, info@nolato.se Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 3 / 30 Long tradition of responsible business practice 2012 was a strong year for Nolato. In it important are replacing hazardous chemiwas our best year yet in terms of financals with less hazardous ones, and creating cials, and we also continued to perform even safer and better workplaces. well on sustainability. In 2012, we enhanced systems for regisNolato in Hungary was commended tering workplace incidents. In many cases, for its initiatives in appointing impaired this initiative slotted perfectly into our employees, and also received an occupaactivities and systems for sound organisational environment excellence award from tion and efficient production methods – by Hans Porat, President & CEO the UN’s European Agency for Safety and that, I am mainly referring to 5s and lean Health at Work. manufacturing. 2012 sustainability/CSR At the Group’s units in Beijing, China, initiatives in brief we continued our systematic CSR efforts We take responsibility with a focus both on the in-house operaNolato has a long tradition of responsible Nolato Contour and Nolato Romania are certified in accordance with ISO 14001. Work tions and strategic suppliers. An Employee business practice and we stand well prebegins on certifying Nolato Jaycare’s two Care Programme is being introduced and pared to take part in the rapid sustainabilnewly acquired units in the UK during 2013. looks to hold great promise. One purpose ity developments. As described elsewhere of the programme is to raise employee in the Sustainability Report, the Group has An Employee Care Programme is launched influence and wellbeing – an increasingly gradually introduced various voluntary at Nolato Beijing in China. important factor in China, where cominitiatives, from environmental manageNolato Beijing receives an award for its petition for high-calibre employees has ment systems to various CSR guidelines. safe working environment. increased. Our commitment to the UN Global Compact and reporting under GRI guidelines Disabled employees are hired at Nolato Anti-corruption remains in place. I am convinced that this Hungary. During the year, we developed a whistlebenefits us, our customers and society at Nolato Hungary receives an award for its blowing system to enable employees to large. excellent working environment from the UN’s raise the alarm about any divergences European Agency for Safety and Health at from legislation or Nolato’s Code of ConGreat expectations Work and the Hungarian working environment duct and policies. The system was tested Finally, I can ascertain that there is great authorities. in 2012 at three of our companies and commitment in society to matters relating A whistleblowing system is introduced is now being introduced throughout the to the environment, business ethics and to enable to employees to report any ethical entire group. social responsibility, and expectations on or financial irregularities without the risk of In connection with the sustainability global companies are high. We are delightreprisals. report, we studied in depth how the Group ed that our efforts are appreciated by othThe process of phasing out hazardous companies work to counteract corrupers, such as Swedish business periodical chemicals continues. tion. We also prepared a self-declaration Veckans Affärer, which gave us the top on a trial basis of how Nolato meets the score for its sustainable portfolio. Robur approves Nolato’s shares for investrequirements in the ISO 26000 standard Nolato’s sustainability work will conments in its sustainability funds. with respect to CSR. tinue unabated and areas such as resource For the third year running, Nolato is efficiency, more environmentally adapted awarded the highest grading in the Swedish Energy efficiency products and CSR matters are examples of business publication Veckans Affärer’s SusAt many of our facilities, energy efficiency such areas that we will prioritise over the tainable Portfolio. measures are high on the agenda. In the next few years. past few years, we have therefore reduced dependence on fossil energy by, for We wish you an informative read. instance, installing heat pumps, which we will continue to do where technically feasible. We view energy and climate as strategic areas and have tightened our targets with respect to reducing energy consumpHans Porat, President and CEO tion and greenhouse gas emissions. Other areas which we consider to be particularly Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 4 / 30 The Nolato Group in brief Development, production and sales Sales by market Sales & technology North America, etc. Sweden SEK 952m SEK 330m Asia SEK 1,448m Other Nordics SEK 179m Other Europe SEK 965m Sales Our operations Our values SEKm 4000 Nolato is an accomplished supplier with Taking responsibility is one of the corner3000 broad technological expertise and far-reachstones of our corporate culture, as well as ing specialist knowledge. We offer high-tech being one of our Basic Principles. Topics 2000 product and product system development relating to the environment, the working 1000 and manufacturing based on polymer materienvironment, social responsibility and ethics 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 als (plastic, silicone, TPE and rubber) within are therefore natural and integral aspects of three areas: our business activities. Operating profit (EBITA) – medical devices (such as inhalers, insulin 0 750 1,500 Miles 0 750 1,500 KM SEKm 350 pens and catheter balloons) Our employees 300 250 – telecommunications components (subsysThe average number of employees in 2012 200 tems for mobile phones, often with significant was 8,421. Of these, 90 percent were outside 150 100 cosmetic content, as well as methods and Sweden. 50 0 materials for shielding electronics) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 – products for industrial companies (such Our shares Earnings per share as packaging, hygiene products and vehicle Nolato was listed on the stock exchange SEK components) in 1984, and its B shares are listed on the 10 8 NASDAQ OMX Nordic Exchange in the 6 Our offering Stockholm Mid Cap segment, where they are 4 Thanks to our involvement in customers’ included in the Industrials sector. 2 development work at an early stage, we can 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 contribute towards optimising design, mateOur history rials and production technology, and hence Nolato was founded in 1938 as Nordiska Cash flow after investments help to achieve a better end-product. Latexfabriken i Torekov AB, with the tradeSEKm 350 We constantly try to learn more about mark Nolato, which has been the company’s 300 our customers’ customers in order to make name since 1982. 250 200 proactive proposals for attractive techniToday’s global Group is the result of organ150 100 cal solutions. This could involve retaining ic growth and acquisitions. The head office is 50 functionality and strength while reducing the still in Torekov, Sweden, but the majority of 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 weight of the product, developing cosmetic operations are now based abroad. Excluding acquisitions and disposals effects, designing components to facilitate the assembly process or reducing the product’s environmental impact. Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 5 / 30 Micromoulding of medical technology component. Subsystem to water resistant mobile phone. Injection moulded and assembled flush panel. Nolato Medical Nolato Telecom Nolato Industrial Financial highlights: 2012 2011 Financial highlights: 2012 2011 Financial highlights: 2012 2011 Sales SEKm 1,159 917 Sales SEKm 1,548 935 Sales SEKm 1,170 1,129 Operating profit EBITA SEKm 133 110 Operating profit EBITA SEKm 96 11 Operating profit EBITA SEKm 105 102 EBITA margin % 11.5 12.0 EBITA margin % 6.2 1.2 EBITA margin % 9.0 9.0 Average number of employees 932 719 Average number of employees 6,741 4,052 Average number of employees 743 720 Customer offering: Customer offering: Customer offering: Development and manufacturing of polymer comDesign, development and manufacturing of comDevelopment and manufacturing of components ponents and systems for medical technology and ponents and subsystems for mobile phones, and and product systems in plastic, TPE and rubber pharmaceutical customers, as well as plastic pharproducts and systems for EMI shielding of elecfor customers in the automotive industry, hygiene, maceutical packaging. tronics. packaging, gardening/forestry, white goods and other selected industrial segments. Geographic information: Geographic information: Development, production and sales in Sweden, the Development, production and sales in China, SweGeographic information: UK, Hungary, the USA and China. Sales offices in den and Malaysia. Sales and technology offices in Development, production and sales in Sweden, Germany, France and the Czech Republic. the USA and India. Hungary and Romania. Success factors: Success factors: Success factors: Medical understanding, broad technological offerCreative development work, cutting-edge technoloTechnology, project management and productivity. ing, global production, robust quality and developgy, advanced project management, fast production Customers include: ment expertise. start-ups and high productivity. Atlas Copco, Brose, Haldex, Husqvarna, Lindab, Customers include: Customers include: MCT Brattberg, Sanitec, Scania, SKF, Volvo, AstraZeneca, Boston Scientific, Coloplast, Gambro, Alcatel-Lucent, BlackBerry, Ericsson, Huawei, Volvo Car. Novo Nordisk, Takeda, Medtronic. Motorola, Nokia, Sony Mobile Communications. Volatility: Volatility: Volatility: Medium. Follows the Northern European industrial Low. Steady market growth. High. Project-based operations. business cycle. Long-term growth potential. Product life cycle: Product life cycle: Product life cycle: Short. Medium/long. Long. 30% 41% 40% 24%28% 30% 31% Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s net sales operating profit (EBITA) net sales operating profit (EBITA) net sales operating profit (EBITA) Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 6 / 30 Current status and further initiatives In terms of financials, 2012 was the best year In 2013, we will work with measures includdevelopment/CSR in the Group’s supplier yet in Nolato’s history, with sales rising to ing the following: chains. SEK 3,874 million and profit of SEK 303 Energy efficiency and reduced climate Stimulating the introduction of OHSAS million. Nolato Medical’s sales rose by 26 impact. We are also introducing tighter 18001 and further developing our work in percent, Nolato Telecom’s by 66 percent and Group targets in these areas. accordance with ISO 26000. Nolato Industrial’s by 4 percent. The Group Improved resource efficiency, including Continuing to train employees on also showed improvements in many areas in through reduced waste. humanitarian, environmental and ethical terms of sustainability. Many of the sustainMaking products more environmentalissues. ability Key Performance Indicators relate ly adapted through the use of new materials Introducing a whistleblowing system to Nolato’s sales, and they are intended to and production processes. throughout the entire Group. provide a fair presentation of how environActivities in relation to sustainable mental and social responsibility work is connected with and integrated into the business operations. Key sustainability figures 2012 2011 2010 In accordance with Nolato’s strategic objective in sustainability and the Group’s Financial responsibility endorsement of the UN Global Compact, a Sales, SEKm 3,874 2,977 3,375 series of activities was carried out during the Operating profit (EBITA), SEKm 303 199 407 year regarding energy efficiency, safer occuEBITA margin, % 6.2 6.7 7.8 pational environment, waste management, Average number of employees 8,421 5,491 7,563 supplier evaluation and anti-corruption. As shown in the Sustainability Report and evalEnvironmental responsibility uation of the targets (see page 22), efforts Breach of environmental and occupational env, legisl, no. of cases 0 0 1 were successful in many areas, but there are Energy consumption, MWh/SEKm sales 0.04 0.05 0.04 of course many areas that require further Water consumption, m3/SEKm sales 43.7 40.6 41.3 work. Emission of greenhouse gases, tonne CO2/SEKm sales 15.5 15.4 13.7 Waste, tonne/SEKm sales 1.4 1.3 1.1 Further initiatives Certified environmental management system,% of total no. of plants 86 85 89 We understand that the journey towards sustainable development will be a long and Social responsibility time-consuming one, and that many circumWorkplace accidents, (cases of 1 day’s absence; 64 28 44 stances are beyond our control. However, for case per employee) (0.007) (0.005) (0.006) the areas that we are able to influence, our Female employees, % 62 71 67 efforts will continue unabated in accordance Training on Nolato’s Basic Principles and Code of Conduct, >90 >90 >90 % of no. employees with the Group’s overall strategy. Application of ethical and humanitarian principles as well as corruption, 0 0 0 number of registered breaches Evaluation of sub-suppliers, % of number of plants performing 90/90 90/90 84/58 environmental/social responsibility evaluations Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 7 / 30 Sustainable development creates opportunities Nolato has a long tradition of responsible effects for both the environment and the tors and other stakeholders to follow up on business practice, and one of our Basic PrinGroup’s competitiveness. their requirements and evaluate our work. ciples is that efficient and profitable business By dealing with environmental, occuBy working with sustainable developoperations must be combined with ethics, pational environment and social risks sysment, we can identify and create business responsibility and regard for the environtematically, the Group’s risks are reduced opportunities, for example through making ment. while such activities contribute towards a our products more environmentally adapted. Right from the start, we have therefore safer workplace. By making our employees aware of taken a very down-to-earth approach to By endorsing the UN’s Global Compact Nolato’s Code of Conduct, they receive clear the issues that are now combined under and reporting our sustainability work in signals of the significance of our set of valthe concepts of sustainable development, accordance with the Global Reporting Initiues. social responsibility and CSR. It is obvious ative (GRI), we have access to efficient tools, By working strategically and with clear to us that the Company should be a good enabling reliable reporting on how deal with Group targets, we are better able to achieve neighbour and a good global citizen, taking issues relating to ethics, responsibility and our sustainable development/CSR ambiresponsibility for what we do and always the environment. tions. applying sound business ethics. Certified environmental (ISO 14001) Over time, Nolato’s original, natural conand occupational environment (OHSAS cepts – of basing our operations on profes18001) management systems are a natusionalism, good organisation and responsiral element of our systematic approach to bility – have been developed into a crafted constant improvements. We also apply the sustainability strategy. This strategy is based guidelines for social responsibility (ISO on our total conviction that a future-orient26000). ed, responsible approach is not only necesBy being open in our communication, sary from a responsibility perspective, but we make it easier for our customers, invesClimate targets also creates opportunities and thus benefits ISO 26000 for our customers, ourselves and our owners: By making efficient use of materials, Sustainability targets energy and water, we can achieve positive OHSAS 18001 Sustainability reporting UN Global Compact Code of Conduct Environmental policy ISO 14001 Environmental legislation Working environment legislation Responsibility and good organisation 1938 1950 1990 2000 2010 2012 Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 8 / 30 Integration with Target-oriented activities business operations The Nolato Spirit Openness and dialogue Nolato has five fundamental value and policy with stakeholders documents, which convey the values, principles Nolato’s Compliance with legislation and attitudes that make up our core values. sustainability strategy Nolato’s Basic Principles The Basic Principles make up the common values International initiatives platform for all Group operations, and are thus the guiding force for all Nolato employees, regardless of where in the world or in which part of the organisation they may work. Analysing and Systematic work and preventing risks management systems Nolato’s Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct formalises the content of the Basic Principles in terms of our ethical and compassionate principles. Our sustainability strategy Nolato’s Environmental Policy The Environmental Policy formalises the guideNolato’s sustainability strategy is based on US require permits or are covered by other lines for regard for the environment in the Basic Principles. the following cornerstones: requirements under the environmental legislation of the country in question. Nolato’s Quality Policy Integration with business operations In most cases, regular reports are submitThe Quality Policy outlines the underlying focus of our quality work. Sustainability issues are integrated into ted to the environmental authorities, and the Nolato’s way of working. This involves areas supervisory authorities carry out inspections. Nolato’s Information Policy such as investments, monitoring, external In 2012 a handful of units were inspected The Information Policy governs the dissemination of information by the Group, including in relation communication, company acquisitions, crisis and a few minor deviations were registered. to listing requirements. and risk management, procedures, reporting Other environmental legislation affecting and training. many of our facilities is chemical legislation We have a clear responsibility for issues REACH, and RoHS legislation which relates relating to the environment, occupational to restrictions in the use of certain hazardenvironment, social responsibility and ethics. ous chemicals. Around half of the units are This responsibility comes from the Board of affected by legislation relating to producer Directors, and is allocated to Group manresponsibility for packaging waste. In 2012, agement and the management of the Group there were no breaches of permits, conditions companies. Compliance with the Group’s or any other relevant environmental legislaCode of Conduct and related policies is tion. compulsory. However, in accordance with In the occupational environment area, five Nolato’s decentralised organisation, each of the units were inspected by the occupaindividual unit has a relatively high degree tional environment authorities during the of freedom to decide for itself how to impleyear. A few minor deviations were observed The five value and policy documents are compiled ment this work in everyday operations. The in the inspections. in the booklet the Nolato Spirit, which is available MD of each company is responsible for all in the languages of the countries where Nolato matters relating to the environment, ethics Management systems operates. In workplace meetings and new staff appointand social responsibility. In the late 1990s, Nolato decided that certiments, the Nolato Spirit is actively used as an aid Matters relating to the overall sustainabilfied environmental management systems in to make all employees aware of the core values ity strategy, our targets and results reportaccordance with ISO 14001 should be in and guidelines applicable to their work at Nolato. ing are managed at Group level. Follow-up place at all manufacturing units. The decision You can find the Nolato Spirit booklet occurs at Board and management meetings was an important part of Nolato’s environat www.nolato.com/sustainability and in production unit evaluation. mental strategy at the time, and the first unit was certified in 1997. Compliance with legislation The number of certified units subsequently One obvious element of our sustainability increased, and the ISO 14001 requirement strategy is compliance with environmental applies to all companies acquired by the and occupational environment legislation, Group. In 2012, Nolato Contour in the USA and evaluating how future legislation could and Nolato Romania were both certified. affect our operations. In Sweden, Nolato Apart from the two British units, which conducts operations with notification obligawere acquired in 2012 and which are worktions in accordance with the Swedish Enviing on introducing ISO 14001, all our own ronmental Code at all facilities. The plants production units are certified. In the Group, in China, Hungary, Romania, India and the there are around 80 environmental auditors Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 9 / 30 who conducted 48 environmental audits social responsibility constitute part of such ing information obtained through customers, last year. On 16 occasions, the facilities were risk analyses. When companies are acquired, employees, neighbours, investors and other reviewed by external environmental audiwe take an in-depth look at the environstakeholders. In the environmental and qualtors. Nolato is represented in the developmental and occupational environment risks. ity areas, we are greatly assisted by manment work relating to the new version of ISO More information about sustainable develagement systems in identifying stakeholder 14001. The updated environmental manageopment risks is provided on page 20. requirements. On the whole, we can ascerment standard will be published in 2015. tain high activity among a number of stakeLargely all of Nolato’s facilities are certiEndorsement of international initiatives holder groups, and an active dialogue is in fied in accordance with the requirements of In our view, endorsing and complying with progress with, for instance, customers, supthe ISO 9001 quality system. In addition, voluntary sustainability initiatives is strategipliers, investors and employees. With other around three quarters of the units are certically important. Nolato endorsed the UN’s stakeholders, it is more a matter of attemptfied according to ISO standards for the autoten principles relating to the environment, ing to decipher opinions and requirements motive industry (ISO/TS 16949) or medical human rights and anti-corruption measures and ensuring that relevant information is technology (ISO13485). At most facilities, (the Global Compact) in 2008. We report available. The following is an overview of the the various management systems are entirely our work in a yearly report (Communication stakeholder dialogues in 2012. or partially integrated into the operational On Progress) to the UN. More information system. about the Global Compact is provided on Target-oriented activities An occupational environment managepage 27. As part of the sustainable development iniment system (OHSAS 18001) is in place at tiative, in 2011 Nolato established longand Nolato Beijing, and the intention is for the Openness short-term Group targets. The table on page system to be further extended in the Group. Openness is part of our sustainable develop22 provides an overview of the targets and In 2012 we also worked with the guidelines ment strategy. The Group’s sustainability the results achieved in relation to these in in the social responsibility standard (ISO reporting meets the GRI requirements. In 2010–2012. Ahead of the period 2014–2016, 26000). This standard is based on seven funpractice, this involves strategy, stakeholder we are tightening our targets with respect damental concepts and provides voluntary dialogue and a number of key figures being to energy consumption and carbon dioxguidelines regarding what an organisation reported according to the GRI guidelines, ide emissions. The new targets involve both can do to contribute to a sustainable future. level B. A self-declaration according to GRI energy consumption and emissions being is provided on pages 24–26, and a self-declareduced by ten percent in relation to Nolato’s Risk analysis and prevention ration of how the Group fulfils ISO 26000 is Key Performance Indicators. The sustainability strategy includes managprovided on pages 28–29. ing risks in a systematic manner. Risk assessments are regularly performed at Nolato in Stakeholder dialogue many areas, and matters that pertain to the Nolato’s procedure for identifying stakeenvironment, occupational environment and holder groups includes collating and assessOverview of stakeholder dialogue 2012 Stakeholder Stakeholder dialogue areas Examples of activities in 2012 Customers Many customers place demands relating to the environment, sociAround 75 percent of the companies were audited and evaluated by customers with real responsibility and ethics, particularly in telecoms, food, pharmaspect to the environment and social responsibility. On the whole, the results were excelceuticals, autos and furniture. Customer expectations about us forlent and customers’ requirements were met. In certain cases, a dialogue regarding imwarding such requirements onto our suppliers have also become provement measures is under way. more common. Common monitoring tools are surveys and audits. Employees Environment, occupational environment, safety and social condiInformation about Nolato’s Code of Conduct has been implemented at the units, with a tions focus on new recruits. Employee surveys were conducted at 7 units. Several training initiatives have been carried out. Dialogue with Swedish trade unions regarding environmental and safety issues. Authorities Complying with legislation Inspections by authorities performed at 12 units. On the whole, good ratings from authorities with only a few minor remarks. Commended by authorities for occupational environment excellence in China and Hungary. Investors Assessment from a sustainability perspective Sustainability dialogue with Swedbank Robur; Nolato is now approved for Robur’s sustainability funds. Top score in the Sustainable Portfolio of Swedish business periodical Veckans Affärer. Shareholders Risks and opportunities in the sustainability work Information chiefly provided by means on the Annual Report, Sustainability Report and website. Suppliers Nolato’s own requirements regarding the environment and sustaiEvaluation tools have been developed. Training auditors in China. During the year, we nable development. In certain cases, customers demand that we evaluated around 140 suppliers with respect to sustainable development. transfer their CSR requirements onto suppliers Society Nolato’s role as a good citizen in society Study visits, collaboration with schools and universities and financial contributions to social activities. During the year, we received a complaint regarding noise from the neighbours of a plant. Corrective measures were undertaken in cooperation with the neighbours. Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 10 / 30 Environmental responsibility An array of environmental aspects ity and district heating constitutes around 95 Energy consumption Nolato primarily manufactures components percent of consumption in total. Fuel oil and GWh GWh/SEKm and product systems in polymer materials, natural gas for heating are used at a handful 175 0.07 metals and combinations of polymer mateof units, and there is a clear trend towards 150 0.06 rials and metals. At the Sunne unit, rubber replacing fossil fuels with heat pumps. Pro125 0.05 compounds are produced both for Nolato’s pane is used in Beijing in one piece of air own use and for that of external customers. emission abatement equipment (thermal 100 0.04 At other units, ready-made polymers and combustion) to reduce solvent emissions. 75 0.03 other input materials are bought in. Our base Total energy consumption was 168 GWh 50 0.02 technologies include injection moulding, (141), and higher production and more proextrusion, dipping and die-cutting. Painting duction units contribute to the increase. The 25 0.01 of plastic shells for mobile phones and other Group’s Key Performance Indicator in which 0 0.00 electronic equipment takes place at our plant energy consumption is placed in relation to 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total group energy consumption, GWh in China. sales shows a slightly declining trend. The Consumption divided by sales, GWh/SEKm Nolato’s operations affect the environment total energy cost for 2012 was around SEK in many different ways. Here, we choose to 116 million (93). report the aspects that are essential from an From a cost and sustainability perspective, environmental perspective and which are at energy matters are important to Nolato, and the same time perceived as important by our we are working both on Group-wide and stakeholders. The Group’s most important local targets. In the last few years, several tion moulding machines instead of direct environmental aspects are the use of activities have been carried out to enhance hydraulic equivalents. Ventilation control energy, raw materials and chemicals, atmosenergy efficiency and reduce the impact on measures are also being implemented at pheric emissions (particularly climate-changclimate, such as: the plants. ing emissions) and waste generation. We Exchanging fittings and lights with more also report on work with important indirect Installation of free cooling equipment. energy-efficient alternatives, such as LED environmental aspects such as activities in This is now in place at a handful of plants lights. the supply chains, transportation and the use and contributes to significant energy savProduction planning to gain maximum of Nolato’s products. ings. efficiency from equipment. This includes There are heat pumps at three plants and measures for turning off idle equipment Energy there are plans to install such heating at and machinery. While this may sound Nolato uses energy for production equipthree more production units. obvious, this measure requires constant ment, lighting, ventilation, cooling and much Upgrade to energy-efficient equipment, attention. more. Indirect energy in the form of electricincluding compressors and electric injecTraining initiatives and energy mapping. Energy matters a hot topic for Nolato MediTech In a year, Nolato MediTech’s plant in Hörand lights can be switched on unnecessarily, by consumes 11 million KWh of electricity, leakage of compressed air, open doors and corresponding to electricity consumption windows, and much more. for 23,000 households. The staff were highly engaged and lots canteen, everybody can watch electricity “Our electricity bill is over SEK 7 milof proposals flowed into the enhancement consumption and electricity costs in real lion annually,” says Johan Iveberg, MD of groups. A lot of people also became more time. The system also shows consumpNolato MediTech. vigilant about energy consumption in their tion by day, week and month,” continues 2012 saw a major initiative to train all own homes. Johan. staff in how energy can be saved. Everybody “We have focused on visualising energy “So far, the project has been a great succan help find “energy thieves” in the operaconsumption and installed a system known cess and we are aiming for electricity savtions. For example, engines, equipment, fans as e-smart. On a TV screen set up near the ings of 10 percent,” he concludes. Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 11 / 30 Greenhouse gas emissions the industry organisation Federation of PlasCO2 emissions Emissions of greenhouse gas carbon dioxide tic Industries and has, for example, access to tonnes tonnes/SEKm is caused by the Group’s direct and indirect tools for calculating and reducing its impact 70000 28 energy usage, transportation of raw materion climate. 60000 24 als and finished products, and an array of 50000 20 upstream and downstream activities among Other atmospheric emissions our suppliers and customers. Since 2006, we The use of more than 850 tonnes of paints 40000 16 have chosen to focus on emissions data interand solvents resulted in emissions of around 30000 12 linked with energy consumption, and have 33 tonnes (18) of VOCs (volatile organic 20000 8 thus far not invested resources in mapping compounds). The majority of the paints and other greenhouse gas emissions. This does solvents are used for painting mobile phones 10000 4 not mean that such emissions are considered in Beijing, where an efficient purification 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 unimportant, but that we work with, for plant limits atmospheric emissions. It is the Group CO 2 emissions, tonnes instance, making transport more environhigher production in Beijing that caused Emissions divided by sales, tonnes/SEKm mentally adapted (see below). higher VOC emissions, but as a whole for In 2012 a particular initiative took place in the Group, only a few percent of the amount Beijing to verify available information about of solvents are released to the atmosphere. carbon dioxide emissions from purchased Water-based paints are used to a growing electricity and district heating (the plant extent in Beijing as a result of customers accounting for one third of Nolato’s energy making their products more environmentally consumption and over half of carbon dioxadapted. During the year, usage amounted to alongside the automotive industry in develide emissions). The picture became slightly 24 tonnes (21). opment projects for plastics combined with clearer and it turned out that the district A few tonnes of ozone-depleting substancwood fibres. heating had, for a few years, been produced es (HCFC) are contained in air conditioning Nolato is affected by legislation and cusfrom natural gas and not from coal, which equipment and other equipment at around tomer requirements regarding chemicals, we corrected historically in the Sustainability ten plants. Minor leakages occurred during and our Group target is to reduce the risks Report for the year. We made a study visit to the year, and these emissions equalled less in hazardous chemicals. Priority is of course an electricity supplier, but did not manage than one percent of the installed amount. given to substances identified on the lists of to obtain carbon dioxide emissions figures Emissions of air pollutants such as sulcandidates in the REACH chemicals legislathat coincide with international statistics for phur dioxide and nitric oxides are low and tion. China. We have now also obtained relevant accounted for 5 tonnes (3). During the year, several such substances information about the use of propane in BeiEmissions of dust and malodorous subwere identified and measures to replace them jing and carbon dioxide emissions. Old data stances are very low, and no complaints were are in progress. Furthermore, we are makhas been corrected here too. received from neighbours during the year. ing preparations for the new CLP labelling In 2012, carbon dioxide emissions requirements for chemical products coming amounted to 60,000 tonnes (46,000) and the Raw materials and chemicals into force in 2015. increase is linked to energy usage. Here, it is Nolato’s base technologies use in the region higher production in China and two newly of 30,000 tonnes of polymer materials. DifWater issues acquired facilities in the UK that have a sigferent type of plastics dominate use (around Water is chiefly used for cleaning, sanitary nificant effect on the size of the emissions. 95 percent) and the rest comprises natural purposes and cooling, but there are also Nolato has Group-wide and local targets and synthetic rubber. Other materials used processes in which consumption is relatively for reducing climate impact, and the measin more significant quantities (100–1,000 high. This is the case for manufacturing ures implemented are chiefly linked to bettonnes/year) are paints/solvents and metals. latex rubber products in Torekov and the ter energy efficiency, phasing out fossil fuels In many of our products, it is a requirespray painting cleaning plant in Beijing. In for heating and more efficient raw materials ment that the polymer consists of virgin raw order to reduce water consumption, closed usage. The potential for improvement is good materials. This applies, for instance, to pharcooling water systems are for example used and may in the future include, besides energy maceutical packaging and medical devices. for injection moulding machines and other efficiency, the use of biopolymers, purchasing However, a number of Nolato’s customers equipment. The Group water footprint has origin-labelled electricity and measures in the are showing an interest in increased usage of increased, and two thirds of consumption transportation area. recycled plastic. This is the case, for instance, is in Beijing – a region of China classified as Nolato Jaycare has signed a Climate for certain mobile phone models, and also having a water shortage. Change Agreement – a national agreement other products. The proportion of recycled The Company has therefore initiated a to counteract climate change. The agreement plastic is currently relatively low, amounting number of measures to avoid wasting water. covers energy-intensive industry and, by to around 4 percent (8) of plastic raw materiThe initiatives include information camreducing energy usage, participating compaals for the year. A lot suggests that interest in paigns for staff as well as a number of techninies can receive reduced charges under a sysrecycled polymers will increase, and attencal measures. tem in the UK known as the Climate Change tion will turn to bio-based plastics and comThe amounts of pollutants discharged to Levy. Nolato Jaycare is taking part through posites. For example, Nolato is participating wastewater are extremely limited, and conNolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 12 / 30 sist mainly of sanitary water. All production Over 60 percent of the units increased Water consumption units are connected to municipal sewage videoconferencing use. m3 m 3 /SEKm treatment plants. During the year at Nolato New packaging systems were introduced 175000 70 MediTor in Torekov, analyses were perto increase the filling ratio in trucks. 150000 60 formed of wastewater to study whether the At one plant, bulk materials suppliers 125000 50 water can affect processes at the municipal were encouraged to set up a safety stock sewage treatment plant. These studies are at the plant and regularly replenish it. This 100000 40 not yet completed. The costs incurred by the reduces the need for unplanned trans75000 30 Group for water and wastewater cleaning ports. 50000 20 totalled approximately SEK 1.8 million (1.4). One plant increased the number of rail transports. 25000 10 Waste 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Nolato aims to reduce waste volumes, and Environmentally adapted friendly products various measures are under way at largely Nolato is an important part in the value Total Group water consumption m3 all plants. Measures include reducing scrap, chain of customers. For example, we contribConsumption divided by sales, m3 /SEKm increasing waste recycling and reuse, improvute concept development, design, choice of ing waste sorting and training staff. materials, structure, prototypes, production Of the 5,500 or so tonnes of waste gentools, high-volume production, post-processWaste erated in 2012, 6 percent was hazardous. ing, assembly and logistics. tonnes tonnes/SEKm Such waste is dealt with according to special We are witnessing a clear trend of growing 6000 3.0 rules in the countries where Nolato operates. interest in improved environmental perfor5000 2.5 Around 40 percent of the waste was recycled mance. This covers most areas – from mobile as materials, such as plastic, paper and metphones, pharmaceutical packaging, automo4000 2.0 als. Over 30 percent was recycled as energy, tive, white goods and chain saws, to medical 3000 1.5 and 15 percent of the waste was deposited – devices. a common method in the US and China. The Group’s product range already con2000 1.0 The volume of waste has increased in both tains a number of environmentally adapted 1000 0.5 absolute figures and expressed as the Group products. However, to emphasise the imporKey Performance Indicator. The most comtance of environmental adaptation, we set a 0 0.0 mon reason is increased production volumes target to increase activity in this area. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 and a higher number of plants, but there are The following are examples of already Group waste, tonnes Waste divided by sales, tonnes/SEKm other factors too. accomplished environmental adaptations, Our plants have an increasing focus on and projects which can lead to more environmatters relating to scrapping and waste, mentally adapted products. and have improved their waste volume registration precision. Furthermore, we have At Nolato in Beijing, several developincreased demands on waste management ment projects are being conducted in companies in terms of providing relevant the increased use of recycled plastic statistics. On the whole, such measures often and water-based paints for mobile pholead to an increase in the volume of reported nes and battery casings. Furthermore, waste. Whatever the reason, waste reduccustomer activity is high in reducing the tion is a priority area and the Group target use of environmentally hazardous cheremains in place. micals in products – for instance, phaExternal waste processing costs for the sing out halogenated flame-retardants year amounted to SEK 2.8 million (2.5). and restrictions on PVC usage. Development projects continue at Transports Nolato Plastteknik in the use of wood We currently do not measure the environfibre and plastic in composite materials mental impact of transports, but can ascerused for automotive components. Here, tain that a number of positive initiatives were a new type of water atomiser has also implemented during the year. been developed, which reduces water usage in toilets. In order to reduce environmental impact, Plastics which replace other materials several units altered routes and coordiin autos, household appliances and nated transports. chain saws. This results in, for instance, Several plants switched to more fuel-effireduced weight and fuel consumption. cient vehicles. Nolato Plastteknik and Nolato Gota Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 13 / 30 are some of the companies conducting withstand biofuels and reduce fuel evaNolato MediTor has launched environsuch product development. One proporation. mentally adapted breathing bags (see duct that has been in the range for some Nolato Jaycare in Newcastle has a probelow). years is a plastic crate made from recygramme for phasing PVC out of the Nolato Cerbo is developing pharmaceucled plastic and used by clothes retailer product portfolio. In 2012, usage was tical packaging with a reduced amount KappAhl for transporting clothing. more or less halved. of plastic. Nolato Sunne’s product range incluNolato Lövepac has developed gaskets des rubber hoses and gaskets that can Volvo Cars’ Environmental project. Green breathing bags now even greener Nolato Meditor’s breathing bags, which have always been green, are now a little bit greener. “Over the years, we’ve produced millions of breathing bags,” says Anders Ekberg, MD of MediTor. “Because they end up in the waste management of hospitals sooner or later, we started to consider a more environmentally adapted product. In terms of the health aspects, we made the bags free of latex at an early stage to prevent allergies among healthcare staff,” continues Anders. “Making changes to medical devices is always a challenge. Patient safety always tops the agenda, and our products are therefore carefully specified by customers and various standards. We therefore have to justify every change in recipe and production method,” continues Anders. Breathing masks are mainly used in anaesthesiology when administering anaesthetic to patients ahead of an operation. In practice, healthcare professionals use The result of the production changes was a cheaper and greener product. a face-mask which seals tightly over the mouth and nose, or a tube inserted into the financial considerations were also imporfossil raw materials, reduced material conthroat for manual ventilation of air, oxygen tant because the cost of materials is high sumption gives lower greenhouse gas emisor anaesthetic gas via the breathing bag for these products. We therefore initiated sions. To breathing bag users, there is no into the patient. a project in which a green approach, userdifference in the product’s performance, but “Our breathing bags are available in friendliness and financial considerations when it is thrown away a lower amount of sizes from 0.5 to 3 litres and are equipped were interwoven.” synthetic rubber ends up as waste. with different types of connectors to suit The breathing bags are produced by dip“We also made environmental improvevarious pieces of equipment. Some bags ping into liquid synthetic rubber (latex), ments in the breathing bag connectors. We are for single use and others can be used and the challenge for Nolato MediTor was used to use synthetic rubber, but we now several times,” says Anders. “The bags are to maintain the high even quality and rubuse recyclable polypropylene (PP) or thermade from synthetic rubber, and when we ber feel of the breathing bags, while reducmoplastic (TPE). So yes, of course it’s poswere considering possible environmental ing the rubber polymer content. The recipe sible to make green improvements in the enhancements, we focused on the matewas modified by an increased proportion medical device industry,” concludes Anders. rial of both the bag and connectors. An of environmentally adapted filler, and the important feature for customers and users result was a cheaper and greener product. is the ’rubber feel’ of the product. For us, Because rubber polymers are based on Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 14 / 30 Social responsibility International company CSR in China Average no. employees Nolato has production operations at over 20 Many activities relating to sustainable devel9000 plants in Sweden, the UK, Hungary, Romaopment and CSR were carried out at Nola8000 nia, China, India, the US and Malaysia. The to’s biggest unit in Beijing, China, in 2012. 7000 average number of employees for the year The work relating to the dedicated CSR 6000 was 8,421 (5,496), including 867 (898) group set up in 2011 was developed, and 5000 in the Nordic region, 696 (404) in the rest a number of practical improvements were 4000 of Europe,159 (175) in the US and 6,699 implemented. 3000 (4,019) in Asia. 90 percent (84) of employees 2000 worked outside the Nordic region. An Employee Care Programme was set up 1000 Around 80 percent of employees are in with the purpose of increasing satisfac0 China, mainly at a plant in Beijing where tion in the workplace and facilitating the 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 we manufacture components for the mobile recruitment of qualified staff. phone industry. Many of these employees are An employee survey was conducted, contracted from various staffing companies, which is probably not so common in ChiEmployees by business area 2012 Average number of employees and the same terms of employment apply for na. As a result of some of the viewpoints them as for direct employees of Nolato in conveyed, we opened a new staff canteen, Nolato Industrial 743 Nolato Medical 932 China. the canteen’s selection was improved and All of the units except the one in Malaysia, a new supplier was appointed to enhance are wholly owned by Nolato, which enables the quality of the food. Other measures a Group-wide way of dealing with matters are improvements in storage space for relating to the environment, ethics and social personal belongings, and offering exercise responsibility. In Malaysia, production is in breaks between shifts. contracted from a collaboration partner and Workplace health and safety activities is subject to the same requirements as our have been integrated with 5s work. Safety own units. matters have been given higher priority Nolato Telecom 6,741 with monthly meetings and monitoring. Social aspects In 2011, training was carried out in the Employees by country 2012 As a supplier to many companies with high evaluation and auditing of suppliers’ susAverage sustainability ambitions, there are a number tainability efforts. This work was further USA 159 Other 180 of social aspects of particular importance to developed in 2012 with checklists, criteria UK 205 Nolato. Bearing in mind that the majority of and monitoring tools. Five CSR audits of Hungary 468 China 6,545 employees are in China, Nolato is a company suppliers were performed in total during that can come under the particular scrutiny the year. Sweden 864 of investors and the mass media. If we combine the circumstances described above with As described elsewhere in this Sustainabilour own responsible business practice ambiity Report, during the year Nolato Beijing tions, the following social factors take priorpursued a number of projects in energy effiity for Nolato: ciency, reduced water consumption, solvent Offering safe workplaces and an advanced recycling and environmentally adapted prodoccupational environment. uct development. Showing respect for human rights. External audits were conducted by cusBeing seen as a positive force in the comtomers and certification bodies, and during munities where we operate, and being the year, audits for ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and perceived as an attractive employer. OHSAS 18001 were performed with good Developing CSR matters in the Group’s results. supplier chains. Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 15 / 30 Health and safety and be represented by employee representaNo. of registered incidents * Workplace health and safety matters tives. All Nolato employees enjoy such rights, 300 take priority, and no workplace accidents including the right to collective negotiations 250 occurred at six plants during the year. At and agreements. other plants, 64 (28) occupational acciAt the units in China, there are unions in 200 dents resulting in at least one day’s absence accordance with the rules applicable to large 150 occurred (Lost Work Cases). This corcompanies in China. All staff are provided responds to 0.007 (0.005) accidents per with information about the union upon 100 employee, and total absence caused by occuappointment, and can then make their own pational accidents was 755 days (616). Here, decision on membership. 50 long-term sick leave made a significant conIn Sweden and China, the majority of 0 tribution to the figure. employees are covered by collective barMachinery Energy Lifting Slipping Other As in previous years, the most common gaining agreements. At the units in other * “Near misses” causes of occupational injuries were machincountries, there are no unions or collective ery and equipment (58 percent) and falls and bargaining agreements, and this reflects a No. of registered injuries * slips (24 percent). normal situation for privately owned compa50 The Group target is to improve registranies in these countries. tion of incidents (near misses) – that is, 40 events that could lead to an occupational Equality accident. Systems are now in place at largely A highlighted area in international accords 30 all units, and we can analyse the underlyand our Code of Conduct is equality. Practiing causes of accidents in the Group. The cal equality work is decentralised and con20 number of registered incidents increased ducted according to the equality plans of from 150 in 2011 to 515 in 2012, which we the individual companies. 62 percent (71) of 10 interpret as increased focus on accident preemployees were women in the year. At the vention, and not as a poorer occupational European units, the proportion of female 0 Machinery Energy Lifting Slipping Other environment. The reasons for incidents are staff was 39 percent (44), 68 percent (81) at well in line with occurred accidents, and the Asian units, and 34 percent (54) in the * Lost Work Cases and other registered injuries at work behind each accident is a significant number USA. of incidents. This coincides with experiences at other companies and demonstrates the Training importance of preventive efforts. The demands of the market and customers At Nolato’s plants, preventive efforts are on the rise in many areas, and we have to include risks analyses, occupational envifurther develop the technical level in product ronment gauging, training, safety rounds, development and production. This requires OHSAS 18001 work on safety committees qualified, highly trained staff, as do many and investments in technical protective measother tasks in the Group. Expertise has to ures. Environmental and occupational envibe kept up-to-date and deepened, so trainronmental training is conducted regularly, ing is an everyday event. In 2012, employees and in 2012 each employee took part in an participated in 92,000 (57,000) hours of average of 4.2 (2.9) hours of training. Comtraining, equalling around 11 (12) hours per mon training topics are first aid, fire protecemployee. tion, machinery and equipment safety, health risks from chemicals and energy-saving measures. Everybody has the right of representation A factor highlighted in international conventions, the UN Global Compact and ISO 26000 is the right to organise trade unions Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 16 / 30 Appointment of impaired employees are a hit – both compassionately and commercially In Hungary, Nolato manufactures products in the hygiene area. Besides the injectionmoulding of various plastic components, this production process also comprises quite intricate assembly. In connection with a decision made a while ago to take on an assembly task in-house that was previously carried out by a sub-supplier, the conclusion was drawn that the occasion provided an excellent opportunity to offer work to severely visually or hearing impaired people. Jobs on their own merits “Our basic idea was to offer these people work on purely commercial terms. By adapting the work environment, we could provide them with good possibilities of doing a good job,” says Norbert Meleg, who is head of human resources, administration, etc. When the decision about the new work group had been taken, a specialist in the Rózsika Vámosné, Zoltán Peszlen, Gáborné Bokodi, Róbert Horváth, Józsefné Kiss and Lászlóné Dömötör are some field of occupational environment for the of the employees with impairments now working for Nolato in Hungary. impaired was consulted and a series of modifications were carried out at the factory. embarked on their assembly jobs. The result Ministry of Human Resources and the Salva The area in which the visually and hearingwas beyond every expectation. Vita foundation for its efforts to create work impaired employees were to work and move “We had made quite a few calculations for the impaired. around was cleared of all objects that could about the outcome of their work, but our “From day one, these employees have been present obstacles, guides were painted on the plans didn’t amount to much,” says Norbert exemplary colleagues,” says Bart Nolden, floor, the fire alarm was equipped with light Meleg. “These employees are so dedicated Production Manager. “We have seen a lot signals, doors and barriers were made more and productive that the result overshot all of evidence of their skills and dedication. visible, the light on the work tables was speour calculations. Not only are they integrated into the work cially adapted for the visually impaired, and We’ve been able to cut our costs thanks to itself at the company, they also take part in a noiseand vibration-free environment was the great work of this group, which has also our joint leisure activities.” From the start, created for the staff with impaired hearing. made our production even more competitive, Nolato Hungary attached great importance In July 2011, the first new employee was to the delight of our customers. to informing other employees about the lives appointed with the task of recruiting other It’s a win-win situation – for the company, and everyday situation of their impaired colcolleagues for the new group and subsecustomers, the community and not least the leagues. quently leading the work. impaired employees who got jobs on their “Before they joined us, we gathered together “I’d been looking for a job for three years own merits.” all the staff concerned. We prepared them for when Nolato’s offer came up,” says Rózsika And the quality of the work is very high. different situations that could arise, and how Vámosné, who has impaired hearing herself “Following a brief running-in period, we are they could help their new visually or hearand was active in an organisation for the very close to zero errors in this part of the ing impaired colleagues,” says István Varga, impaired. production,” says Csaba Szigeti, production Process Engineer. “I thought I would get a pure assembly flow manager. “The flexibility and skilled “I’m pleased to say the integration was a job, but saw a fantastic opportunity to be work of the group have led us to transfer great success and I think most have changed involved and build up the new work group.” more types of assembly onto them.” their attitude to people with impairments, even when they’re not at work.” Target overshot Integral part of the company Work commenced after the summer. Twenty The project has gained a lot of attention in eight new employees with different types Hungary, and this year the company was preof serious visual or hearing impairments sented with an award from the Hungarian Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 17 / 30 Business partners and other stakeholders Zero tolerance on ethical issues Greater focus on suppliers Share of units reporting sustainability Under the tenth principle of the UN Global We aim to be more active upstream in the requirements from customers Compact and Nolato’s code of conduct, supplier chain, imposing relevant sustainabilintegrity and responsibility shall characterise ity requirements and improving at following Introduction of environmental 33% management system our business practices. As a Group target, we them up. We are progressing, and largely take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery, all Group companies require suppliers to Phasing out hazardous chemicals 48% corruption and cartel formation. For a global be familiar with Nolato’s Code of Conduct. Compliance with REACH and RoSH 14% company, these matters are complex and the Checklists for preparing questionnaires for Product-related environmental information 57% perception of “normal business practice” evaluating suppliers in sustainability matters Compliance with the customer’s 71% varies between countries and cultures. We have been drawn up. In 2012, around 125 code of conduct use the following methods for governance suppliers were evaluated by means of such Other requirements 9% and monitoring Nolato’s business principles: questionnaires, and about fifteen through site visits or audits. We spread shared values in the form of The criteria for which suppliers are selectNolato’s Code of Conduct. Group comed varies within the Group, but in most cases pany management teams are responsible focus is on new suppliers, suppliers not prefor further conveying the values in their viously evaluated and suppliers that could organisation. potentially be associated with particular We monitor costs, expenditure and revrisks. A bottleneck in this context is access Heightened requirements enues on an ongoing basis. to experienced internal auditors, and the fact from customers We pay particular attention to ethical that supplier audits are costly and time-conAs a developer and manufacturer of polymer issues in our relationships with partsuming activities. product systems, Nolato has customers in ners. Standard business practice must industries where environmental, occupabe observed in each individual country, Social commitment tional health and safety and ethical aspects but if business practice does not comply Nolato is engaged in the local communities are important. with Nolato’s Code of Conduct, we must in its countries of operation. This involves Over a number of years, we have witrefrain from doing business or take altercontacts with neighbours, schools, universinessed demands rising and partially changnative relevant actions. ties, voluntary organisations, authorities, ing in nature. Requirements relating to the Using UN Global Compact checklists, sports clubs and cultural institutions. During environment and phasing out hazardous we conduct annual evaluations of how the year, a handful of units held open days chemicals have been around for a long time, the companies work to counteract bribfor various stakeholder groups, ten units had but we are now witnessing growing interest ery. The evaluation for the year shows study visits from schools and universities in social and ethical issues. that a lot of the work is conducted in the and participated in projects alongside several Over 90 percent of Group companies framework of Nolato’s Code of Conduct, universities. We were visited by over 100 stureport customer sustainability requirements, and the target groups are chiefly employdents in all. In 2012, Nolato continued with and many customers have increased their ees, suppliers, customers and authorities. its sustainability collaboration with the Interactivities in following up on their requireMany of the companies have established national Institute for Industrial Environmenments. detailed policies and guidelines covering tal Economics (IIIEE) at Lund University. During the year, three quarters of the gifts, entertainment and expenses, and Group companies provide financial contriplants were evaluated by their customers, report that they have intensified their butions to healthcare, sports clubs and variwith particular activity in industries such efforts in this area. ous community activities, and are engaged as telecoms, pharmaceuticals, automotive, in other social activities. Our environmental cosmetics and hygiene. Nolato’s sustainabilNo code of conduct breaches were identiinitiatives have been communicated through ity work is appreciated on the whole, but in fied during the year. In order to further newspaper articles and lectures in various some cases a dialogue regarding enhancestrengthen our control mechanisms in this contexts. As described elsewhere in the Susments is under way. area, we have introduced a whistleblowing tainability Report, our efforts have gained We learn from our customers’ evaluation system (see fact box). In 2012 the system was the attention and appreciation of authorities, methods and forward the requirements into tested at three units and will be introduced analysts and students. the Group’s supplier chains. throughout the entire Group in 2013. Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 18 / 30 Whistleblowing – a quick way of capturing potential irregularities Everybody has seen old films with British bobbies calling attention to a crime by blowing their whistles hard and loud. Today, whistleblowing has taken on a greater meaning for companies and employees. Those who work at the heart of the daily operations are often the first to notice if something is seriously amiss in the form of financial fraud or severe code of conduct breaches, such as bribery or discrimination. Whistleblowing However, many refrain from saying anything about it out of fears of harassment or opposition. In fact, the employee’s colleagues or How to blow the whistle on serious immediate manager might be involved. misconduct without exposure to By offering staff a protected channel for harassment or discouragement. raising the alarm about any serious irregularities, suspicions can be investigated without the notifier risking any pressure or reprisals. The system also ensures that addressing a tip-off is not handled by people who may potentially have interests in the occurrence not becoming known or falling subject to further investigation. “We know that our staff are very loyal to the company and we therefore want to The Group whistleblowing system was tested at three units in 2012 and will be introduced throughout the entire Group in 2013. help individuals to be able to raise the alarm about any irregularities without taking a personal risk,” says Hans Porat, President and However, whistleblowing may not be a chanblow the whistle if a matter is too sensitive CEO of Nolato. “This enables us to capture nel for general dissatisfaction. Any problems to bring up with a close member of staff, or more quickly matters that our other risk or suspicions about breaches of regulations if they do not believe that they received an management measures and control functions should primarily be addressed by the normal adequate response from their managers are unable to detect.” line organisation. Employees should only Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 19 / 30 Financial responsibility A good year in financial terms Financial highlights 2012 was the best year yet in Nolato’s history. Compared with the previous year, sales SEKm (unless otherwise specified) 2012 2011 rose by 30 percent to SEK 3,874 million, Net sales 3,874 2,977 with operating profit (EBITA) up 52 percent Operating profit (EBITA) 303 199 to SEK 303 million and earnings per share EBITA margin, % 7.8 6.7 up 53 percent to SEK 7.68. The growth in Profit after financial income and expense 272 183 Profit after tax 202 132 earnings gave a strong cash flow and susReturn on capital employed % 19.5 13.9 tained low net debt, even after the acquisiReturn on shareholders’ equity 17.1 11.3 tion of a British pharmaceutical packaging Net debt 78 82 company. Equity/assets ratio, % 46 54 Earnings per share, SEK 7.68 5.02 Dividend per share 6.00 5.00 Sustainable development and finance Average number of employees 8,421 5,496 Investments and costs During the year, Nolato invested SEK 11.4 Environmental investments Environmental costs million (14.9) in measures to reduce enviSEK m SEK m ronmental impact and improve the occupaLand and ground Other investments tional environment. Most investments were Other water protection Purification equipment made in energy, and about a quarter of the investments in occupational environment. Investments are usually made in these areas Certifications at Nolato, but the scope of energy efficiency investments has increased in the last few years. External services Environmental costs were SEK 6.0 milImproved occupalion (5.6), with waste management accounttional environment Administration ing for the majority of that figure. The costs of environmental coordinators, reporting Energy efficiency Waste management to authorities and other administrative operations account for around a quarter of the costs. During the year, environmental Financial value for stakeholders improvement measures generated cost savings of SEK 2.0 million (1.3). The majority of Stakeholder 2012 2011 Comment Suppliers 1,984 1,844 Comp. for materials and services the savings came from energy usage, and also Employees 1,012 812 Salaries and benefits increased reuse of production waste. Shareholders 158 132 Dividend Creditors 14 7 Interest expenses Financial value for stakeholders Society 70 51 Reported effective tax for the Group Nolato’s business generates a financial value Total 3,238 2,846 that is allocated to the various stakeholders. This includes suppliers, employees, shareholders, creditors and society. In 2012, Group sales were SEK 3,874 million. SEK 3,238 million (2,846) was allocated to stakeholder groups as in the bottom table on the right. Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 20 / 30 Risks relating to sustainability Nolato’s strategy includes continuously miniOperations with permit requirements including products that are no longer acceptmising operational risks through active and Nolato’s production units have the permits ed by customers. As a supplier, Nolato has planned risk management, while still capitalrequired for their operations, and no new limited possibilities of countering this risk, ising on the business opportunities that conrequirements from authorities that would because most products are manufactured by trolled risk-taking brings. The main features involve significant costs have been identified assignment of customers. Nolato works in of risk management are identification, evaluin the year’s review. The Group’s units also close collaboration with them and constantly ation, governance, reporting, monitoring meet the requirements of chemicals legislamonitors developments to be able to initiate and control. For different types of significant tion REACH and other relevant legislation. the exchange of existing materials with new, risks, there are routines for accepting, reducmore environmentally adapted alternatives. ing or eliminating the risk. Contaminated land Nolato’s annual report provides detailed and hazardous substances Climate-related risks information about operational risks, legal There has been no known occurrence of One of the Group’s plants is located in an risks, financial risks and risks in sustainable contaminated land, neither are there any area where future climate changes could development. In terms of sustainability, we requirements in terms of investigations or cause landslips (Gothenburg). Here, we have identified a number of risks of potential decontamination. In Sweden, some of the monitor the risk and vulnerability analyses importance to the Group’s financial posioperations have been classified accordperformed by the authorities. tion. More demanding environmental legising to the MIFO method of environmental Climate issues are important to Nolato, lation, taxes, fees and other environmental authorities. The classification is administraand an overview of how we work with such requirements can entail significant costs for tive in nature and is not based on any actual issues is provided on page 11. However, we industrial operations. There are also risks sample-taking of land and ground water. have not yet conducted an in-depth study of from a business perspective relating to the None of the facilities are prioritised by the how climate change may affect the Group environment and social responsibility, which authorities for further measures. Hazardous in financial terms. Potential effects relate to have gained attention in recent years, with a substances such as asbestos and PCB are not damage to plants and infrastructure, and also particular focus on production in developpresent to any material extent aspects pertaining to raw materials supply, ing countries. Nolato carries out regular risk supplier circumstances and changed customassessments in the field of sustainability in Making products er behaviour. Taxes, charges and limitations the countries where we operate. The aim is to more environmentally adapted on emissions can naturally affect Nolato too. identify new risks and/or costs relating to the Society has a growing interest in environenvironment, ethics and social responsibility mentally adapted products, and one idenas early on as possible. tifiable business risk is our product range Nolatos produktionsenhet i Torekov Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 21 / 30 Continual improvements At Nolato’s plants, several activities are cardeveloped, reducing polymer material use Hungary ried out that contribute to constant improveby around 20 percent. This curbs the cliNolato Hungary in Mosonmagyarovar ments with respect to the environment, mate impact. received an occupational environmenoccupational environment and social responDuring the year, Nolato Sunne furthered tal excellence award from the European sibility. Examples of a number of measures its process flow improvement measures, occupational environment authority. Furtaken in 2012 are described below. which reduced the number of transports ther successful work was also carried out and operational stages. Lean production on targets for energy and water consumpSweden resulted in better focus on production tion, waste, more efficient internal audits Nolato Polymer in Ängelholm and Torewaste reduction measures. and a safe occupational environment. kov continued to work with lean producNolato Gota in Götene worked on tion and have focused on occupational improving its cooling water system to Romania environment issues. An investment was reduce water consumption. The operations Negoiesti are integrated made in an electric kiln, and at Torekov Now, the operators at Nolato Cerbo perwith those in Hungary in terms of envithere are plans to switch from oil heating form quality control directly at the injecronmental management and quality to heat pumps. A new strategy for comtion moulding machines, providing better systems. The plants were integrated and munity engagement and sponsoring was control of the products and less waste. certified during the year under the same developed, focusing on local activities and Environmental key ratios are heading in environmental management system as in children. the right direction, and lean production Mosonmagyarovar. Energy efficiency efforts continued at work has resulted in many small improveNolato Silikonteknik in Hallsberg. ments. China Nolato MediTech in Hörby and Lomma At Nolato Plastteknik in Gothenburg, As described elsewhere in the Sustaincontinued their Medical Excellence proan investment was made in new, more ability Report, many CSR activities are gramme with improved ratios regarding energy-efficient compressed air and coolunder way at Nolato in Beijing. Examples complaints, etc. Furthermore, matters ing equipment. A central plastic granule include an Employee Care Programme, relating to the environment and occudrying facility was also installed, replacing the development of environmentally pational environment have been given 14 air dryers. The company is continuing adapted products, several training activigreater scope in day to day work with, for with its projects to develop environmenties, increased use of recycled plastic raw instance, better incident follow-up. tally adapted products, such as plastic and materials, CSR evaluation of suppliers, In Hörby, staff have been trained in energy wood fibre composites. better resource utilisation and lower enermatters, and monitoring systems enable gy consumption. management and staff to follow energy The UK Nolato Lövepac in Beijing and Shenzen consumption and costs in real time. With the new acquisition of Nolato Jaycontinued their work on introducing Nolato Lövepac in Skånes-Fagerhult has care in Portsmouth and Newcastle, many OHSAS 18001. A project to increase developed gaskets for Volvo’s new fuel projects were conducted throughout the waste reuse from processes continued durefficient engines according to the Volvo year with a bearing on the environment ing the year. Environmental Architecture (VEA) conand occupational environment. They cept. Waste management at the plant has include the installation of more efficient USA become more efficient. machinery, heightened internal reuse of Nolato Contour was ISO 14001 certified The volume of waste in production has production waste, investment in autoduring the year. Furthermore, measures been reduced at Nolato MediTor in Toremated systems for dealing with chemicals were taken to increase waste recycling. kov. Better quality control and more effiand reducing repetitive work tasks, the cient production planning has reduced the implementation of 5s and the introduction number of transports (express deliveries). of Nolato’s Code of Conduct and policies. A new recipe for breathing bags has been Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 22 / 30 Sustainability targets In 2010, Group-wide long-term sustainaBased on the Group’s key ratio for enerBased on the group’s key ratio for carbility targets were introduced in a number gy (GWh/net sales), energy consumpbon dioxide emissions from energy conof key areas. The targeted work leads to tion will decrease by 10 percent over sumption (tonne/net sales), emissions progress and improvements, and we are the period 2014–2016. Average conwill decrease by 10 percent over the therefore maintaining the same focus in sumption in 2011–2012 is the base line. period 2014–2016. Average emissions 2013. The detailed energy targets described for 2011–2012 form the base line. The For energy and climate, we are tightebelow remain in place. detailed climate impact targets presenning targets as follows: ted in the table below remain in place. Area Overall targets Outcome 2012 Environmental Energy Energy consumption and emissions of greenhouse gases Lower consumption in relation to sales, but more responsibility shall be reduced in relation to the Group’s key ratios. As an units and higher production increase total consumpintermediate target, every unit shall report energy targets tion. Energy efficiency measures in lighting, ventilation for 2013 and carry out at least one energy efficiency project and equipment at most plants. during the year. Climate Emissions of greenhouse gases shall be reduced in relation More units and increased production result in higher to the Group’s key ratios. As an intermediate target, every unit emissions. Energy efficiency measures and installation shall report climate targets for 2013 and carry out at least one of heat pumps reduce emissions. project during the year. Chemicals Chemicals that are particularly hazardous to the environment Several substitutions were made during the year, or health shall be identified and phased out. and these efforts will continue for the foreseeable future. Waste The waste volume produced shall be reduced in relation to Increased production volume, more plants and more the Group’s key ratios. As an intermediate target, every manuadvanced reporting result in a higher waste volume. facturing facility shall report waste targets for 2013 and carry Measures to reduce waste are in progress but do not out at least one waste-related project during the year. compensate for the higher waste volume. Environmental management Certified environmental management systems shall be introWork has begun on introducing ISO 14001 at the systems duced at all units. Company acquisitions and other changes newly Acquired Nolato Jaycare in the UK. To be commay, however, mean that there are at times units that are not pleted in 2013. certified. Environmentally friendly During 2013, Nolato shall take part in at least three proProjects and adaptations carried out, but also an products jects aimed at reducing the environmental impact of new or area where we expect heightened requirements from existing products. These projects can be carried out under customers. Nolato’s own management and/or together with customers or other partners. Social Safe workplaces Sustained preventive work shall minimise the number of More accidents compared with 2011. A positive asresponsibility workplace-related accidents and diseases. The reporting of pect is that many preventive measures were taken and incidents (near misses) at production units shall be improved. systems for incident registration (near misses) were introduced at largely all units. Ethical and compassionate There shall be no cases of infringements of human rights, disInformation and training initiatives about the Nolato principles crimination or forced labour. Active information shall continue Spirit conducted at most units. Newly appointed emto be provided to employees and new employees. ployees are the primary target group. Business partAnti-corruption There shall be no cases of bribery, corruption or cartel formaInternal evaluation based on the UN Global Compact ners and other tion. Active information shall continue to be provided to emshows heightened efforts to counteract corruption. stakeholders ployees and new employees. A whistleblowing system is being introduced. Suppliers In agreements with suppliers, environment and social requiA greater number of suppliers were evaluated rerements shall be imposed. Every company shall have evaluagarding both the environment and social responsibility. ted at least five sub-suppliers in 2013 with regard to the environment and sustainable development. Customers Environmental and social requirements shall be met by a Customer requirements are gradually increasing, comfortable margin. In 2013, collaborative projects with key but the results of evaluations and audits are mainly customers on sustainability issues shall be developed further. very good. Society, investors and analysts Reporting in accordance with the GRI, level B. We shall contiSound evaluations of sustainability efforts in the nue to endorse the UN Global Compact. We shall achieve good business press and by investors. Self-declaration results in evaluations by our stakeholders through transpaaccording to ISO 26000 introduced on a trial basis. rent information in the field of sustainability. Target achieved or positive trend for achieving target. Unchanged situation. Deteroriated situation. Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 23 / 30 About the Sustainability Report Content of the Sustainability Report Company/plant Average number Significance Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report covers of employees for the report aspects relating to the environment, occuNolato Beijing, Beijing (China) 6,089 High pational environment and social matters. Our ambition is for the report, together with Nolato Hungary, Masonmagyarovar (Hungary), Negoiesti (Romania) 468 High supplementary information, to provide staff Lövepac Converting, Beijing and Shenzhen (China), Chennai (India) 574 High and external stakeholders with a clear presNolato Polymer, Torekov and Ängelholm (Sweden) 82 Medium-high entation of the Company’s sustainability activities, and how this is interlinked with the Nolato MediTech, Hörby and Lomma (Sweden) 201 Medium-high business operations. We hope the report is of Nolato MediTor, Torekov (Sweden) 61 Medium-high interest and welcome any comments and suggestions about future improvements. Nolato Jaycare, Portsmouth and Newcaste (UK) 205 Medium-high Nolato Gota, Götene (Sweden) 103 Medium-high Scope of the Sustainability Report Nolato Contour (Baldwin (USA) 159 Medium-high The Sustainability Report covers matters pertaining to the environment, occupational Nolato Cerbo, Trollhättan (Sweden) 108 Medium-high environment and social conditions at NolaNolato Plastteknik, Göteborg (Sweden) 96 Medium-high to’s manufacturing units worldwide. All the units belonging to the Group in the financial Nolato Sunne, Sunne (Sweden) 106 Medium-high year are included in the report, except the Nolato Lövepac, Skånes Fagerhult (Sweden) 35 Low unit in Malaysia which is contracted with a subsupplier. A total of 21 out of 22 units thus Nolato Hertila, Åstorp (Sweden) 25 Low contributed data. Nolato Silikonteknik, Hallsberg (Sweden) 35 Low Reporting principles Each production unit contributes data according to the Group’s sustainability reporting form. The head of each unit is Reporting of data Questionnaire for all units responsible for assuring the quality of the Quality control of data submitted information. Performance for the year is compared and checked against last Preparations ahead of a new report Q4 Q1 Sustainability section in the annual report year’s information. Further quality controls are conducted in connection with interviews GRI/COP report Q3 Q2 and site visits. Emissions of carbon dioxide, sulphur dioxide and nitric oxides from direct energy usage are established using conversion facFollow-up and review of sustainability data tors. These are based on the energy content and quality of the fuels used. Carbon dioxide emissions from indirect energy usage (mainly electricity) are based on emissions data from the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative (GHG Protocol) for the countries where Nolato operates. Information about VOC emissions (Volatile Organic Compounds – solvents and paints) is mainly based on mass balance calculations. In this year’s Sustainability Report, we have corrected carbon dioxide emissions data for the plant in Beijing, China (see page 11). Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 24 / 30 Nolato and GRI The organisation behind GRI (Global The GRI guidelines are the most used and have enhanced Nolato’s reporting under Reporting Initiative) has established volaccepted standard for sustainability reportGRI G3.1, and the table shows the extent to untary comprehensive guidelines for how ing, with more than 5,000 participating which Nolato meets the minimum requirecompanies and other organisations should organisations globally. On the GRI website, ments of level B. For instance, we have report their sustainable development activithere are around 12,000 available sustainbroadened the sections on strategy, analysis ties. The guidelines, which are now available ability reports, a handful of which are Nolaand materiality and supplemented the inforin version G3.1, cover requirements on the to’s. Within the guidelines, the organisation mation about certain key indicators. reporting of sustainability data for finance, can choose at which level (A-C) its wishes to SR in the table refers to pages in the Susthe environment and social responsibility. report. Nolato has chosen to report accordtainability Report, and AR to pages in the The reporting is to provide a comprehensive, ing to level B. Annual Report for 2012. balanced, comparable, thorough and credible A comprehensive description of the reportpresentation of the organisation’s sustaining requirements of each level is provided on ability performance. It should cover both www.globalreporting.org. positive and negative aspects. In this year’s Sustainability Report, we Profile 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation AR7, SR 3 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities AR35-37, SR 7, 20 2. Organisational profile 2.1 – 2.7 Name of the organisation. Primary brands/products and/or services. Operational structure of the organisation. Location of AR9-25, SR 4-5 organisation’s headquarters. Countries where the organisation operates. Nature of ownership and legal form. Markets. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation SR 4-5, 23 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period SR 23 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period SR 3 3. Information about the report Report parameters 3.1 – 3.4 Reporting period. Date of most recent previous report. Reporting cycle. Contact point. SR 23 Report content and boundary 3.5 – 3.8 Process for defining report content. Boundary of the report. Specific limitations on scope or boundary. Basis for reporting on joint SR 23 ventures, subsidiaries, etc. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations SR 23 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports SR 11, 23 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measurement methods SR 23 GRI table of contents 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report This table 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance Self-declared Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 25 / 30 4. Governance, engagements and stakeholder relations Governance 4.1 – 4.8 Governance structure. Governance structure for sustainability matters. The Chair’s position. Independent and/or non-executive AR 72-77, SR 8-9 members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations to the highest governance body. Management compensation. Processes to avoid conflicts of interest. Business concept, values and code of conduct. Undertakings with respect to external initiatives 4.11 The organisation’s management of the precautionary approach SR 10-20 4.12 Externally developed charters, principles or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses SR 7, 27 Communication with stakeholders 4.14 – 4.17 List of stakeholder groups. Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders. Approaches to stakeholder engagement. SR 9, 17 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement. Performance indicators 5. Economic performance indicators (EC) Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed SR 19 EC2 Financial implications and other risks due to climate change SR 20 EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations AR 47-48, 63 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government Nothing during the year 6. Environmental performance indicators (EN) Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume SR 11 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials SR 11 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source SR 10 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source SR 10 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements SR 10, 21 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source SR 11-12 Emissions, effluents and waste EN16, 17 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight SR 11 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved SR 10-11, 21 EN20 NOx, SO2 and other significant air emissions by type and weight SR 11 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method SR 12 EN23 Significant spills SR 12 Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation SR 12-13 Compliance EN28 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SR 8-9 Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 26 / 30 Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures SR 19 7. Social performance indicators. Labour practices and decent work (LA) Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region SR 5, 14 Labour/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements SR 15 Occupational health and safety LA7 Rates of injury and occupational diseases SR 6, 15 Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee SR 15 Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, etc. AR 53, SR 15 8. Human rights (HR) Investment and procurement practices HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone human rights screening SR 6, 9, 17 Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken SR 15 Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, SR 15 and actions taken Child labour HR6 Operations with significant risk for incidents of child labour and measures taken SR 14, 17 Forced and compulsory labour HR7 Operations with significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures taken SR 14, 17 9. Social performance indicators (SO) Society SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programmes and practices that assess and manage the impacts of op. on communities SR 8-9, 17 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures SR 6, 17-18 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying Nothing during the year Compliance SO8 Fines and other sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations SR 14-17 10. Product responsibility performance indicators (PR) Customer health and safety PR1 Evaluation of health and safety impacts of products SR 9, 11-12 Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 27 / 30 UN Global Compact Nolato and United Nation Regular reviews are conducted of the various Communication On Progress Global Compact Group companies’ methods and ethics to Organisations that have endorsed the Global In 2009, Nolato endorsed the UN initiaensure that they correspond with the Group’s Compact are required to submit a yearly tive for responsible business, Global ComCode of Conduct. report on how they meet the ten principles pact. The Group consequently became part For the first time this year, we are also per(Communication on Progress – COP). In of a global network which now comprises forming our own evaluation of how Nolato Nolato’s case, we use the information proaround 11,000 companies and other organiadheres to social responsibility guidelines vided in the Annual Report and the Sustainsations in 135 countries and which supports according to the ISO 26000 standard. ability Report. Together, these reports proten basic principles in human rights, working At the beginning of the Sustainability vide a fair presentation of Nolato’s support conditions, regard for the environment and Report, Nolato’s President and CEO Hans of and compliance with the Global Compact anti-corruption. Porat comments on the Company’s work principles. The booklet The Nolato Spirit, which with the Global Compact during the year. In order to simplify Communication On covers Group’s Code of Conduct and enviProgress, we use GRI indicators and the table ronmental policy, is an important internal of cross-references below shows which indidocument, guiding and coordinating employcators are relevant in the context. ee activities in line with the ten principles. Global Compact principles GRI indicators Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect internationally proclaimed human rights. HR2, HR4-7, LA7, LA13, SO5 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HR2, HR4-7, SO5 Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to coll. bargaining. LA4, HR2, HR5, SO5 4. Businesses should work to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour. HR2, HR7, SO5 5. Businesses should work for the effective abolition of child labour HR2, HR6, SO5 6. Businesses should work to eliminate all discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. LA13, HR2, HR4, SO5 Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. EC2, EN26, EN30, SO5 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. EN1–5, EN8, EN16, EN20, EN22, EN26, EN28, SO5 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. EN2, EN5, EN18, EN26, SO5 Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. SO3, SO5 Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 28 / 30 Self-declaration of social responsibility according to ISO 26000 The ISO 26000 standard is based on seven Systematic self-declaration of ISO 26000 Status fundamental principles which together define the concept of social responsibility. The guide 4.1 Limitations provides guidelines and information on: 4.1.2 Limitations of the self-declaration? Concepts, terms and definitions. The questions in this section refer to the parts covered by the self-declaration, and which suppliers, Principles and working methods, main contractors, agents, etc. can be directed/influenced by Nolato’s social responsibility. areas and sub-areas. Integration, implementation and promo4.2 Management’s undertaking tion of socially responsible behaviour in the 4.2.2 Undertaking of the organisation? organisation and its sphere of influence. The questions in this section are about how Nolato describes its overall social responsibility posiIdentifying and involving stakeholders. tion, when and at which level the position was taken, and how the principles of ISO 26000 have been worked into Nolato’s steering documents. How social responsibility is communicated. 4.3 Operational governance 4.3.2 Resources, responsibility and processes? ISO 26000 is not a management system The questions in this section are about securing necessary resources, delegating responsibility and standard and certification is not possible. powers within Nolato, and the processes and procedures used to ensure results from the work. There is a high level of interest among vari4.3.3 Competence, training and awareness? ous organisations in communicating their The questions in this section are about the methods for identifying the social responsibility training work using ISO 14001, and a specification requirement, and the registration of required and acquired knowledge. (Social responsibility – Systematic self-decla4.3.4 Communication of the self-declaration? ration SIS-SP 2:2013) which can be used as a The question in this section is about how Nolato communicates the self-declaration. basis for self-declaration is now available. Nolato has prepared such a self-declara4.4 Identifying and involving stakeholders tion on a trial basis, as described below. The 4.4.2 Stakeholder identification? conclusion is that Nolato’s social responsiThe questions in this section are about the level of stakeholder dialogue, how stakeholders are bility is largely in line with the ISO 26000 identified, their specific interests, if there are stakeholder groups with difficulty in making their voice heard, which stakeholder groups represent society and the environment, how Nolato’s sphere of guidelines, but there are a number of areas influence has affected the choice of stakeholders, how social responsibility work has affected mathat can be developed. jor collaborations and partnerships and our procedures for identifying new stakeholders. 4.4.3 Stakeholder prioritisation? How the self-declaration was carried out: The question in this section is about how Nolato prioritises stakeholders. The booklet Systematic self-declaration (SIS 4.4.4 Method for obtaining stakeholder viewpoints? SP 2:2013) contains around 80 questions in The question in this section is about Nolato’s method for obtaining expectations and viewpoints seven main areas (4.1-4.7) of ISO 26000, from stakeholders in purely practical terms. and the responses determine the extent of 4.4.5 Method for obtaining viewpoints from non-organised groups? compliance with the guidelines. We have The question in this section is about how Nolato obtains viewpoints from the above-mentioned evaluated each individual question and made groups. an overall assessment of how the guidelines 4.4.6 When are stakeholder viewpoints retrieved? are introduced and applied. The questions in this section are about the consequences of stakeholder viewpoints, and about the The table does not repeat each question of occasions on which such viewpoints are retrieved. the self-declaration. Instead, the questions 4.4.7 Stakeholder viewpoint management? are briefly summarised and the self-declaraThe questions in this section are about how, in its governance/planning, Nolato addresses stakeholder viewpoints, how the need for insight and integrity is managed, how stakeholders along the tion pertains to the aggregated assessment of entire value chain are managed and how conflicts of interest between different stakeholder groups the responses in each area. are addressed. 4.4.8 Stakeholder influence in reporting? Full compliance with the guidelines. The question in this section is about whether the stakeholder dialogue is used to strengthen Partial compliance with the guidelines. Nolato’s communication of its social responsibility work. Limited or no compliance with the guidelines. The table continues on the following page Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 29 / 30 4.5 Identification and prioritisation of areas and principles of ISO 26000 4.5.2 Status report? The questions in this section are about Nolato’s operations and the countries/areas in which we conduct operations. They also refer to an analysis of Nolato’s past and current social responsibility actions and which policy documents, etc. are available in this area. 4.5.3 Relevance? The questions in this section are about how Nolato can influence the organisations in our sphere of influence, which areas of ISO 26000 (chapter 6) are relevant, and how the organisations have been involved with a view to getting Nolato to understand the relevance and significance of various areas. 4.5.4 Prioritisation? The questions in this section are about relevant sub-areas and how this affects stakeholders, prioritisation, the ability to fulfil legislation, standards and norms, the rationale underlying the prioritisation of the main areas, risks associated with the sub-areas, financial consequences of the sub-areas and prioritisation follow-up and updating. 4.6 Targets and plans of action 4.6.2 Overall targets, detailed targets, plans of action and other activities? The questions in this section are about the structure, responsibility, resources, monitoring and implementation of targets and plans of action. 4.6.3 Follow-up methods? The questions in this section are about methods for following up on prioritisation, evaluation of the measurement methods and the possibility of tracing the result over time. 4.6.4 Evaluation, reporting and verification of social responsibility for strengthening the organisation’s credibility? The questions in this section are about reports, indicators, external guidelines, verification systems, results evaluation, basis and execution of communication, whether items are omitted from the communication and how the result is verified. 4.6.5 Compliance with policy documents and guidelines? The questions in this section are about how policies, etc. are made known at Nolato, internal audit methods, external audit results, consumer complaint management and management of complaints from other stakeholders. 4.6.6 Extent of meeting overall targets, detailed targets, plans of action and activities? The questions in this section are about evaluation and monitoring methods, whether targets were achieved, whether they were suitable, whether they were in harmony with Nolato’s strategies, whether action plans and activities were implemented or altered. 4.6.7 Compliance with laws and other requirements (e.g. conventions) The questions in this section are about how Nolato keeps up-to-date on legal obligations, how compliance with laws and other requirements is confirmed, and whether there are any remarks or similar from authorities as regards compliance with laws. 4.7 Improvement work 4.7.2 Constant improvement work The questions in this section are about Nolato’s methods for the identification, governance and follow-up of changes, improvements accomplished during the period and in relation to reference years. 4.7.3 Review of steering documents, prioritisation, targets and plans The questions in this section are about whether Nolato’s steering documents have been affected, new prioritisations made and new applicable targets. Nolato’s 2012 Sustainability Report 30 / 30 Definitions and glossary Carbon dioxide (CO2) Carbon dioxide is tions globally are currently certified accordmust be registered for a certain use and formed in all carbon combustion processes, ing to ISO 14001. particularly hazardous substances can have such as fossil fuel combustion. It is very restrictions imposed on them. ISO 26000 International standard that prolikely that carbon dioxide increases global vides guidance on how organisations can RoHS EU legislation limiting the use of cerwarming (the greenhouse effect). deal with social responsibility issues. The tain substances that are hazardous to health Code of Conduct Guidelines for Nolato’s standard was introduced in 2010. and the environment. employees. Supplemented by policies relating LWC Occupational accidents causing at least SO2 (sulphur dioxide) Sulphur dioxide is to the environment, quality and information. one day’s absence (Lost Work Case). formed in the combustion of petroleum Environmental aspects The parts of an products. The gas contributes to the acidifiNOx (nitrogen oxides) Gaseous oxides organisation’s activities, products or services cation of watercourses and soil. Large conformed during combustion processes that interact with the environment. centrations are harmful to human health. through the oxidation of nitrogen. Harmful Environment-related costs Costs attributto health and the environment and causes Sustainability Development that “satisfies able to measures for preventing, reducing acid rain and eutrophication. today’s needs without jeopardising future or restoring environmental impact directly generations’ possibilities to satisfy their Occupational disease A work-related disease caused by the organisation’s operations. The needs”. Sustainable development consists of is a disease caused by long-term exposure same applies for costs in the occupational three components: Ecological sustainability, to a particular factor in the occupational environment area. The costs include adminsocial sustainability and financial sustainenvironment. Examples are noise, dust and istration, purchase of services externally, ability. solvents. authority fees, environmental management VOC (Volatile Organic Compounds). A group system maintenance, waste and external Occupational injury A work-related injury of organic compounds that easily vaporise inspections and audits. is a sudden incident (accident) attributable at room temperature. The concentration of to work that gives rise to a wound or other Environment-related investments Investvolatile hydrocarbon in the air has a negative injury. Typical injuries in the in the polymer ments for preventing and reducing environeffect on health and the environment, e.g. it industry are cuts, falls and injuries caused mental impact from the organisation’s operacontributes to the formation of low ozone. by heavy lifting and repetitive tasks. Nolato tions. The same applies for investments to reports occupational injuries as an accident Water footprint The total volume of fresh enhance the occupational environment. that causes more than one day of absence, water used to produce a company’s goods Extrusion A method for continuously manucalled Lost Work Case (LWC). The rate is and services. facturing products in strands, such as tubing. gauged by the number of occupational injuries per 1,000 employees (LWC/1,000). Global Compact A UN initiative for responsible business practice. Participating organisaOHSAS 18001 Standard relating to health and tions undertake to endorse ten fundamental safety in the workplace. principles in human rights, occupational PAH (Polyaromatic hydrocarbons, or polyaroconditions, environmental regard and antimatics) A group of substances found in coal corruption. and petroleum that are hazardous to health GRI The Global Reporting Initiative has and the environment. The substances are established voluntary comprehensive guidereleased into the environment through comlines for how companies and other organibustion processes. sations should report their sustainability PCB Polychlorinated biphenyls are a group activities. of industrial chemicals that are hazardous to HCFC Substances that contribute to ozone health and the environment. The use of PCB depletion. was prohibited in Sweden in 1972, but the substance remains in the environment due to Injection moulding A method for manufacits slow decomposition. turing polymer components. The material, such as a type of plastic, is injected under Polymers Chemical compounds comprising high pressure into a mould in which the comvery long chains made up of small, repeatponent is formed. ing units (monomers). Plastic and rubber are examples of polymer materials. ISO 14001 International standard relating to environmental management systems that was REACH EU chemical legislation for the safer introduced in 1996. Over 250,000 organisahandling of chemicals. Chemical substances
