A European investment group with a global industrially-driven approach 2012 ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Annual review 2012 COVER IMAGE: Table of Contents | Annual review 2012 PortAventura, Europe’s third largest integrated destination resort and theme park Table of Contents 4 About Investindustrial 8 Strategic Commentary 14 Global Footprint 18 Strategies for Value Creation 38 Management and Culture TM 42 Sectors and Companies 58 Social Responsibility BI-Invest 70 Summary Group Information Investindustrial is a group of independently managed investment holding and financial advisory companies. Investindustrial is a registered trademark. All trademarks, brand names and logos (including any word, name, symbol, design, colors or combination thereof) reproduced in this report are protected by applicable national and international laws and should not be used or copied without the legitimate owners’ permission. This document has been prepared for informainformation in this report is insider information other companies. References to terms such tion purposes only on the basis of a series of within the meaning of the laws of any country, as “control”, “ownership” and their synonyms conditions. Neither the whole nor any of the as such determination could be made only in is provided for illustrative purposes only and information in this report may be used for any the light of the circumstances in which any dismay not imply, from a juridical perspective, other purpose without the prior written consent closure was considered. Nothing in this report full or partial control of certain companies of Investindustrial. While it has been prepared should be construed as advice or solicitation to due to limitations by any shareholders’ agreein good faith, no representation is given as buy or sell any securities. The information and ments, co-investment vetoes and other third to the accuracy or achievability of any values opinions in the report are given in good faith. party rights, management stock option and any applied herein, nor should any valuations be However, we do not make any warranty as to other incentive scheme. In addition, shares treated as the Investindustrial’s estimate of the their completeness or accuracy. They are also in portfolio companies are held by the apeventual investment out-turn. The assumptions subject to change without notice. References plicable investment and/or holding company on which these values have been prepared are to names of portfolio companies are intended and rights over such shares are exercised by necessarily subjective and have not been subto be made, where the context requires, to the the board of directors of the investment and/ ject to third party verification. By your receipt of applicable holding company/subsidiary of the or holding company in an independent manthis document, you acknowledge that you are Fund. The terms “Group”. “Investindustrial”, ner. The Investindustrial website and any other aware of the restrictions imposed by the laws “Our”, “We”, “Portfolio Company”, “team”, company’s website, information and links of various countries on the purchase and sale “professionals”, in this document has been contained therein are not part of this document of securities by any person who has received used only for practical ease of reading and and should not be considered as incorporated such information and on the communication does not intend to imply any specific reference by reference herein. For any queries on the of this information to others. We are not in to an entity or a legal definition of any activinformation contained within this report, the the position to determine whether any of the ity of control by any company with respect to reader should contact Investindustrial. 3 Annual review 2012 | About Investindustrial About Investindustrial | Annual review 2012 A LEADING EUROPEAN a history with INVESTMENT group a consistent strategy 1978 The Financial Times Investindustrial is one of Europe’s leading inThe general partners of the funds manProviding industrial dependent investment groups which provides age the funds in the interest of the limited industrial solutions and capital to mediumpartners and therefore an autonomous and expertise, operational size companies that are leaders in their fields. independent manner from the other group focus and global companies. Investments and divestments platforms to accelerate Investindustrial operates through indepenare made (and shares in portfolio comvalue creation and 2012 The Financial Times dently managed investment holding and panies are held) by the applicable investinternational expansion advisory companies with strong sector and ment or holding company. Decisions over industrial expertise, operational focus and investments and divestments, including the global platforms. exercise of the voting rights over the shares of the portfolio companies, are made by the Founded in 1990 out of an industrial conglomapplicable investment or holding company erate, Investindustrial has a team of more than board of directors in an autonomous and 2012 The Economist 50 professionals on three continents. independent manner from the other group companies, consistently with the applicable Investindustrial’s aim is to create long-term corporate governance rules and by-laws. It value by helping portfolio companies to is the responsibility of the management of accelerate international expansion and imeach portfolio company to operate the comprove operational efficiency. pany on a day-to-day basis. www.investindustrial.com 2012 Recognitions Origins from Operating of investindustrial excellence a successful as a firm industrial since 1990 European Firm of the Year (PEI, shortlisted) group European House of the Year (Real Deals, shortlisted) Italian Firm of the Year (Private Equity Exchange) Italian Firm of the Year (PEI) More than 50 Industrially Spanish Firm of the Year professionals driven (Private Equity Exchange) Spanish Firm of the Year on three approach (PEI) continents Southern European Deal of the Year (Ducati – Real Deals, shortlisted) 35 years of investments in leading brands and companies 4 5 Annual review 2012 | About Investindustrial About Investindustrial | Annual review 2012 an investment strategy refined from Successes and experiences Invest Drive from previous partnerships such as ... in Quality Market Businesses Leadership Quality management team Create international leaders through organic growth and new acquisitions Focus on reinforcing research and development Maximize profitability by leveraging synergies and developing Optimization and rationalization of restructuring or cost-cutting plans product mix Capture international growth Improvement of working capital opportunities management Business line diversification ... is being applied to the current portfolio of leading Capture Create brands and companies. Global Tomorrow’s Opportunities Leaders Capture international sales Integrate product development, growth opportunities that are not production and supply chain easily accessible for mid-market capabilities with international companies distribution capacity Use the Group’s global network to Capture growth opportunities both facilitate access to new markets geographical and product Relocate manufacturing to low-cost Become an attractive business countries with growing domestic opportunity for international consumption players Aston Martin, Vanquish 6 7 Annual review 2012 | Strategic Commentary Strategic Commentary | Annual review 2012 strategic Commentary “In 2012, Investindustrial and its portfolio of companies achieved remarkable results despite a difficult operating environment” The business climate was challenging durlength of this recessionary climate is taking ing the year, and it was difficult for compaits toll on consumers and companies, many nies to make reliable forecasts beyond the of which have already implemented several immediate term. Macroeconomic uncerrounds of rationalisation. However, the Eutainty was damaging consumer confidence, ropean Union and the European Central the performance of public markets and Bank showed a stronger political will duravailability of credit across most developed ing the year than in the last few years, and economies as governments continued to as a result removed most of the market’s pursue austerity measures to reduce public fear of a Euro collapse. deficits and high levels of indebtedness. This negative trend is expected to conOut of the fifteen investments, seven tinue into 2013 before a modest economic recorded their best ever earnings and/ growth eventually emerges. or sales during 2012. This is a tribute to the highly experienced and motivated The western economies have now been in management teams at the helm of the a depressed environment for the last five individual companies, as well as the years since the sub-prime bubble burst Investindustrial team of 50 professionals in the US, setting off a series of global fiacross three continents providing handsnancial, economic and political crises. The on operational support. “Investindustrial and its companies continued to invest in 2012, which was rewarded with doubledigit EBITDA growth” The aggregate EBITDA of group companies since inception is located outside of Italgrew by 14% since 2011 to €1.4 billion ian and Spanish markets and 43% of this mainly through organic growth. Investingrowth has been driven from non-European dustrial’s focus on accelerating internationalisation of its portfolio companies countries. This represents a significant shift from the previous generation of seven out of fifteen investments played a key role in this positive performance. In the European markets, which investments where a growing and less penetrated Europe accounted for the vast recorded their best earnings and/or sales ever saw a stagnant or declining sales trend, the focus was on gaining market share and majority of sales increases. Investindustrial is present in Asia and the Americas in during 2012, a remarkable result in a difficult improving strategic positioning. About two thirds of the portfolio growth order to accelerate the companies’ internationalisation into new markets. The new Ducati 1199 operating environment was launched on the race track of Abu Dhabi which is also home to one of Permasteelisa’s flagship projects, the Yas Marina Hotel 8 9 Annual review 2012 | Strategic Commentary Strategic Commentary | Annual review 2012 2012 portfolio figures “Record year in terms of proceeds from divestitures as premium brands and companies continue to attract significant interest from strategic buyers” Total Sales (€m) Investindustrial generated more proceeds Spanish waste management company. We 7,514 7,670 Total investments generated from divestitures in 2012 than in any previcontinue to selectively find new attractive aggregate sales of €7.7 billion ous year. The main liquidity event was the or industrial homes for our companies, in 2012 with an increase of 2% exit of premium sports motorcycle manuonly to redeploy the capital in new invest4,741 4,837 compared to the prior year. Dur4,314 4,381 facturer Ducati to Audi, part of the Volkswaments in our core markets where we can ing 2012, Investindustrial sold gen Group. Investindustrial also divested enter at attractive valuations and begin a two companies and invested in its majority stake in Contenur, a leading new industrially-driven ownership period. one new company; excluding +10% -8% +10% +55% +2% these new transactions, portfolio sales grew by 5%. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 “ Investindustrial expects to invest approximately €3 billion in the next couple of years” EBITDA (€M) and Margin (%) 1,417 In 2012, Investindustrial’s ag1,238 gregate investments generated At the beginning of 2013, Investindustrial key moments to remain active and iman EBITDA of €1.4 billion, 14% completed the acquisition of Aston Martin, prove its competitive positioning. With higher than last year. Excludone of the most exclusive sports car brand this capital and moderate financial levering new acquisitions, EBITDA in the world. During 2012 investindustrial age, we expect to invest approximately €3 588 635 569 growth was 13%. made two significant acquisitions. One billion over the next couple of years. As 479 in Euskaltel, a leading Spanish cable opsuch, Investindustrial is likely to be one +19% +95% 16.5% +14% 18.5% +3% +8% 13.4% erator, and one in the acquisition of the of the most important sources of private 12.0% 13.1% 11.1% remaining 50% in PortAventura Europe’s capital investing in Europe and in Souththird largest destination resort and theme ern Europe, a strong statement about our 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 park. Nevertheless, the group ended 2012 commitment to the region and conviction with approximately €1.3 billion of equity that it is home to many exceptional, worldavailable for investments. The Group’s class companies and brands. view is that difficult economic times are Total Employees 46,505 At the end of 2012 the work45,924 force of portfolio companies remained substantially stable 32,522 at almost 46,500 employees. 30,143 26,524 27,339 +3% +10% +8% +41% +1% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 PortAventura’s Shambhala Aggregate numbers considering 100% of the companies present in the portfolio 10 rollercoaster, the tallest in Europe at the end of each year. Aston Martin is not included in any of the numbers in the 11 annual review since the acquisition was completed at the beginning of 2013. Annual review 2012 | Strategic Commentary Strategic Commentary | Annual review 2012 2012 Key events €1.3bn With more than €3.1 billion in assets under €1.3 billion of equity management, Investindustrial ranks among the for investments top 10 continental European investment firms At the end of 2012 Investindustrial had available approximately €1.3 billion of equity to make further acquisitions. The Investindustrial ranks as one of the top 10 by Private Equity International, and in Group’s large capital availability is a continental European private investment 2012 Investindustrial was shortlisted by strategic advantage in the current market environment. firms, measured by assets under manageboth Private Equity International and Real ment (as per the recent PEI 300 survey). Deals as one the leading European midWithin that group, Investindustrial is the market firm. We are proud to see that the only leading firm also focused on Italy dedication and expertise of our team and 3+8 and Spain. We are consistently ranked as trusted partners has made Investindus3 investments and the leading investment group in Italy and trial a rising star among European investSpain in an industry-wide annual survey ment firms. 8 add-on acquisitions The Group made two new investments in Aston Martin and in Euskaltel, an additional investment in PortAventura to buy the remaining 50% and a further 8 add-on With this annual review, we aim to share manner. We hope that you enjoy the readacquisitions to four of its portfolio companies. By supporting growth through acquisome useful insights with you into how ing and look forward to reporting to you sitions, Investindustrial strengthened the we operate and how our investments are again on further achievements for 2013. international footprint of its investments. growing in a responsible and sustainable €0.9bn Selective exits completed with €0.9 billion of value During 2012 Investindustrial successfully exited Ducati, by selling the company to the leading German car manufacturer Audi and Contenur which was sold to financial buyers. 18.5% A Highly profitable portfolio During 2012, Group sales increased by 2% while EBITDA grew by 14%, increasing the profitability margin to 18.5%. Growth was strong during the year, and occurred mostly outside Southern European countries. Headquarters of Banca Popolare di 12 Milano in Piazza Meda, Milan (Italy) 13 Annual review 2012 | Global Footprint Global Footprint | Annual review 2012 Leading European footprint with a growing international presence Investindustrial has a considerable interopportunities are arising from outside From left: Andrea C. Bonomi national exposure and combines a global Southern Europe and in particular from (Senior Principal at vision with local insight and capital to offer North America and Rest of the World. Investindustrial), Simon Rodd (General Manager of Aston growth opportunities to its companies. The Martin Long Island) and John C. Mowinckel (Special Principal at From left: Gabriele Del Torchio (CEO of Ducati) with Group has a global footprint with 35% of its Since inception, non-European countries Investindustrial) during a visit to Rupert Stadler (CEO of Audi) and on the back Dante sales coming from outside Southern Eurohave contributed to 43% of the growth of the Aston Martin dealer in Long Razzano (Senior Principal at Investindustrial) during Island (New York, USA) the signing for the sale of Ducati to Audi pean markets. The most attractive growth portfolio companies sales. 2012 sales(1) 2012 Sales(1) variance by region by region (%) Rest of the World 9% 0% Italy North America 8% Italy 39% -1% Spain 9% Rest of Europe 5% North America Rest of Europe From left: James Drummond (CEO of 18% 7% Rest Of The World Avincis), Carlo U. Bonomi (Senior Principal From left: Roberto Maestroni (Principal at Investindustrial), at Investindustrial) and John C. Mowinckel Umberto Magnetti (Vice President at Investindustrial), (Special Principal at Investindustrial) Peter Hug (General Manager of Aston Martin Zurich), Spain 26% during a visit to Sikorsky Headquarters in Andrea C. Bonomi (Senior Principal at Investindustrial) and Stratford (Connecticut, USA) for the signing Carl Nauckhoff (Principal at Investindustrial) during a visit of a procurement contract to the Aston Martin dealer in Zürich (Switzerland) 2012 Sales Variance By Region Since Inception (%) Rest of Italy More than 2/3 of the portfolio growth the World 27% since inception is located outside Southern 20% European markets and 43% of this growth has been driven from non-European countries. Spain 6% From left: Carl Nauckhoff North Rest of (Principalat Investindustrial) From left: Carlo Umberto Bonomi (Senior Principal at America Europe with Dr. S K Djeng (Chairman Investindustrial) with a PortAventura team: Giovanni 23% 24% 1) Sales weighted by shareholding of of Aston Martin Singapore) From left: Maurizio Merenda (CEO of Stroili Cavalli (Commercial Director), Coro Miguel (Executive Sales the companies present in the portfolio and Carlo Umberto Bonomi Oro), Filippo Aleotti (Senior Principal at Manager), Sergio Juan Lozano (E-Commerce Manager), 14 at the end of 2012 (Senior Principal at Investindustrial), Elliot Yuen (Managing Monica Conesa (Sales Manager National Market) and Maria Investindustrial) in an Aston Director of Stroili Oro China) and Albert Navas (UK Sales Manager) at the World Travel Market in Martin dealer in Singapore Chen (owner and President of Chj Jewellery) London, the biggest world tour operator event Annual review 2012 | Global Footprint Global Footprint | Annual review 2012 investindustrial investments have a argentina, Australia, brasil Chile, china, france germany, italy, MAlaysia direct presence through manufacturing NORWAY, PErù, poland, portugal investindustrial is a global facilities or subsidiaries in 19 countries RUSSIA, south africa, spain UAE, united kingdom, usa provider of employment norway usa russia uk Investindustrial’s companies employ approximately poland 46,500 employees, based mostly in Europe, across a wide range of sectors and countries. france Investindustrial considers the skills of its The companies in which we invest enemployees as an asset to be developed and deavour to maintain and improve training shared while respecting and safeguarding and further develop the know-how of their individuals. Furthermore, the Group is employees. In 2012, the total workforce ingermany committed to off ering equal opportunities in employment and in career development creased to 46,500 employees of which approximately 9,000 are outside of Europe. portugal avoiding every form of discrimination, in particular discrimination based on race, sex, sexual orientation, age, nationality, Manufacturing and commercial activities are present across 19 countries and fi ve italy religion and personal beliefs. continents. spain china uae total investindustrial companIES employees Africa malaysia Oceania Consumer, 1.5% Industrial America Asia 2.6% 6.3% Retail and Leisure 29.7% Manufacturing 3.8% brasil 8.8% south africa argentina australia Europe 79.7% Services and Concessions 66.5% perù By Region (%) By Sector (%) chile 16 17 Annual review 2012 | Strategies For Value Creation Strategies For Value Creation | Annual review 2012 A successful long-term cooperation with management “The co-operation with Investindustrial has allowed “After having been involved in the “The strong partnership with Investindustrial “After the successful experience with the largest Italian Avincis to implement a successful long-term value telecommunications industry for more has allowed Stroili Oro to significantly theme park Gardaland, it is a great pleasure for me to creation strategy mainly focused on international than 20 years it is a great honor for me to strengthen the potentials of the brand. The continue working with Investindustrial in PortAventura. build-ups. Avincis today is a global leader in cooperate with Investindustrial in managing a Group is supporting the company to expand its After three years of cooperation with Investindustrial, the emergency helicopter services growth and leading company such as Euskaltel. I believe domestic and international network, diversify PortAventura has been transformed from a theme park represents a unique platform from which to further the company has a unique position in a product offering, increase market share in Europe’s third largest integrated destination resort. A capture consolidation opportunities arising in the strong and growing sector and has a solid and profitability and capture global growth strong repositioning plan has been implemented based sector globally. Avincis is a leader as a result of value creation plan which can be successfully opportunities with a particular focus on the on strengthening of product offering, implementation its focus on safety standards in its operations and achieved thanks to the strong industriallyRussian and Chinese markets.” of a more accurate commercial strategy and cost services and its strong commitment to invest in driven approach of Investindustrial.” optimization. The company is today on the right path to innovation, development and fleet renewal.” meet its long term value creation plan.” james drummond, CEO richard alden, Vice chairman Maurizio Merenda, CEO Sergio Feder, President of the Executive Committee avincis euskaltel stroili oro portaventura 18 Annual review 2012 | Strategies For Value Creation Strategies For Value Creation | Annual review 2012 avincis a Global Helicopter Services Provider Since Investindustrial’s entry in late 2005, Avincis has been transformed from a domestic player to the world’s largest emergency aerial services company. Avincis (www.avincisgroup.com) is the • long-term public contracts with fixed world’s largest provider of emergency and revenues giving strong visibility of earnmission critical aerial services contracted ings; on a long-term basis with public adminis• extensive network of operating bases; trations. The Company has over 40 years of • highly trained personnel with its own experience with operations in Spain, Italy, flight simulators; France, the UK, Portugal, Chile, Peru, Ireland, • own maintenance facilities operating to Norway and Australia, being the most intersuperior quality standards in services; nationally diversified operator in its sector. • other economies of scale such as insurance and procurement; Avincis operates the third largest helicopter • leading safety practices fleet in the world with 359 aircrafts as of the end of 2012, of which 143 are owned by the Avincis provides public clients with services company. Headquartered in London, UK, the including emergency medical services, firecompany employs more than 3,000 pilots, fighting, sea and mountain rescue, civil proengineers and other staff. With its current tection customs surveillance and services size and diversification, Avincis has a clear to oil and gas platforms. The company’s competitive advantage over its local peers: market-leading position and concessionbased revenue profile has enabled Avincis • a large and modern fleet; to achieve consistent growth and execute its • strong bargaining power with suppliers; global acquisition strategy in recent years. Avincis 2012 EBITDA margin 24.4% Developments since entry Sales growth 362% EBITDA growth 452% EBITDA margin growth 20% Avincis’ helicopter during an operation in London 20 21 Annual review 2012 | Strategies For Value Creation Strategies For Value Creation | Annual review 2012 Internationalisation and business AVINCIS’ Geographical Since Investindustrial’s entry, diversification while strenghtening profitability presence as of december 31, 2012 an ambitious build-up plan EBITDA (€M) and Margin (%) 137.5 140.1 has been executed x +5.5 Global Headquarter 90.6 Local Country 79.0 71.3 Headquarter 43.0 Base 34.7 25.4 27.1% 27.1% 26.6% Aeronautical 20.4% 25.8% 26.1% 26.4% 24.4% Maintenance Centre 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Cegisa, Spain Acquired in 2007 Aeromaritime, UK Bond Aviation, UK Acquired in 2008 Acquired in 2011 Avincis continued its internationalisation allows Avincis an entry into the heavy fleet Fixed-wing aircraft acquisition strategy by consolidating the aquisition of category of operations, where Avincis was that consolidated Spanish Maintenance expertise and Consolidation of the Oil firefighting leadership. entry into the British market. and Gas an Mission Critical Bond Aviation Group, a major independent not present and that could give access to Emergency Services leaderUK helicopter operator, which provides offfuture growth. ship in UK. shore (oil & gas) transportation and mission critical emergency helicopter services Furthermore the Group can increase its under long-term contracts. presence in a strategically attractive segProteus, France ment of the Oil & Gas helicopter services Acquired in 2008 The acquisition represents the eighth addmarket that strongly resembles Avincis’ Turned Avincis into number 2 on completed by Avincis since Investincore business lines, given the missionEurope in France. dustrial’s entry in December 2005 and critical nature of helicopter transportation strengthens the continued transformation in the North Sea, the high component of of Avincis into a geographically diversified search & rescue operations, and the strucoperator with competitive size advantages. ture of Bond’s contracts with major Oil & Investindustrial believes that Bond AviaGas blue-chip operators (long-term, fixed tion Group represents an excellent investcharged revenues). ment to continue building on Avincis’ leading position as a provider of mission critical Avincis has further reinforced its inemergency aerial services, reinforcing its ternational presence by consolidatmarket leadership in Europe and giving the ing operations in Peru and Norway. company an increased presence in the UK Avincis continues to be well positioned for market. In 2012 the group moved its global future growth, both organically and through Elilario, Italy Helitalia, Italy Acquired in 2008 Acquired in 2009 headquarters to London. The acquisition additional bolt-on acquisitions. Peru Turned Avincis into number Consolidation of EMS 1 in emergency helicopter leadership in Italy. Sales by Country (%) Sales by Category (%) services in Italy. 3% 2% 2% 3% 3% 5% 5% 5% 6% 11% 21% 10% 3% 25% 16% 11% Chile 10% 92% 29% 21% Canary 33% Islands Australian Helicopters Acquired in 2010 31% 34% 19% Entry into the Australian market with a leading EMS/SAR operator 2005 (Entry) 2012 2005 (Entry) 2012 Spain UK EMS Surveillance Italy Latin America Firefighting Oil And Gas Australia Portugal Australia SAR Other France Civil Protection Avincis has an extensive Pan-European operating network and a 22 strategic presence in Latin America and Australia 23 Annual review 2012 | Strategies For Value Creation PortAventura, Spain Strategies For Value Creation | Annual review 2012 a major European destination resort Portaventura acquiring sole ownership of europe’s third largest integrated destination resort and theme park Building on the successful previous investment in Italian theme park operator Gardaland, in 2009 Investindustrial acquired PortAventura. PortAventura (www.portaventura.com), Europe, and its majority-owned investment established in 1995, is the largest Southcompany Criteria Caixa Corp. ern European theme park and third largest in Europe. The park comprises an amuseSince Investindustrial’s entry, PortAvenment park with 34 rides, over 100 daily tura performed well despite a very difficult shows, 43 shops and arcades, a water economic environment. The company’s park, four hotels with capacity for over positive performance is a result of the 2,000 rooms and a 4,000 person convenindustrially-driven approach of Investintion and conferencing centre. dustrial and its repeat management team from Gardaland led by Sergio Feder. The PortAventura is located in the north-eastern key drivers of the overperformance to coastal area of Spain (Costa Dorada), by the date are the successfully repositioned tourist resort of Salou and less than one commercial strategy, improvements in hour from Barcelona. The area is a major the park offering from shops and food, tourist destination which attracts visitors the addition of a new kids area and the from across Europe. The park attracts more tallest rollercoaster in Europe, and an efthan 3.7 million local and international ficiency programme that has significantly visits each year. The acquisition was made increased the profitability. During 2012, possible through the close relationships Investindustrial bought the remaining with La Caixa, the largest savings bank in 50% of the company from La Caixa. PORTAVENTURA 2012 EBITDA margin 38.0% Developments since entry Sales growth 27% EBITDA growth 93% EBITDA margin growth 52% 24 25 冒险万岁！ Annual review 2012 | Strategies For Value Creation Strategies For Value Creation | Annual review 2012 A successful development strategy 让我们一起攀上巨龙 Since Investindustrial’s entry at the end of 2009, PortAventura has shown a gin of 38% and the number of visitors has increased by 15% as a result of new 的脊背！ Commercial strategy: Over the past three years, and supported by the new kids marketing effort increasing hotel bookings by 36% since 2009. PortAventura strong performance: EBITDA doubled to park offerings and a re-launched comarea and the new rollercoaster, the comis investing significantly to further diverapproximately €69 million with a marmercial strategy. pany has refocused its marketing strategy sify its customer base and to attract new concentrating on traditional values, encustomers especially from the promising tertainment and family. As a result, it has Russian and Chinese markets. Sales (€M) EBITDA (€M) been able to reverse the negative trend and EBITDA Margin (%) in visits prior6to Investindustrial’s entry, In addition, a new website and booking e n tu 172.8 180.7 68.7 r tAv 个奇妙 achieving a rsubstantial aH increase of visits engine have been implemented, and o o P from abroad in 2012. In the hotels area, call centre best practices introduced, 142.1 144.9 58.6 的世界 te the company has worked very closely increasing direct bookings by more than l es 41.2 38.0% with major tour operators both in Spain 40% since 2009. 35.6 33.9% and internationally to develop a cohesive 28.4% 25.1% Recapitalisation 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thanks to the excellent performance of hotels (Gold River and El Paso) as well as PortAventura, Investindustrial completed the convention centre that up until then Over the past three years the company has of June for PortAventura since its inception a recapitalisation of the company in 2011 were operated through a long-term lease focused on the following areas: in 1995. In 2012 the company opened the which returned half of the investment to agreement with La Caixa. The successful new rollercoaster that is the tallest in Europe investors. In addition, the recapitalisarecapitalisation was one of the few of its New park offerings: In 2011, the com(76 meters) and with Europe’s longest drop tion financed the acquisition of the two kind in Spain in the last few years. pany inaugurated the new kids area, Sesa(78 meters). It was inaugurated in May 2012 moAventura. As a result, the park’s visits and is a landmark change in the skyline of improved by almost 500,000 visits comPortAventura. The new ride has been a mapared to the previous year, recording the jor attraction for the tour operators and local highest number of visits during the month repeat visitors during the 2012 season. 大新闻 中心 2012 LOWRES From left Giovanni Cavalli (Commercial Director), Gianfranco Bollini PortAventura developed a tailored PortAventura has been awarded Best European Park in 2012, from left: Frank Rottwilm (Shows Director), Sergio Feder (President), Giovanni Modena market campaign to the fast growing (Journalist of World Parks), Gianfranco Bollini (Shows Director), Giovanni Modena (Operations Director), and Fernando Aldecoa (Managing Director) Chinese tourist market (Operations Director) and Andreas Walter (Head Journalist of World Parks) 26 27 Annual review 2012 | Strategies For Value Creation Strategies For Value Creation | Annual review 2012 Polynt turning a local manufacturer into a global player Since Investindustrial’s entry, Polynt has significantly expanded its manufacturing and commercial presence. Polynt (www.polynt.it) is a global leader through a series of actions which included in the production of intermediate and the expansion of the manufacturing footspecialty polymers, which are then further print in four new countries (USA, China, UK transformed and used to manufacture prodand Poland) and a significant strengthenucts employed in a wide range of industries. ing of the international commercial presPolynt’s products mainly consist of anhyence in the North American markets. drides, plasticisers, resins and compounds all of which are derived from the transforThe success of this strategy is demonmation of crude oil and virgin naphtha into strated by a significant increase in EBITDA maleic, phtalic and trimellitic anhydrides. despite a difficult economic environment The end markets are primarily construction, which has not allowed Poylnt to realize electric/electronics, transportation and, to its full potential. Today Polynt is a global a lesser extent, household applications, market leader in all of its segments and paints and sporting goods. provides a unique platform for further consolidation in order to become one of Polynt has thirteen plants: five in Italy, four the most prominent global players in the in the USA, one in Germany, one in the coating and composite resin market. UK, one in Poland and one in China, and employs approximately 1,500 employees. Polynt places significant emphasis on Since Investindustrial’s entry the comrespecting the environment and adopting pany improved its international presence highly robust safety practices. Polynt 2012 EBITDA margin 7.1% Developments since entry Sales growth 41% EBITDA growth 21% EBITDA margin growth -14% Polynt manufacturing plant in Scanzorosciate (Italy) 28 29 Annual review 2012 | Strategies For Value Creation Strategies For Value Creation | Annual review 2012 Polynt USA, a significant strengthening Polynt ’s USA In partnership with Investindustrial, of the North American footprint manufacturing presence as of December 31, 2012 Polynt has significantly increased its In 2011 Polynt group acquired PCCR, the in specialty chemicals since Investinduspresence in the American markets North American coatings and composites trial’s entry in 2008. With an experienced resins business of Momentive Inc.. The management team in place, Polynt has acquired business is headquartered in steadily improved its leadership position Carpentersville, near Chicago and operduring the recession and is number one ates four manufacturing facilities located or two in each of its markets. Acquiring in Texas, Illinois, Georgia and California. Momentive’s coatings and composites The company has world class manufacturbusiness further established Polynt as ing facilities with process flexibility and a truly global player with manufactursignificant nameplate capacity. This acing presence in Europe, Asia and North quisition represents a continuation of the America and a critical mass from which to build-up of assets that Polynt carried out further consolidate the market. Lynwood Carpentersville California, USA Illinois, USA Polynt Group Sales (%) Acquired in 2012 Acquired in 2012 10.4% 14.4% 2.2% 25.6% 50.9% 37.2% America Italy 36.5% Rest of Europe 22.8% North America Asia Forest Park Entry 2012 Georgia, USA Acquired in 2012 In 2012, the US market became the single • Development of a new and improved largest market for the Polynt Group. After product margin management systems; the acquisition of Momentive, a series of • Introduction of new formulations from actions have been executed to consolidate the European business and vice versa, the North American business including: Europe has introduced the entire range of coating products from the North • Strengthening the local management American market. Ennis team; Texas, USA • A quick cultural change towards market Following the implementation of these acAcquired in 2012 orientation, team working and profittions, preliminary results are very positive: ability focus; the US business increased the average • Better use of R&D, sales and technical margin (GVA) per ton sold by 23% in 2012 skills; and has successfully achieved a cost re• Optimisation of the distribution network; duction by 9.2% of the fixed cost base. 30 31 Annual review 2012 | Strategies For Value Creation Strategies For Value Creation | Annual review 2012 TSC A European Leader in Medical Transportation Since Investindustrial’s entry, TSC has consolidated its national presence and started its international expansion. TSC (www.tscambulancies.com) is one vehicles and 20 employees. In late 2012 of Europe’s largest private medical transTSC acquired Thames Ambulance Group portation operators, providing emergency becoming one of the top three players in ambulance transportation and non-urgent the UK market. patient transportation services principally contracted on a long term basis with pubTSC is a leader in medical transportation, lic administrations. Originally part of the with the fleet equipped with the latest Spanish Red Cross, it was privatised in state-of-the art dispatching, communica1998 as the leading ambulance services tions and tracking technology available, provider in Catalonia, with a strong presand manned by highly trained personnel ence in the region of Aragón, both in Spain. who receive over 24,000 hours of annual training. The Company handles all stages TSC operates one of the largest ambulance of the process: call handling, resourcing fleets in Europe, with over 450 vehicles planning, staff training, scheduling and as of the end of 2012, has a work force of delivery of emergency, urgent and nonover 1,500 employees and provided over 1 emergency patient transport services on a million individual transport services dur24/7 365-day basis. Working in partnering the year. Headquartered in Barcelona, ship with a wide range of public bodies and Spain, TSC has 28 operational bases across private clinics, TSC has considerable expeCatalonia and Aragon. In early 2012, TSC rience of developing robust patient centred acquired Premier Care Direct, the UK’s only frameworks that deliver service excellence, dedicated private renal dialysis ambulance underpinned by trust, reliability and effectransportation company, with a fleet of 10 tive communication. TSC 2012 EBITDA margiN 20.4% Developments since entry Sales growth -1% EBITDA growth 17% EBITDA margin growth 18% TSC, emergency transport services 32 in Barcelona (Spain) 33 Annual review 2012 | Strategies For Value Creation Strategies For Value Creation | Annual review 2012 Doncaster Cambridgeshire TSC’s Geographical presence Norfolk in Spain and the UK A solid platform for an international build-up program United Ipswich TSC represents a strong platform for a Euroacquisition, TSC underwent an aggressive Kingdom pean build-up strategy, developed on three internal strengthening and cost optimisation Maidstone stages: platform optimisation, national conprogramme, predicated on a wide range of solidation and European expansion. activities such as supplier consolidation, establishment of a business development Canvey Island During the platform optimisation phase, function and the deployment of real-time concluded just over twelve months from vehicle tracking and dispatching technology. London Essex EBITDA (€M) and Margin 15.7 Kent Alt Urgell 13.5 Ribagorza Pallaras Sobira Cardenaya Jacetania Alta Ribagorça Bergueda 20.4% Sobrarbe 17.3% Bages Alto Gallego Osona Hoya de Huesca entry 2012 Delta Litoral The national consolidation phase is cenand privatisation trends. Once identified, by Monegros Maresme tered on further strengthening TSC’s posiusing Investindustrial’s network, TSC has tion in Spain, by turning it from the largest developed an attractive acquisition target Somontano de Barbastro firm, albeit with a regional focus, into a pipeline in its target markets. In 2012, TSC acBarcelona Ciutat nation-wide operator and the de-facto referquired Premier Care Direct Ltd., the UK’s only ence point for ambulance service provision specialised renal dialysis patient transport Cinca Medio across the country. To this end, TSC’s new service operator and Thames Ambulances Litera business development team is pursuing a Group UK’s top three operator marking the Bajo Cinca range of nation-wide public tenders, and first stage of European expansion. Pallaras Jussa Martorell has won several private sector contracts. Hospitalet The national consolidation and European The European expansion phase began by in expansion phases are in full execution, Solsones Molins de Rei identifying the most attractive national marwith TSC currently in negotiations to acquire ket in Europe following criteria such as public several private ambulance operators across Anoia sector financial health, market fragmentation Europe, including several in Spain. Canary Spain Alt Penedes Mallorca Islands Leading Certifications Garraf Lanzarote In Spain, TSC holds the ISO 9001 and 179002 nary Resuscitation. In the UK, the company is La Gomera Tenerife certifications and is accredited as a training registered with the Care Quality Commission organisation by IES (Medical Research Instiand is in the process of obtaining Investors in tute) and the Catalan Board of CardiopulmoPeople accreditation. El Hierro Fuerteventura Balearic Islands 34 35 Annual review 2012 | Strategies For Value Creation Strategies For Value Creation | Annual review 2012 ASTON MARTIN Investing in an iconic sports car brand After the successful experience in Ducati, Investindustrial has recently invested in another great brand to support its next development phase. In December 2012, Investindustrial agreed to recognition worldwide. In 2012 Aston Martin acquire 37.5% of the share capital and 50% sold approximately 3,500 units and generof the controlling rights of Aston Martin in ated sales of approximately €600 million. order to lead the next phase of its industrial Aston Martin operates in the ultra-luxury development and to accelerate its global exautomotive segment, which has and is expansion. Founded in 1913 in London, Aston pected to see strong growth driven by new Martin is together with Ferrari, viewed as the markets and to significantly outperform the most exclusive sports car brand in the world. general automotive market. China will be Coupled with its performance and elegant dethe single largest growth market for the segsign, Aston Martin has built an iconic brand ment, doubling in volume over the coming status by featuring as James Bond’s car in five years to reach a market size in line with many 007 movies since the Sean Connery era Europe and the United States. in 1964. It has been voted as the UK’s coolest brand in six out of the last eight years in the The Company’s unit sales breakdown across Coolbrands survey, and enjoys high brand geographies and models is as follows: 2012 Unit Sales by Region (%) 2012 Unit Sales by Product (%) Middle East 8% Asia Pacific V8 Vantage DB9 10% Europe 33% 23% 24% China 7% UK Americas V12 Vantage 26% 25% DBS/Vanquish 8% 18% Rapide 18% Aston Martin’s proprietary VH architecture would allow Aston Martin to launch a more comallows lower developments costs and a petitive product offer compared to the past. faster time to market than competitors in Based on its significant experience in the the fast changing industry of the sport cars. automotive sector, recently refined during Furthermore a technical partnership between the successful Ducati turnaround and its Investindustrial and a premium OEM for the industrially-driven approach, Investindustrial supply of engines, electronic components and is an ideal partner for Aston Martin during its engineering services is already in progress and next development phase. The new Vanquish voted Best Car 2013 in the category Sports Car 36 Imported by the German automotive magazine Auto Motor und Sport 37 Annual review 2012 | Management and Culture Management and Culture | Annual review 2012 a Leading investment An organiSation Tailor-made team in Europe for active ownership Investindustrial has the largest and one Investindustrial is passionate about providing hands-on of the most experienced groups of investment support to its companies which is fully reflected in the professionals focused on Europe. team’s depth and wealth of expertise. Talent management is a key strategic asset at To recruit and retain talented people with The team’s experience combines strong cessful execution of the industrially-driven Investindustrial. Founded in 1990 and with a the highest ethical standard and to create local investment insight with a global perapproach. As active investors we work team of more than 50 people, the Group caran attractive workplace for them to develop spective, and the firm’s broad and deep closely with experienced key management ries out central functions such as investment in is vital for Investindustrial. The Investinresource base is designed to ensure the sucthroughout the ownership phase. decisions, strategy, business development, dustrial professionals have demonstrated monitoring and accounting from offices and major achievements in their professional A successful repositioning strategy companies based in Luxembourg, Switzerand academic past and tipically remain with land, the UK, China and USA. Further advithe firm for many years. Investindustrial proDuring 2012 the Group further reinforced ticular focus on internationalization and sory support is provided from offices situated fessionals represent thirteen nationalities, its business development group in Switzeradd-on acquisitions. The business develin London and Barcelona. Having the right reflecting the importance we place on being land, which is focused on supporting the opment group has significant experience in people at the right place at the right time is a transparent and dynamic organisation with portfolio companies to identify and implegeneral management, consulting, financcritical to building successful companies. a global views and capabilities. ment value creation strategies with paring and long-term direct investments. Age distribution 24 6 offices 12 languages 9 Men Women 13 nationalities 11 8 8 15 6 10 3 2 3 3 2 age 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 60-69 Years of employment Employees by education at investindustrial programmes Support Staff M.B.A. High school and 21% other education Administration and Accounting programs Investment Professionals 25% 17 12 13 4 11 2 5 1 6 5 1 1 10 8 5 5 University degree years 0-2 2-5 5-10 More Than 10 55% 39 Annual review 2012 | Management and Culture Management and Culture | Annual review 2012 GLOBAL REACH WITH A a Unique network of COMMON CORPORATE GOAL Industrial Partners For a leading mid-sized European company, throughout that process and to maximise To help its portfolio companies achieve Luca Garavoglia is Chairman of Gruppo penetrating new markets is often on top of the chances of success. Whether it be the detheir full potential, Investindustrial can Campari, the sixth largest player in the the strategic agenda and a key value driver veloped markets in Europe or North America, count on the valuable commitment of global wine & spirits industry with sales of for a successful investment. With its offices or the emerging markets in Asia, the Group’s its Industrial Partners. These seasoned € 1.2 billion. Mr. Garavoglia is also Chairin New York and Shanghai, Investindustrial office network and local teams are available executives bring valuable industrial exman of the technical committee for fiscal is organised to provide active support to meet the specific company’s needs. pertise in a wide range of sectors and are affairs and corporate governance of Conclosely linked to the Group’s industriallyfindustria and is a member of the board of driven operational model. The Industrial several companies and institutions includPartners form members of the extended ing FIAT, RCS, Assonime, Federvini and FAI. Investindustrial organization to assist with maintaining best practice corporate Gabriele Del Torchio is Chairman and CEO of governance, pressure testing industrial Ducati Motor Holding. Prior to that he held plans and identifying global value creation CEO positions in several companies includopportunities. Recently two new executives ing Ferretti Group, Carraro Group, APS, CIFA, joined the Industrial Partners network: Fai Komatsu and Ford New Holland. John C. Mowinckel (Special Principal at Investindustrial) during an operational meeting in the New York office The Investindustrial internationalization With regards to organic growth several model is driven both by add-on acquisiinitiatives have been developed by the tions and organic growth. During the last portfolio companies in the Asian and Latin two years, sixteen add-on acquisitions American regions. Stroili Oro is continuing were completed across Europe, North the roll-out of jewellery stores in Russia America and Asia-Pacific for a total value while Perfume Holding established a joint of more than €600 million. The three main venture with LuxAsia, the largest Asian intransactions are the acquisition of Bond dependent distributor. Avincis has further Aviation in the UK by Avincis, Polynt expanded its activities in Latin America Group’s acquisition in USA of Momentive starting to penetrate the Peruvian market Specialty Chemicals Inc’s composites and in addition to Chile. PortAventura signed coating resins business (PCCR), and the agreements with Chinese tour operators to acquisition of Velosi by Applus in Malaysia. promote the park to Asian tourists. Andrea C. Bonomi (Senior Principal at Investindustrial) during a meeting in the Gabriele Del Torchio (CEO of Ducati) Shanghai office and Rupert Stadler (CEO of Audi) 40 41 Annual review 2012 | Sectors and Companies Headquarters of Banca Popolare di Milano in Piazza Meda, Milan (Italy) Investindustrial’s Consumer Leading companies which operate in markets with long-term growth underpinned by positive trends in demoRetail Business Focus graphics and consumption patterns. The underlying industries need to be mature but are often still fragmented, giving the company an attractive opand Leisure portunity to consolidate the market. Growth is typically scalable on an interInvestindustrial’s current portfolio comprises 16 investments national level. and is well balanced across three selected sectors Leading providers of critical or high value-added services. The companies Services are typically beneficiaries of a growing global outsourcing trend. Their assetand light capital structures gives them a high cash conversion rate and an ability to expand internationally without Concessions undertaking major capital investments. The client base can be made up of larger corporations and government entities, or have a focus on small and medium-sized enterprises. Global leaders in the design and manufacturing of specialty products. The Industrial underlying markets are mature and often consolidated with high barriers to entry for new competition. Developing Manufacturing economies are key in offering future growth opportunities and possibilities for operational improvement. 42 Annual review 2012 | Sectors and Companies Sectors and Companies | Annual review 2012 Global Drivers and Investindustrial’s current Industrial Opportunities portfolio comprises 16 investments and Is well balanced across the three selected industries. The current economic environment presents a unique opportunity for our investments to strengthen Sales (%) EBITDA (%) their long-term value creation strategy. 15% 29% 43% 52% Consumer, Services 33% Retail and Industrial 28% and Leisure Concessions Manufacturing Note: in this section sales and EBITDA are considered weighted by Investindustrial’s shareholding Globalisation of consumer trends Economies of scale Globalisation Global Aging population Outsourcing Growth of Asian markets Drivers Consumer, Retail and Leisure Services and Concessions Industrial Manufacturing Increased need for Changing consumer information and Cost efficency purchasing behaviour communication technology EBITDA margin (%) Number of Employees Global need for infrastructure investments 46,505 45,924 1,752 2,288 32,522 Total 16.6% 30,143 13,841 26,524 27,339 Add-on acquisitions Expanding service offering into adjacent Improving operational efficiency of midindustrial 7,830 7,819 14,329 Capturing growth opportunities in new fields market companies opportunities 8,052 8,576 4,857 4,742 8.3% markets Synergistic add-on Relocation of manufac3,271 3,189 acquisitions turing to Asia 30,912 Improving the market19.4% 29,307 19,961 ing mix Capturing growth in Add-on acquisitions 15,201 15,574 17,456 developing markets 20.4% High visibility on 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 concessions 16.6% overall Double-digit employee growth in EBITDA margin service-oriented sectors The new Stroili Oro TV and advertisement campaign 44 with Ilary Blasi 45 Annual review 2012 | Sectors and Companies Sectors and Companies | Annual review 2012 Consumer, 2012 MAIN EVENTS IN CONSUMER, RETAIL AND LEISURE Retail and Leisure Investindustrial’s Consumer, Retail and and Svenson (leading European provider of Leisure Sector currently comprises the hair restoration treatments and services). following companies: Gruppo Coin (leadAt the beginning of 2013 Investindustrial Aston Martin (www.astonmartin.com) is in the first quarter of 2013. Aston Martin is ing clothing retailer), Euskaltel (leading completed the investment in Aston Martin, the leading luxury car manufacturer and one currently underperforming its peers in terms telecom cable operator), Perfume Holdthe leading luxury car manufacturer. The of the most exclusive sports car brands in of sales and profitability and is in need of ing (leading producer and marketer of successful exit of Ducati to the German car the world. Aston Martin’s iconic status and an industrial repositioning similar to what perfumes and cosmetics), PortAventura manufacturer Audi (Volkswagen Group) global footprint has been built through its Investindustrial was able to achieve with (leading European theme park), Stroili Oro was the most significant event in the sector performance and elegant design, successfulDucati. Based on its significant experience in (leading Italian retail chain for jewellery, during 2012 and explains the decrease in ly marketed by featuring as James Bond’s car the automotive sector and luxury products, watches and other gold and silver products) sales and earnings. in many 007 movies over the last 50 years. recently refined during the successful Ducati After having achieved an agreement with turnaround, Investindustrial is an ideal the former shareholders, Investindustrial partner to help Aston Martin through its next completed the investment in the company development phase. Hair Restoration Jewellery 4% Retail 13% Entertainment Clothing 34% Sales By Six segments are present in Euskaltel (www.euskaltel.com) is the pany at the end of 2012 and considers the Retail Segment (%) leading telecommunications provider and asset an attractive opportunity to develop 14% Consumer, Retail and Leisure Sector sole cable operator in the Basque Region, a long-term value creation strategy and Spain’s richest and most economically interesting returns for its investors. The Telecom Services Cosmetics stable region with fiscal autonomy and company has 300,000 customers from the 16% 19% fiscal surplus. Euskaltel provides fixedcable business and 200,000 customers line, broadband and pay TV services to from the mobile business. Euskaltel covers consumers and corporates, and also pro80% of the Basque Region’s households Sales (€m) EBITDA (€m) vides mobile services as a Mobile Virtual and has a penetration of approximately Network Operator (“MVNO”). The Company 45% of its network. The penetration in 757 has a proprietary state-of-the-art network the Basque Region is in line with the rest 599 155 495 545 500 In 2012 sales with over 330k km of fiber optic lines fully of Spain (25% for broadband and 12% for 429 103 112 decreased by upgraded to latest standard EuroDOCSIS pay TV) but below the European average of 97 62 76 34% and earnings 3.0. Investindustrial invested in the com34% and 29% respectively. +15% +10% +10% +26% -34% decreased by 38% +22% +36% +9% +38% -38% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 EBITDA margin (%) Employees (#) Gruppo Coin (www.gruppocoin.com) is Itaa younger format named UPIM POP). Gruppo ly’s leading apparel retail group successfully Coin is a quality company with an excellent 14,329 13,841 operating a network of approximately 850 management team and commands approxi18.8% 18.7% 20.5% 19.4% Earnings margin stores in Italy and 86 abroad under three mately a 6% market share in Italy ahead of 14.5% 15.3% decreased by different brand names: OVS Industry (the Benetton, Calzedonia, Max Mara and Zara. 4,857 4,742 6% reaching the largest Italian apparel retailer), Coin (the During the last year, Gruppo Coin completed +6% +23% -1% +10% -6% 3,271 3,189 level of 19.4% and largest Italian department store operator) the acquisition of Iana Bimbi (a large chil-3% +52% -2% +202% -3% total employees and UPIM (acquired in 2010 and in the prodren’s apparel retailer) and Bernardi (an decreased by 3% cess of being converted into OVS Industry or Italian specialist clothing retailer). 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Coin store in Piazza Cinque 46 Giornate, Milan (Italy) 47 Annual review 2012 | Sectors and Companies Sectors and Companies | Annual review 2012 Perfume Holding (www.perfumeholding. structure with a stronger management team Stroili Oro (www.stroilioro.com), after Russia. The company is continuing its com) produces and markets perfumes for a able to oversee and direct the entire process. having completed its expansion phase process of cost optimization and profitnumber of well-known brands. The license The group is developing its international through the opening of new points of sale ability improvement by rationalizing the portfolio includes Benetton, Ducati, Ferdistribution through selected partnerships in the shipping centers of the domestic central functions and logistics processes. rari, Grigio Perla, Iceberg, John Galliano, La with key distributors in order to capture marmarket, is currently consolidating its inFurthermore, the company strengthened Perla and Sergio Tacchini. In addition the ket opportunities in the emerging markets. ternational development plan to capture its management team and implemented group owns the Atkinsons and I Coloniali After having established a joint venture with expansion opportunities abroad and has significant training programmes to imbrands and distributes Burberry in Italy. The the leading player in Asia, LuxAsia, to betstarted an implementation plan to peneprove the commercial skills of its sales company is consolidating its strategy of ter serve the Asian markets, the company trate the high street shops segment. Stroili force. Stroili launched a national TV media creating the first alternative to multinational signed a master distribution agreement with Oro is actively expanding its retail concept campaign to heighten store recognition, perfumes companies through the acquisition a local service provider (Lys Blue LLC) to betinto other markets and has opened up support private labels and improve overall of small-medium size brands and compater serve the Middle-East area. During 2012 the first of a series of stores in Moscow, customer experience. nies. The build-up strategy has allowed the Perfume Holding continued to strenghten its group to reach a more flexible and integrated organisational and costs structures. Portaventura (www.portaventura.es) is the (the new kids area Sesamo Adventure and leading theme park in Spain, the largest Shambhala the tallest rollercoaster in Euin Southern Europe and the number three rope), a new marketing strategy focused on in Europe in terms of visits. Building on traditional values, entertainment and famthe previous successful Investindustrial ily and improvement of efficiency. Excellent investment in Gardaland, Investindustrial business results have been achieved since invested in PortAventura at the end of 2009 Investindustrial’s entry at the end of 2009 and offered the support of the former manwith significant increase in profitability, in agers of Gardaland, who now work closely numbers of visitors and in hotel occupancy. with the company. Over the last three years After having completed a recapitalisation in The new Stroili Oro flagship store on Corso Vittorio Emanuele, Milan the company has implemented a develop2011, during 2012 Investindusrtial acquired ment strategy based on product innovation the remaining 50% of the company Svenson (www.svenson.es) is reinforcing sition cost per new client. The company is its leadership position in the pan-European operating under difficult economic conhair care industry by increasing the depth ditions with consumer spending down of its operations in the different markets. In significantly. Nevertheless, it is continuing 2012 Svenson continued to adjust of its opto diversify its product offering towards a erations to the new economic environment, more profitable mix: growth in the medical with special emphasis on cost reduction, division based in micrographs and dermaincluding a more efficient use of human tology treatments. Svenson’s challenge is resources, the monitoring of workload per to be able to adapt its business model and individual, the closing of non-profitable value proposition to a market environment centres and the optimization of the acquimarked by decreasing spending capacity. PortAventura’s Shambhala rollercoaster, Perfume Holding, Ferrari recently the tallest in Europe 48 launched perfume 49 Annual review 2012 | Sectors and Companies Sectors and Companies | Annual review 2012 Services 2012 Main Events in Services and Concessions and Concessions Investindustrial’s Services and Concessions operator in the gaming sector), Avincis (leadApplus (www.applus.com) is one of acquisitions made in 2011 including the Sector currently comprises the following ing European provider of on-shore helicopter the largest leading testing, inspection, public tender cash offer for Velosi, a leadcompanies: Applus (leading world-wide services), Panda Security (global integrated certification and technological services ing provider of inspection, quality assurinspection, certification and technological security software provider), SNAI (leading company in the world. The company is ance, certification and testing services services), Banca Popolare di Milano (leading Italian operator in the gaming industry) and continuing to reinforce its presence in to the oil and gas industry listed on the Italian financial institution) Cogetech (leading Transport Sanitari de Catalunya (Spanish leademerging markets, broadening its serLondon AIM and with a presence in Asia, Italian technology producer and concession ing ambulance services company). vice portfolio to the energy industry and the Middle East, Africa, Europe and North further diversifying its geographical footAmerica. In addition the company is print. During 2012 Applus successfully continuing to shift towards higher margin completed the consolidation of several business areas. Security Software Certification 2% Inspection 8% Emergency Gaming Transport 33% Six segments Services Sales By are present in Avincis (www.avincisgroup.com) is coninforced its presence in the very attractive 10% Segment (%) the Services and solidating its global leadership in the Latin America market by starting operaFinancial Concessions Sector emergency and mission critical helicopter tions in Peru and establishing an operaServices 14% Aviation services market both by reinforcing ortional presence in Norway. The company Services ganic growth in the domestic market and operates a non-cyclical business with 33% by implementing selective international strong visibility and into a highly resilientbolt-on acquisitions. During 2012, Avinrevenue base. Avincis’s concession-based cis consolidated the acquisition of Bond revenue profile is primarily characterised Sales (€m) EBITDA (€m) Aviation (UK), the leading independent by medium to long-term contracts (4 to 20 UK mission-critical helicopter operator. years) with public administrations with 716 754 During the past months the group has reover 95% historical renewal rate. 145 154 In 2012 sales 407 increased by 5% 292 312 76 241 57 and earnings 38 51 by 6% +21% +7% +30% +76% +6% +34% +13% +33% +92% +6% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 EBITDA margin (%) Employees (#) 30,912 20.2% 20.4% 29,307 18.2% 18.6% 15.7% 17.3% 19,961 Earnings margin 17,456 15,201 15,574 increased by 1% reaching the level +10% +5% +2% +9% +1% +2% +12% +14% +47% +5% of 20.4% while total employees grew by 5% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Avincis’ rescue operations Applus, Bellaterra 50 in Northern Italy technological center (Spain) 51 Annual review 2012 | Sectors and Companies Sectors and Companies | Annual review 2012 Panda Security (www.pandasecurity.com) is franchisees to further control the end client. Banca Popolare di Milano (www.bpm.it) is brokerage services, investment banking, being transformed from a local operator into Panda is well positioned to expand its cloud a multi-regional Northern Italian retail bank insurance and wealth management proda multinational company by repositioning offering based on its track record in end-point established in 1865 and serving 1.4 million ucts. During 2012 the management of the its product offering towards a more focused security and its proven ability to serve clients customers through a network of 770 retail bank has been significantly strenghtened yet global customer base and through an imfrom the cloud. In 2012 several new securitybranches and 57 financial centers, BPM is and a new 2012-2015 strategic plan has proved geographical presence. The managerelated features have been added to its secuthe second largest bank in Milan in terms been developed focusing mainly on inment has been focusing on repositioning the rity offering (partner centre, disinfection tool of branches and is the sixth largest bank creasing efficency, offering more competicompany as a multinational IT cloud secuand management console). In addition, the in Northern Italy. BPM offers retail and tive services and maintaining tight internal rity services provider, by leveraging its strong company has started to develop customised corporate banking products and services, controls and risk management policies. proprietary product portfolio and acquiring cloud security services with key clients. SNAI (www.snai.it) Snai is the Italian barriers to entry arising from its concesleader in horse and sport betting. The sion nature and hence provides good revCogetech (www.cogetech.it) is one of to implement a growth strategy in a fragcompany has the largest Italian network enue visibility. During the past months a the leading technology providers and mented market with strong potential for of almost 600 shops and owns the rights new management team was appointed concession operators in the fast growconsolidation. Together has successfully for 2,500 betting corners and the conand the company is now well positioned ing Italian gaming sector and operates completed the turnaround of Ladbrokes cession to operate 5,052 video lottery to capture value from the introduction of one of ten gaming concessions in Italy. Italia, acquired to diversify into the physterminals. The gaming industry has high new games. The company’s primary business is the ical sport and horse betting segments operation and management of a network and to build critical mass to further grow of amusement machines, which allow the the existing online platform. Cogetech is possibility to win cash prizes and are typcontinuing the implementation plan of ically located in bars and betting shops the Video Lotteries Terminals. across Italy. Cogetech is a solid platform Transport Sanitari de Catalunya TSC the company towards its main opportunity (www.tscambulancies.com) with almost for growth represented by developing a 500 ambulances is the leading provider national and international strategy of conof outsourced emergency transportation solidation in the fragmented outsourced services in Spain and one of the largest in emergency services sector, and to diverEurope. TSC operates a non-cyclical busisify the revenue stream by providing a ness with 70% of the market already strucvariety of outsourced emergency services. tured as medium-long term concessions During 2012 add-on acquisitions have (2 to 8 years) . After having invested at the been completed in the UK, Canary Islands end of 2010, Investindustrial is supporting and Balearic Islands. TSC operations in Headquarters of Banca Popolare Panda Security, 52 Barcelona (Spain) di Milano, Milan (Italy) product offering 53 Annual review 2012 | Sectors and Companies Sectors and Companies | Annual review 2012 Industrial 2012 MAIN EVENTS IN INDUSTRIAL MANUFACTURING Manufacturing AEB Group (www.aeb-group.com) is conin the dairy and cheese segment in Chile tinuing its strategy of becoming a leading and France and introduced new filtration The Industrial Manufacturing Sector of specific polymer intermediates and deworldwide provider of value added sersystems and cartridges for the oenolcomprises the following companies: AEB rivatives). The successful exit of Contenur vices and biotechnologies to the beverogy market and new products for small Group (leading global biochemical proto two financial buyers was a significant age and agro-alimentary industries. After breweries (new anti-foam products and ducer of food and drink additives) and event in the sector during 2012 and exhaving established a direct presence in new detergents). In 2012 initiatives were Polynt (European leader in the production plains the decrease in sales and earnings. Australia, Chile and USA, AEB Group is undertaken to further consolidate the continuing its international growth and company’s geographical diversification product diversification. AEB has been including establishing a direct presence able to expand outside its traditional Euin Australia, commencing operations in ropean markets (Italy, France and Spain), Germany to target the local wine market entering new geographies such as South and establishing a joint venture in Spain, Africa, China, North and South America. aimed at developing filtration aids. Biochemicals 11% The company initiated sales of bacteria Chemicals 89% Sales By Two segments are present in Segment (%) the Industrial Manufacturing Sector Sales (€m) EBITDA (€m) 91 100 970 1.016 963 79 81 833 In 2012 sales 562 514 48 decreased by 9% 43 and earnings by 11%, excluding +5% -18% +16% -42% -9% +15% -11% +23% -51% -11% extraordinary events sales remained 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 stable and EBITDA decreased by 1% EBITDA margin (%) Employees (#) 9.8% 10.4% 8.9% 8.6% 8,052 8,576 7,830 7,819 8.1% 8.3% Earnings margin decreased by 3% to a level of 8.3% +10% +9% +6% -17% -3% 2,288 1,752 while total employees +7% -9% 0% -71% -23% decreased to 1,752 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 AEB Group, Internal Laboratory Polynt operations in the manufacturing 54 in Brescia, Italy plant in Scanzorosciate (Italy) 55 Annual review 2012 | Sectors and Companies Sectors and Companies | Annual review 2012 Polynt (www.polynt.it) continues to cialty player with a worldwide footprint and strengthen its leadership position in Westbusiness presence. ern markets, further expanding into new geographies and also successfully recoverDuring 2012 PCCR increased EBITDA by ing volume sales and profitability in this 193% versus prior year and registered a difficult market environment. Following the significant increase in the average margin acquisition of PCCR, the North American per ton (GVA) sold. Furthermore the comcoatings and composites resins business pany successfully achieved a strategy cost of Momentive Specialty Chemicals, Polynt reduction and introduced in the US new became a truly global player with manufacformulations from the European business turing presence in Europe, Asia and North and is evaluating the introduction in Europe America and a critical mass from which to of 100% of the coating business. 2012 was further consolidate the market. The North also a very successful year for the Polynt American acquisition is further evidence of Group Chinese business with an increase of portfolio companies’ ability to implement EBITDA of 56% compared to 2011. Polynt is international expansion plans, both organicurrently valuing several value-accretive accally and through acquisitions. Today Polynt quisition opportunities in specialty niches has been re-positioned to be a global spein the US and in Europe. With the recent acquisition of PCCR, Polynt is now able to provide a comprehensive product offering in the Polynt operations in the manufacturing compounds and resins business 56 plant in Niepolomice (Poland) 57 sustainability report 2012 | Social Responsibility Social Responsibility | sustainability report 2012 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We Care about helping people to achieve a better quality of life by offering tangible opportunities! part of a global sustainability network Investindustrial firmly believes that trial has also supported the adoption of managing environmental, social and govthese values by its portfolio companies ernance issues (ESG) is an increasingly and all the companies have successfully important part of its value proposition. subscribed to the initiative. As a result, in 2008 the Group joined the UN Global Compact by adhering to In accordance with this belief, Investinits ten principles. These principles are dustrial has also subscribed to the Prinkey guidelines in making business deciciples for Responsible Investment (PRI), sions for Investindustrial and include an initiative launched in April 2006 at respect for human rights, ensuring apthe New York Stock Exchange by the UN propriate labour conditions, respect for Secretary-General and coordinated by the The six interconnected Principles aim to the environment and the application of United Nations Environment Programme act a framework for global best practices in responsible investment anti-corruption measures. Investindus(UNEP) and the UN Global Compact. Incorporating ESG matters into Promoting acceptance and the investment analysis and implementation of the Principles OBAL COM decision-making processes. within the investment industry. L THE CT Being active owners and Working together to enhance our G PA incorporating ESG matters into our effectiveness in implementing ownership policies and practices. the Principles. Finance Seeking appropriate disclosure Reporting on our activities and Initiative Innovative on ESG matters by the entities in progress towards implementing financing which we invest. the Principles. WE SUPPORT for sustainability 58 59 sustainability report 2012 | Social Responsibility Social Responsibility | sustainability report 2012 engaging in Corporate significant commitment from portfolio companies Social Responsibility Investindustrial promoted the creation of a corporate foundation within Port-Aventura to support differently–abled children and young adults to achieve a better quality of living. Each year Port-Aventura donates 0.7% of its net profits to the foundation. PortAventura operates in all the facilities that it manages with maximum respect for the environment and produces an environmental With a vision to create enduring value for its portfolio companies, report of its activities on a yearly basis. its stakeholders and its investors, Investindustrial works closely During 2012, several portfolio companies with management to build a more sustainable future. worked to improve their ESG approach. Avincis for expample released both a code of ethics and an anticorruption policy. Investindustrial is strongly committed recently strengthened its corporate social to promoting a culture of sustainable responsibility footprint by developing two BPM has adopted a dual governance system development both with initiatives within policies on Environmental, Social and while SNAI has published a new social rethe Group and with external stakeholdCorporate Governance issues and on Responsibility report. ers. In particular, Investindustrial has sponsible Investing. In June 2012 TSC launched a new project to Snai and the Department of social commuimprove its carbon footprint by reducing the nications and research of the University of fuel consumption. The project is involving all Rome have entered into an agreement for Corporate Responsibility Map for New Investments & Add-ons vehicles (both PTS and Blue Light) and conthe realization of a research project aimed sists in a weekly monitoring of consumption by at analyzing the modalities through which Preliminary Investment Final Investment Due Diligence vehicle and by cruise. On a monthly basis the a social and cultural activity, such as gamRecommendation (PIR) Recommendation (FIR) management identify the best performer and ing, can turn into pathological behavior No risk after one year the winning cruise will obtain on the part of certain persons, capable of Proceed with investment process a special recognition. As of the end of 2012 producing social and economic damages. PIR and FIR record due diligence findings of new/further investment after only few months, the reduction in fuel The objective of this research is to prepare a Assessment of No risk consumption was of 4% in PTS and 1% in Blue series of guidelines for fair communications compliance with Responsible Proceed with new/further investment Light vehicles. on betting and gaming. Investing Policy FIR records due diligence findings Activities performed by the Risks to be further Risks acceptable/ investigated actions required advisory team with the support of: Proceed with due diligence Proceed with new/further investment investindustrial a carbonneutral® company PIR presents risks/future actions FIR highlights corrective actions • monitoring team • risk management Risks unacceptable • sustainability officer Decline new/further investment Investindustrial places significant imporGroup has supported a renewable energy • legal counsel FIR contains reasons for decline tance on reducing its carbon footprint and project to offset the emissions and achieve • external professionals Risks unacceptable has worked with the CarbonNeutral Comcarbon neutrality for its emissions. FurtherDecline new/further investment pany, a world leading provider of carbon more, Investindustrial has undertaken a PIR contains reasons for decline reduction solutions, to measure its Greenseries of actions to reduce its overall emishouse Gas (GHG) emissions footprint. The sions per employee. In 2008 Investindustrial subscribed to the processes to strengthen the engagement UN Global Compact Ten Principles (www. of its portfolio companies towards ESG unglobalcompact.org) program and in matters and is expecting even stronger 2009 it also subscribed to the Principle involvement in the future. Investindusfor Responsible Investments (www.unpri. trial management has been also actively org) initiative. Through these policies, Ininvolved as speakers on sustainability at vestindustrial is also developing tools and industry-leading events. Investindustrial’s Lugano office (Switzerland), one of its six 60 certified carbon neutral offices 61 sustainability report 2012 | Social Responsibility Social Responsibility | sustainability report 2012 Promoting acceptance and ENGAGING WITH LEADING implementation of responsible ACADEMIC INSTITUTIONS investing within the industry Following the successful sale of Ducati, Compact initiative and to repart on progress. Andrea C. Bonomi (Senior Principal at InEurope: Strategies to Survive and Thrive the European venture Capital Association • Ducati was sold to a solid and reputable vestindustrial) gave a keynote speech at the in an Uncertain Market.” Carlo Umberto (EVCA), approached Investindustrial to industrial partner. Stern Private Equity Conference at the New Bonomi (Senior Principal at Investindusshowcase the investment as an example York University (USA), his alma mater. Mr. trial) discussed with professors, business of sustainable investing. Highlights of the Sustainable Growth Bonomi discussed strategies for private eqschool students and institutional invesInvestindustrial investment thesis and acuity in the current economic climate in Europe tors the prevailing economic situation in tions include: and worldwide, and illustrated recent investEurope and strategies for investors to take 94.3 ments done by Investindustrial during 2012. advantage of such market conditions. In• Development of a company with a strong 78.5 vestindustrial interacted with several leading and sustainable business model, high 70.0 71.2 In December 2012 the Coller Institute of Priuniversities in 2012, including Harvard and quality products and strong R&D. vate Equity at the London Business School London Business School, to develop case • Significant expansion in new markets 55.0 hosted a roundtable on “The Defence of studies on prominent portfolio companies. 19.7% such as Asia and Latin America. 19.4% 18.2% • Strengthening of management team and 16.7% corporate governance. 27.0 13.8% • Product range innovation as key success 8.9% factor to support growth in challenging economic conditions. • Strenghtening of manufacturing footprint 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and work force increase. Investindustrial promoted Ducati to adhere to the UN Global EBITDA (€M) and EBITDA margin (%) Andrea C. Bonomi (Senior Principal at Investindustrial) presenting at the 2013 Stern Private Equity Conference at the New York University (USA) “Investindustrial does an exemplary job of promoting “The long-term partnership with Investindustrial has allowed the transparent and value-added operations of its firm Ducati to implement a successful long-term value creation and the industry. Private equity in Europe plays an strategy with a focus on product innovation and international increasingly important role in creating jobs and raising expansion. Ducati today is ready to capture global growth companies’ global competitiveness”. opportunities with a particular focus on the emerging markets”. Dörte Höppner, Secretary-General Gabriele Del Torchio, CEO European Venture Capital Association Ducati The Ducati Panigale Carlo Umberto Bonomi (Senior Principal at Investindustrial) presenting at the yearly 1199 launched in 2012 private equity roundtable of the Coller Institute at the London Business School (UK) 63 sustainability report 2012 | Social Responsibility Social Responsibility | sustainability report 2012 Invest for Children, an active corporate foundation In 2000 Investindustrial established Invest for Children, a corporate foundation whose mission is to help differently abled people and underprivileged children achieve a better quality of life Invest for Children operates in Europe to understand diversity and work towards with a special focus on Southern Euintegration and represents a useful verope (Spain, Italy, Portugal and Swithicle to help disabled people to achieve zerland) and is a full member of EVPA a better quality of living. (European Venture Philanthropy AssoInvest for Children has sponsored sevciation), Private Equity Foundation and eral projects in a series of different is audited by KPMG. fields (sport, work, education, medical, Investindustrial believes that financial community and other); some of these and industrial investors should have a projects are summarized in next pages. major role in making the world a better place to live in. Invest for Children aims www.investforchildren.org The President of Invest for Children (Investindustrial’s A tangible support to corporate foundafacilitate the social integration tion) Carlo Umberto of DIFFERENTLY-ABLED people Bonomi is donating La Caixa savings Ruben is working for PortAventura and is corporations in Spain thanks also to the plan to a worker with one of the many differently-abled people support of Invest for Children. Down’s syndrome who have been employed by leading 64 65 sustainability report 2012 | Social Responsibility Invest for Children’s Aura foundation marked a milestone for the foundation During 2012, Aura Foundation became a the first program of Supported Employment part of i4c to double the size of the foundain Spain, a pioneer in the implementation tion over the next five years. The project and development of this methodology. The aims to significantly increase the number aim of this program is to integrate people of differently-abled people who are able to with special needs, mostly with Down’s enter work in the coming years. Invest for Syndrome, to the ordinary labour market via Children is committed to financially Supportthe Supported Employment methodology. ing the foundation and to offering managerial Since 1989 more than 100 young people and strategic consulting skills to allow the have joined the ordinary working world. foundation to achieve its mission. Leading More than 80% of the workers maintain companies have already joined the Project their job positions and have indefinite term Aura initiatives to facilitate the integration of contracts. The Project Aura is a founding differently abled people in a working contest. member of AESE (Spanish Association of Employment), ACTAS (Catalan Association of The Project Aura (www.projectaura.org) was Supported Employment), a member of FEISD established in Barcelona in October 1989, by (Spanish of Down’s Syndrome) and APPS an initiative of professionals from the area of (Catalan Federation for protection of people integration education. The Project Aura is with mental retardation). Maria Vicente and Urbano Gropello 66 (Invest for Children) sustainability report 2012 | Social Responsibility Social Responsibility | sustainability report 2012 some examples of invest for children activities Education MEDICAl Sport Community social support Other Invest for Children has created “Los Peces Invest for Children initiated a collaboraInvest for Children in co-operation with FunDown TV (www.downtv.org) is the first worldThe mission of Foundation Theodora is to Invest for Children is a full member of the no se mojan” the first short animation tion with the Hospital Sant Joan de Deu in dación FC Barcelona has organised a video wide online interactive video library fully give hospitalized children an opportunity to Private Equity Foundation whose mission created by children both with and without Barcelona to develop the program “Non contest for DownTv regarding sport and indedicated to people with Down’s syndrome. forget for a while their hospital environment, is to empower young people to reach their disabilities. The shortfilm is already being Invasive Ventilation (NIV) at the reach of tellectual disability. Aim of the initiative is Videos are classified in different areas and allowing them to go back to their world of full potential. The foundation invests both delivered at all the Spanish schools to everyone” whose main objective is to to show how sport is vital for personal and cover all aspects of living with Down’s syncolor, music, magic and humor by means money and expertise from the private eqcreate awareness and improve inclusion increase the level of scientific knowledge social development in particular for people drome. In this interactive platform, users of laughter. During 2011 i4c has organized uity community, to help excellent charities of children with Down’s Syndrome. This and to promote the use of NIV in Pediatwith intellectual disabilities. can upload their videos and documents a parallel event in Barcelona and Madrid to achieve a step-change in their impact. project has taken place thanks to the cooprics. The project is under the leadership of related to Down’s syndrome and share their raise money to support the mission of the eration with Down España. Dr. Martí Pons. experience. Down TV aims to increase interTheodora foundation. The event registered action between people with this disability. the presence of more than 700 people. Investindustrial portfolio companies Avincis, Panda Security and Ducati were among the companies sponsoring the initiative. Integrating Musical event performed by youth, with and without Down’s syndrome, from Down Tarragona and Wapachà dancing school in PortAventura A strong partnership with young people the Memorial Sloan-Kettering into society Cancer Center For the fourth consecutive year Invest for Invest for Children is co-operating with the beds, is located in New York City and is the children, together with Down Catalunya and Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center (www. oldest and largest private institution commitPortAventura Foundation, organized the youth mskcc.org) to support innovative treatments ted to exceptional patient care, leading-edge event “Making Friends” with the participation for retinoblastoma, a tumor that occurs in the research, and superb educational programs. of more than 4,000 people in the PortAventura retina. The program is under the direction of Mr. Invest for Children is supporting the Center by: theme park in Tarragona. Children and youth David H. Abramson MD which introduced many offering optical coherence tomography from Down Catalunya, together with their new treatments for the disease that have been equipment, relatives and friends, enjoyed the facilities of adopted by other centers worldwide, includdeveloping online educational resources PortAventura and participated to the shows at ing the novel use of chemotherapy delivered for retinoblastoma patients, the Imperial Theater of China in PortAventura. around the eye to prevent systemic toxicity to financing the artificial eye fund Scope of the event was to promote a stronger intravenous medication. The Center with 470 supporting the patient free care program. aware of this chromosomal condition which affect thousands of children all around the world. Mr. David H. Abramson MD coordinator 68 of the retinoblastoma program Annual review 2012 | Summary Group Information Summary Group Information | Annual review 2012 Sales by Sector (€M) Variance 2011 2012 €M % Consumer Retail and Leisure 2,517 2,327 (190) -8% Industrial Manufacturing 1,017 938 (79) -8% Services and Concessions 3,980 4,404 424 11% TOTAL 7,514 7,670 156 2% Summary Group EBITDA by Sector (€M) 2011 2012 €M Variance % Information (1) Consumer Retail and Leisure Industrial Manufacturing Services and Concessions 390 83 766 416 74 927 26 (9) 161 7% -10% 21% TOTAL 1,238 1,417 179 14% See-through Net Debt Ratios (1) Variance 2011 2012 X % Senior Debt/EBITDA 3.5x 3.8x 0.3x 7% Mezzanine/EBITDA 0.3x 0.3x 0.0x -14% Employees by Sector Variance 2011 2012 Employees % Consumer Retail and Leisure 14,329 13,841 (488) -3% Industrial Manufacturing 2,288 1,752 (536) -23% Services and Concessions 29,307 30,912 1,605 5% TOTAL 45,924 46,505 581 1% During 2012, Group sales In 2012 Group EBITDA grew by 2% mainly due to the increased by 14% while the growth in the Services and see-through senior debt/ Concessions sector impacted EBITDA ratio slightly increased by the acquisition of Euskaltel. reaching 3.8x. On a like-for-like basis, The number of employees excluding extraordinary increased by 1% reaching transactions, the Group approximately 46,500, due to registered an increase in the growth in investments in the sales by 5%. Services and Concessions sector. 1) Aggregate numbers considering 100% of the companies 1) Excluding Banca Popolare di Milano Avincis’ maintenance operations 70 present in the portfolio at the end of each year in Alicante (Spain) Annual review 2012 | Summary Group Information Summary Group Information | Annual review 2012 investments by date Our Investors While Investindustrial itself is the single tion in an existing company and to make new largest provider of capital, more than 50 add-on acquisitions. The firm’s view is that institutional investors from around the world difficult economic times are key moments form the capital and client base of the Group. to remain active and improve its competitive (1) Investindustrial started 2012 with €800 positioning. Since we believe that we will million available for investments and used continue to operate in a fragile market, we approximately 25% of this capital to acquire significantly increased our capital available a new quality company, to reinforce its posifor investments to €1.3 billion. breakdown of investors by type Banks/Insurances/ Other Financials 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 15% Pension Funds/ Governments 1) Invested at the beginning of 2013 40% Funds of funds 18% Investments by Region (%) Endowments/ Foundations/ Family offices 27% Spain UK 35% 30% breakdown of investors by region Asia 8% Italy 35% North America 28% As of the end of 2012 Investindustrial’s investments Europe 64% were well balanced across three main countries: UK, Italy and Spain. Services center of Banca Popolare 72 di Milano, Milan (Italy) 73 Annual review 2012 Annual review 2012 The partially post-consumer recycled FOR MORE INFORMATION paper used for printing this document has resulted in CO2 emissions PLEASE CONTACT US AT of approximately 6.0 tonnes. Since 2009 Investindustrial reviewed its info@investindustrial.com overall carbon footprint and invested in renewable energy projects to offset the emissions and achieve carbon neutrality. 74 www.investindustrial.com
