United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) AVTECH Sweden AB (publ) 2013 Statement by the CEO: “We continue to support all of the ideals that are put forth as the principles of the UN Global Compact. In the last year we have tried to improve our implementation of each principle by evaluating our achievements within each category. We work to ensure they are a key part of the core values that we follow on a day-by-day basis, and we continue to be committed to the initiative.” David Alvord, CEO, AVTECH Sweden AB (publ) Human Rights Principles: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals: We have a policy supporting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights for our own companies, for our suppliers, and also companies with whom we partner in projects. Implementation: We have implemented a formal written policy supporting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights for both for our own companies and also for our suppliers. We have also evaluated companies with whom we partner in projects to ensure support and compliance to these principles. Measurement of outcomes: Internal company policy has been formalized. Company policy to be placed on our website. Suppliers: We have evaluated each of our major suppliers, and as they are presently European Union based we are confident that they follow these two important principles. Partners in projects: We have evaluated each of our partners in projects to ensure support to these principles. AVTECH Sweden AB Lönnvägen 2, SE-184 43 Åkersberga, Sweden, Tel: +46 (0) 8 544 104 80 Fax: +46 (0) 8 544 104 89 www.avtech.aero VAT no: SE 556568310801 Labour Principles: Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals: We have a policy supporting the Labour Principles for our own companies, for our suppliers, and also companies with whom we partner in projects. Implementation: We have implemented a formal written policy supporting the Labour Principles for both for our own companies and also for our suppliers. We have also evaluated companies with whom we partner in projects to ensure support and compliance to these principles. We actively promote a diverse labour force in terms of sex, nationalities, age and religion. Measurement of outcomes: Internal company policy has been formalized. Company policy to be placed on our website. Suppliers: We have evaluated each of our major suppliers, and as they are presently European Union based we are confident that they follow these four important principles. Partners in projects: We have evaluated each of our partners in projects to ensure support to these principles. Diverse labour force: We continue to actively look for qualified individuals of all groups so as to achieve a dynamic and effective blend of age, experience, qualifications, gender and ethnicity. A. As engineering in the field of Aviation is dominated by males AVTECH is mentored a female student on an international M.Sc. programme in our goal to create young professionals with an urge to work in our field. We increased our engineering staff in the past year by 3 people, with one of them being female. This was above our goal of 25%. B. Due to the global outlook of our business, it has been a natural part of our recruitment process to achieve a highly multicultural representation of our workforce. Of the increasing in staffing this past year, 100% were from other nationalities. C. Age: presently we have 33% of our staff above the age of 62. AVTECH Sweden AB Lönnvägen 2, SE-184 43 Åkersberga, Sweden, Tel: +46 (0) 8 544 104 80 Fax: +46 (0) 8 544 104 89 www.avtech.aero VAT no: SE 556568310801 Environmental Principles: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals: We have a policy supporting the Environmental Principles for our own companies, for our suppliers, and also companies with whom we partner in projects. Implementation: We have implemented a formal written policy supporting the Environmental Principles for both for our own companies and also for our suppliers. We have also evaluated companies with whom we partner in projects to ensure support and compliance to these principles. Measurement of outcomes: Internal company policy has been formalized. Company policy to be placed on our website. Our core business is improving the environment within Air Traffic Management. We do this with providing both products and consultancy services that lessen the environmental impact of air operations; 100% of our products and services achieve this goal. We take an active role in limiting the environmental impact that all of our own business operations create. We have an active recycling program for paper, plastics, glass and metals. We have a program for the replacement of all items with energy saving ones when available. Partners in projects: We have evaluated each of our partners in projects to ensure support to these principles. Anti-Corruption Principles: Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals: We have a policy supporting the Anti-Corruption Principles for our own companies, for our suppliers, and also companies with whom we partner in projects. AVTECH Sweden AB Lönnvägen 2, SE-184 43 Åkersberga, Sweden, Tel: +46 (0) 8 544 104 80 Fax: +46 (0) 8 544 104 89 www.avtech.aero VAT no: SE 556568310801 Implementation: We have implemented a formal written policy supporting the Anti-Corruption Principles for both for our own companies and also for our suppliers. We have also evaluated companies with whom we partner in projects to ensure support and compliance to these principles. Measurement of outcomes: Internal company policy has been formalized. Company policy to be placed on our website. Suppliers: We have evaluated each of our major suppliers, and as they are presently European Union based we are confident that they follow these two important principles. Partners in projects: We have evaluated each of our partners in projects to ensure support to these principles. We are pleased, both as a company and I personally, to continue as a part of the United Nations Global Compact, and to renew our commitment to the ideals expressed within the 10 Principles. Most sincerely, David Alvord CEO AVTECH Sweden AB Lönnvägen 2, SE-184 43 Åkersberga, Sweden, Tel: +46 (0) 8 544 104 80 Fax: +46 (0) 8 544 104 89 www.avtech.aero VAT no: SE 556568310801
