Sustainability Report 2012 Contents 4 THE YEAR IN BRIEF 10 EMPLOYEES 4 FOLLOW-UP OF 2012 CSR OBJECTIVES 13 ENVIRONMENT 5 MEDA AND THE OUTSIDE WORLD 16 ETHICAL CONDUCT 5 CSR STRATEGY 16 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 6 PRIORITY AREAS 17 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT 6 RISK ANALYSIS 18 CSR OBJECTIVES AND THE FUTURE 7 PATIENT SAFETY 20 GRI GUIDELINES 8 MEDA IN MÉRIGNAC – SUSTAINABLE 23 AUDITOR’S REVIEW REPORT ON MEDA PURCHASING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Addresses Headquarters: Media and Investor Relations Meda AB Phone: +46 8 630 19 00 Box 906 , SE-170 09 Solna, Sweden E-mail: IR@meda.se Visitors: Pipers väg 2A Phone: +46 8 630 19 00 Fax: +46 8 630 19 50 E-mail: info@meda.se www.meda.se Contact information for subsidiaries is available at: www.meda.se Meda’s Sustainability Report 2012 Meda has worked actively with accountability tinued development of the company’s environand sustainability issues for several years. As the mental management system to achieve ISO company grows and expands geographically, it 14001 certification of the units in Bad Hombecomes increasingly important to ensure that burg, Germany, and Lakewood, USA, the deveMeda pursues its operations in a responsible lopment of Meda’s ethical guidelines (Business manner. The purpose of Meda’s CSR efforts is to Conduct Guidelines), and continued work on support the company’s overarching business obthe Supplier Code of Conduct. The objectives jective by optimizing opportunities and identifyhave been fulfilled and Meda has shown good ing and managing risks in areas where sustainaresults in its CSR targets for 2012. In 2012, bility issues have an impact on the business. Meda joined the UN Global Compact. This is Meda coordinates all accountability and susa commitment that involves explicit support tainability issues under its corporate social refor the ten principles that make up the Global sponsibility (CSR) policy and has identified seven Compact. Meda’s involvement will continue in areas within which CSR is to be implemented: 2013, and will have an impact on several areas ethics, corporate governance, employees, paof our sustainability work. tients, the environment, product supply, and The number of women in leadership positions, community. These areas were identified based such as country managers, is increasing. The on an analysis of how Meda affects its surrounlong-term aim is to make best use of our skills. dings, both within and outside of the company, Meda’s CSR work will develop alongside the and how its surroundings affect Meda. company’s geographical expansion. The comConsequently, the scope of Meda’s CSR inipany’s working models shall function in all the tiatives stretches beyond its pure core business countries in which Meda operates. We also and involves also ensuring that: need to adapt to external expectations, requi• Issues concerning business ethics are respecrements, and legislation that is relevant to Meted in commercial agreements. da’s CSR work. • There are clear guidelines for how the busiContinued efforts in relation to internal conness is to be run. trol and anti-corruption, work with suppliers, • The company’s environmental impact is reduand adaptation to comply with the principles of ced wherever possible. the Global Compact will remain priority areas • The company acts responsibly in relation to for Meda. its stakeholders—patients, other customers, Inherent to Meda’s business concept of ofbusiness partners, regulatory authorities, fering cost-effective and medically well-motiemployees, suppliers, and owners. vated products is the desire to improve indiviIn practice, the sustainability initiatives must duals’ quality of life. More broadly, this extends build relationships with key stakeholders and to the community at large. As such, CSR efforts address issues that affect the company’s impact will continue to be a priority at Meda. Meda’s on society and the environment, while contriambition is to be recognized not only as a combuting to sustainable development. These remercial success but also as a reliable, responlationships are based on respect, responsibilisible, and ethical company. ty, and professionalism and promote long-term value growth. Anders Lönner In 2012, Meda focused on three areas: conGroup President and CEO 3 The year in brief CSR work is based on continuous improveemployees to anonymously report suspecment. Consequently, priority areas during the ted deviations from Meda’s code of conyear have remained the same as previously— duct. Work has also begun on adapting to environmental management work, supplier new anti-corruption legislation, including assessments, and Meda’s Business Conduct the UK Bribery Act. Guidelines. • During the first quarter of 2012 Meda con• CSR efforts in relation to suppliers have ducted an active stakeholder dialogue with expanded and gained significance. A risk a selection of institutional owners and the analysis of Meda’s supplier base has been Swedish Medical Products Agency. Additioconducted within the framework of the nal stakeholder dialogues have taken place Supplier Code of Conduct. during the year. • The environmental management system • In May 2012, Meda joined the UN Global was developed through ISO 14001 certiCompact. This means that the company’s fication of the units in Bad Homburg and CSR work will further expand over the Lakewood. This means that all the units in coming years. the environmental management system are Meda’s 2012 Sustainability Report makes up also ISO 14001 certified. the company’s Communication of Progress, • The Business Conduct Guidelines were an obligatory reporting process for compadeveloped via the implementation of nies connected to the Global Compact. a Whistleblower Policy, which enables Follow-up of 2012 CSR objectives production units, development laboratories Meda has had Group-wide objectives for its CSR and the two largest offices are certified in work in place since 2010. The results in relation accordance with ISO 14001. to the company’s 2012 objectives are as follows: • Meda’s environmental impact will decrease. • Meda will improve its efforts with its Supplier The overarching measurement figure is the Code of Conduct to identify and manage amount of CO2 emissions per employee. risks at suppliers. By the end of 2012, over Meda’s carbon dioxide emissions fell by 7% 95% of Meda’s purchasing volume resulted in 2012, calculated as emissions per employfrom suppliers that accepted Meda’s Supplier ee. Meda is focusing its efforts on energy Code of Conduct. A risk analysis of Meda’s consumption, primarily within production. supplier base was conducted in autumn • Internal control and the Business Conduct 2012. The results showed that in general, the Guidelines will be further developed through level of risk is low, but that Meda needs to continued follow-up of compliance and the develop the model for following up comimplementation of a Whistleblower Policy for pliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct internal reporting of any infringements. The among suppliers. program for internal control was carried out • Meda will develop its environmental maaccording to plan. A Whistleblower Policy nagement system so that the units in Bad was implemented in May 2012. Homburg and Lakewood become ISO 14001 Overall, it can be concluded that Meda’s certified.The environmental management sysGroup-wide CSR objectives for 2012 were fultem was certified in March for Bad Homburg filled. and in May for Lakewood. This means that all 4 Meda and the outside world CSR strategy The outside world and motivators The basis of Meda’s operations and CSR straDespite considerable advances within health tegy is the conviction that a high ethical stancare, there is still a great deal of need. The glodard, responsibility, and good relationships with bal population is growing and people are on the rest of the world bring about long-term gathe whole living longer. New and improved treins. This approach shall permeate all strategies, atment forms are needed and it is clear that all decisions, and all operations. the pharmaceutical industry has an important It is the responsibility of every manager to enrole to play in contributing towards improving sure that the relevant CSR guidelines are implehealth everywhere. mented and observed. CSR and good conduct At the same time, providing effective treatare issues that concern all Meda employees. ment alone is not enough. The outside world Meda is gradually developing its CSR work is placing increasingly high demands in relawithin seven priority areas presented below. Dition to good conduct and responsible business alogues with stakeholders help Meda establish methods, that is, the way in which pharmaceua strategic direction and implement improvetical companies operate. This applies in particuments. CSR objectives are defined and monitolar to companies’ responsibility toward patients red regularly. Overall management is conducted and society as a whole. at the Group level, with direct feedback to the The pharmaceutical industry has long been CEO, while local units are responsible for orgaregulated via legislation, but more recently renization and implementation. quirements for ethical guidelines and selfregulation have also arisen. As a result there Close relationship with stakeholders are now guidelines regarding such areas as the Meda’s key stakeholders include: industry’s alliances with the health care system • Patients. and special interest groups, as well as good • Health care providers. marketing practices. • Suppliers. Costs associated with, and therefore access • Employees. to drugs has become a priority issue. This is • Public authorities and agencies. partly due to the fact that drugs are largely fi• Owners/investors. nanced by public funds. Despite intensive ef• Analysts. forts to develop effective drugs at prices that Contact with these stakeholder groups is esmake them available to many, there are still pesential if Meda is to continue to be a relevant ople who are denied the right treatment due to and significant player. Dialogues with stakeholcost, primarily in developing countries. ders are conducted both informally and formalThe pharmaceutical industry has developed ly. Meda carried out in-depth interviews during to the stage where it now has both production the first quarter of 2012 with selected owner and sales in regions that are generally associrepresentatives and the Swedish Medical Proated with higher ethical and commercial risks. ducts Agency. As far as Meda is concerned, the riskier regions The preferences of our stakeholders have a include Eastern Europe, South America, and strong bearing on Meda’s operations and deveSouth-East Asia. Having a presence in these relopment. Prevailing requirements and expectagions requires companies to be aware of, and tions have impacted Meda’s definition of the capable of, handling the prevailing conditions. company’s priority CSR issues and CSR strategy. Companies must act based on sound business principles and have efficient operations that can combat unethical business methods and corruption. 5 Generated and distributed financial value Ethical conduct: A high ethical standard within 2012 2011 all aspects of the business is essential if Meda is Revenue* 13,098 12,912 to be able to add value for its stakeholders and Operating expenses –7,250 –6,461 boost global confidence in the company. MeSalaries and employee benefits –1,806 –1,712 da’s Business Conduct Guidelines set out the Payments to providers of funds –622 –696 company’s position and commitments. Find out Dividend –680 –604 more about business ethics on page 16. Payments to governments –328 –692 Remaining economic value 2,412 2,747 Corporate governance: Sound corporate go*) Net sales plus financial income (excluding exchange gains) as well as recognized gains for the sale of non-current assets. vernance means that companies are run based on the interests of the owners. Effective mechaPriority areas nisms for governance and control affect global The priority areas within responsible entrepreconfidence in the company, and thus its scope neurship are based on Meda’s impact on the for action. Meda applies the Swedish Code of outside world and stakeholders’ requirements Corporate Governance. Find out more about and expectations. These priorities indicate the corporate governance on page 16. direction of Meda’s CSR strategy and initiatives. Community involvement: Meda takes its sociPatient safety: Meda’s most important task in al responsibility seriously. This includes maintairelation to patients and customers is to provining good relationships with the communities de effective and safe medication. Patient safety in which the company operates. Meda prioriis therefore Meda’s highest priority. The area is tizes initiatives that promote people’s health subject to strict regulation, both from authoriand well-being in the long term. Find out more ties and from Meda. Find out more about paabout social investments on page 17. tient safety on page 7. Risk analysis Product supply: Good relationships with suppThe main purpose of Meda’s CSR initiatives is liers and other business partners are important to improve the company’s business opportunifor Meda to be able to fulfill its mission. This ties. At the same time, because of the nature of involves setting up and monitoring relevant reCSR issues, initiatives are also aimed at avoiding quirements and contributing towards suppliers’ events that could negatively impact Meda’s development. The work is based on Meda’s operations. Thus, risk management is also an Supplier Code of Conduct. Find out more about important element of CSR efforts. supplier relationships on page 10. The primary risk in the CSR field is that some type of incident could result in serious ramifiEmployees: The commitment and skill of our cations for shareholders, regulatory authoriemployees is key to the company’s relationships ties, medical personnel, patients, employees, or with its customers and other stakeholders, and suppliers. The specifics of such events may vary therefore its success. Meda has developed prodepending on the stakeholder group. Other cesses for employee relations, including procemajor risks include events that could negatidures for working environment and safety. Find vely impact the environment, poor relationsout more about Meda’s employees on page 10. hips with suppliers and partners, poor communication, and inability to take action if adverse Environment: Long-term success requires events occur. Such events could have a negative Meda to make use of natural resources in a susimpact on Meda’s reputation, growth opportutainable way and continually reduce the comnities, and day-to-day business practices. pany’s environmental impact. Find out more To reduce these overall and specific risks, about Meda’s environmental work on page 14. Meda is establishing and developing systema6 tic control and improvement work that includes Drug registration contingency plans in the event of CSR-related All Meda’s marketing companies have local reincidents. A detailed risk analysis has been congistration experts. They deal with the registraducted in relation to CSR issues and is continution of new and existing products and monitor ally updated. The analysis shows that Meda’s and develop products in accordance with the risk profile is generally low, and the systematic relevant legislation, public authority requirework that exists covers all relevant parts. Where ments, and guidelines. Meda also cooperates specific risks are identified, the following meawith local registration and pharmaceutical ausures are taken: thorities—particularly for production of user in• Risk for employee violations of the Business structions and prescription information—to enConduct Guidelines and flaws during imsure that medications are used correctly and for plementation in new units are managed by the right purpose. implemented procedures for follow-up and control, specifically focusing on new countries. Pharmacovigilance • Supply disruptions with consequences for All drug use involves risk of side effects. Side customers/patients due to production issues effects can arise in various forms and degreare to be addressed by working with clear es. Simultaneous use of other drugs or consuobjectives and improved delivery performance ming food or drink can also alter a medication’s in the Supply Chain function. effect. Pharmaceutical production, testing, and • An accident with consequences for people or manufacturing must be extremely carefully rethe environment in any of Meda’s production gulated to achieve the highest possible patient units or with external contract manufacturers safety. are handled by risk and contingency plans Meda works to achieve safe use of medicafor workplace health and safety as well as tions with its own pharmacovigilance departenvironmental management of Meda’s own ments in Sweden, Germany, and the US. The facilities and through follow-up of the Supptask is to detect, investigate, and prevent any lier Code of Conduct with external suppliers. adverse effects from the use of Meda’s pharmaceuticals. When required, changes may be Patient safety made to basic information about the drug, or Meda’s mission is to provide effective and safe restrictions related to the drug’s use may be admedication. The health and safety of patients is ded. All potential side effects are reported to always our top priority. the responsible drug administrations of each country. Clinical trials Meda does not focus on early research but Complaints instead on development in the late clinical phaMeda has an established system for handling se or registration phase. This means that Memedical and technical complaints. All complada’s products have already been tested on peints are investigated and corrective measures taople several times. In cases requiring clinical ken where required. Meda registers all complatrials, Meda engages specialized research comints, allowing the company to track recurrent panies. The services are procured according to complaints of the same type and monitor any Meda’s internal procedures for clinical trials. trends. The procedures are based on the EU 2001/20EC directive and Guidelines for Good Clinical PracProduct supply tice (GCP), an ethical and scientific quality stanMeda has both proprietary and contracted prodard with origins in the World Medical Associaduction units. This arrangement gives the comtion’s Declaration of Helsinki. pany access to new technology and flexibility, while achieving good cost control. Meda’s pro7 The information on page 8 is NOT a part of Meda’s Sustainability Report 2012. Meda in Mérignac – Sustainable purchasing Meda’s purchasing department at the Mérignac factory in France is leading by example in sustainability management. Since 2010, the department has been working intensively to develop a systemic approach to sustainability in its operations. The short term purpose has been to develop the purchasing process in a way that minimizes the environmental impact as well as having a positive social impact. Long term the purpose is to strengthen Meda’s business. Concretely, the work has resulted in activities to reduce consumption of raw materials, for example plastic, as well as enhancing efficiency in transports through increased coordination. Initially, Meda participated in a national French project together with the French Energy and Environmental Agency (Ademe) and the French Chamber of Commerce (Landes). When the project came to a close, Meda continued to develop the daily purchasing process based on experiences from the project. Among other things it has resulted in inclusion of sustainability aspects in the requests for quotation. – We consider this way of working to be in line with Meda’s ambitions and strategy regarding sustainability, says Sabine Jean-Dubourg. Sabine Jean-Dubourg is the Head of Logistics and Purchasing at the Mérignac factory. Meda is a signatory of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) since 2012 and the efforts in The purchasing department has worked toMérignac contributes to Meda’s ability to fulfill gether with selected suppliers, government boits commitment the UNGC principles. dies and external professionals to map relevant The work in Mérignac has received national sustainability matters within the supply of raw recognition and the Mérignac unit was nomimaterials and packaging regarding environmennated for the Trophées de Achats award in the tal and social aspects. spring 2012. It is an award nominated to pur– We have used a life cycle assessment to chasing organisations across different induidentify the actual impact and decide which stries. In early 2013 Meda’s product Betadine suppliers and materials to work with, says Sawas rewarded with the green label, AA++, an bine Jean-Dubourg, Head of Logistics and Puraward issued by the CAHPP which is the largest chasing at the Mérignac factory. The results central purchaser organization within French from the analysis formed the basis of more dehospital care. tailed information about the most important suppliers. By analyzing the information we gaWhich have been the most important ined a better understanding of what raw mafactors to succeed in this work? terials and packaging materials that have the – The support and engagement from top magreatest impact as well as how our current nagement have been crucial and of course the suppliers are managing relevant sustainability hard work by highly skilled staff. Also, the supmatters. Furthermore, the increased understanport from external experts and not least the inding enables us to develop cooperation on theterest from Meda’s suppliers have been of signise matters. ficant importance, says Sabine Jean-Dubourg. 8 9 prietary units are in France, Germany, and the te the responses. All major suppliers have been US, and they account for around 40% of the covered. The results of this analysis indicate company’s total product supply. Meda works that our risk exposure concerning CSR aspects with continuous improvements in both efficienis low since the overwhelming majority of suppcy and quality. The same requirements in relaliers operate in countries where the implemention to delivery reliability and other parameters tation of legislation and regulations is well deapply to both Meda’s proprietary production veloped: Europe and North America. Meda only units and contract manufacturers delivering has a few suppliers in countries where CSR risks products to Meda. are deemed high, for example China and India. However, Meda has good insight into these REQUIREMENTS AND MONITORING suppliers. Meda has strict requirements in place both inAnother conclusion from the risk analysis is ternally and with regard to external suppliers that Meda should aim to improve the system and other business partners, so that the compafor regular monitoring of suppliers and deveny can fulfill its commitments to customers and lop a standardized model for CSR audits where other stakeholders. These requirements relate risk analyses indicate such a need. This will theto safety, quality, price, function, and delivery refore be a priority objective for our work with reliability. suppliers in 2013. Meda’s internal requirements concerning ethics, working environment and employment Employees terms, environmental impact, animal welfare, Meda has experienced considerable growth, and management systems are detailed in the chiefly through acquisitions. Since 2005, the company’s Business Conduct Guidelines. Equinumber of employees, including limited-term valent requirements for suppliers are set out in employees, has increased from 150, to just over the Supplier Code of Conduct. Work on com3,100. The objective is to preserve the strengths municating the Supplier Code of Conduct to of the small company, with a non-hierarchisuppliers was initiated in 2011, and by the end cal and efficient organization and short deciof 2012 over 95% of Meda’s purchases were sion-making paths. Combining these strengths made from suppliers that accepted the ethical with the resources of the large company makes guidelines. Meda’s culture a valuable asset. Meda performs regular audits of contract manufacturers to check compliance with the reMeda’s workforce quirements associated with the pharmaceutical At the end of the year, the Group had 2,900 industry’s quality system, Good Manufacturing employees (2,623), of which 55% are women Practice (GMP). These audits are also goverand 45% are men. The majority work within ned by requirements from public authorities. sales and marketing. In addition, 222 staff are Compliance with the Supplier Code of Condulimited-term employees. ct is monitored in connection with the qualiAs the Group grows, we strive to achieve a ty audits. When required, Meda has conducted balance between enriching the organization by specific audits with a focus on ethics and the bringing in new expertise, and taking advantaenvironment. Such an audit has been carried ge of existing experience and procedures. Since out at a Chinese supplier 2011. Meda primarily achieves growth through acquisitions, staff turnover in recent years has exRISKS AND PRIORITIES ceeded the industry average. In 2012, staff In general, Meda has received extremely posititurnover within Meda was 15% (15). Employve responses when communicating the Supplier ees who are affected by organizational changes Code of Conduct. A CSR risk analysis in relaare offered support, where relevant, in complition to suppliers has been carried out to evaluaance with local legislation and practices. 10 Health and safety Meda shall be a safe, healthy, pleasant place to work. In order to ensure compliance with the relevant occupational health and safety legisaverage no. of employees lation, Meda has detailed staff and workplace 3,000 handbooks for the larger operating countries, such as Sweden, Germany, France, and the US. 2,500 All employees are entitled to participate in la2,000 bor unions, and where such organizations exist, Meda works actively with them in relation to 1,500 health and safety issues. 1,000 Meda’s factories and laboratories are exposed to the biggest health and safety risks within 500 the Group. These units pursue focused work to ensure a safe and secure working environ0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 ment, where both accidents and incidents are followed up and measures taken to prevent a recurrence. During the year a total of 37 (29) work-relasick leave ted accidents and illnesses were reported. The % accidents related mainly to mild pinching or 10,0 slipping injuries in employees working in ma7,5 nufacturing. The accident frequency is deemed to be low. Meda follows up the number of ac5,0 cidents so that the company can take action 2,5 should the frequency increase, but no quantitative goals are currently set at Group level. The 0,0 2009 2010 2011 2012 reporting is based on what is classified as an accident by local law. Sick leave was 3.1% (3.3). Absence of 60 Sick leave (%) 2009 2010 2011 2012 days or more amounted to 0.9% (0.9). Sick leave is relatively equally split between men and Woman 3,6 4,5 3,7 3,6 women and among various age groups. MoniMen 2,5 2,6 2,6 2,4 toring of sick leave and any measures taken are Total 3,1 3,6 3,3 3,1 handled at the local level. By age Professional development, equality, and Age 50– 4,4 4,1 3,9 3,9 diversity Age 30–49 2,7 3,6 3,0 2,9 The commitment and skill of our employees is Age 0–29 2,7 3,4 2,9 2,7 key to Meda’s development. Professional de3,1 3,6 3,3 3,1 velopment takes place according to the needs Continuous sick leave > 60 days 0,9 1,2 0,9 0,9 of the individual and his/her role. A process of structured professional development is conducted, particularly concerning product training upon new acquisitions. Ensuring that employees’ rights and opportunities are safeguarded is an important component in guaranteeing that Meda has, and has access to, the expertise it re11 Maria Carell, President Elena Kartasheva & Regional Director US Country manager, Russia Veronique Goldsztajn Iris Jakobsen Funda Gücer Country manager, Belgium Country manager, Denmark Country manager, Turkey 12 quires. This applies to both existing and potenwomen and 45% (44) are men. In managetial employees. ment positions the distribution is 37% women Meda’s Business Conduct Guidelines clear(36) and 63% men (64). In the current situation ly state that all employees and applicants are female managers are responsible for some of to be treated equally. Discrimination based on, Meda’s key markets such as the US, Turkey and for example, gender, gender identity or genRussia. Meda also has female managers in Belder expression, ethnicity, religion or other belief gium and Denmark. Meda seeks to increase the system, disability, sexual orientation, or age is percentage of female managers via clearly defistrictly prohibited within Meda. No cases of disned skill set requirements for each position. The crimination were reported in 2012. results are actively followed up. Of Meda’s 2,900 employees, 55% (56) are gender distribution, 2012 gender distribution, management, 2012 Women Men 37% 45% Women 55% Men 63% Environment Meda mainly impacts on the environment particularly from an environmental perspective. through The company observes all relevant environme• Energy consumption, emissions and waste ntal legislation and its environmental managefrom production ment system is certified in accordance with ISO • Energy consumption at offices and in other 14001 to reduce its environmental impact to a premises greater extent than that required by law. Par• Emissions from transportation and travel ticular attention has been devoted to energy Meda endeavors to pursue operations in a consumption, hazardous waste, and consumpmanner that is sustainable in the long term, tion of materials. 13 Group’s units have their own goals in relation MEDA’S ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY IN BRIEF to energy consumption and waste generation, Meda’s environmental policy states that the and where relevant, for effluent and emission company will: levels. The goals are regularly followed up and • Comply with the requirements of enrevised. All production units, the development viron-mental legislation and ordinances laboratory in Radebeul, and the offices in Solna • Consider business opportunities and risks and Bad Homburg have been certified in accorfrom an environmental perspective dance with ISO 14001 since 2012. Environme• Reduce energy consumption ntal audits are carried out by a third party at all • Consider the environment when purchasing affected units/factories. goods and services • Ensure secure, responsible chemical manageWATER AND WASTE ment Starting from 2012, Meda is compiling informa• Minimize water consumption and generation tion on water consumption and waste generaof waste tion for all its own production and developme• Work in accordance with ISO 14001 nt units. In 2012, the results in production and • Raise environmental awareness among manadevelopment were as follows: gers and employees Water and waste Consumption Water 109,260 m³ Production Of which process waste 51,051 m³ Meda’s environmental efforts are chiefly focuWaste 1,234 tons sed on the production units in Germany, FranOf which hazardous waste 101 tons ce, and the US. These production units carry out formulation and packaging of pharmaThese figures will form the basis of streamlining ceuticals only. This means that relatively small and improvement work over the coming years, amounts of waste are produced. Most of the with the purpose of reducing water consumpwaste consists of process water, mainly from tion and the amount of waste produced. cleaning the equipment. Very little hazardous Meda’s process waste derives mainly from waste is produced. Waste from production and cleaning the equipment. Amounts of drug relaboratory activities is handled in accordance sidues are small and all Meda’s factories have with the applicable legislation and established permits within the framework of current opeprocedures. rations to release process effluent with normal Meda observes the relevant public authority effluent for processing in treatment plants. requirements in relation to analyzing traces of Since Meda only has factories for final fordrugs in water environments that derive from mulation and packaging, there are no chemical drug use. The company also follows the latest synthesis operations, emissions of solvents to research findings. The dominant view of experts air are minimal. All units satisfy their respective in this area is that the amounts of drug residues authorizations with healthy margins. that can be measured in the environment are not deemed to be hazardous to people or to Energy and carbon dioxide emissions cause damage to plants or animals. Reducing energy consumption and emissions of The production units hold all the environmegreenhouse gases is Meda’s most important enntal permits that are required according to the vironmental goal. legislation of each country, as well as in line In 2012, Meda’s direct and indirect carwith EU regulations. This has been actively folbon dioxide emissions were 32,919 (32,021) lowed up at all units and no deviations were tons. This corresponds to 11.4 (12.2) tons per identified in 2012. employee and 2.53 (2.49) tons per SEK thouMeda’s environmental management system sands revenue. The emission figures are based is certified in accordance with ISO 14001. The on actual data from all production and deve14 lopment units, as well as other businesses in Sweden, the US, France, and Germany. Carbon CO2 EMISSIONS AS REPORTED TO CDP (TON) dioxide emissions for the whole of Meda were then extrapolated from this data and carbon di2011 2012 oxide emissions from transports have been calScope 1: culated in a simulation model. The calculation Gas and oil 5,416 5,935 Company cars 6,621 7,601 model was improved in 2012. The data from Scope 2: 2011 was updated according to the improved Electricity 9,261 8,335 calculation model to allow comparison. Scope 3: Direct emissions derive from heating and the Business trips 2,957 3,270 use of company cars. Indirect emissions are Commuting 2,770 2,632 mainly caused by electricity consumption. Supply chain 4,996 5,146 Total 32,021 32,919 Energy use 2012 2011 2010 Per employee 12.2 11.4 Natural gas, m3 3,070,505 2,806,026 3,474,937 Company cars, driving Scope 1: D  irect emissions from CO2 sources owned or controlled by distance, km 40,004,940 34,849,042 43,144,653 the reporting organization. Scope 2: Indirect emissions caused by the organization’s consumption Electricity, MWh 22,406 24,160 24,710 of energy. The increase in carbon dioxide emissions in 2012 is linked to the growing number of greenhouse gas emissions, Geographic employees, along with higher energy consumpdistribution within the group tion for heating purposes, the latter being primarily weather dependent. In the long term, Supply chain 16% US 21% the most important measures to reduce carbon dioxide emissions are linked to energy consumption in the factories. Measures to reduce electricity consumption have been sucOther units cessfully implemented. Meda is also focusing 20% on streamlining goods transportation via improved coordination, and identifying alternatives to business trips, for example by increased use of Sweden 2% Germany 33% video and telephone conferencing. France 8% Meda reports its carbon dioxide emissions via participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). CDP participation supports the compagreenhouse gas emissions by category ny’s continued environmental and climate initiatives and also provides feedback on the reports Transport 16% Gas and oil 18% and measures implemented. Meda’s CDP report for 2012 was awarded 73 on a scale of 0-100 for reporting, and a level C on a scale of A-E for Commuting 8% results. This is slightly better than the industry average. Meda offsets its Swedish carbon footprint Business trips 10% Electricity by investing in certified Clean Development 25% Mechanism (CDM) projects. The projects follow the intentions of the Kyoto Protocol and are Company cars 23% monitored by the UN. They also meet stringent requirements such as measurable emission reductions and positive social benefits. 15 The 2012 objective, to reduce Meda’s carcating information to patients and other intebon emissions per employee, was satisfied. The rest groups. The company also complies with emissions level fell from 12.2 to 11.4 tons per the guidelines that are linked to good markeemployee, a 7% reduction. ting practices, which can vary from country to country. Meda’s Business Conduct Guidelines Ethical conduct provide details of Meda’s zero tolerance on corMeda’s operations affect people’s health and ruption, along with rules on how employees lives. This means that in addition to observing should handle situations where conflicts of intelaws and regulations, operations must also be rest may arise. pursued in a responsible and ethical manner. See under corporate governance below for This area is governed by Meda’s ethical guifurther information. delines: the Business Conduct Guidelines. The guidelines cover business ethics and the comAnimal studies pany’s relationships with employees, custoThe pharmaceutical industry has made consimers, suppliers, public authorities, competitors, derable progress with regard to alternatives to and other players. Meda’s guidelines expressianimal studies when developing drugs. Despite vely prohibit any influence that aims to creathis, animal studies are sometimes unavoidable, te inappropriate advantages for Meda and/or or even obligatory. for individual employees. Correspondingly, atMeda’s development is essentially concentratempts to influence political parties or candidated to clinical studies in a late phase. Consequtes through donations are not permitted. ently, the drug has been tested on people seMeda’s companies are allowed to engage in veral times and the company’s need for animal social issues that are relevant to Meda’s business. studies is therefore extremely limited. In 2012, The companies work locally with various issues Meda only conducted one animal study, a todepending on what is prioritized on a particular lerability study of a dermatological product, market. The activities that local companies get which was carried out on rabbits. involved in are determined by Meda’s internal Meda complies with relevant guidelines and guidelines for ethical conduct in accordance with regulations in relation to animal studies, such the Business Conduct Guidelines. as those detailed in “Good Laboratory PractiExternal stakeholders and partnerships ce” per ISO 15189 and the OECD Principles of Meda takes responsibility for operating within Good Laboratory Practice. the framework of competition legislation in its global business. The company’s Business ConCorporate governance duct Guidelines supplement this type of legisCorporate governance is an integral part of lation and prohibit partnerships or agreements Meda’s CSR work. As a limited company quowith competitors on price, terms, or similar. ted on the Nordic Large Cap list of the NASAll the information submitted by Meda shall DAQ OMX Stockholm exchange, Meda combe correct and issued in such a way that the inplies with the Swedish Code of Corporate tended recipient can understand and form an Governance. Meda has drawn up several goveraccurate interpretation. Meda operates in a ning documents, including the Business Constrictly regulated market. All products and serviduct Guidelines and Internal Control Standards, ces are subject to regulation and requirements which all companies within Meda must obserwith regard to content, production, use, how ve. Auditing and monitoring occur through exthe product will be used, and the effects of use. ternal resources and self-assessment. Self-asIn some cases information about how the prosessment includes follow-up of compliance by duct will be discarded must also exist. local units with Meda’s Business Conduct GuiMeda always observes the national reguladelines and Internal Control Standards, as well tions in relation to how to go about communias other rules and guidelines. 16 The company carries out Business Continuity blished that the risk of human rights violations Planning—risk assessments that focus on proin the course of its operations and in its supply duct supply and external suppliers. chain is small. Since human rights are a priority In 2012, Meda’s system for corporate goverarea within UNGC, Meda considers it a matnance and internal control developed in the folter of urgency to confirm this conclusion via a lowing ways: more detailed analysis of the situation. It is for • Updating and implementing governing dothis reason that Meda intends to analyze how cuments such as the Meda Group Accounting well the company meets this UNGC commitand Reporting Manual. ment in 2013. • A Whistleblower Policy has been implemented. • Continued strengthening of the IT environRISK MANAGEMENT DURING EXPANSION ment. Meda has experienced considerable growth • Improved follow-up of compliance with interover the past ten years. Much of this expansinal regulations and guidelines. on has been achieved through acquisitions of • Work has also begun on adapting to new companies and exclusive product rights, and anti-corruption legislation in Europe, incluthrough long-term collaborations. ding the UK Bribery Act. Focused training for Extensive investigations are carried out before affected personnel has been conducted at any acquisition is made. CSR factors are consiMeda’s British subsidiary. dered as part of the investigation process. Since • Continued monitoring and follow up of new Meda primarily acquires established products, units. the investigation relates mainly to production During the year, there were no reports from and environmental issues. subsidiaries of deviations from the Business Some of Meda’s new markets are deemed to Conduct Guidelines. be associated with relatively high risk in terms As part of its 2013 CSR objectives, Meda will of corruption, human rights violations, and continue to develop the model for how to folenvironmental damage. Meda places particulow up compliance with the Business Conduct lar emphasis on following up these aspects on Guidelines. There will be a greater focus on imhigh-risk markets. The company’s operations in plementation in the subsidiaries and local folhigh-risk countries are almost entirely limited to low up. Meda also monitors continuing devesales and marketing. Development and lopments relating to anti-corruption legislation manufacturing take place primarily in the US, and will gradually strengthen organization and Germany, France, and Sweden. expertise to ensure that the relevant adaptaAcquired companies and products are intetions and controls take place. grated immediately into the Meda Group. This Find out more in the corporate governance remeans that Meda’s CSR strategy is introduced port on page 62 in Meda’s Annual Report 2012. into recently acquired companies. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Community involvement Meda joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC) Meda considers it to be the company’s duty to in May 2012. This means that Meda has unmake a positive contribution to society. The comdertaken to promote UNGC’s ten principles pany helps improve health and well-being by on human rights, labor, the environment, and offering proven and cost-effective pharmaceutianti-corruption. Meda is dedicated to working cals. Furthermore, Meda contributes to the comwith issues relating to the environment, labor, munity via donations to charitable organizations and anti-corruption. Promoting the ten principand sponsorship of research. There is also Meles will become part of the way in which Meda da’s Children’s Fund, which has supported several is governed and pursues its operations. In relaprojects aimed at needy children in developing tion to human rights, Meda has previously estacountries since it was established in 2002. 17 medicines and health care equipment. MAP AmeriCares also works to prevent and mitigate outbreaks Since 2003, Meda has been a partner of Ameof disease and to promote construction of local riCares, a non-profit organization that delivers health care facilities. medicine, medical supplies, and aid to needy MAP has been important in providing access people worldwide. to health care and medicine for millions of vicSince it was founded in 1982, the organizatims of disasters, such as famine in Darfur, the tion has supplied humanitarian aid worth more Indian Ocean tsunami, and devastating hurricathan USD 9 billion to 137 countries. AmeriCanes in the Caribbean. res has helped mitigate the effects of cyclones In 2012, Meda’s products reached needy pein Bangladesh, earthquakes in Peru and Pakisople in 63 countries. tan, hurricane Katrina in the US, famine in Darfur, and the tsunami in Southeast Asia. Direct Relief International In 2012, products donated by Meda were distriMeda regularly donates pharmaceutical probuted in 36 countries. ducts to Direct Relief International. Direct Relief has helped people in extremely difficult situaMAP International tions to improve their quality of life since 1948. Meda has been donating products to the orgaDirect Relief provides high-demand medicines, nization MAP International since 2001. MAP is a OTC drugs, medical supplies and equipment, voluntary aid organization that was founded in personal care products, and nutritional supp1954, and which works to support some of the lements. In addition, the organization makes world’s poorest people in over 155 countries. targeted capital donations and provides health The organization provides clinics and hospiworker education. In 2012, Meda’s products tals in vulnerable areas with FDA-approved reached nine countries via Direct Relief International. CSR OBJECTIVES AND THE FUTURE The objectives for 2013 build on the results that have been achieved to date in our CSR work. The Group-wide objectives are as follows: • Meda will improve the model for following up compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct among suppliers. • Meda’s environmental impact will continue to decrease. The overarching measurement figure is the amount of CO2 emissions per employee. • Internal control and Business Conduct Guidelines will be further developed in relation to follow-up of compliance. Procedures for prevention of corruption will be strengthened. • A Gap analysis will be carried out of Meda’s operations in relation to the UN Global Compact. A plan of action will be drawn up. 18 19 About Meda’s Sustainability Report 2012 Meda discloses a separate Sustainability Report for 2012 in adthe business, its impact and Meda’s key issues and risks, Meda dition to the sustainability information provided in the Annual has identified relevant information to include in Sustainability reReport the 2012. The separate sustainability report form Meda’s port. In addition, Meda’s stakeholder dialogue offers an underCommunication on Progress Report to the UN Global Compact. standing of the issues that stakeholders’ value and what inforThe Sustainability Report refers to financial year 2012. Meda mation they want to receive. Meda’s intention is that the Annual applies the GRI guidelines for voluntary reporting of sustainabiliand Sustainability Report 2012 meet that need for information ty information, GRI G3.0, and applies level C +. Meda considers and provides a complete picture of Meda’s social, economic and that the information provided in the Annual and Sustainability environmental impact and performance. Reports 2012 meets GRI’s information requirements for ApplicaBelow is Meda’s complete GRI table. The table includes the tion Level C +. The information in the report has been reviewed profile information that is mandatory for GRI Level C as well as by a third party that confirms Meda statement. the performance indicators Meda consider relevant given the Meda’s Sustainability Report 2012 covers the entire group untype of business, location of business and the information requeless otherwise indicated. All units within the Meda are included sted by external stakeholders. The report provides a comprehenin the information presented. sive and accurate picture of Med’s social, economic and environMeda’s stakeholders are identified based on an analysis of the mental impact and performance. business, the mutual impact and relevance. Through analysis of Separate sustainability report = SR. Annual Report = AR STANDARD INFORMATION/ COMPLETE/ INDICATOR REFERENCE PARTIAL COMMENT 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 CEO’s comments SR 3 1.2 Risks and opportunities SR 3-7, 10-12, 14-18 2. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Organization name AR 14 2.2 Primary brands, products, AR 14-16, 21-34 and services 2.3 Organizational structure. AR 15, 17-20, 113 2.4 Location of headquarters. AR 14 2.5 Countries where the organization AR 14-20 is active 2.6 Ownership and legal form AR 14, 127-128 2.7 Markets AR 14-20 2.8 Company size AR 4, 56-57 2.9 Significant changes during the No significant changes in 2012. reporting period 2.10 Awards received in the No awards was received during the year. reporting period 3. REPORT PARAMETERS Report profile 3.1 Reporting period SR 20 3.2 Most recent reporting date Meda’s 2011 Sustainability report was published as part of the 2011 Annual Report in April 2012. 3.3 Reporting cycle Meda publishes an annual Sustainability report as part of the Annual Report. 3.4 Contact person for questions Anders Larnholt. regarding the report Report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content SR 20 3.6 Boundary of the report AR 73-74 The sustainability report applies the same reporting policies as the Annual Report, unless stated otherwise. No additional boundaries have been imposed. 3.7 Limitations on the scope SR 20 of the report Please see indicator 3.5. 3.8 Reporting policies for joint ventures AR 73-74 Please see the note on reporting principles. 20 STANDARD INFORMATION/ COMPLETE/ INDICATOR REFERENCE PARTIAL COMMENT 3.10 Explanation for any re statements No information from previous reports from former reports has been restated. 3.11 Significant changes in scope, SR 14-15 Improved reporting of carbon emissions. boundaries,or measurement methods External reporting of water use and waste compared with reports from previous years in production and development. 3.12 Table identifying location of SR 20-22 This is Meda’s complete GRI index. all partsof the GRI 3.13 Policy and practice for SR 20, 23 external assurance 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS, AND ENGAGEMENTS Governance 4.1 Governance Structure AR 62, 128-131 4.2 Role of the Chairman of the Board AR 67-68, 128-131 Bert-Åke Eriksson is Chairman and Anders Lönner is CEO and President of Meda. 4.3 Independent or non-executive AR 63, 67-68 board members 4.4 Mechanisms to provide proposals AR 62-63 or direction to the Board of Directors 4.8 Internally developed statements of SR 3-7, 10-13, 14-17 mission or basic values, code of conduct, AR 59-60 and principles for sustainable/responsible entrepreneurship 4.12 External declarations, SR 3-4,10-12, 14-17 Meda complies with the requirements and principles, and initiatives AR 59 guidelines in the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, ISO 14001, GRI, and GxP (the regulatory frameworks that govern the pharmaceutical industry). Stakeholder engagement 4.14 Stakeholder groups SR 5 4.15 Identification and selection of Meda’s stakeholders are identified based on stakeholders an analysis of the business, the mutual impact and relevance to different groups. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder SR 5, 10 engagement AR 62 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have SR 5-6 been raised in dialogues with stakeholders PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS EC 1 Direct economic value generated SR 6 Complete and distributed EC 3 Coverage of the organization’s AR 84 (note 8) Complete defined benefit plan obligations EC 4 Significant financial assistance Complete Meda has not received significant financial received from government assistance from the government.2012. EC 8 Development and impact of SR 17-18 Partial infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS EN 3 Direct energy consumption SR 15 Complete by primary energy source EN 4 Indirect energy consumption SR 15 Complete by primary energy source EN 8 Total water withdrawal by source SR 14 Partial EN 16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse SR 15-16 Complete gas emissions by weight EN 17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse SR 15 Complete gas emissions by weight 21 STANDARD INFORMATION/ COMPLETE/ INDICATOR REFERENCE PARTIAL COMMENT EN 18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse SR 14-16 Complete gas emissions and reductions achieved EN 21 Total water discharge by quality SR 14 Partial and destination EN 22 Total weight of waste by type SR 14 Partial and disposal method EN 26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental SR 10, 14-16 Partial impacts of products and services (and extent of impact mitigation) EN 28 Monetary value of significant fines Complete No such incidents in 2012. and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations SOCIAL INDICATORS Labor Practices and Decent Work LA 1 Total workforce by employment SR 10-11 Partial type and region AR 14-15, 17, 83 (note 7) LA 2. LA 2 Employee turnover SR 10-11 Partial LA 7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, SR 11 Partial No fatalities within Meda’s lost days, and absenteeism, and total operations in 2012. number of work-related fatalities by region LA 13 Composition of governance bodies SR 10-13 Partial Meda does not report broken down by ethand breakdown of employees per category AR 67-68, 128-131 nicity/minority group as it is prohibited by according to indicators of diversity Swedish law to record such information. Human Rights HR 2 Percentage of significant suppliers and SR 10 Complete contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken HR 4 Total number of incidents of SR 13 Complete discrimination and actions taken Society SO 4 Actions taken in response to Complete No such incidents in 2012. Further, no incidents of corruption non-compliances with Meda’s Business Conduct Guidelines were reported during 2012. SO 5 Participation in political decision SR 16 Complete making processes and lobbying SO 6 Total value of all contributions SR 16 Complete and gifts to political parties SO 8 Monetary value of significant fines Complete No such incidents in 2012. and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Product responsibility PR 1 Life cycle stages in which health and SR 6-7, 10, 14-16 Partial safety impacts of products and services are assessed PR 3 Type of product and service information SR 16 Complete Meda operates in a strictly regulated required by procedures, and percentage of market. All products and services are significant products and services subject subject to regulation and requirements to such information requirements with regard to content, production, use, how the product will be used, and the effects of use. In some cases information about how the product will be discarded must also be submitted. PR 9 Monetary value of significant fines for Complete No such incidents in 2012. non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 22 Auditor’s Review Report on Meda Sustainability Report To the readers of the Meda Sustainability Report • Assessment of suitability and application of the 2012: criteria regarding the stakeholders’ need for information, Introduction • An interview with representative for the responWe have been engaged by the Executive Manasible management in order to assess if the qualigement to review the Meda Sustainability Report tative and quantitative information stated in the 2012. It is Meda’s Board of Directors and the ExeSustainability Report is complete, accurate and cutive Management that are responsible for ongsufficient, oing activities regarding sustainable development • Shared internal documents in order to assess and for the preparation and presentation of the if the information stated in the Sustainability Sustainability Report in accordance with the appReport is complete, accurate and sufficient, licable criteria. Our responsibility is to express a • An evaluation of the design of the systems and conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on processes used to obtain, manage and validate our review. sustainability information and data, • Review of underlying documentation, on a test The Scope of the Review basis, to assess whether the information and We have performed our review in accordance with data in the sustainability report is based on that RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports issued documentation, by FAR (the institute for the accountancy profes• A visit at Meda’s headquarter in Solna, Sweden, sion in Sweden). A review consists of making inwhere the compilation of sustainability informaquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the tion and data is performed, preparation of the Sustainability Report, and app• Review of qualitative information and statelying analytical and other review procedures. A ments in the Sustainability Report, review is substantially less in scope than an audit • Assessment of Meda’s declared application level conducted in accordance with International Stanaccording to GRI guidelines, dards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing • Reconciliation of financial information with Mestandards in Sweden. The procedures performed da’s Annual Report for the financial year 2012, consequently do not enable us to obtain assuran• Assessment of the overall impression of the ce that we would become aware of all significant Sustainability Report, and its format, taking matters that might be identified in an audit. Acinto consideration the consistency of the stated cordingly, we do not express an audit opinion. information with applicable criteria. Our assurance does not comprise the assumptions used or whether or not it is possible for the Conclusion company to reach certain future targets described Based on our review, nothing has come to our atin the report (e.g. goals, expectations and ambitention that causes us to believe that the informations). tion in Meda’s Sustainability Report has not, in all The criteria on which our review is based are the material respects, been prepared in accordance parts of the “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines with the above stated criteria. G3”, published by The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which are applicable to the Sustainability Report. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. Our review has, based on an assessment of maStockholm April 10, 2013 teriality and risk, e.g. included the following proKPMG AB cedures: • Obtaining knowledge and understanding of Martin Krüger Åse Bäckström Meda’s organization and activities, Authorized Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR 23 Meda AB, Box 906, SE-170 09 Solna, Sweden Phone: +46 8 630 19 00, Fax: +46 8 630 19 50 E-mail: info@meda.se www.meda.see
