life’s Good & Customer & our insight Environment & our effort Business Partner & our support Community & our contribution Employee & our care Overview 1 Report Overview Special Features of This Report Reporting Preparation and Process Key Progress and Performance: To clearly In preparation of this report, we conducted a illustrate LG Electronics’ sustainability perpreliminary survey of internal and external formance to our stakeholders, we have instakeholders to analyze materiality and to cluded “Key Progress and Performance” in improve the report structure. The result was this report. With consideration to stakeholder reported to management and briefed to the interest and impact on LG Electronics, we CSR Council comprised of staff members from have identified key sustainability managerelevant departments. Articles prepared by ment issues with a Materiality Analysis and the departments were finalized after a review illustrated opportunities and risk factors, mid by management and a third party assurer. to long term goals and progress, and future goals and directions related to these issues. Reporting Period and Scope We will also continue to utilize these issues as This report was prepared based on data from key indicators for our sustainability managethe period of January 1 to December 31, 2012. ment performance. For qualitative measures of performance, some data from the first half of 2013 was also Special Issue: “Product Leadership” embodincluded. This report covers all LGE business ies LG Electronics’ pursuit of R&D capability sites in Korea and overseas. Standard curthat enables us to become the first mover rency for this report is the Korean won (KRW), in the market and to introduce market leadwith the average exchange rate of KRW ing products with differentiated value. This 1,126.88 against the USD in 2012 (first quote Life’s Good & section introduces our strong commitment of the day, selling rate). The exchange rate Founded on the commitment to providing contowards delivering No. 1 products based on in effect on December 31, 2012 was USD 1 = venience and happiness in customers’ lives, superior R&D capability and perfect product KRW 1,063.00 (Selling Rate). LG Electronics fully understands the value of quality to earn the complete trust of customshared growth with stakeholders. ers. Assurance Caring for the society and those in need, The “USR (Union Social Responsibility)” proTo ensure credibility, this report has received LG Electronics is growing into a responsible gram is a CSR initiative unique to LG Electhird party assurance from the Korea Produccorporate citizen that contributes to protecttronics and recognized by industry peers as tivity Center, an agency that provides indepening the Earth for future generations. one of the best practices in corporate social dent external party assurance for corporate responsibility. This section introduces social sustainability reports. The assurance stateLife’s Good & customers, business partners, contribution initiatives of the LGE Labor Union, ment is on pages 87-88. employees, communities, and the environwhich is creating advanced labor-management – LG Electronics’ sustainability management relations based on mutual trust to help Information Sources concerning LG ment strives to stay faithful to these values. stakeholders understand our USR activities Electronics’ Sustainability Manageand performances. ment Efforts Reporting Principles This report was prepared in accordance with the G3.1 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Accountability Principles LG Electronics Website Standard (AA1000APS). Based on a Materiality (http://www.lg.com/ sustainability) Analysis, priority was given to issues and information relevant to both LG Electronics and our stakeholders. Information about key issues were organized and presented in a consistent format in three parts –“Our Approach”, “Our Performance” and “Future Direction” – CSR Team, LG Electronics to provide greater clarity and structure. LG Twin Towers, 128 Yeoui-daero, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Korea Email: sustainability@lge.com Tel: 82-2-3777-3263 Environmental Report Annual Report contents Overview 2-13 Materiality Report 30-71 Report Overview/Contents 2-3 8 Material Issues 30-31 CEO Message 4-5 Product with Greener Features 32-40 Management Messages 6 Low-carbon Management 41-47 Management Philosophy 7 Win-Win Growth 48-51 Corporate Overview and Economic 8-11 CSR in Supply Chain/ 52-55 Performance Conflict Minerals CSR Management System 12-13 Social Contribution 56-61 Talent Management 62-65 Corporate Culture/ 66-67 Work-Life Balance Special Issue 14-23 Decent Work 68-71 Product Leadership 14-19 Future of LG Labor Union: 20-23 Union Social Responsibility Management Report 72-81 Corporate Governance 73 Compliance Risk Management 74 Stakeholder Communication 24-27 Jeong-Do Management 75 Stakeholder Engagement 24 Fair Trade 76 Stakeholder Consultation on CSR 25 Consumer Satisfaction through 77 Materiality Analysis 26-27 Service Activities Information Security/ 78-79 Personal Information Protection Key Progress and Performance 28-29 EESH Management 80-81 Appendix 82-93 Economic Data 82 Social Data 83 Environmental Data 84-86 Independent Assurance Statement 87-88 Membership/Awards & Recognition 89 GRI Index 90-92 Past LGE Sustainability Report 93 CEO message 4 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report LG Electronics will strive for sustainability management in order to win the hearts and minds of our customers. What is the philosophy behind LG Electronics’ sustainability management? For a company, sustainability management starts with building competitiveness in its core businesses. To become a truly sustainable company, we need to focus all of our capabilities on understanding the needs of our customers and providing differentiated products and services based on our technology and product leadership. Everything we do — from actively engaging in marketing initiatives that produce results to creating a nurturing environment that helps our employees apply their capabilities to the fullest — is driven by LG’s unique management philosophy of Customer Value Creation and People-Oriented Management. I believe that our conviction to remain true to such values is the key driving force behind the sustainable growth of LG Electronics. What are the key sustainability management initiatives of LG Electronics for this year? Presently, growing uncertainties in the global marketplace and increasing customer expectations are creating an unfavorable business climate and much pessimism about the possibility of growth. Since its establishment, LG Electronics has never stopped striving to strengthen its fundamentals. As a result, our product leadership, which is a key prerequisite for being a market leader, continues to improve and our fundamentals are becoming stronger across the entire organization. This year we will apply everything that we have accomplished so far to lead the market with differentiated products and services that only LG Electronics can deliver. To this end, we must secure “differentiated product leadership” by fully aligning our thoughts and actions with the market and customers, constantly generating new ideas and swiftly putting great ideas into practice with a keen focus on producing meaningful results. Moreover, it is imperative that we transform our work and management style to be fully aligned with our customers' needs. To this end, we must constantly question ourselves as to whether we are simply going through the motions and not seeing what customers truly need and make the transformation into a “customercentric” organization. Going forward, what direction is LG Electronics planning to take to achieve sustainability management? We will guarantee that LG Electronics never compromises its fundamentals, which have been developed over time based on our strong convictions. Not only will we remain true to the roots of our business, we will also strive to further strengthen our fundamentals by complying with the laws of the land as a responsible corporate citizen and adhering to our unique guiding principles, what we call “Jeong-Do Management.” Employees of LG Electronics should never compromise themselves under any circumstances and compete in the market fairly. I am convinced that we can ensure the sustainable growth of the company and gain more opportunities to contribute to society by continuing on this path. May 2013 Bon Joon Koo, Vice Chairman & CEO CEO Message 5 Management Messages Jong Sik Kim, COO (Chief Operating Officer)/President In order to lead the global market, we have to secure product leadership that clearly sets us apart from our competitors and continuously create customer value based on strong fundamentals as a global corporation. LG Electronics is committed to building world-class business capabilities by quickly identifying customer needs and market trends, and by generating and executing ideas that help us become the first mover in the market. Furthermore, we will strive to become a truly sustainable company based on a sound corporate culture and win-win partnership with suppliers. Skott Ahn, CTO (Chief Technology Officer)/President A key driving force behind technology innovation is the prevailing culture of the time. In today's society, businesses need to become a leading cultural force that enriches people's lives with competitive products. Such cultural leadership, supported by our products and technologies, will become the defining feature of a truly sustainable business in our times. As such, LG Electronics strives for technology innovation that embodies the cultural energy of our times and satisfies social and environmental needs. As part of our efforts to create healthier and cleaner environment, LG Electronics is committed to producing meaningful results in low-carbon management, green businesses and energy-efficient products, and continuously expanding our initiatives in such areas. Sang Geon Nam, Business Support Officer/Executive Vice President LG Electronics strives to become an economically and socially responsible corporate citizen based on “Jeong-Do Management” as part of our efforts to earn trust and respect from diverse stakeholders, including customers. We make strategic efforts to address social issues with our products and technologies, such as developing mobile phones for the visually impaired, while actively supporting employee participation in social contribution with various initiatives, including a work day volunteer program. Going forward, we will make ongoing efforts to facilitate free and open communication with diverse stakeholders and incorporate their feedback into our business operations. Ki Wan Kim, GMO (Global Marketing Officer)/Executive Vice President Market leadership is exemplified by a business’ ability to leverage its brand power, understanding both market and consumer needs to introduce competitive products in a timely fashion. Such ability must be supported by swift and ingenious market-sensing activities. LG Electronics focuses on social contribution initiatives that create both economic and social value, providing environmental support to communities that lack infrastructure while developing products that address the hardships of those who are socially marginalized. We will remain committed to our social responsibility with sustained corporate service for the social good. 6 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Management The “LG Way” is a management philosophy unique to LG, which was introduced with the inception of the company and philosophy perfected through decades of experience. It is a “Guiding Principle” of every LG employee’s thinking and action, and we are confident that by remaining true to the spirit of the “LG Way,” LG Electronics will continue to grow and flourish as a company respected by all stakeholders. LG Way Representing LG’s unique corporate culture, the LG Way articulates our LG Way belief in attaining the vision of becoming “No.1 LG” through “CustomerValue Creation” and “People-Oriented Management” as we orient our business practices with “Jeong-Do Management.” No.1 LG “No.1 LG” is the ultimate goal towards which all LG businesses should VISION strive. It expresses our commitment to become a dominant leader in the global market by consistently providing customers with differentiated value in each and every market segment. Conduct Jeong-Do Management In order to gain the complete trust of our customers and achieve sustainable growth, “Customer-Value Creation” and “People-Oriented Management Management” must be facilitated by “Jeong-Do Management.” LG ElecPhilosophy tronics believes that it is possible to compete fairly and produce results with integrity by continuously strengthening our fundamentals. Customer-Value Creation “Customer-Value Creation” is the very reason for our existence and the core principle of LG Electronics. We are in business because customers buy our products and services, and it is only natural that we strive to provide greater value to our customers and create new value for them. quote People-Oriented Management In Hwoi Koo (1907 1969) Bon Moo Koo “People-Oriented Management” expresses our belief that each and evLG Group Founder Chairman, LG Group ery employee is an integral part of our effort to create value for customWhile it is true that a business exWe need to create a differentiated ers. Based on this tenet, we are committed to creating an environment ists to generate profits, it cannot value for customers, society and where our employees can reach their full potential and utilize their prosper without the society, as fish the humanity. We need to help cannot survive without water. That those who strive to realize their abilities to the fullest extent, thereby fostering a spirited workforce that is why we need to care about the dreams. is prepared to tackle any challenges. This will ultimately guarantee a good of our society and contribute strong and competitive LG. to the long-term growth of our nation. For that, we have to find ways Social Contribution, Tradition from LG Electronics’ Inception to benefit both our business and the society, and that is the only way LG Electronics (previously, Goldstar) was founded on October 1, 1958 to a business can prosper in the long “create a world where everyone enjoys convenience and lives happily.” run. Starting with the establishment of the Yeonam Library (currently, Jinju Municipal Library) in January and the donation of radios to “Sinmangae” Nursing Home in Busan in September 1969, LG Electronics has been continuously engaging in social contribution initiatives to mitigate hardships of the socially marginalized. We are committed to protecting the environment and promoting culture and education together with local community members. To this end, we are implementing various initiatives to care for local communities, to protect the environment, to promote volunteerism, and to provide educational and cultural support. Always ready to extend a helping hand to our neighbors in need, LG Electronics will strive to become a responsible corporate citizen that is respected both at home and around the world. Management Messages/Management Philosophy 7 Corporate Overview Since its foundation as Goldstar in 1958, LG Electronics overcame numerous challenges and has continued to grow. We and Economic are pressing forward to become a global leader based on “Product Leadership” that enables us to accurately identify Performance customer and market needs and incorporate them into our business operations. We pledge to create differentiated value for diverse stakeholders and remain a responsible corporate citizen. LG Electronics Overview LG Electronics has maintained its organizational structure, which was LG Electronics Overview (As of December 31, 2012) Unit: KRW billion restructured into four business divisions (HE, MC, HA and AE Company) in December 2010. In order to focus our organizational capability on Organization Name LG Electronics, Inc. Location of LG Twin Towers, 128 Yeoui-daero, securing product leadership, we made partial changes effective as of Headquarters Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Korea December 1, 2012. Based on the changed system, the Chief OperatIndustry Manufacturing ing Officer will oversee production organizations in Korea as well as in Main Product TV, Home Theater System, BluRay Player, Mobile other countries to improve operational efficiency and promote organiHandset, Laptop Computer, Refrigerator, Washing zational expertise. We also created the Synergy Product Planning DiviMachine, Cooking Appliance, Built-in System sion directly under the CEO to increase synergy among products from Kitchenware, Vacuum Cleaner, Health Care different business divisions. Additionally, we established the South Appliance, Air Conditioner, Monitor, Security System, Central America Region Representative to strengthen the geographic Commercial Display, etc. connection among six Central and South American countries including CEO Bon Joon Koo Mexico. Date of Establishment October 1, 1958 No. of Employees 86,697 (Korea: 36,378/Overseas: 50,319) Total Assets (Consolidated) 31,457.4 (-1,201.1) Organizational Chart (As of December 31, 2012) *: New additions Total Liabilities (Consolidated) 18,753.2 (-757) Sales Parent 25,427.2 (-2669.9) (Korea: 7,833.4/Overseas: 17,593.8) CEO Consolidated 50,960 (-3296.6) Operating Parent 42.8 (+306.7) HE Korea Marketing *COO Product Quality (Home Entertainment) Company (Operating) Center Profits Consolidated 1,136 (+757) Company Credit Rating AA (Domestic), Baa2 (Moody’s), BBB(S&P) Europe Region CTO *Synergy Product MC Representative (Technology) Planning Division No. of Shareholders 213,750 (Mobile CommunicaNo. of Shares 180,833,806 tions) Middle East & CFO Corporate Strategic Company Africa Region (Financial) Planning Division * The calculation method for operating profits was revised in line with the changes to financial acRepresentative counting standards in 2012, and past data was also revised accordingly. GMO Corporate Business HA * ( ): Change in figures compared with the previous year *South Central (Marketing) Planning Division (Home Appliance) Company America Region Business Corporate Business Representative Support Office Management DiviAE sion (Air Conditioning & Sales Subsidiaries HR Office Energy Solution) Company (Human Resources) Corporate Audit Division EC Smart Business Business Unit Center Commercial Water Corporate Business Division Design Center Domestic Subsidiaries (As of December 31, 2012) Unit: KRW billion Company Located Main Business Sales (2012) Founded Transactional Relationship HiPlaza Seoul Wholesale & Retail of Electronics 1,305.3 May, 1997 Product Sales HiLogistics Seoul Logistics Management & Service 370.2 December, 2003 Logistics Service Hi-M Solutek Seoul Generic Machinery and Equipment Repair 70.2 January, 2006 Service HiTeleservice Seoul Call Center and Telemarketing Service 53.7 December, 2009 Service Innovation Investment Seoul New Technology Business Investment 0 September, 2005 Investment Cooperative KTV Tech Investment Seoul New Technology Business Investment 0 September, 2007 Investment Cooperative New Technology Business Seoul New Technology Business Investment 0 October, 2010 Investment Cooperative Investment ACE R&A Co. Gyeonggi Province Air Conditioner Manufacturing 25.1 November, 1998 Product Manufacturing and Sales HiEntech Gyeonggi Province Water Quality Engineering 37.2 November, 1999 Service LG-Hitachi Water Solutions Seoul Water Treatment Facility Construction 13.0 January, 2012 Service 8 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Business Operations and Main Products LGE is organized into four business divisions: Home Entertainment (HE), Sales by Company (Consolidated, as of December 31, 2012) Unit: KRW billion (%) Mobile Communications (MC), Home Appliance (HA), and Air Conditioning & Energy Solution (AE). We lead the global market with innovative consumer electronic products, mobile communication devices, and 4,349.6  2,574.0 HE Company (5.1%) MC Company (8.5%) home appliance technologies. HA Company AE Company Other 22,738.0 (Independent business units, 11,220.8 Total (44.6%) other affiliates, (22.0%) 50,960.0 internal transactions, etc.) 10,077.6 (19.8%) HE Company | Overall sales were down 14% compared to the previous year MC Company | With the continuous expansion of the smartphone market and at KRW 8,974.3 billion (Parent) due to contractions in the TV market and IT the contraction of the feature phone sales volume, overall sales decreased by demand and the continued decline of CRT TV and PDP TV segments. LGE 13% compared to the previous year at KRW 8,161.7 billion (Parent) Profits, on maintained its second place market share in the global LCD TV market for the other hand, increased compared from the previous year with our efforts, two consecutive years (source: Display Search). Despite the sales contraction, including reorganizing business structure around smartphone and focusing profits increased thanks to successful premium product offerings such as on profitability in business operations. In particular, profitability is showing Cinema 3D TV and Smart TV. continuous improvement with the sales expansion of premium products such as the LTE handset Optimus G, and cost structure improvement from successful cost management. LCD TV, PDP TV, PDP Module, LCD Monitor Audio & Video, Security System Mobile Handset, Smartphone, Netbook/Tablet PC, Network Infortainment HA Company | Due to the prolonged economic contraction in Europe and AE Company | Despite the economic contraction in Europe and abnormally slow recovery in the U.S., there was only a slight growth in advanced marcold temperatures in India and Central & South America, LGE recorded sales kets. However, LGE continued to expand its sales in the Korean and emergincrease of 0.4% at KRW 2,312.2 billion (Parent) by making various efforts to ing markets and recorded KRW 4,914.9 billion (Parent) in sales, up 3% from maintain superior product competitiveness, including introduction of products the previous year. In the refrigerator and washing machine segments, LGE customized to meet local needs. Profitability was also enhanced thanks to efshowed superior competitiveness with high capacity and efficiency models, ficient cost and profitability management. and our products were even named the best product of the year by “Consumer Reports” of the U.S. Consumer Air Conditioner, Commercial Air Conditioner Solar Energy Solution, LED Lighting, Network Solution Refrigerator, Washing Machine, Kitchen Appliance Vacuum Cleaner, Healthcare Appliance, Water Solutions Corporate Overview and Economic Performance 9 Shared Economic Gains (Parent) The European financial crisis, the global economic contraction and Economic Value Generated, Unit: KRW billion intensifying competition created a tough business climate in the year Distributed and Retained (Parent) 2012. Although we saw robust year-on-year growth in some business Category 2010 2011 2012 segments such as LCD TV and washing machine, sales declined in CRT Sales 29,238.5 28,097.1 25,427.2 TV, PDP TV and key IT products due to contracting demand in advanced Non-operating Income 4.8 (138.5) (285.8) markets. The contraction of feature phone sales volume also led to a and Financial Profits sales decrease in mobile handsets. Our sales in 2012 were down 9.5% Economic Value Generated 29,243.3 27,958.6 25,141.4 from the previous year at KRW 25.4 trillion, but profitability improved Operating Expenses 30,320.3 28,361.0 25,384.4 compared to the previous year despite increases in the price of some Wages and Benefits 2,173.5 2,488.5 2,860.6 commodities as well as R&D costs thanks to profitability improvement Capital Costs 178.0 252.8 267.3 efforts across our business segments. LGE is committed to fulfilling its Taxes & Dues 51.3 25.6 26.0 economic responsibility by sharing the economic value created through Social Contribution 21.4 10.8 19.4 business activities with a variety of stakeholders, such as shareholdEconomic Value Distributed 32,744.5 31,138.7 28,557.7 ers, business partners, employees and local communities. LGE strives Economic Value Retained (3,501.2) (3,180.1) (3,416.3) to improve its business profitability and secure new opportunities for · Non-operating income and financial profits: Expressed in accordance with the Korean growth to distribute greater value to our stakeholders. International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS) {Financial Profits + Non-operating Income (Expenses)}-Financial Expenses · Operating expenses consist of sales costs and administrative expenses. · Capital costs consist of interest expenses and dividends. · Taxes & dues consist of corporate taxes, public dues, resident tax and a special tax for rural development. · The calculation method for operating profits was revised in line with the changes to financial accounting standards in 2012, and past data was also revised accordingly. Flow of Economic Value (Parent) Unit: KRW billion Shareholders 36.9 Dividends Communities Customers 19.4 25,427.2 Social Sales Contribution Creditors Employees 230.4 2,860.6 Interest Wages & Benefits Suppliers Governments 26.0 30,100.0 Purchasing & Taxes & Dues Service Expenses 10 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Global Network Employees by Country (As of December 31, 2012) Global Sales and Operating Profit (Consolidated) Unit: KRW trillion (USD billion) Korea China India Brazil 36,378 14,280 4,935 4,926 86,697 (42.0%) (16.5%) (5.7%) (5.7%) Sales (100%) Poland Mexico Indonesia Other 4,193 3,844 3,748 14,393 55.8 54.3 (4.8%) (4.4%) (4.3%) (16.6%) (USD 48.2) (USD 49.0) 51.0 (USD 45.3) Sales Overview (Parent) Unit: KRW billion Operating 1.1 Profit (USD 1.01) Category 2010 2011 2012 0.4 0.1 Sales Korea 6,892.0 8,174.7 7,833.4 (USD 0.34) (USD 0.11) Overseas 22,346.5 19,922.4 17,593.8 Total 29,238.5 28,097.1 25,427.2 Net income (loss) before taxes (1,077.0) (402.4) (243.0) 2010 2011 2012 * The calculation method for operating profits was revised in line with the changes to financial accounting standards in 2012, and past data was also revised accordingly. * USD 1 = KRW 1,157 (2010)/KRW 1,108 (2011) )/KRW 1,127 (2012) Global Operations (As of December 31, 2012) Korea HQ 1 CIS Production 7 Production 2 R&D Center 31 Sales 1 % in Sales 14 Other 3 % in Sales 7 1 Europe 2 Production 2 3 4 Sales 15 6 Other 4 5 R&D Center 1 % in Sales 12 1. Headquarters (Seoul) 2. Pyeongtaek Site 3. Cheongju Site North America 4. Gumi Site Production 5. Changwon Site (I & II Plant) 3 6. Jeonju Site Sales 4 Other 3 R&D Center 3 % in Sales 26 Central & South America Production 2 Middle East China Asia Japan Sales 5 & Africa Production 13 Production 7 Sales 1 Other 5 Production 4 Sales 1 Sales 6 R&D Center 1 % in Sales 12 Sales 11 Other 3 Other 2 % in Sales 2 Other 6 R&D Center 2 R&D Center 2 % in Sales 10 % in Sales 4 % in Sales 13 Corporate Overview and Economic Performance 11 CSR LG Electronics is not only internalizing Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) throughout its business operations but also Management striving to provide differentiated value to its stakeholders with technology and product innovations. It is our goal to first earn the trust of stakeholders through such efforts, and then to achieve sustainable growth. LG Electronics will continue its efforts to improve CSR performance to become a wellrespected global corporate citizen. CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Management System We believe that for LG Electronics to earn the trust of stakeholders as LGE CSR Management System a responsible and ethical corporate citizen, we must become a healthy organism in the market ecosystem and assume a proactive role in making the system healthier with our products and services. Moreover, we need to take care of our communities, help those in need become self-reliant, interface and communicate with a variety of stakeholders Sustainable Growth throughout this process, and form a trust-based relationship with them. based upon Stakeholder Trust To meet this goal, LGE has established and implemented four strategic directions: CSR Change Management, CSR Risk Management, StakeCSR Risk Management Strategic Social Contribution holder Engagement, and Strategic Social Contribution. From product · Establish a monitoring system · Employee participation · Respond to customers’ CSR · Contributions utilizing LGE R&D through purchasing, production, sales and after sales service, LGE requirements and regulations technology and products strives to improve our CSR execution while strengthening our efforts to · Perform risk self-assessment and · Global partnership programs audit of high risk group build consensus and partnership with stakeholders. To facilitate continual value creation and to build strong fundamentals, LGE established Stakeholder Engagement the CSR Committee comprised of top executives, including the CEO and · Stakeholder communication programs · Sustainability report the Global CSR Council (a corporate-wide working level staff council). · CSR campaign · CSR promotion The CSR Committee makes executive decisions concerning the comCSR Change Management pany’s CSR directions and strategies, while the Global CSR Council for· Comply with international CSR standards mulates specific plans and action plans based on executive decisions, · Support management of corporate CSR issues · Support decision making and operate CSR council translating them into corporate-wide CSR activities. The CSR Council is · Employee training and CSR change management supported by the three working-level subcommittees, each responsible for social contribution (Korea and Overseas), and risk management. Working-level committees host workshops twice a year. In April 2012, R&D Procurement Production Marketing & +α Product Responsible Protection of Sales Contribution CSR activities were presented at the Board of Directors (BOD) meeting development sourcing and labor rights Promotion of to resolving and the BOD bylaws were amended to include CSR in its official agenda. beneficial to supply chain and the corporate and social issues both society & management environment at brand image business production sites CSR Change Management Since we joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC), we have been strengthening our compliance management for all Korean and overseas producCSR Risk Management tion sites and suppliers, while requiring new recruits (entry-level/with To comply with the international standards and requirements preexperience), sojourning employees and subsidiary president candidates scribed by the EICC for its members (EICC Code of Conduct). LG Electo undergo CSR training to raise employee awareness. From 2012, the tronics implements a CSR risk management program at production training program was extended to specialists such as procurement sites (Korea and overseas) to assess our conformance in the areas of managers, and in 2013, we also plan to further expand the program to labor rights, ethics, the environment, health & safety, and management marketing managers and establish online courses to provide employsystems, and makes improvements to address the issues identified in ees easy access to CSR information. the process. In the first half of 2012, we required 37 production sites (Korea and overseas), including new sites, to perform self-assessment (the EICC Self-Assessment Questionnaire). Based on the assessment results, we conducted onsite CSR consulting for 12 production sites and required the rest to implement self-improvement measures. In the second half of the year, we performed reassessment to monitor the progress, and identified improvement points for our 2013 plans. We have 12 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 1 | 2013 EICC Membership 1 2 3 4 Meeting (Taiwan) 2 | Listed in the DJSI World Index 3 | LG Hope School (China) 4 | LG Hope Village (Ethiopia) also asked suppliers to perform the self-assessment (the EICC SelfAssessment Questionnaire for major suppliers and simplified survey Stakeholder Engagement Process for the rest), and risk factors identified in the process will be managed systematically in association with the Win-Win Growth Team at the Procurement Center (more details on pp. 52-55, pp. 68-71). Analyze Identify Assess engagement stakeholders risk & opportunity Stakeholder Engagement Since April 2010, LG Electronics has held a semiannual Stakeholder Consultation to build consensus with its major stakeholders (customPlan & Design Identify engagement ers, suppliers, the government, and investors, etc.) and to seek their level& methods opinions on our CSR activities. As part of our efforts to expand contact points with global stakeholders, we plan to host Stakeholder ConsultaEngage Engagement tion at overseas locations in 2013. LGE also actively accommodates stakeholders (buyer, NGO, etc.) inquiries and interview requests on CSR issues (a total of 62 cases in 2012). Take Actions Identify key issues Correspondence In addition to regular engagement and cooperation with academia, industry peers, and consulting agencies, we always welcome opportunities to share our CSR efforts and experience in diverse CSR events such Evaluate & Review Public reporting Competency as conferences, seminars and forums. building In recognition of our commitment and ongoing efforts towards corporate social responsibility at home and abroad, LGE was included in the Review World Index of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) 2012/2013. LGE was also listed in the DJSI Asia-Pacific Index for three consecutive years and the DJSI Korea Index for four straight years. Going forward, LG Electronics will continue to pay close attention to external assessments and feedback from internal/external experts to manage risk factors and monitor our progress (more details on p. 25). jobs. LGE also utilizes its technology and products to resolve social isStrategic Social Contribution sues. In 2012, we developed our 5th edition of a mobile phone that reads LG Electronics makes social contributions based on the LG Way, the books and distributed them to the visually impaired free of charge. We guiding principle for thinking and action for LG employees, to contribute are also actively participating in increasing global awareness of issues to the sustainable development of the humanity. The strategic focus such as poverty and environment by utilizing our marketing infrastrucof our social contribution efforts is to achieve the United Nations Milture (i.e. New York Times Square digital billboard) and offering educalennium Development Goals, particularly on resolving environmental, tion programs such as the Mobile Science Class. social and economic issues with our core capabilities such as technoloMoreover, the increasing participation of employees in LGE’s social gies, products and employee participation. LGE’s efforts were fully repcontribution efforts was evidenced by the “Life’s Good” volunteers who resented in many of our cooperative initiatives: sponsorship of UNEP’s share their knowledge and talent to realize the vision of “LG, Supporting (the United Nations Environment Programme) Champions of the Earth Youthful Dreams.” LGE employees also actively participate in donation Awards, partnership with the UNWFP (the UN World Food Programme) initiatives such as the “Life’s Good Day” event (employees opt for simfor famine relief efforts in Africa and Asia, and cooperation with the Inpler meals and volunteers to pass on savings in the form of donations), ternational Vaccine Institute (the IVI) in providing vaccines to Ethiopians. Salary Rounding Fund and Executive Contribution Fund. From 2013, we LGE also provides financial and management supports (i.e. productivity introduced a workday volunteer program to strengthen our support to improvement consulting and management training) to social enterprise employees’ social contribution efforts (more details on pp. 56-61). start-ups in the environmental area and contributes to creating green CSR Management 13 Special Issue PRoDUCT LEADERSHIP In an effort to overcome slowing growth and achieve sustainable development, LG Electronics established and announced the “Five-year Business Plan” and is implementing it across our business operations. Based on the Plan, we aspire to lead the market with product competitiveness based on superior R&D capability, which will enable us to develop products that deliver differentiated value to customers as well as to diverse stakeholders. “Product Leadership,” the key pillar of the “Five-year Business Plan,” expresses our strong commitment towards delivering No. 1 products and perfect product quality based on R&D capability to earn the complete trust of customers. Empowered by strong product leadership, LG Electronics strives to deliver a bright present and future around the world. 14 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Product Leadership 15 Glo b a l L e a d e r, 55 World's First inch Curved Ergonomic Curved Screen OLED TV 55EA9800 LGE’s new OLED TV features the industry’s very first curved screen ergonomic design, providing the most immersive viewing experience. With the optimum curvature, the entire screen surface is equidistant from the viewer’s eyes and eliminates the problem of screen-edge visual distortion and loss of detail. The Curved OLED TV produces astoundingly vivid and realistic images thanks to our proprietary WRGB OLED technology, a unique Four-Color Pixel system that features a white sub-pixel in addition to the conventional RGB OLEDs to create the excellent color output. 16 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report LG WORLD RECORD Emblem The LG WORLD RECORD emblem adopts a design reminiscent of a certification mark to emphasize LG Electronics’ global top level technology and product leadership for greater impact. LG WORLD RECORD Campaign: Global Marketing Initiative for Product Leadership LG World Record is a global marketing campaign designed to feature the world’s best/first products, proving the technological leadership of LG Electronics. The campaign starts early on from the beginning of the product development phase, and corporate-level efforts are made throughout the process. LG World Record products, which include “the World’s Largest & Slimmest OLED TV,” “the World’s First 84 inch Ultra High Definition 3D TV,” and the World’s Leader in LTE Device Patents,” are marked with a unique emblem to help consumers easily recognize the worldclass products. LG Electronics is committed to delivering No.1 products and achieving sustainable growth based on product leadership and innovation. 5.5 Full HD IPS inch 1.7 GHz Qualcomm Quad-Core Optimus G Pro The Optimus G Pro offers bright and sharp images with its 5.5 inch full HD IPS display and provides long hours of powerful performance with the 1.7 GHz Qualcomm Quad-Core processor and 3,140 mAh battery. The new Optimus series also offers differentiated user experience with the world’s first “Dual Recording” feature that allows users to produce a single image using both the front and rear cameras together and the “VR Panorama” function for 360 degree picture taking of one’s surroundings, not just a wide landscape view. Product Leadership 17 4D World’s First Air Conditioner to Take Direct Voice system Commands Real 4D Cooling System Whisen FNQ166DTRB LG Electronics introduced the world’s first air conditioner that takes direct voice commands. Featuring “Voice On” technology that enables users to control the machine without a remote, the new model’s voice commands range anywhere from power on/off to adjusting the temperature and wind strength, and switching to air purification mode. The real 4-dimensional cooling system virtually eliminates “cooling blind spots,” and offers superior performance with a “Super Cool Power” function that produces cooler air (by 4 degrees) than the existing models. Powered by the Super Inverter technology, the new model also offers the highest energy efficiency in its class (consumes less energy than products with “Grade 1 Energy Efficiency Label”) recognized by the “Energy Frontier” certification. 5.1 World’s Largest Capacity Cubic Ft Fastest Wash Cycle: LG Front Load Washer 39-minutes (WM8000H*A) Offering the world’s largest residential washer capacity of 5.1 cu.ft, the LG Front Load Washer (WM8000H*A) is leading the market with revolutionary TurboWash™ technology, which allows consumers to save 20 minutes on larger loads with outstanding cleaning performance. With the largest capacity washer available, consumers can wash a king size comforter and full set of bedding in a single load, and with TurboWash™, they can now do that large load even faster. Although powerful, the WM8000H*A is still extremely efficient and has been awarded the ENERGY STAR Most Efficient designation for 2013 by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 18 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report F i rst C l a ss P ro d u c t s 910 World’s Largest Capacity L World’s First Door-in-Door Dios V9100 T Although boasting the world’s largest capacity, Dios V9100 uses the least amount of power (35.8 kwh/month) in its class thanks to LGE’s proprietary fourth generation linear compressor. The refrigerator model features the world’s first Door-in-DoorTM design (fridge at the top and freezer at the bottom) and another world’s first, the five-door structure, which not only provides easy access to users’ favorite food and drinks but also saves energy. Product Leadership 19 Special Issue Future of LG Electronics Labor Union Union Social Responsibility 20 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report “Union Social Responsibility,” A New Paradigm in Labor-Management Relations In order to build up on our labor-management relations that create differentiated value and present a new direction for the labor union of a global corporation, the LGE Labor Union declared Union Social Responsibility (USR) in January 2010 as a pledge for social responsibility and customer respect. Since the USR declaration, the LGE Labor Union has been continuously carrying out social contribution initiatives that demonstrate shared commitment of labor and management towards corporate social responsibility. USR Symbol Design Motif | People, Nature, Environment, Harmony, Happiness, Smile Design Concept | The symbol mark visually represents the images that we strive for and inspires unity in our commitment towards USR. It also represents the LGE Labor Union in internal and external communication. “Happy smile” visualizes the Union’s future, aspiring for green leadership based on a balance between nature and humanity. The color orange symbolizes humanity (Human), and green represents nature (Eco). The overall shape and smile create a connection and continuity with LG Electronics’ symbol mark, and the letter “U” represents the Labor Union. Modifications to the colors and shape of the symbol mark are prohibited. Future of LG Electronics Labor Union : USR 21 the LGE Labor Union established a vision for USR as part of its efforts toward goal-oriented USR Vision USR, A New and effective USR activities. In order to achieve Paradigm for the vision of Socially Responsible Labor Union Labor Union Vision that Provides Innovative Value the Labor Union Socially Responsible Labor Union that focuses on fulfilling USR, improving the quality of Provides Innovative Value employees’ lives and making contributions to the global community as its key role and responsibility. The USR system is constructed based on “ISO 26000 Social responsibility” (Standards Direction Labor Union’s fulfillment established by the International Organization for Standardization to of social responsibility provide guidance on how businesses and organizations can operate Raise Improve Global in a socially responsible manner) and organized into the seven core competitivness worker’s community subject areas of Governance, Human Rights, Labor, the Environment, of corporation quality of life contribution Mission & Role Fair Operating Practices, Consumer Issues, Community Involvement & Unchanging trust and respect between Labor Development. the LGE Labor Union develops action plans for each core and Management subject and carries out systematic USR activities. USR Achievements and Key Initiatives Area Key Initiatives USR Achievements in 2012 Governance · Serve as the management on the field · Conducted USR awareness training for the Union leadership · Achieve transparency in the Union operations Human Rights · Improve union members’ quality of lives · Provided scholarships to USR partners (suppliers) · Provide support for suppliers’ human rights initiatives · Provided support to members in need · Hosted discussion sessions with suppliers and non-regular workers Labor · Create a union that provides counseling · Operated grievance resolution and counseling programs for union members · Hosted events for members performing overtime work or working under extreme weather conditions · Hosted events to honor and motivate members Environment · Establish low-carbon culture · Hosted an event promoting low-carbon culture · Expand the “Global Volunteer Day” program · Global Volunteer Day · Chapter initiatives (reducing food waste, river cleaning, forest etc.) Fair Operating · Carry out compliance and anti-corruption activities · Engaged in activities promoting compliance with basics (5S, focus during work hours, Practices conformance with company rules, etc.) · Conducted an ethical compliance campaign Consumer Issues · Enhance the product quality improvement initiatives ·C arried out product quality improvement activities (quality training, quality production line, visits to service locations, transfer of product quality improvement programs to overseas subsidiaries) Community · Contribute to reducing global poverty and hunger · Performed relief activities in Cambodia (installed solar power generator, donated LEDs) Involvement & · Contribute to local communities · Provided productivity improvement consulting to a startup social enterprise (Heuksalim) Development · Chapter initiatives (soup kitchen, photo shoot for single elders, events for the Family Month) Common ·H osted a USR convention, internalized USR activities, engaged collaborative activities with CSR (Life’s Good Day, blood drive ) · Promoted USR to overseas subsidiaries (1 in Mexico, 1 in Indonesia, 4 in China) I nter view Tae Guen Lee CEO, Heuksalim When we first received the consulting offer from the LGE Labor Union, we were very skeptical about it – we didn’t think that a large corporation knew anything about farming or could understand what we were trying to do. We thought consultants would come in for a couple of days and give some lectures, and that would be it. But we were pleasantly surprised. Consultants from the LGE Labor Union came in once a week for five months, putting our operations under microscope and changing everything. They first installed a conveyor belt and went on to transform the entire distribution system of Heuksalim. After five months of consulting, our annual sales went up from KRW 5 billion to 8 billion, and the number of employees also increased to 45, adding 10 more jobs. The new spots mostly went to elderly and female residents from the village. Nowadays, I am busy promoting LG Electronics to everyone who has ears. I hope more farmers can have opportunities to learn knowhow and advanced system from large corporations, as we did from LG Electronics. 22 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Since the USR declaration in 2010, the LGE Labor 1 Union has been continuously carrying out a wide Key USR range of social contribution initiatives. Ongoing Achievements USR initiatives include transparent operations of the Union, support for suppliers’ human rights initiatives, counseling for union members, establishment of a low-carbon corporate culture, promotion of compliance and anti-corruption, scholarship programs for multicultural families/global poverty-hunger eradication efforts, establishment of the LGE Labor Union Code of Ethics, USR forums, USR publications, consulting for social enterprises, product quality improvement efforts, etc. In particular, the Labor Union annually organizes a 2 volunteer event (Global Volunteer Day) in celebration of World Environment Day, in which about 20,000 LGE employees across the world participate. Starting with Eco City Seoul (e-waste recycler) in 2011, the Labor Union continued its consulting program for social enterprises in 2012, providing management consulting to “Heuksalim” for five months. As a result, the company’s productivity improved by 46% (based on daily processing volume of small-size packages) and created 10 new jobs. 3 the LGE Labor Union regards “Customer-Value Creation through quality competitiveness” as its Directions top priority and carries out diverse activities, such for as establishing USR product quality improvement 2013 best practices, securing product leadership and establishing stable labor-management relations Ac tivity overseas subsidiaries by transferring know how on maintaining constructive labor-management relations. The Labor Union has transferred its know how on maintaining constructive labor relations and expanded URS initiatives to 6 overseas subsidiaries (including Indonesia, China and Mexico) and plans to do the same for 15 overseas subsidiaries (including Brazil, Poland and Vietnam) in 2013 to 1 | Kick-off Ceremony for the USR Product Quality Line stabilize productivity and improve quality competitiveness. Going for2 | Joint Global Volunteer Day Event with Indonesia Subsidiary ward, the Labor Union will continue to provide great value to the global 3 | Medical Equipment and School Supply Donations (Cambodia) community based on its expanding global network. Interv iew Sang Ho Bae Chairman of the LGE Labor Union Based on our shared commitment to corporate social responsibility, the LGE Labor Union strives for Union Social Responsibility and carries out diverse activities in cooperation with management. Since 2012, we have focused on creating customer value based on stronger quality competiveness. As a global corporation, LG Electronics has customers and employees across the world, and our efforts toward production and quality competitiveness must be implemented at overseas sites as well as our domestic sites. The LGE Labor Union is committed to disseminating LGE’s advanced labor relations and USR across the global community as the foundation for production and quality competitiveness that creates customer value. Future of LG Electronics Labor Union : USR 23 Stakeholder LG Electronics actively engages with stakeholders through diverse communication channels and strives to achieve suscommunication tainable management based on strategy and execution that create differentiated value, while contributing to the improvement in quality of life for all humanity. Stakeholder Engagement Procurement Responsible Sourcing/ Supply Chain Management As of year-end 2012, the number of shareholders was 201,161 (based on common As of December 2012, LGE’s direct raw material stock ownership). LGE’s market capitalization purchases totaled approximately KRW 30.1 trillion totaled KRW 12.3951 trillion with preferred from more than 4,300 suppliers. stocks included (KRW 12.445 trillion based on common stocks). Communication Channels R&D · S upplier portal, satisfaction survey, suggestion program, support fund, Win-Win Growth forum and Production Product Development Communication Channels supporting programs for suppliers Protection of Human Beneficial to Both ·General shareholders’ meeting, Rights and Environment Society performance presentation, investor at Production Sites and Business conference, websites, management report, business report rs/ S up st o e r s p li v e ld er In r e h o s ha As of December 31, 2012, the total number LG Electronics has 29 production subS of LGE employees was 86,697 (Korea: 36,378/ sidiaries and 44 sales subsidiaries in 45 Overseas: 50,319). 21,514 of the employees countries. LGE has a total of 153 busiare female (Korea: 5,830/Overseas: 15,684), ness sites across the world, including C o m m u n i ti e s and 65,183 are male (Korea: 30,548/Overseas: E m ployee s R&D centers and branches. 34,635). Communication Channels Communication Channels ·S  ocial contribution activity, sporting ·O  pen communication session, event sponsorship, discussion session, LaborManagement Council, Junior Board, website internal magazine, intranet, newsletter, G t LG Way Survey erna o Int io vern s na m er l O ent/ tom rga nizat Cus ions In each of the more than 120 countries that we operate in, LG Electronics duly Based on our management philosophy complies with the laws and regulations “Customer-Value Creation,” we strive to satisfy of the country and honors tax obligations. diverse customers across the world. In 2012, LGE also develops products customized we recorded approximately KRW 50.96 trillion to local needs in partnership with the in sales (consolidated). governments and local universities. We also partner with NGOs and international Communication Channels organizations to tackle a broad range of · Service center, survey, exhibition, website, CSR issues and actively support their CSR SNS, prosumers initiatives. Marketing & Social Contribution Communication Channels Sales Contribution to · P ublic hearing, discussion session, Creation of Resolving Social seminar Differentiated Issues · Social contribution program, website Value 24 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Panel of the 5th Stakeholder Consultation on CSR · Moderator: H an Kyun Rho (Professor, Business Administration, Kookmin University) · Min Gu Jun (Director, BSI Group Korea) · Chul Ki Ju (Former President, Global Compact Network Korea) · Soon Won Kwon (Professor, Business Administration, Sookmyung Women’s University) · Sung Pil Yang (Director, Employment Policy Coordination Division, Ministry of Employment and Labor) · Seon Ae Jeong (Executive Officer, Korea Human Rights Foundation) Stakeholder Consultation on CSR Key Inputs from the 5th Stakeholder Consultation on CSR LG Electronics has held a semiannual Stakeholder Consultation since (November 21, 2012) 2010 in order to build a consensus between LGE and stakeholders on Topic: LG Electronics’ Labor and Human Rights Management: CRS issues and to incorporate the diverse opinions of stakeholders into Exploring its Role in Promoting Labor and Human Rights our sustainability management. Stakeholder Feedback on Labor & Human Rights Issues & Operations of Stakeholder Consultation LGE Plans for Incorporation Stakeholder Consultation is organized with an internal panel of LGE 1. Establish a strategic framework to respond to labor & human rights executives and an external panel of professionals from various fields. related issues (mid to long term task) To secure fairness and neutrality of the proceedings, Stakeholder ConEnhance response framework related to business management unsultation is moderated by an independent expert in CSR management. der the leadership of HR Members of the external panel can freely present their opinions from 2. Minimize human rights violations associated with the internal s e c u a global perspective as individuals, not as representatives of their orrity process (in progress) ganizations. Results of the consultation are recorded and distributed Employee training, promotion of voluntary installation of a smartin the form of minutes, reviewed by participants, and then made public phone security application through our sustainability report. 3. M anage suppliers’ human rights issues (in progress) The Procurement Team conducts regular monitoring of suppliers’ Incorporation of Consultation Results human rights issues (training, promotion and change management) Key suggestions from the 4th Stakeholder Consultation (Product Safety 4. Implement human rights impact assessment (long term review) and Quality Management) held in the first half of 2012 and the 5th Plan to revisit the issue Stakeholder Consultation (Labor and Human Rights) held in the second 5. Strengthen CSR training and management for suppliers (in progress) half of 2012 were reflected in the materiality analysis for the 2012 SusConduct CSR training for the Procurement Team and suppliers tainability Report. Some suggestions were also incorporated into LGE Strengthen onsite support by the Procurement Team for high risk management activities (mainly in CSR activities), and sincere efforts suppliers have been made to present the current activities in this Sustainability 6. Strengthen training and support for small-size recyclers and waste Report. Items requiring further development will be shared in the next product processors (in progress; 2008 and onward) consultation meeting and sustainability report to facilitate continuous Strengthen assessment/training/support by environmental safety improvement. related teams 7. Expand products developed and produced based on Creating Shared Value (under review) Activities and Plans to Incorporate the 4th Consultation Results (Product Safety and Quality Management) Key Suggestions Activities in 2012/Plans for 2013 Results · Preemptive product recall/utilization of parts Review/planning in progress under the leadership of the In progress: 2012 and onward replacement records Product Quality Center · Provide a recommended use period for products · Strengthen warnings against misuse of products · Strengthen risk assessment Implemented the new product shipment approval system from the In progress: 2012 and onward Product Testing Laboratory · Enhance the safety of parts produced by suppliers Implemented the key parts certification system (Business Division) In progress: 2012 and onward and the mass production 4M change approval system (Product Testing Laboratory) · Foster product safety professionals with a legal mind Incorporated into the curriculum of the Quality College In progress: 2012 and onward · Improve measures to protect those who are exposed to Strengthened collaboration between the PL/Safety Team and Under review: Mid to long term task for 2013 safety risks the CSR Team · Enhancement of product use guide utilizing SNS Impossible to accommodate due to security requirements for Unable to incorporate: Incorporated the results from new product information offline surveys on the product evaluation panel Stakeholder communication 25 Materiality LG Electronics performs a materiality analysis to identify sustainability issues that are material to our stakeholders in analysis an effort to prepare accurate and effective sustainability reports. Issues identified in the materiality analysis process are organized by stakeholder group and by issue, and discussed in detail. This year, we conducted a stakeholder survey on all LGE employees (Korea and Overseas) and performed an analysis from the perspective of investors based on the data from the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board. Materiality Analysis Process LG Electronics performs a materiality analysis to systematically manMateriality Analysis Criteria age important CSR issues based on the “Five-Part Materiality Test” of AA1000SES (Stakeholder Engagement Standard). Material issues, Five-Part Materiality Factors Considered by LGE Test Criteria which are finalized after a review by the management and the assurer, Internal Short Term Financial Impact Compliance Risk are fully disclosed and reviewed in the sustainability report and Key Internal Policy and Awareness Existence of policy, Employee Survey Progress and Performance (pp. 28-29). These issues are also preExternal Industry Standard EICC Code of Conduct: DJSI Questionnaire, sented at our Stakeholder Consultation (p. 25) as key agenda. In this SASB year’s materiality analysis, we expanded the CSR survey targets to all External Stakeholder Interest Expert Survey: Stakeholder Inquiries employees, both Korea and overseas, and referred to the data from the (Buyers, Investors, NGOs, etc.) Sustainability Accounting Standards Board to analyze the issues from Social Norms ISO 26000: GRI: United Nations Global the perspective of investors. Going forward, we plan to further enhance Compact the materiality analysis process to enable functional departments to * EICC: The Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition identify relevant material issues and to achieve greater accuracy. * DJSI: Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes * SASB: Sustainability Accounting Standards Board * ISO 26000: International Standard on Social Responsibility External Expert Survey * GRI (Global Reporting Initiative): International Standard for Preparing Corporate In January 2013, we conducted a survey of over 200 Korean and interSustainability Report national experts in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), requesting them to rate LG Electronics’ CSR efforts, share the CSR issues they are interested in, and offer their opinions on how we can improve our sustainability report. The results were incorporated into our report and Sustainability Management Level (External Expert Survey, 5 point Scale) materiality analysis. 2013 3.4 Employee Survey In the CSR survey conducted in January 2013 on over 70,000 regular 2012 3.5 employees (Korea and overseas), 55.5% of the respondents answered 2011 3.9 positively to our sustainability efforts, up 1.5% from 2010. Although overall employees awareness of CSR remained at the similar level, overseas employees showed significantly lower level of awareness than Korean employees (Korea: 94%/Overseas: 63%), thus making Suggestions on Report employee awareness an area that still needs improvement. Regarding Indicate risks/opportunities/managing team for each issue what LGE needs to do to become a respected corporation, employees Clearly indicate performance in meeting targets (to identify whether LGE is making responded “internalization of CSR into corporate culture,” “ongoing good on its commitments) Establish a separate Sustainability Report website interest and support from top management,” and “stronger promotion Focus on presenting material issues and social contribution programs.” In the LG Way survey conducted on Present controversial and material issues from 2012 all Korean and overseas employees, 73% of those questioned responded positively to our sustainability efforts. Media Analysis LG Way Survey Results on CSR Unit: % In order to identify issues of increasing interest amongst external (Conducted on 39,333 Korean and overseas employees in 2012) stakeholders, LGE analyzed 2012 media coverage of the company from Korea and overseas. Negative coverage centered mostly on the comQuestion: LG Electronics is fully aware of the materiality of social, pany’s smartphone sales, concerns over the company’s performance, environmental and financial responsibilities of a business. and fair trade issues (p. 76). 2012 73 2011 72 2010 75 26 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report External Stakeholder Inquiry Inquiring Organization (2012) Unit: Case (%) A total of 62 inquiries were made on CSR issues by external stakeholders, up by 13 cases from the previous year. Supply chain CSR management and conflict minerals were issues of the greatest interest. LGE is 10 (16%) Buyers NGOs trying its best to provide satisfactory responses to such inquiries and to Investors incorporate them into our business operations by reporting important Other 8 (13%) Total issues to management. 62 cases 37 (60%) 2012 Material Analysis Results 7 (11%) For the past four years, LG Electronics has disclosed the results of our materiality analysis (including marketing and product quality issues) and performances, and we have tracked changes from the previous years in an effort to present a broad range of information. However, based on our analysis of stakeholder interests and sustainability reMajor Inquires page ports released by industry peers, we have concluded that it is more CSR Risk Management 68-71 meaningful to focus on environmental and social issues of great imCSR in supply chain 52-54 portance than to present a wide range of information. As such, we have CSR Strategy and Management System 12-13 moved away from analyzing trends in individual issues and instead have Conflict Minerals 55 made efforts to present our performances in each material issue in Environment and Safety Management System 80-81 Key Progress and Performance (pp. 28-29). The major issues identified Labor Rights/Non-discrimination 68-71 from the 2012 material analysis are illustrated below. Compared to the Social Contribution 56-61 previous year, issues such as “Managing Hazardous Substances ConClimate Change 41-47 tained in Products,” “Occupational Health and Safety,” CSR in Supply Jeong-Do Management (Ethical Management/ Anti-corruption) 75 Chain and Responding to Climate Change are gaining greater importance, while issues such as “Water Use,” “Biodiversity,” and “Impact on Local Communities” have newly emerged. With the implementation of the U.S. Conflict Minerals Rule, we expect discussions on “Responsible Sourcing” as well as interest in “Working Conditions across Supply Chain” and “Social and Environmental Impact to Local Communities” to increase in 2013. 2012-2013 Materiality Matrix Very Important Employee · Occupational Health & Safety Employee · Diversity & Non-discrimination · Fair evaluation & Reward · Labor relations & Freedom of association · Corporate culture & Work-Life balance · Child labor/Forced labor · Talent cultivation & Career development · Talent recruitment & Retention Supplier · CSR in supply chain Supplier · Fair trade Stakeholder Interest · Preventing the use of conflict minerals Environment Local Community · Management of hazardous substances · Social contribution within products Supplier · Responding to climate change · Improving product energy efficiency · Win-Win Growth Environment · Management of emissions/discharges from production sites · Responsible management of e-waste Local Community · Environmental management system · Green supply chain management · Management of impact on local · Improving resource efficiency of communities NEW products · Contribution to the development · Management and reduction of Important of local communities environmental resources/ · Community engagement water use NEW Environment · Biodiversity NEW Important Impact to LG Electronics Very Important Materiality analysis 27 Key Progress and performance Key CSR Issues Mid to Long Term Objectives · Expand products with greener features Products with Greener Features · Improve product energy efficiency · Increase the use of recycled materials and reinforce e-waste management system · Meet the reduction targets for GHG emissions associated with production Low-carbon Management and product use Production: Reduce 150,000 tons by 2020 from the base year 2008 Product use: Reduce 30 million tons by 2020 compared to the total energy consumption in 2007 · Reduce water use by 20% by 2020 compared to 2007 (Intensity target per revenue in KRW) · Expand GHG management throughout the value chain · Acquire the ISO 14001 certification for all production sites by 2014 EESH Management · Engage in fire hazard reduction (quantitative) activities by developing “Fire Hazard Index” · Further enhance the comprehensive system for global EEHS management · Implement the risk management system on the Electronic Industry CSR in Supply Chain/Conflict Minerals Citizenship Coalition (EICC) standards Conduct regular risk assessment and make corrective actions Conduct an audit on 25% of high-risk suppliers · Establish a compliance system for the Conflict Minerals Act · Contribute to achieving the UN Millennium Development Goal 1 Social Contribution (Eradicate extreme poverty & hunger) and Goal 7 (Ensure environmental sustainability) by 2015 · Establish a creative and independent corporate culture based on Corporate Culture/Work-Life Balance the LG Way · Establish corporate culture that promotes work-life balance · Bring the risk level down to “low” at all production facilities (100%) Decent Work by 2014 · Strengthen internal regulations to meet the EICC standard 28 2012-2013 2012-2013 LG ElectronicsSustainability LGElectronics SustainabilityReport Report Major Achievements in 2012 Future Directions · Acquired the “2012 ENERGY STAR Most Efficient” Certificate · Continually strengthen the standards for greener products (79 models, up 600% from the previous year) · Reduce GHG emissions associated with product use by improving · Carbon Label: Greenhouse Gas Emissions Certificate (48 models), Low Carbon product energy efficiency Certificate (10 models), CarbonFree® (15 models) and Climatop (2 models) · Increase and improve disclosure of product carbon footprint information · Packaging Improvement (saved KRW 10.9 billion in TV and 3.7 billion in · Increase e-waste recycling mobile phone) · Collected 174,482 tons of e-waste (Korea, Japan, Europe, U.S. and Australia) · Reduced 113,000 tons of GHG emissions associated with production compared · Expand and intensify GHG emissions reduction efforts to meet the to the 2008 baseline mid to long term targets · Contributed to reducing 29.65 million tons of GHG emissions associated with · Expand support for suppliers’ GHG emissions reduction efforts product use based on the total energy consumption in 2007 · Supported 10 suppliers through the Low Carbon Green Partnership of LG Electronics` Supplier supported by Korean Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy · Improved 5% of water use intensity compared to 2011 · Selected as a member of the Carbon Management Global Leaders Club (four consecutive years) · Reduced costs associated with the industrial accident compensation · Improve the management and operation quality of the integrated insurance (6%) through diverse efforts, including the fire hazard EESH system assessment model · Provide continual support to overseas subsidiaries and suppliers in · Seocho R&D Campus (MC Company) named “Excellent Business Site improving their EESH management capability in Workplace Health Promotion” (Ministry of Employment and Labor) · Systematically mange chemical substances, i.e. establishing a corporate ·Implemented a new EESH assessment system and fully established the level chemical substance management system integrated EESH global management system · Strengthen fire prevention and risk management systems · Created 3 local standard versions of Master Purchase Agreement to include · Strengthen the onsite CSR audit program CSR requirement in China, Mexico and Vietnam · Expand the scope of supplier CSR management by enhancing the · Established a CSR course at the Procurement College capability of departments that are responsible for supplier management · Conducted risk assessment for 234 suppliers (Includuing four outsourcing · Support suppliers to strengthen their capability in CSR risk management contractors) · Establish an origin tracking system for 3TG minerals used in products · Performed onsite consulting for 3 suppliers · Conducted a due diligence survey on suppliers and identified 161 smelters that use 3TG minerals (Tungsten, Tin, Tantalum and Gold) · Contributed to reducing poverty for the socially marginalized in local · Contribute to fostering young talents from underprivileged backgrounds communities (48 business sites) in emerging and developing countries · Made social contribution with initiatives that take advantage of our products · Develop “good” products and technologies that contribute to resolving and technologies (mobile phones for the visually impaired, LG Hope Screen, social issues in local communities washing machine campaign, etc.) · Expand voluntary initiatives for sharing based on “Creativity and · Established employee donation and volunteer initiatives into programs (i.e. Autonomy” Work Day Volunteer Program) · Increased direct communication between management and employees · Create a work environment that promotes “Creativity and Autonomy” (Mr. CEO Email Account, Mr. CEO Pizza, CEO Monthly Morning Meeting, etc.) · Create a corporate culture that promotes work-life balance · Expanded employee participation programs (development of T.E.A.M workshop model, product idea contest, etc.) · Performed risk assessment on all 40 production facilities (SAQ) · Expand third party CSR audit to greater number of production sites · Performed onsite audit & consulting on 12 production facilities including high · Identify common weakness among production sites and make ongoing risk sites and implemented improvement measures improvement efforts · Conducted field surveys and site inspections concerning child labor in China Grievance resolution system · Amended and distributed the Global Labor Policy Working hours · Eliminated disciplinary wage deduction Key Progress and performance 29 Eight Material Issues Materiality report 02 Low-carbon Management Does LG Electronics fully appreciate the impacts of climate change and make GHG emission reduction efforts across its business operations? < page 41 01 Products with Greener Features What does LG Electronics do to develop products in an environmentally responsible manner? < page 32 03 Win-win Growth Does LG Electronics provide ongoing support to suppliers based on differentiated Win-Win Growth programs to help them secure global top-level capacity? < page 48 04 Supplier CSR Risk Management/ Conflict Minerals What does LG Electronics do to identify and address risks of suppliers? < page 52 30 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 08 Decent Work What programs does LG Electronics have in place to protect labor rights/human rights and to improve working conditions? < page 68 06 Talent Management Does LG Electronics make various efforts to recruit talented professionals and to develop employee capability? < page 62 07 Corporate Culture/Work-Life Balance Does LG Electronics provide active support to help employees achieve work-life balance? < page 66 05 Social Contribution Does LG Electronics contribute to sustainable development of local communities as a responsible corporate citizen? < page 56 Materiality Report 31 Products with Greener Features LG Electronics implements a variety of green management initiatives to contribute to the sustainable development of our society. Based on their “Eco Design” principles, LG Electronics strives to reduce environmental impact across its product development process, and adopts lowcarbon materials and processes early on from the product design phase. In 2012, the company’s product became the first TV and washing machine to acquire the Climatop Label, which showed the company's efforts for ongoing communication with consumers. I believe that such efforts by LG Electronics represent its strong commitment to corporate social responsibility as well as to environmentally responsible business practices. Tak Hur/Professor, Department of Materials Chemistry & Engineering, Konkuk University Our Aproach Our Performance FUTURE DIRECTION •Expand products with greener features •Continually expand products with 79 models Named ENERGY START Most Efficient 2012 •Increase and enhance the carbon greener features Environment disclosure of each product category TV, Mobile Phone considered packaging •Provide information on environmental • Strengthen green partnerships with performance of each product suppliers 174,482 tons e-waste collected •Strengthen green partnerships with suppliers Our Performance Strategic Directions for Products with Greener Features Developing Products with Greener Features 1. Strategic Directions It is LG Electronics’ green product strategy Products with Greener Features to consider the environmental impacts of products throughout the value chain in their development. As such, we have categorized Human Energy Resources our product development direction into three areas – human, energy, and resources, and manage our strategies and activities accordingly. Hazardous Substances Energy Efficiency Enhancement Resource Reduction 2. Eco Index Replacement · Reduce power consumption · Reduce product weight/volume The Eco Index is LGE’s unique system for · Reduce use of heavy metals · Reduce stand-by power · Use recycled materials measuring environmental performance of · Phase out hazardous materials products. The index is used to manage environmental performance of products and to establish goals. We establish the rating standards based on our direction for product strategy and incorporate the standards into product development. All LGE products Home Environment Reduce CO2 Emissions Recyclability Improvment · Decrease noise and vibration · Use renewable energy · Use recyclable material meet environmental regulations of the major · Reduce CO2 emissions throughout · Design for easy disassembly markets including the EU, the United States, product life cycle Korea and Japan (RoHS 1) , REACH 2) , etc.), which is translated as “Green 1 Star” of the Eco Index. Products showing greater environmental performance are rated Green 2 Star (meets LGE’s internal standards equivalent to ENERGY STAR) and Green 3 Star (meets LGE’s 1) R  oHS (Restriction of the use of Hazardous Substances in EEE): Guidelines on the Use of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and internal standards established for high energy Electronic Equipment 2) REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and restriction of CHemicals) 32 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report efficiency strategy). Thanks to its efforts in achieving high energy efficiency, the company Eco Index Ratings increased the share of products rated Green 2 Star to 93% in 2012 from 92% in 2011, and Green 3 Star to 76% in 2012 from 45% in the Green 3 Star: 1. Meets Green 2 Star criteria previous year. LGE will continue to work on 2. Meets the internal standard established for high energy efficiency strategy increasing product offerings that attain higher Eco Index. Green 2 Star: 1. Meets Green 1 Star criteria More 2. Meets LGE's internal standards equivalent to 3. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) Energy ENERGY STAR Regulated by the ISO 14040 series standards, Efficient the LCA is a technique to assess and quantify environmental impacts associated with all the Green 1 Star: 1. Complies with local environmental regulations and meets the criteria stages of a product’s life cycle (from producfor environmental labels and certifition to distribution, use, and disposal), as well cations 2. Meets LGE's internal standards for as to identify areas for improvement and to each local market verify progress. Since 2002, LG Electronics has worked to quantify the environmental impacts of its product categories throughout their life cycles and to reduce their carbon footprint. In 2011, the company built the Life Cycle Inventory Database (LCI DB) for eight Development of products with greener features based on Eco Index (Cumulative) Unit: % product categories (TV, monitor, washing machine, refrigerator, LED, solar panel, mo100 2012 bile phone and commercial air conditioning Green 1 Star 100 2011 system). In 2012, we also assessed the carbon Green 2 Star 93 footprint of six product categories and dis92 closed the data on our website. Green 3 Star 76 45 4. Products with Greener Features and Our Achievements * The figures are calculated by weighting the percentage of each product category from 2011 sales Hazardous Substances Replacement LG Electronics complies with international regulations on hazardous substances including RoHS and REACH. Although some subHazardous Substances Replacement stances are not currently regulated, we are in Product Substance Performance the process of voluntarily replacing substancMobile PVC Not used in any new product models from January 2010 es, including PVC1) and BFRs2), after safety and Phone BFRs Not used in any new product models from January 2010 reliability tests indicate that it is safe to do so. Beryllium, Started using parts that do not contain beryllium and PVCs and BFRs are believed to have negative Phthalate phthalate in mobile phones from 2011 impacts on the environment. TV PVC Currently replacing PVC from LCD panel, Replaced PVC from internal wire of 32 models (among 157), which will be released in 2013. Enhancement of Energy Efficiency BFRs Started replacing exterior molding (products in the European market) LG Electronics established a Technology Road Monitor PVC, BFRs Replaced PVC and BFRs from cabinet, back cover, stand, etc. Map (TRM) and set goals for each of its prodPC PVC, BFRs Housing, FET, RLC, IC, CPU, main chipset, VGA chipset, LCD, Hard Disk Drive (HDD), uct categories, and strives to hit every mileOptical Disk Drive (ODD), Solid State Drive (SSD), memory, webcam, packing & C-kit, etc. stone. All of our products fully comply with Laptop PVC, BFRs Replaced PVC and BFRs from the housing of all product models released in 2011. international energy regulations, including Replacement is in progress for each parts, starting from CPU through main chipset, ErP. Furthermore, LG Electronics established LCD, hard disk drive (HDD), optical disk drive (ODD), memory, webcam, LAN, internal strategies and targets concerning parts for micro circuits, etc. energy issues to reduce energy consumption Air PVC Replaced PVC from drain pipes for the indoor unit of residential air conditioners and standby power consumption. Conditioner developed in 2011 (Released in Korea in 2012). 1) PVC (Polyvinyl Chloride): A kind of thermo plastic, also known as polyvinyl chloride and polyvinyl chloride resin. Number of Product Models Named ENERGY STAR Most Efficient 2012 Contains heavy metals such as phthalate (environmental hormone), lead and cadmium. 2) BFRs (Brominated Flame Retardants): Mainly used as a chemical flame retardant for plastics and textiles, it is one 2012 Air Conditioner of the most well-known persistent organic pollutants. 53 7 11 8 Increased Washing Machine 6 times Refrigerator 2011 TV 8 2 3 Products with Greener Features 33 ENERGY STAR ENERGY STAR is a widely recognized and Percentage of LGE Products (Available in the U.S.) with ENERGY STAR trusted international standard established by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) of the United States and the U.S. DepartTV 74 ment of Energy to promote energy-efficient Refrigerator 99 consumer products. The Energy Star Service Washing Machine 100 Mark is placed on all products that meet the Air Conditioner 66 demanding standard. In 2012, over 1,000 LGE product models, including TVs, refrigerators, Dish Washer 100 and washing machines earned the Energy Display 91 Star Service Mark, a 140% increase from the Lighting 22 previous year. Additionally, ENERGY STAR Most Efficient 2012, which is awarded to the * All imported electronic and electrical products must undergo a registration process with the U.S. Department of Energy and the top 5% most efficient products every year, was California Energy Commission to be sold in the U.S. awarded to 79 of the qualified models, a six fold increase from 2011. Product Models that Acquired Low Carbon Product Certificate in 2012 LG Electronics tracks and manages its investments Product Base Model Certified Model Reduction Compared Using Reduction towards developing products with greener features. to the Base Model Period Rate Investment areas are divided into Human, Energy, Water Purifier WQD71RW1 WHD71RB3R 151kgCO2e 5 years 16.5% Resources (the three strategic directions for product with greener features) and infrastructure. Since WHD71RW3R 151kgCO2e 16.5% a large portion of LGE’s R&D efforts takes place Dishwasher D1220MF D1265MF 93kgCO2e 5 years 8.4% at R&D centers in Korea, we focus on tracking and Light-wave Oven MP929NPS MA921NBS 30kgCO2e 7 years 5.3% managing the spending for the R&D centers located MA922MBN 31kgCO2e 5.5% in Korea. In 2012, LG Electronics invested KRW 678 MA921NWS 30kgCO2e 5.3% billion in Green R&D with research projects on reRefrigerator R-T759MHHGP R-T751EBHSL 217kgCO2e 7 years 12.5% ducing product energy consumption and extending Drum Washing Machine FR3228WA FR4349EAZ 56kgCO2e 5 years 9.0% product life making up the largest portion. Air Conditioner FNQ182FASV FNQ236LANW 3,769kgCO2e 7 years 46.4% FNQ256LANW 3,619kgCO2e 44.6% 2012 R&D Investments in Developing Products with Greener Features (Korea) 2% Energy Low Carbon Product Certificate Acquisition Case (Air Conditioner) Unit: kgCO2e Human Resources Infrastructure Total Base Model (FNQ182FASV) 8,120 Investment 48% KRW 43% Certified Model (FNQ236LANW) 4,350 46.4% 678 billion Certified Model (FNQ256LANW) 4,500 44.6% Unit : % 7% Greenhouse Gas Emissions Certificate/ CarbonFree® Low Carbon Product Certificate The CarbonFree Product Certification verifies 5. CO2 Emissions Reduction The Carbon Footprint Labeling program quanthe GHG emissions associated with a prodLG Electronics encourages and facilitates tifies GHG emissions associated with all the uct’s life cycle and provides certification to our customers’ efforts to lead low carbon stages of a product's life cycle (production, products offering carbon offsetting and GHG lifestyles by measuring the carbon footprint transport, use and disposal) and discloses the reduction. In 2012, LG Electronics acquired of a product (the total amount of carbon emisinformation on a label. In 2012, 48 of our prodthe “CarbonFree” certification for 15 of its sions associated with the product’s life cycle) ucts acquired the Greenhouse Gas Emissions products, which raised the total number of and informing consumers how much GHG is Certificate, and 10 of our products received certified product models to 32. The combined emitted when they use a particular product. Low Carbon Product Certificate awarded to carbon reductions from the 15 newly certified Additionally, we are making phased efforts to products that produce less GHG emissions LG product models are estimated to be apreduce GHG emissions associated with our compared to existing products and legal reproximately 80,000 tons1). business operations (more details on reducing quirements. (URL: www.carbonfund.org) (URL: www.edp.or.kr/carbon/english) GHG emissions associated with the product use level: p. 42). 1) T he total amount of carbon emissions associated with the entire lifecycle of all 15 product models certified as “CarbonFree,” multiplied by the estimated sales volume of those products in the U.S. for the year. The sales volume is estimated annually starting from the time of certification and renewed every year. 34 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Climatop The Climatop Label is awarded to products Certification of Green Technology Product Models that Acquired CarbonFree® Certifications in 2012 and services that have achieved a reduction of over 20% of GHG emissions compared to other Product Number of Product Model products and services in the same category. In Category Products 2012, LG TV (Model: 47LM760S-ZA) and washCertified ing machine (model: F14A8QDS) acquired the in 2012 Climatop Label, the world’s first in their reMonitor 1 29EA93 spective categories. Refrigerator 1 GR-J318LSJP (URL: www.climatop.ch) 1 2 3 Solar Cell 5 LG260S1C, LG255S1C, LG250S1C, LG245S1C, Green Technology LG265S1C Certification of Green Technology 1 | Water purifier with Vacuum 1 VR6270LVM “Compressor Technology” (Model: WHD71RW3R) The Certification of Green Technology was 2 | Vacuum cleaner produced with Cleaner Washing 1 WM8000HVA launched in 2010 by the Korean government, “Spray-free Molding Technology” (For Korean market, Model: VC4001LHAY) Machine and is awarded to technologies that contribute 3 | Vacuum cleaner produced with Mobile 4 LG730, LS860, LS970, E970 to conservation of energy and resources, and “Spray-free Molding Technology” reduction of GHG emissions and pollutant (For U.S. market, Model: VF5112JC) Phone TV 2 55EA8800, 55EM9700 discharges by improving energy efficiency and utilizing clean energy sources. LG Electronics acquired the Certification of Green Technology 2) Spray-free Molding Technology for 11 technologies in 2010 and two in 2012. (August 30, 2012) Product Models that Acquired (URL: www.greencertif.or.kr/eng) Plastic products undergo a spray coating Climatop Label in 2012 process for high gloss metal finish, which · Certification of Green Technology Acquired produces chemical substances including VOC2) in 2012 and consumes a large amount of power. To 1) Compressor Technology for Water Purifier address these issues, LG Electronics devel(August 30, 2012) oped the Spray-free Molding Technology, a This technology applies LGE’s proprietary process that forgoes the spray coating and compressor technology developed for refrigacquires desired colors and gloss finish by erator products to water purifiers, achieving incorporating pearl materials in the plastic the country’s lowest power consumption and molding process. acquiring the Grade 1 Energy Efficiency Label. Also, the technology utilizes the natural gasbased refrigerant R600a (Isobutane1)) instead 1) Isobutane: Colorless natural gas that is harmless to of R134a. human body. Utilized as substitute for freon gas, which has been used as refrigerant for air conditioners and refrigerators 1 2 2) VOC (Volatile Organic Compounds): A carcinogen that causes neurological disorders when touched or inhaled. 1 | F14A8QDS Also known as one of the substances that cause Global 2| 4 7LM760S-ZA Warming Certification of Green Technology Acquired by LG Electronics Technology Date Certified Valid Until Parallel Two Evaporator Cycle Technology May 27, 2010 May 26, 2014 Inverter Linear Compressor Technology May 27, 2010 May 26, 2014 Dual Injection Steam Wash Technology May 27, 2010 May 26, 2014 Ultra Energy-Saving Technology Utilizing High-efficiency Inverter Compressor for June 9, 2010 June 08, 2014 Air Conditioners and PIR Sensor High-efficiency VRF Technology for Air Conditioning System June 09, 2010 June 08, 2014 World’s First “6 Motion” Wash Technology June 09, 2010 June 08, 2014 Washing Machine Capacity Expansion Technology Utilizing Wash Tub June 09, 2010 June 08, 2014 Smart Plasma Display Panel Technology June 09, 2010 June 08, 2014 Stand-by Power Technology that Enables Consumption of Less than 0.9W for Microwave Ovens June 09, 2010 June 08, 2014 Design Technology for LED Flat Panel Lighting of High-efficiency/ High Quality Color Rendering August 13, 2010 August 12, 2014 Manufacturing Technology for 130 micron-level Ultra-slim, High-efficiency Crystalline Silicon Solar Cells August 13, 2010 August 12, 2014 (Selective Emission/Compensation for Rear Defects/Reflective Layer Formation) Compressor Technology for Water Purifiers August 30, 2012 August 29, 2014 Spray-free Molding Technology August 30, 2012 August 29, 2014 Products with Greener Features 35 S Special page Environmental Awards and Recognition in 2012 Korea: Prime Minister’s Prize, Energy Winner Awards (June 2012) U.S.: 2013 ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year Award (March 2013) LG Electronics’ “Green Smart Energy Saving System” was awarded the For the second consecutive year, LG Electronics received the 2013 Prime Minister’s Prize, the top honor at the Energy Winner Awards. ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year Award from the U.S. Environmental The “Green Energy Saving System,” which was developed specifically Protection Agency (EPA). This honor is awarded to ENERGY STAR partfor convenience stores (Korea) that consume a large amount of power, ners who are committed to protecting the environment through energyadopted waste heat recovery. The system’s smart energy technology efficient innovations and produce exceptional results. More than 1,000 automatically adjusts indoor temperature and brightness to an optimal LGE product models, including TVs, washing machines, and refrigeralevel and thus greatly improves energy efficiency. In addition, the ultrators, earned the ENERGY STAR label in 2012. 79 of those models were efficient Whisen “Champion Window” featuring the Real 4-D Cooling recognized as ENERGY STAR Most Efficient (More Details on ENERGY System received the Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy’s Prize STAR: p. 34). (Grand Prize), LED Lamp (replaced 60W incandescent bulb with LED) won the Energy Technology Prize, and Linear Dios Refrigerator, Electric Middle East: Best Project Award, Oven, Portable LED Projector and Air Cooled Scroll Inverter Chiller (M Climate Control Middle East Magazine1) (December 2012) Chiller) were honored in the Green Device Category. In December 2012, LG Electronics received the “Best Project Award” from Climate Control Middle East for LGEGF (LG Electronics Gulf FZE) Korea: Carbon Management Global Leaders Club, headquarter building at the award ceremony held in Dubai. The fourCDP Korea Awards (October 2012) story (ground level) building is equipped with LGE’s greener technoloSince 2008, LG Electronics has been joining the Carbon Disclosure Projgies including Multi V III Variable Refrigerant Flow (VRF) air conditioning ect (CDP) as part of its efforts to strengthen corporate sustainability system, solar panels and LED lighting. The LGEGF headquarter building and enhance socially responsible investment through low-carbon manis also the first building in the region to acquire the LEED2) Gold Certifiagement. We were named a member of the Carbon Management Global cation (2011). Climate Control Middle East presented the “Best Project” Leaders Club in 2012 for the fourth consecutive year and recognized as Award and honored the “Best Brands” in 15 categories at the award one of the top Korean businesses with outstanding carbon disclosure ceremony, and LG Electronics was the only Korean manufacturer to and reduction performance. In particular, LG Electronics was the only receive an honor that day. participant to receive the full 100 points in the public disclosure section and ranked first among discretionary consumer goods manufacturers. Products that Received the Energy Winner Awards Award Criteria/Scope Product Model Prize Energy Winner Green Smart Store Energy VAC Outdoor Unit: LRC-N1450D, Refrigeration Prime Minister’s Prize (Product) Saving System Outdoor Unit: LRC-V1000D, Gateway : PEM-GSCD0 Manager: PEM-EGBD0, Serve: PEM-SAAA10 Real 4D Ultra-efficient F-Q165PLCW Minister of Trade, Industry and Air Conditioner (Standing) F-Q185PZCW, F-Q185PLCW Energy’s Prize Drum Washing Machine Mini DWD-M301WA/M301WP/M300WA Minster of Environment’s Prize (Wall Mounting) Energy Technology LED Bulb (Replacing 60W Incandescent) A1914FC1DG1 Green Device Appliance Electric Oven MA921SBT/SWT/SST/SVT IT Portable LED Projector PB61K-JE HVAC Air-cooled Scroll Inverter Chiller ACHR0209BA1 (20RT), ACHR0409BA1 (40RT), (M Chiller) ACHR0609BA1 (60RT) 36 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Award Cuts Europe: Global Efficiency Medal, SEAD3) (October 2012) At the IFA 2012 (International Electronics Fair held annually in Ger1 many) Award Ceremony, LG Electronics’ Cinema 3D Smart TV (Model: 47LM670S) received the Global Efficiency Medal in the category of large screen TV (over 42 inches) and the Emerging Technology category from the SEAD (Super-Efficient Equipment and Appliance Deployment), the multinational initiative for energy efficiency. The Cinema 3D Smart TV achieved high energy efficiency with “Local Dimming Technology (controls individual LEDs for maximum energy efficiency),” “Smart Energy Saving Technology (reduces energy consumption by adjusting to the ambient light),” and the placement of backlight units (minimizes the number of backlight units by placing them at the bottom). 2 3 4 1) Climate Control Middle East Magazine: Launched in 2006 (United Arab Emirates), Climate Control Middle East is the most recognized monthly magazine in the Middle East that specializes in the heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration (HVACR) industries. 2) LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design): Developed by the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC), LEED is a rating system for the design, construction and operation of high performance green buildings, homes and neighborhoods. The USGBC scores a building’s design, construction, operations and maintenance solutions and awards four types of certifications based on the combined score (LEED: 40-90 points, LEED Silver: 50-59 points, LEED Gold: 60-79 points, LEED Platinum: 80 and higher) 3) SEAD (Super-Efficient Equipment and Appliance Deployment): A five-year international initiative under the Clean Energy Ministerial and the International Partnership for Energy Efficiency Cooperation. The SEAD Initiative assesses energy efficiency of electronic products 1 | CDP Korea Awards Ceremony sold in Australia, Europe, India and North America, and presents awards to products that 2 | ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year Awards Ceremony achieved high energy efficiency. The product category under evaluation changes annually, 3 | Climate Control Middle East Best Project Awards Ceremony and the category for 2012 was TV. 4 | Product (Model: 47LM670S) that Received the Global Efficiency Model from the SEAD Products with Greener Features 37 Product Stewardship 1. Resource Recycling Resource Recycling Case From the product development phase, LG Electronics works to enhance material qualProduct Model FR4349BAYZ FR4960MQ1TZ ity and product structure, and strives to imReleased 2011 2012 Washer/Dryer Capacity 13 kg/8 kg 19 kg/10 kg prove product performance while reducing Dimensions (W x H x D) 645x1,135x790 mm 700x1,360x770 mm the size and weight based on collaboration Weight Approx. 110 kg Approx. 100 kg with recyclers. Based on such efforts, we were able to achieve a 10kg weight reduction in our 2012 washing machine model (Model: FR4960MQ1TZ) from the previous year’s (FR4349BAYZ). Annual PCR Plastics Consumption Unit: ton 2. Use of Recycled Plastics 2012 4,980 We are making ongoing efforts to increase the use of recycled materials to promote resource 2011 3,298 recycling. Based on such efforts, LG Electron2010 2,014 ics used a total of 4,980 tons of Post-Consumer Recycled (PCR) plastic in 2012, continually increasing the use from 2,014 tons and 3,298 tons in 2010 and 2011, respectively. Package Size Improvement Cases 1) TV: All new models to be released in 2013 2) Mobile Phone: S5ype (VS660) for Verizon PCR Plastic Used in Our Products > B8H (VS840) Category Model % of PCR Plastic Reduced the thickness of Reduced the size of accompanying Refrigerator LFX31925ST 5.8 the buffer for the accessory items and replaced the hard copy compartment manual with the online edition Dishwasher LDS5540 10.7 Air Conditioner SNC066BAW 12.3 Mobile Phone LS696 46.3 Monitor W1946 20.1 3. Environment Considered Packaging Accessories 3D Glass 3D Glass Accessories LG Electronics considers environmental factors in developing packaging materials as well as in developing our products. In June 2012, we established the guidelines for reducing the weight and volume, reuse, and recycling LGE Green Packaging Design Guidelines Use of Recycled Pulp in Packaging of packaging materials (LGE Green Packaging Paper Stocks Design Guidelines). Based on the guidelines, Developed internally by LG Electronics, the guidewe also established the green packaging delines list the general definition of each product In 2012, LG Electronics made inquiries to paper velopment process and applied the process packaging design and design specifications. mills that supply packaging paper stocks used for our TV and mobile phone products and built a to TV (HE Company) and Mobile Phone (MC database that lists recycled pulp content of each Company) products. For new TV products paper stock. We were able to achieve 80.1% of released in 2013, we were able to reduce the recycled pulp content for TV product packaging stocks and 70.6% for mobile phone packaging use of packaging materials by 4.6% despite an stocks using the database. Based on the database, increase in product size, while reducing 20.1% LG Electronics plans to continuously increase the of packaging materials for mobile phone prodrecycled pulp content of the paper stocks used in our product packaging. ucts by reducing the size of product package * Applied to all new TV models to be released in 2013 for some of our products. Such efforts also and 10 signature mobile phone models resulted in cost savings of KRW 10.9 billion for TV products and KRW 3.7 billion for mobile phone products. LG Electronics plans to use those packages for more products in 2013. 38 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 4. e-waste Management and Recycling LG Electronics collects e-waste in accordance e-waste Take-back and Recycling Performance by Country Unit: ton with the local Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) regulations and requirements around the world. The company also main2012 43,935 tains a website that offers information on its Korea 2011 45,581 e-waste take-back system and related activi2010 43,412 ties. (URL: www.lg.com/global/sustainability/environment/ take-back-recycling) 2012 3,295 Japan 2011 4,252 We also perform ongoing monitoring on new 2010 3,603 regulations and make proper responses. In 2012, we implemented an e-waste take-back and recycling program in countries such as 2012 108,824 China, India and Australia. We are also estabEurope 2011 132,279 lishing a take-back system in countries plan2010 158,209 ning to implement the WEEE regulations in 2013 and maintain open dialogue with governmental and industry organizations to facilitate 2012 17,760 e-waste collection and recycling. U.S. 2011 6,152 2010 3,685 e-waste Management and Recycling Activities Korea: Establishment of Take-back System for Small Household Appliances Australia 2012 668 LG Electronics installed an e-waste collection box (for small household appliances) at over 650 brand stores nationwide to provide free 2012 174,482 take-back service to visiting customers. In Total 2011 188,264 Korea, consumers have to pay a fee when they 2010 208,909 want to dispose e-waste. With our e-waste collection boxes at neighborhood stores, however, customers can dispose e-waste con* Estimated figures are included for some of the European countries veniently for free. Through this program, LG * Australia: The WEEE regulations went into effect in July 2012 Electronics increased customer convenience and contributed to the promotion of e-waste recycling. In 2013, we plan to further expand 1 the program through our service center netWarranty and Parts Holding Period work. LG Electronics believes that one way to practice green Overseas: LGEUS (U.S. Subsidiary) management is to minimize e-waste by prolonging prodRecycling Program Website uct life. As part of this effort, we established and manage In 2012, LGEUS renewed its Recycling Prowarranty and parts holding periods as specified below gram website (www.lgrecyclingprogram. 2 com). The new website allows customers to Product Warranty Parts Holding Category Period* Period** check the location of over 200 eCycling cenMobile Phone 1-2 years 3-5 years ters nationwide and discloses information on TV 1-3 years 7 years e-wastes collected for the year, including the Air Conditioner 1-5 years 7 years percentage of each product category out of Washing Machine, 1-3 years 7 years the total e-waste collected. A Q&A section is Refrigerator also available for consumers to make inquiE-waste Management & Recycling * Warranty Period is subject to change depending on ries related to electronic product recycling. product category, market, and local regulations. ** Parts Holding Period starts from the discontinuation 1 | Installed a collection box (for small appliances) at of a product. LG brand stores 2 | LGEUS e-waste Take-back Program Website Products with Greener Features 39 Green Partnership 1. Green Program Plus Green Program Plus/Assessment Criteria “Green Program Plus (GP Plus)” is our proprietary supply chain management program. New Suppliers Existing Suppliers First implemented in 2005 to respond to reguEnvironmental 20 Environmental/Mass 50 Management System Production Management lations on managing hazardous substances, Management of Hazardous 50 Supplier Management 15 the program is now expanded to parts proSubstances Inspection Management 35 curement and GHG emissions and includes Management of Materials/Products 30 Voluntary Phase-out of PVC/BFRs 5 (Extra Points) second-tier and third-tier suppliers as well as primary suppliers. In accordance with internal green management standards, LG Electronics also validates and evaluates a green management system and the capacity of existing and Number of Green Certified Companies (Cumulative) new suppliers. 2012 4,503 2. Supplier Training 162 Suppliers Acquired Certification in 2012 LG Electronics provides annual training on 2011 4,341 green technology, compliance response and 2010 4,172 GHG emissions management to suppliers (staff members from environmental management departments) and LGE employees in charge of the partnership. In 2012, 228 supplier staff members (Green Expert Program) and Number of Green Experts (Supplier) and Green Auditors (LGE) (Cumulative) 117 LGE employees (Green Auditor Program) completed the training. Green Expert (Supplier) 2012 1,042 228 supplier employees completed the training in 2012 LG Electronics Green Partnership 814 2011 2010 729 Based on strong partnerships with suppliers, LG Electronics is funding mid to long term R&D Green Auditor (LGE) projects for new businesses such as LED and photovoltaics till 2015 (KRW 8 billion). Additionally, we 2012 1,747 provide suppliers with opportunities to make busi117 LGE employees completed the training in 2012 ness suggestions via the Open Innovation website 2011 1,630 (www.collaborateandinnovate.com) and provide necessary support to develop business opportuni2010 1,379 ties from their technologies. Green Expert/Green Auditor Training Program Overview Course Title Session Duration Audience Content Green Expert 1st: 11-13, March Leaders and Staff Introduction to Training 2nd: 8-10, April Members from Suppliers’ Environmental 3rd: 6-8, May Environmental Management Regulations 4th: 17-19, June Departments 228 Management & Analysis 5th: 3-5, July Technology for Hazardous 6th: 5-7, August Substances 3 days Green Auditor 1st: 7-9, March LGE Staff Members Hazardous Substance Training 2nd: 12-14, March Responsible for: Management System 3rd: 18-20, April Parts quality control (HSMS) 117 4th: 27-29, August Standards GHG Emissions 5th: 17-19, October Parts development Management Supplier evaluation 40 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Low-carbon Management LG Electronics is recognized as one of the leading corporations in low-carbon management. The company manages GHG emissions and preemptively responds to risks associated with climate change based on specific targets and detailed action plans. Through such efforts towards GHG emissions reduction at its business sites, LG Electronics also contributes to reducing external environmental costs1). An increasing number of global investors, particularly pension funds, reference the “Carbon Intensity 2)” index when evaluating business performance (the index measures the combined GHG emissions from each business’ sites). This shows that how a business manages GHG emissions has a direct impact on its corporate value. It is clear that LG Electronics understands the importance of low-carbon management, and I believe that the company will continue and expand efforts in this area. Young Jae Ryu/CEO, Sustinvest Our Aproach Our Performance FUTURE DIRECTION Reduced GHG emissions • Manage risks associated with climate • Discover low-carbon value for customers 113 K tons associated with production change and explore opportunities • Expand and strengthen green businesses Contributed to reducing GHG • Track and manage GHG emissions 29,650 K tons emissions from product use • Respond to issues related to climate reduction performance change adaptation • Strengthen our efforts for four major strategies against climate change Our Performance LGE Strategies for Climate Change Response Climate Change Response 1. Strategic Directions for Climate Change Response Deliver Low-carbon Value to Customers through Voluntary Reduction of GHG Emissions LG Electronics established the following strategic directions for climate change response: “reduction of GHG emissions associated with Value Productivity Product production,” “reduction of GHG emissions asOperational Efficiency Social Contribution Enhancement Competitiveness sociated with product use,” “reduction of GHG emissions across the value chain,” and “comLow-Carbon Low-Carbon Low-Carbon Product Low-Carbon mitment to social responsibility based on proFactory Value Chain Strategic Contribution to GHG Culture GHG emissions GHG emissions motion of low-carbon culture,” and and has Direction emissions reduction Employee reduction at reduction over during product use Engagement been making a wide range of efforts to deliver production sites product life cycle results. 30 million tons Reduction 150,000 tons by 2020 Top-tier by 2020 performance 2. GHG Reduction Targets and Performances Target (1 million tons, performance by (200 million tons, management cumulative) 2015 Reduction of GHG Emissions Associated with cumulative) by 2015 Production Management Standards Infrastructure for Effective GHG Management LG Electronics established internal standards based on international standards (i.e. ISO 14064-1, GHG Protocol (WRI and WBCSD 3)), 2006 IPCC 4) Guidelines) and manages GHG 1) External environmental cost: Social costs incurred by environmental destruction 2) Carbon Intensity: The amount (in weight) of CO2 emitted per unit of energy consumed. The higher the carbon intensity index, emissions accordingly. We also manage our the greater the amount of CO2 emissions. GHG reduction performance with the Corpo3) World Resource Institute· World Business Council for Sustainable Development 4) Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (established under the United Nations) rate Carbon Management System (CCMS). Products with Greener Features/Low-carbon Management 41 Reduction Target LG Electronics has set a target to reduce Production Level GHG Management Scope 150,000 tons of GHG emissions associated with production by 2020 from the base year Category Scope and Criteria Target 2008 (10% reduction) through GHG reduction Organizational Controlled Approach 14 Korean business sites and 30 overseas production subsidiaries Boundary efforts, including production process innovaOperational Boundary Scope 1 Stationary Combustion, Mobile Combustion, tion, facility/operation efficiency improveProcess Emissions, Fugitive Emissions ment, and renewable energy use. Based on Scope 2 Purchased Electricity, Steam the target, we expect to reduce a total of apGHG Carbon Dioxide (CO2), Methane (CH4), Nitrous Oxide (N2O), proximately 1 million tons (cumulative) of GHG Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), Perfluorinated Chemicals (PFCs), emissions from 2009 to 2020. Sulphur Hexafluoride (SF6), Hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) Key Progress and Activities LG Electronics reduced 113,000 tons of GHG emissions associated with production through Production Level Reduction Target Unit: K ton/CO2e diverse reduction efforts, including production process innovation, facility/operation efficiency improvement, and renewable energy Absolute Reductions Reductions Compared to BAU3) use. We also acquired the ISO 50001 (Energy 2020 Management Systems) for all our production (Target Year) 1,313 150 sites and major R&D facilities in Korea to establish management systems for energy and 2012 1,350 113 GHG reduction in 2012. 2008 Reductions (Base Year) ① Facility/Operation Efficiency Improvement 1,463 Emissions LG Electronics continuously works to improve the efficiency of its facilities and production processes and carries out activities such as optimizing the capacity/control (of motors, pumps and utility equipment of cooling towUse Level Reduction Target Unit: K ton/CO2e ers), enhancing the differential pressure of air compressors, minimizing idle operations, and Contribution to Reductions Compared to BAU3) optimizing the washing process. 2020 ② Investment in High Efficiency Equipment (Target Year) 30,000 LG Electronics is currently in the process of replacing the lighting systems at our produc2012 tion sites with LED systems (2012: invested 29,650 KRW 5 billion and reduced 1,200 tons/yr of 2007 Emissions GHG emissions). We also invest in automatic (Base Year) control systems such as BdMS1) and BPAM2) to gain greater control during peak demand hours and to reduce GHG emissions. Contribution to Reducing GHG Emissions AsKey Progress and Activities ③ Increased Use of Renewable Energy sociated with Product Use In 2012, LG Electronics contributed to reducLG Electronics continues to expand renewReduction Target ing 29.65 million tons of GHG emissions assoable energy use at its business sites with solar LG Electronics plans to contribute to the ciated with product use (compared to the enpower generating systems, small-sized wind reduction of GHG emissions associated with ergy consumption level of 2007) by introducing turbines and solar panels. As of 2012, the comproduct use by developing and introducing a large number of highly energy efficient bined capacity of solar power generating syshighly energy efficient products. We have products. tems at our business sites reached 202 kWp. established a target to reduce 30 million tons of GHG emissions from BAU by 2020. LG Elec① Product Carbon Footprint Disclosure tronics is estimated to contribute to a total reTo help consumers realize the amount of GHG duction of about 200 million tons (cumulative) emissions produced throughout a product’s of GHG emissions associated with product use lifecycle, LG Electronics provides information from 2008 to 2020. of the carbon footprint of each product model and is voluntarily acquiring carbon labels. (More details on p. 34) 1) BdMS (Building Management System) 2) B PAM (Building Performance Analysis Management System): An algorithm designed specifically for energy control/monitoring/analysis 3) BAU (Business As Usual): Projected GHG emissions based on the assumption that GHG reduction technology and policy remains at the current level 42 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Focus Verification of Employee Business Trips Green Management Initiatives of European Subsidiaries in 2012 (Verified by: DNV) LGEUK Installs Solar Panels LGEPT, Participates in Forest Project LGEUK (United Kingdom) established sustainSince 2011, LGEPT (Portugal) has participated able management as its key management in a forest project called “Cascais Natura.” goal in 2010 and has implemented diverse The subsidiary planted trees at the Sintragreen initiatives, including reduction of GHG Cascais Natural Park (Parque Sintra-Cascais emissions. As part of its efforts, LGEUK inNatural) in exchange for carbon credits and stalled 120 solar panels on the rooftop of its offsets the carbon emissions associated with HQ building in 2011. The system produces the power use at its training center. 92,627 kWh of power annually, approximately 7% of total energy consumed at the facility. their office buildings by 2020 from the base year 2008. Our European subsidiaries plan to achieve the target by using electricity generated with renewable energy sources. GHG Management for Logistics The total GHG emissions from logistics activiSolar panels installed at the East Wing of LGEUK HQ Forest Project Website ties in Korea amounted to 42,344 tons in 2012. LG Electronics makes ongoing efforts to reduce GHG emissions from its logistics activities through energy conservation at warehouses and logistics efficiency improvement. LG Elec② Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) In 2011, LG Electronics signed an MOU with tronics will continuously make diverse efforts LG Electronics is proceeding with the Clean Industrial Bank of Korea (IBK) for Green and to establish a greener logistics system, includDevelopment Mechanism (CDM) project, Shared Growth and helped suppliers set up ing transport system innovation, energy use through which we plan to acquire carbon a green management framework and GHG optimization and IT system implementation. credits in exchange for the sales of highly inventory (14 and 13 companies in 2011 and efficient refrigerators. LG Electronics' initia2012, respectively). In 2012, we also joined the Water Use Management tive was approved by the Indian government Korean government funded project Small, LG Electronics set a target to reduce 20% of in April 2010 and is currently undergoing a Medium and Large Green Partnership and water use by 2020, compared to 2007 (intensity registration process with the UNFCC. Through supported 10 small and medium sized entarget per revenue in KRW). To this end, we this project, LG Electronics expects to secure terprises in GHG inventory setup. We plan to are implementing a wide range of reduction 680,000 tons of Certified Emissions Reducprovide the same support to 23 companies in efforts to manage water use and reuse, such tions (CERs) annually over the next ten years. 2013. as adjusting water pressure, preventing/fixing leakages (replacement of pump seals/ GHG Reductions across the Product Life Cycle Office Building GHG Management packing/old parts), and water conservation Support for Suppliers’ GHG Management Since 2008, LG Electronics has managed GHG campaign (encouraging employee dormitory In 2010, LG Electronics established and anemissions from office buildings in Korea. In residents to do large loads of laundry and to nounced a plan to expand its low-carbon 2011, a total of 9,377 tons of GHG was emittake shorter showers). In 2012, we established procurement. Based on the plan, we will exted from LGE’s office buildings, including the water inventory of our production sites in pand our annual purchase from suppliers that leased office spaces that house more than 100 Korea and completed third party verification implement sustainable GHG reduction plans fulltime employees (Twin Towers and Seoul of the data. We plan to continuously expand up to KRW 50 trillion by 2020. To this end, we Square in Korea). Following the announcethe scope of water management. A total of continually expand support to suppliers to ment of our U.S. subsidiary (LGEUS) for of11,544,000 tons of water was used in 2012, strengthen their GHG management capacity fice building GHG management in 2011, our down 10% from to the previous year. (i.e. GHG management training and assistance European subsidiaries also announced a plan for GHG inventory/monitoring system setup) in 2012 to reduce 15% of GHG emissions from and plan to provide GHG management tools and guidelines. Water Use (global) Unit: K ton 2012 11,544 2011 12,914 2010 12,128 Low-carbon Management 43 3. Promotion of Low-Carbon Culture 20,000 office employees at overseas subsidCarbon Reduction Campaign iaries (including U.S., China, the EU regions, LG Electronics runs diverse campaigns that etc.) in the following year. In 2011, the proencourage employees to participate in its efgram was further expanded to suppliers with forts to reduce GHG emissions and energy over 500 employees from 120 suppliers. We consumption in their daily activities at work. also included climate change in the curricuAt our production locations, employees orgalum for our regular offline training provided nized an energy observer group to check electo suppliers. In 2012, 228 supplier employees Promoting Low-carbon Culture tricity and steam leaks, and to turn off power completed the program on climate change switches to reduce energy loss. In celebration and the corporate response strategies. (More of World Environment Day 2012, for example, Details on p. 40 “Green Partnership”) Forest Cleaning and Tree Planting Event, Global Volunteer Day our Koran employees helped replace light bulbs with LED for a rehabilitation center in Engagement with Policy Makers and Changwon and participated in a tree planting Influencers energy and reduce their carbon footprint. LG event at Mt. Jeongbyeong in Korea. Based on In order to contribute to efforts by global inElectronics also signed a memorandum of such efforts, LG Electronics raises awaredustries to address climate change issues, LG understanding with the US EPA, agreeing to ness of climate change and encourages our Electronics actively participates in initiatives collaborate with U.S government agencies on employees to make changes in their everyday led by international organizations, includa number of initiatives to help protect the enlives. ing the United Nations. Since 2010, we have vironment. worked as a steering committee member of In November 2012, LG Electronics partnered Climate Change Education “Caring for Climate,” one of the initiatives with Climate Counts, a non-profit organization LG Electronics conducts climate change trainfrom the United Nations Global Compact, that rates companies on their efforts to ading to raise awareness of the issue among and also as an active member of the EICC’s dress solutions for global climate change. employees, to encourage changes in their Environmental Sustainability Work Group. In behavior, and to increase employees’ underFebruary 2012, LG Electronics joined the U.S. standing of green initiatives in LGE. Starting Environmental Protection Agency's Green with Korean employees in 2009, the online Power Partnership, a voluntary program to climate change training was expanded to over encourage organizations to use renewable Focus Zero Energy America Project™ Since September 2012, LG Electronics Concept Design for Zero Energy America Project™ has participated in a Zero Energy America Project™ with Marc Rutenberg Homes, the : Product Supplied by LGE U.S. housing construction company. “Zero Energy House” refers to a building with zero High Efficiency net energy consumption and zero carbon Air Conditioning System emissions annually. Such buildings offset for Heating/Cooling Solar Panel the energy they consume by minimizing energy consumption and generating power Underground Walls/ High Efficiency with renewable energy sources. Floor: Insulated Appliances The project’s first zero energy house was (TV, Washing Machine, etc.) completed in November 2012 in Tampa Bay, Florida, which features an air conditioning Geothermal Energy, system, LED TV and solar panels from LG Fuel Cell, etc. Window: T  riple Glazed Glass Electronics. (URL: http://www.zeroenergyamerica.com) 44 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 4. Green Business Water Treatment Solution Photovoltaics Solution Comprised of all processes that are associIn 2010, LG Electronics first established a solar ated with producing clean water, the water module production facility of 120 MW capacity treatment solution business is a green busiat Gumi I Plant and has produced solar cells ness that LG Electronics has designated as and solar panels. As of 2012, we supplied solar one of its future growth engines. Servicing the panels to 32 countries across the world and public and private sectors, our water treatsold a total of 1.6 million panels between 2010 Photovoltaics Solution ment solution business provides total soluand 2012 (cumulative). tions including development and production Photovoltaic products provide 25 years warof membranes 1) (key product used in water ranty of generating power. In order to produce Solar panels installed at the Gumi III Plant treatment processes), water disposal and products that deliver stable performance for reuse, water supply for industrial processes, such an extended period of time and to faciliand design/procurement/construction/operatate continuous quality improvement, LG Elections of water treatment plants. In July 2011, tronics developed the Severe Environment Test LED Business Related Certificates LG Electronics launched a joint venture with internally and utilizes the test to thoroughly Hitachi Plant Technologies. And the following manage product quality. We currently focus month, LGE acquired Daewoo Entec (renamed our investments on developing high efficiency HiEntech) which specializes in operations and solar cells, and our investments are producing management of water treatment facilities. promising results. In 2012, we succeeded in In addition, we signed an MOU (Strategic Partdeveloping Type P crystalline silicon solar cell, nership for Environmental Business Projects which achieved 20.7% of energy conversion at Home and Abroad) with Daewoo E&C to efficiency, as well as high efficiency Type N jointly pursue business projects, exchange solar cell. In 2013, we also succeeded in mass technologies, and have been collaborating on 2 production of the MonoX NeON series with the strengthening presence in the water treatmaximum output of 300 W using the Type N 1 ment industry worldwide. HiEntch also estabsolar cell technology. lished a subsidiary (water treatment facility management and operations) in Tianjin, China 1 | NEP Certificate Lighting 2 | UL CTDP (Client Test Data Program) Certificate and explores opportunities in global projects. In line with our decision to develop LED lighting as one of our key growth engines, we consolidated all lighting businesses from affiliates under LG Electronics. LED lighting Focus is managed as part of our building interior/ exterior solutions business along with HVAC LG Electronics Replaces Twin Towers Lighting System with LEDs system and building management system. In October 2012, all lighting products from our LG Electronics’ headquarters LG Twin Towplasma lighting system series acquired the ers underwent remodeling between 2010 and NEP (New Excellent Product) Certification. late 2011. During this period, we replaced Unlike existing lighting products, the Plasma the building’s entire lighting system with Lighting System series does not contain elecLEDs. We also implemented a touchscreentrodes, which enables the products to maintype automatic lighting control system that tain a consistent level of brightness throughworks in conjunction with composite sensors out their lifecycle. These products also contain to control the brightness based on the ambino mercury. ent light. In December 2012, LG Electronics LED Testing Lab was certified by the U.S. certification Comparison of Monthly Energy Consumption at Twin Towers (Before/After Remodeling) agency UL (Underwriters Laboratories) as an official testing facility for LED lighting prodAfter ucts and converters. This allowed LG Elec(June 2012) 3,746kWh = KRW 393,309/month 26% 32% tronics to perform safety/certification tests internally as well as to conduct CSA (Canadian Energy Consumption Automatic Lighting Control System LED Lighting Decreased by 56% Standards Association) certification tests Before (Canada’s certification standards). (September 2010) 9,106kWh = KRW 956,113/month 1) Membrane: A thin film-like (liquid or solid) structure that * Figures presented in this graph are based on data from a single floor (7th). Data was estimated by comparing energy separates mixtures by filtering specific substances consumption and type/number of lighting fixtures before and after the remodeling. Low-carbon Management 45 Smart Grid Since 2009, LG Electronics has participated New Environmental Technology Certificate for Membrane Product in a smart grid pilot project led by the Korean (Water Treatment Solution) government as the prime leading company of a consortium, and is currently leading the project in Gujwa-eup, Jeju Island (440 households). LG Electronics also became the first Korean company to partake in a smart grid Water Treatment Solution pilot project in Europe and is currently participating in a project in Germany. We also signed Signing Ceremony of LG Electronics-Daewoo an MOU with the U.S. based Pecan Street, E&C MOU on water treatment solution Inc. to cooperate in smart grid pilot projects. Based on the agreement, LG Electronics will participate in a pilot project from the latter half of 2013 and review the performance of LG smart grid products (including air conditioning system, refrigerator, washing machine, HeMS (Home energy Management System) and LED Smart Grid Pilot Project lighting) installed at the residence of project participants. Region Participant Scope Gujwa-eup, Jeju Island, 440 households Smart Server, Smart TV, Smart Refrigerator, Smart Washing Machine, Korea Smart Air Conditioner, Heat Pump, Solar Panel, LED Lighting Aachen, Germany 5 households Smart Server, Smart Refrigerator, Smart Washing Machine Smart Grid California, U.S. 20 households Residential Energy Storage Device A smart grid is a modernized electrical grid that uses IT technology to optimize energy efficiency. On a smart grid, appliances automatically choose offpeak hours to operate, and consumers can check their energy bills real-time via an energy management device. 46 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report S Special page Green Initiatives INTERVIEW It is a great pleasure to introduce our environmental sustainability program at LGEUS Christine Ackerson at LGEUS. In 2012, we carried out a wide Sustainability & range of projects and activities to help do CSR Manager our part in protecting the environment LGEUS and promoting energy efficiency. A few of our key initiatives included: 1. Partnering with the U.S. Environmental LGEUS also hosted an energy efficiency leaderThe company has voluntarily committed to sendProtection Agency (EPA) ship workshop in December 2012 with five key ing 100 percent of used electronics collected In 2012, LGEUS teamed up with the EPA on a seNGOs, including the American Council for an Enfor reuse and recycling to third-party certified ries of voluntary initiatives, including programs ergy Efficient Economy and the U.S. Green Buildrecyclers, increasing the total amount of used to promote energy efficiency, reduce waste and ing Council. Participants of the meeting had an electronics collected for reuse and recycling, and use renewable energy. We have established a open dialogue about a range of topics including publicly posting information and data. detailed action plan over the next five years to adideas for future collaboration between LG, the U.S. dress a broad array of environmental stewardship government and NGOs; technical, economic, and 4. Implementing a nationwide public education programs that will help us to reduce our carbon political factors that have an impact on high efand community outreach campaign about footprint and protect the environment. EPA offers ficiency products; and opportunities and barriers ENERGY STAR easy to use tools and resources in over 40 polto developing energy efficient products. LGEUS partnered with the EPA’s ENERGY STAR lution prevention and energy conservation proprogram to educate consumers on energy efgrams that LG can use to help us reach our goals. 3. Continuing Strong Leadership in Recycling ficiency and empower consumers to make Efforts informed choices about their electronics and ap2. Teaming up with Key Non-Governmental LGEUS collected and responsibly recycled 17,760 pliance purchases. Through aggressive media reOrganizations (NGOs) to Promote Energy tons of unused and unusable electronics in 2012, lations, advertising, social media and high-profile Efficiency up from 6,152 tons in 2011. As an official sponconsumer events, LGEUS was able to reach more LGEUS worked with several NGO’s in 2012 to sor of the U.S. based nonprofit organization Keep than a billion consumers with ENERGY STAR identify opportunities for collaboration on policy America Beautiful (KAB), LGEUS participates in messages. initiatives with advocates who help shape federal diverse events and initiatives organized by KAB policy and public dialogue around energy efficient to promote electronics recycling. Building on its products. For instance, LGEUS spoke at the Alleadership in responsible electronics recycling, liance to Save Energy’s Great Energy Efficiency in September 2012 LG joined forces with the EPA Day, which attracted about 400 stakeholders from as a charter participant in the EPA’s Sustainable business, government, academia and media. Materials Management Electronics Challenge. Award Cuts EPA Partership Objective and Goals 1 Collaborate on Environmental and Energy Management Best Practices 2 LEED1) Certification for Energy Management & Green Water Use LGEUS HQ ENERGY STAR Energy Management Waste Reduction & Green Offices & Product Stewardship Green Procurement Recycling Landscapes Clean Construction Environmental Green transportation Monitoring & Report USA2) Education 1 | LGE-EPA MOU Signing Ceremony 1) LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design): Developed by the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC), 2 | 2012 Launching Ceremony of Great American Clean up LEED is a rating system for the design, construction and operation of high performance green buildings, homes and neighborhoods. (April 2012, Time Square, New York) The USGBC assesses a building’s design, construction, operations and maintenance solutions and awards four types of certifications based on the combined score (LEED: 40-90 points, LEED Silver: 50-59 points, LEED Gold: 60-79 points, LEED Platinum: 80 and higher) 2) Clean Construction USA: An EPA program designed to promote the reduction of diesel emissions from construction equipment and vehicles Low-carbon Management 47 Win-Win Growth It is LG Electronics’ strong commitment to Win-Win Growth that has helped Seyong, Co. Ltd. overcome rapidly changing global market and grow into the company it is today. Based on collaborative partnerships, LG Electronics strives for Win-Win Growth that creates shared value. LG Electronics provides a broad range of support to its suppliers, offering funding support, sharing its impressive technology portfolio, and helping suppliers achieve production stability and quality improvement. LG Electronics’ strong commitment to Win-Win Growth will surely help the company achieve Global No. 1, and Seyong will also spare no efforts in technological development and innovation to become a worthy business partner. Young Sook Park/President, Seyong, Co., Ltd. Our Approach Our Performance FUTURE DIRECTION Participating in the • Win-Win Growth, a key building block •Support suppliers to achieve Global No.1 26 Suppliers “No. 1 Supplier Program” for achieving Global No. 1 competitiveness Acquired Level 5 support 3 Philosophies and 5 Principles for 150 Employees capability for suppliers • Implement and develop Win-Win Growth Win-Win Growth Supplier grievances resolved through programs unique to LG Electronics Strategic directions and action plans 141Cases VOS management for Win-Win Growth Our Performance Global Procurement Amount/Composition of Procurement Staff in 2012 Unit: %, No. of employees Global Procurement Global Procurement Korea In 2012, LG Electronics spent KRW 30.1 trillion China Amount 0.2% for purchases, and 76% of the amount, KRW 1.0% Asia 22.7 trillion, was spent in Asia including KoAmerica 8.2% Europe rea. We had business transactions with over CIS 1,000 suppliers in Korea and 3,300 suppliers 15.1% Middle East & Africa overseas, and made transactions of KRW 100 39.7% million or higher with approximately 3,200 KRW 30.1 suppliers (74%). trillion 14.2% Composition of Procurement Staff LG Electronics has established a purchasing unit at each of our major production subsid21.6% iaries. As of January 2013, a total of 2,010 employees (Korea: 866/Overseas: 1,144) are Composition of Korea 866 tasked with procurement. Since we estabProcurement Staff China 471 lished sustainable management as our corporate direction, we have strived for Win-Win Asia 318 Growth with our suppliers, and established America 190 dedicated business units in 2011 to renew our Europe 81 commitment. CIS 43 Middle East 41 & Africa Total: 2,010 Employees 48 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 3 Philosophies and 5 Principles for Win-Win Growth 3 Philosophies and 5 Principles for Win-Win Growth LG Electronics established “3 Philosophies and 5 Principles for Win-win Growth,” and makes diverse efforts, such as making the Objective Keywords 3 Philosophies and 5 Principles information available via our win-win growth Philosophy Securing Global No.1 website, to ensure that all our employees Competitiveness 1. In pursuance of Win-Win Growth, LG Electronics strives to help suppliers grow into strong from procurement and related departments No.1 Spirit companies with Global No.1 competitiveness fully understand our philosophies and prin2. Suppliers are a valuable source of LG Electronics’ ciples for win-win growth and put them into LG Electronics business competitiveness and partner in innovation. · Support to promote suppliers’ practice. long term self-sufficiency 3. In pursuance of Win-Win Growth, LG Electronics · Partnerships based on Shared Drive should not simply share existing resources but strive competitiveness Organization for Win-win Growth · Two-way communication and to share the benefits from growing competitiveness achieved through ongoing innovation. LG Electronics focuses our efforts on fostering fair transactions suppliers with No.1 competitiveness. To this end, we select the No.1 supplier in each product item and provide onsite support to help Win-Win Growth Principle our “No.1” suppliers strengthen core competitiveness and create value independently. We 1. We must reinvent and discipline ourselves first to comply with global level processes and rules. also operate the Skill Council to develop our own capabilities to provide effective support Supplier 2. Carefully select suppliers with competitiveness, and Strive to grow into a strong Innovation then provide support that creates profound impact. and established an ongoing support system. In company with: order to build partnerships based on trust and · the organization size that ensures 3. First, clearly establish the standards for Global No. 1, sustainable competitiveness and then set goals and execute plans accordingly. to maintain fair business relationships, we · world class productivity and quality also make ongoing VOS (Voice of Suppliers) ; and 4. Comply with fair and transparent standards with · technological competitiveness to discipline and cooperate with each other. management efforts and strive to facilitate sustain independent growth Jeong-Do two-way communication. LG Electronics also Management 5. Make long-term and ongoing efforts based on communication and trust. actively participates in national policy initiaNo.1 Spirit·Shared Drive· Innovation·Jeong-Do Management tives, in addition to our own Win-Win Growth initiatives aimed to achieve Global No. 1 competitiveness. Securing Supplier Competitiveness with Strong Drive for 5 Win-Win Growth ObjecWin-Win Growth Drive Organization tives Since we made a pledge for Win-Win Growth at the “LGE Win-Win Growth Camp” held in Control Tower Support Departments May 2011, we have strived to build true partnerships with suppliers based on our strong Win-Win Growth Division Producing Engineering Research Institute, Quality Center, conviction that our suppliers are the key to Skill Support Department success in our pursuit of Global No. 1. In order to express unwavering commitment to winWin-Win Growth Team win growth, we established the “5 Win-Win Production Growth Objectives” and implemented our winShared Growth Drive Team win growth programs accordingly. In 2013, we enhanced our action plans for the “5 Win-Win Quality Growth Objectives” and are pressing forward Pyeongtaek Shared Growth Drive Team to secure Global No. 1 competitiveness by promoting supplier competitiveness. Changwon Shared Growth Drive Team R&D Win-Win Growth 49 1. Support for Securing Global No.1 contract R&D projects. We invested a total of Competitiveness KRW 24.7 billion between 2011 and 2012 to LG Electronics implements differentiated supdiscover and foster suppliers with advanced port programs to help our suppliers acquire technologies as well as R&D capabilities, and world class competitiveness in quality, proplan to invest over KRW 20 billion for the next duction, and technology. three years. Supplier Support for Capability Development Support for Securing Global No. 1 Competitiveness in Promotion of Open Innovation – LG Electron– We focus on providing support to address Production and Quality ics created a website dedicated to Win-Win suppliers’ weaknesses and strengthen their The Signing Ceremony for the “ Fair Trade & Win-Win Growth Growth to introduce our policy and programs core competitiveness, such as value creation Partnership Agreement” between 1st and 2nd Suppliers for Win-Win Growth, to collect suppliers’ grievand capability development. We also expand ances, and to promote supplier suggestions. In successful support programs to overseas addition, we also established the new business suppliers to provide effective support. partnership request process and opened up Focus the site to non LGE suppliers to locate compaSupport for Production and Management Success Case: Gabeul Plastics, Co., Ltd. nies with new technologies and processes. Stability – LG Electronics supported the Fair Trade & Win-Win Growth Partnership AgreeOur long time Win-Win Growth partner Gabeul Support for and Protection of Core Technoment between 1st and 2nd tier suppliers to Plastics produces mobile phone cases, and logical Capabilities – In line with our CEO’s promote fair trade and to establish a sound has supplied the product to LG Electronstrong commitment to promoting the parts ics since 1994. LG Electronics selected the Win-Win Growth ecosystem. Based on the iniand materials industry, we are expanding supcompany as a beneficiary of the “Capability tiative, we also formed a consortium with the port for major equipment and parts produced Development Program,” and provides ongoing Korean government (Ministry of Trade, Indusmanagement consulting. The program was locally. In order to promote mutual trust, we try and Energy) and 1st tier/2nd tier suppliers, established to help our suppliers secure busiutilize the Technology Escrow Service in joint and provide consulting on suppliers’ business ness sustainability and to strengthen competiR&D project for new technologies. Under operations (production and manufacturing) tiveness of LG-supplier partnerships. Through the Technology Escrow Service, government the program, Gabeul Plastics received conand assessment of their Productivity Manageorganizations take stewardship of suppliers’ sulting from our “Plant Innovation Specialist” ment System. technology and ensure that the technology, as on plant innovation and was provided with ongoing support for production and logistics well as the supplier’s rights to the technology, Support for Establishing Overseas Operations innovation. In 2012, we also offered funding is safely protected. LG Electronics bears the – In case suppliers need to establish overseas for facility improvement and technical supentire costs incurred from using the service. operations for LGE projects, we provide fundport for capacity expansion. With the support, Gabeul Plastics installed new plastic molding ing support to cover operating expenses such 3. Financial Support equipment and enhanced its production autoas initial investments (property, land, and LG Electronics makes continuous efforts to mation system. In particular, the company’s equipment) as well as legal counseling. LG UV robotic surface coating line, which was set ensure the financial stability of our supplier’s Electronics is also increasing purchases from up with our funding and technical support, by providing direct/indirect funding support the supplier to help stabilize business operagreatly contributed to improving the coating and improving payment schedule/period. tions. productivity and the quality of mobile phone exterior surface. Direct Funding Support – LG Electronics proLG Electronics also performed a three-day Management Support – In June 2012, LG Elecvides direct funding support to suppliers for CSR consulting for the company’s Bucheon tronics established a profit sharing program Plant and identified 46 issues in labor rights, improving productivity and quality, expanding and a department dedicated to this initiative to ethics and EHS. Based on a customized and capacity and facility, establishing overseas share profits generated from joint innovation practical improvement plan devised by LG operations for LGE projects, and developing efforts with suppliers. In 2012, LG Electronics Electronics consultants, Gabeul Plastics advanced technologies. We provided a total of made voluntary improvement efforts for three performed 33 joint projects with 27 companies KRW 170.9 billion in direct funding between months and created sound, safe & healthyand established the profit sharing program as 2004 and 2012. working conditions. Going forward, Gabeul the ground for Win-Win Growth with suppliers. Plastics plans to take advantage of the “TrainWe also provide funding support (i.e. securing ing Consortium for LGE's Suppliers” offered Combination/Indirect Funding Support – In raw materials and subcontracting) to relieve at the LG Electronics Learning Center to partnership with financial institutions, LG participating suppliers of capital constraints. strengthen its business sustainability. Electronics provides low interest funding to suppliers to ensure financial stability of our 2. Support for Developing Capabilities in Next suppliers and to lay the foundation for susGeneration Technology tainable win-win partnerships. In 2012, LG LG Electronics continues its efforts to Electronics, in association with the Industrial strengthen suppliers’ capabilities in the next Bank of Korea (IBK), established the Wingeneration of technologies. win Growth Fund totaling KRW 125 billion and provided KRW 106.6 billion to our suppliers. Green Partnership Program – LG ElectronIn 2013, we plan to allocate additional KRW ics’ Green Partnership Program was estab32.5 billion to set up a Win-Win Growth fund lished to strengthen suppliers’ technological dedicated to our 2nd and 3rd tier suppliers. capabilities through joint R&D projects and Additionally, we allocated KRW 150 for the 50 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Network Loan, a low interest loan (produc1 HR Support LG Electronics sponsors job tion expenses/working capital) for small and fairs in partnership with government agencies medium sized enterprises, through the IBK. In and media outlets to provide suppliers with 2012, we partnered with the Korea Export and opportunities to recruit quality workforce and Import bank to expand the benefits to suppliexperienced professionals. We also provide ers who have established overseas operations consulting by internal/external experts to for LGE projects. make direct impact on suppliers’ capability 2 development and to create a ground for enImprovement of Payment Conditions – LG hancing competitiveness. Electronics processes invoices from subcontractors twice a month and makes payments 5. Process Innovation in cash within 10 days of invoice processing. LG Electronics intensified its drive for WinWe also adjust the payment schedule (increase Win Growth through internal process innovathe frequency of payment processing or shorttion and established a wide range of programs ens payment period) to relive our suppliers of Training/HR Support to promote communication with suppliers. financial constraints. Additionally, we make payment to suppliers earlier than schedule Win-Win Growth Website – We established before national holidays (New Year’s Day and 1 | Win-Win Growth Academy a dedicated website for Win-Win Growth iniThanksgiving) to improve suppliers’ financial 2 | Learning Academy for Japanese Suppliers tiatives (www.lgesuppliers.com) to promote management and employee welfare. communication and to resolve supplier grievances. The website features information on 4. Training/HR Support our Win-Win Growth programs (i.e. funding As part of our efforts to strengthen suppliers’ support, training and supplier suggestion core competitiveness (talent management and program) to increase the number of suppliers capability development), LG Electronics prowho benefit from our efforts. We also orgavides training and HR support to 1st tier and nized a separate section titled “e-VOS (Voice 2nd tier suppliers. Of Supplier)” on the website to gather supplier grievances directly and resolve the issues. Win-Win Growth Academy and Training Programs – On March 28, 2012, LG ElectronDiverse Communication Channels LG Elecics officially launched the Win-Win Growth tronics offers a supplier grievance reporting Academy, a training facility dedicated to supchannel on the corporate website (www.lge. plier training at the LG Electronics Learning com) and the Win-Win Growth website (www. Center. The Academy offers training prolgesuppliers.com/winwin) to gather supplier grams customized to the needs of supplicomplaints and grievances, and to address the ers’ employees (i.e. business management, issues. We commission a third party assurvocational/technical training, and innovation ance agency to conduct supplier satisfaction training), and contributes to developing supsurvey on business transactions and Win-Win pliers’ organizational and employee capabiliGrowth programs to gather frank feedback, Process Innovation ties. We also set up a consortium with a local promote communication, and effectively reuniversity (Changwon National University) and solve supplier grievances. offer training programs from the university to Win-Win Growth Website provide easy access to local suppliers. TrainVOS Management for Supplier Communicaing courses offered at the university campus tion – LG Electronics strengthens partnership include technical training courses designed with suppliers by promoting supplier engageto enhance the quality of metal/plastic moldment and communication with regular VOS ing products and welding. In addition, we host management activities. Our procurement staff “Learning Day” on a semiannual basis to promembers visit suppliers regularly to maintain mote learning and strengthen suppliers’ core close communication with suppliers and make competitiveness. committed efforts to address their grievances. Win-Win Growth 51 CSR in SUPPLY CHAIN/ Conflict Minerals Suntel first opened its eyes to Corporate Social Responsibility thanks to LG Electronics’ CSR consulting, which helped us realize the importance of CSR in global markets. We also have come to understand that CSR was actually not a new concept to us but something we had been doing all along. LG Electronics’ CSR consulting was a great opportunity for us to accurately assess our CSR compliance level and address potential risks. Everyone at Suntel is now committed to CSR compliance and prepared to make ongoing efforts to strengthen CSR risk management. I thank LG Electronics for providing this valuable opportunity and promise to strive for CSR until we prove our corporate competitiveness with CSR risk management. Joon Ki Lee/CEO, Suntel, Co. Ltd. Our Approach Our Performance FUTURE DIRECTION • Strengthen CSR efforts to meet • Strengthen CSR audit 20% Percentage of suppliers in the low risk group international standards • Expand CSR management scope by Number of suppliers capable of • Implement the EICC Code of Conduct and 48 suppliers independent ESH management developing procurement staff’s CSR risk management programs management capabilities Assess CSR risks of major suppliers • Enhance suppliers’ capacity Perform CSR audit on high risk suppliers • Establish a system that tracks the Establish a response system for regulations origin of minerals contained in products Our Performance Developing CSR Risk Management Capacity tionnaire). We require voluntary improvement We launched a CSR training program for our efforts from high risk suppliers (those scored procurement staff members, who play an eslower than 65 points on the SAQ), and also Establishment of CSR Risk Management sential part in LG Electronics’ supplier manperform CSR audit and consulting for major System agement. The new training program is offered suppliers of each business division. LG Electronics takes multidimensional apat our Procurement College to raise awareproaches to promoting supplier CSR manageness of the importance of supplier CSR man1. CSR Risk Assessment Results ment, such as incorporating legally binding agement among our procurement workforce In 2012, 234 major suppliers (including four CSR Clause into our “Master Purchase Agreeand offer professional knowledge on CSR. outsourcing contractors) of LG Electronment” and establishing the “Supplier Code of The program is titled “Understanding CSR” ics were required to perform CSR risk selfConduct and Compliance Agreement (Declaand includes such subjects as “Introduction to assessment with the EICC’s Self-Assessment ration of the suppliers).” In 2011, we revised CSR and Comprehensive Overview on LG ElecQuestionnaire (SAQ). We expanded the scope our Master purchase Agreement (MPA) to tronics’ CSR Efforts” and “Potential CSR Risks of participants to include outsourcing conintroduce the “Schedule C: Supplier’s Responand LGE’s CSR Risk Management Programs.” tractors in line with our plan to continuously sibility” in accordance with the EICC Code of The program aims to develop procurement expand supplier CSR management targets. Conduct, and established CSR compliance as staff members’ CSR management capabilities Based on the assessment results, LG Eleca prerequisite for conducting business with LG and enable them to handle supplier CSR risk tronics also performed CSR audit on three Electronics. In March 2013, we worked togethmanagement in the long term. We conducted production sites identified as possessing a er with the local legal team in China to draft the training in the first and second half of 2012 high risk and provided consulting (LGE foa Local Standard Contract (in Chinese), which and plan to continue the program in 2013. cused CSR risk management efforts on its we will distribute to production subsidiaries production sites in 2012, which led to a dein the country. LG Electronics currently utiCRS Risk Management Programs crease in supplier CSR audit). lizes LSCs in three countries including Mexico LG Electronics implements supplier risk manOur suppliers averaged about 72 points on and Vietnam, and strongly encourages other agement programs based on the joint efforts the SAQ, and 50 of the participants (21%) overseas subsidiaries to draft and adopt their by the CSR Team and the Procurement Cenwere identified as possessing a high risk own edition of the LSCs. In 2012, LG Electronter. As a member of the Electronics Industry (those scored lower than 65 points). Although ics also updated and distributed the Supplier Citizenship Coalition (EICC), we also conduct the share of low risk suppliers increased Code of Conduct (v1.1) to introduce provisions annual CSR assessment on suppliers and recompared to 2011, the percentage of high on responsible sourcing, including logging. quire improvement efforts on the part of those risk suppliers remained at the same level as identified as belonging to the high risk group. the previous year. In order to decrease the An assessment is performed on major suppliproportion of the high risk group, we plan to ers (top 80% of direct suppliers by spending) strengthen management of these high risk with the EICC's SAQ (Self-Assessment Quessuppliers (i.e. CSR audit) in 2013. 52 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 2. CSR Audit and Consulting In 2012, LG Electronics conducted three-day Supplier CSR Risk Management Program CSR audits on three production sites identified as possessing high risk. On the first day, we Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 verified risks identified in the supplier’s selfassessment and identified additional risks Selection Assessment Verification Improvement based on international standards the next · Improvement efforts day. Based on risks, we provided consulting · Monitoring · CSR risk assessment · LGE CSR audit and to devise an improvement plan tailored to · Incorporation of progress · Selection of participants (EICC Self-Assessment consulting into supplier selection suppliers’ size, risk level, and needs on the (Top 80% of direct Questionnaire) · Third party audit by EICC and evaluation/Reward suppliers by spending) · Voluntary improvement (VAP, Validated Audit final day. We also monitored the progress and for excellent improveefforts Process) (If needed) ment performance provided support to ensure that suppliers ad(plan for 2013) dress more than 80% of improvement tasks prescribed under the plan. Two months after the audit, the suppliers completed 87% of the corrective action plans, and we advised them to organize remaining risks that require ongoSupplier CSR Risk Assessment Results Unit: No. of suppliers (%) ing attention into mid to long term tasks. Risk Level 2011 2012 3. 2013 Plans for CSR Audit and Consulting Low 36 (17%) 47 (20%) LG Electronics implements its supplier CSR Medium 132 (62%) 137 (59%) risk management programs as the goal of High 45 (21%) 50 (21%) Total 213 (100%) 234 (100%) promoting supply chain CSR. Although our CSR audit was only performed by a team of internally certified CSR auditors until 2012, we plan to certify staff members from Win-Win Growth departments at the Procurement CenCSR Risks Identified Unit: Percentage of suppliers (%) ter and other related departments to expand Inadequate verification of identification 13.73 Repeated industrial incidents 1.02 the scale and scope of CSR audit and consult(employee’s legal age) Delayed /back pay 0.82 ing from this year. Disciplinary pay cut (base salary) 12.50 History of non-compliances (i.e. cartel) 0.61 In relation to managing our supplier CSR Employment of apprentices* 11.48 History of fire hazard citations 0.61 risks, we plan to require different levels of Over 60 hours/week of labor 6.97 Wages below legal minimum 0.41 improvement efforts based on suppliers’ size Holding employee’s identification 5.53 Record of police report on sexual 0.20 and business reliance on LG Electronics. All History of legal sanctions 5.12 harassment, etc. major suppliers are required to manage its Under aged employees* 4.30 Denial of medical support for employees’ 0.20 level up to low risk, whereas medium risk Continued labor of over seven days 1.43 work injuries level is required for the rest of suppliers as Under aged employees on hazardous 1.02 History of chemical spills 0.20 minimum. When high risk suppliers fail to production process Child labor 0.00 make meaningful progress, we will imple* Albeit legal, has the potential to lead to child labor ment strong measures (i.e. reconsidering the business relationship) to prompt changes. In addition, we will prioritize our supplier CSR risk management efforts overseas by region, Onsite Consulting Success Cases starting from suppliers in China and working down to those in Southeast Asia and Europe. LG Electronics helped suppliers address diverse CSR risks through onsite CSR consulting. The followings are actual improvement cases. Supplier CSR management by Case 1) Employee exposure to chemical substances Case 2) Inadequate employment agreement/No employ overseas subsidiary (Company A, South Chungcheong Province, Korea) ment agreement in some cases Our production subsidiaries in Mexico pub(Company B, South Gyeongsang Province, Korea) Issue: Employee health risk from chemicals used in lished a Spanish version of the LGE Supplier the printing and washing process Issue: Inexplicit and confusing language within the Code of Conduct and distributed this to loCause: Lack of safety awareness on the part of employemployment agreement, employment agreement not ees (protection gears not used) and inadequate ventilasigned in some cases, copy of the agreement not issued cal suppliers. Based on the code, we plan to tion system to employees require local suppliers to comply with our Improvement: Strengthened employee safety training, Cause: Lack of awareness replaced to more powerful motors for the ventilation Improvement: Revised and enhanced the employment CSR requirements and conduct site inspecsystem, installed additional ventilation hoods agreement, established the issuance of a copy as a tions. Our Thai subsidiary also conducted a regular practice in the hiring process CSR audit on six suppliers using a 12-item CSR checklist in August and November 2012. Based on non-compliances and risks identified in the audit, LG Electronics monitored the Case 1) suppliers’ improvement efforts. We conducted More powerful ventilation motors additional inspections in February 2013 and plan to continue inspection and consulting periodically. CSR in Supply Chain/Conflict Minerals 53 Child Labor Risk Management conducted ESH audit on 33 overseas suppliing assessment results and accident cases. LG Electronics conducted a due diligence ers and provided consulting on improvement Based on our efforts, the number of suppliers survey on its production sites and suppliers in efforts with support from ESH teams at local capable of independent ESH management response to international concerns over child subsidiaries. We also provided quarterly train(ESH Level B and higher) increased from 41 in labor (particularly in China), raised between ing on major production processes (mold2011 to 48 in 2012. In 2012, we expanded our September and October 2012. The survey ing/metal plating/electric device/cutting) support to energy management for suppliwas performed on over 1,400 suppliers sites to strengthen suppliers’ ESH management ers in high energy industries and conducted across the world (including 881 suppliers in capabilities. For example, we conducted fire separate energy management assessment for China) to assess key CSR issues including safety training on 15 suppliers who specialplastic molders. GHG management support child labor. According to the survey result, we ize in molding to reduce fire hazard by sharwas also provided to 10 suppliers. In order did not find any instances of child labor in our supply chain but we did identify other potential risks such as inadequate verification of employees’ identification (legal age). No. of Suppliers that Acquired ESH Level B and Higher Among those surveyed, 11% retain apprentices and about 4% hire juvenile workers (between the ages of 16 and 18), both practices 2014 (Plan) 55 which increase the likelihood of child labor 2013 (Plan) 50 through forgery and theft of identifications. 2012 48 In order to minimize such risk, we plan to 2011 41 strengthen the age verification process. In 2013, we will also prioritize CSR issues and identify key management areas to provide * Level B: Suppliers capable of independent ESH management guidelines, based on which our suppliers can make voluntary CSR risk management efforts. Focus Best Practice: Suntel inc. LG Electronics’ Policy on Child Labor Suntel produces and supplies touch screen panels for mobile handsets to LG Electronics. Since 2007, LG Electronics clearly stated its stance against the company has made diverse efforts to create a great workplace under the slogan, “Great Workchild labor and prohibits the practice in Section I place, Great Company to Take Pride in.” The company established various communication channels, Labor and Human Rights of the Supplier Code of such as suggestion boxes and discussion sessions, to gather employee feedback and grievances. Conduct. Suntel reviews the employee suggestions/grievances collected, implement improvement measures and provide feedback. The company also conducts regular employee satisfaction survey, and then Avoidance of child labor Child labor shall not be used in any manufacturing translates the results into quantitative measures to manage the data systematically. processes. The term, “child” refers to a person In 2012, LG Electronics conducted CSR audit and consulting for Suntel, which greatly helped the below a certain minimum age. This minimum company understand CSR requirements and improve on existing employee grievance resolution proworking age shall be determined by local laws and grams. Based on the belief that talent management is the key to business success, Suntel is commitregulations. LG Electronics supports legitimate ted to creating a great working environment and conditions for its employees. As part of its efforts, workplace apprenticeship programs that comply with all laws and regulations applicable to such the company plans to introduce a mentorship program (new recruit mentoring by department leader) programs. and the Morale Campaign (promotion of employee morale with encouraging messages) in 2013. Additionally, support for employee clubs is under review by Suntel management to promote employee satisfaction. Support for ESH Management The Changwon Win-Win Growth Team conGrievance/Complaint process in Suntel ducts annual ESH risk assessment on Korea and overseas suppliers and implements audit Program Features Frequency and consulting programs based on the results. Employee Suggestion box Year-round Grievance Immediate resolution of employee grievances Our ESH risk management efforts minimize Resolution and feedback risks and prevent serious accidents in our Discussion Discussion session organized by rank Monthly for new recruits supply chain. We also established customized Session Discussion session led by CEO for new recruits/ Quarterly for business staff ESH audit on high risk suppliers (i.e. high risk other business staff Monthly for managers production process or high risk equipment) Discussion session led by Team Leader for managers as a regular practice. In 2012, we conducted Satisfaction Satisfaction survey on all business and production staff Half-yearly for business staff Survey (Aimed to facilitate the transfer of technical know how Quarterly for production staff audits on 18 suppliers to identify unsafe conpossessed by skilled production staff members and ensure ditions and practices and to support suppliers’ their continued service) improvement efforts. Management Dedicated suggestion box for key grievances and Monthly We also expanded our ESH support, which System for satisfaction survey on cafeteria was previously limited to Korean suppliers Key Initiatives (Management of improvement targets for top grievances that established overseas operations for LGE (cumulative) from the previous year) Family Day Campaign to encourage employees to leave work Weekly projects, to local suppliers as well. In 2012, we Campaign on time (17:30) every Wednesday 54 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report to help suppliers reduce power consumption LG Electronics encourages its suppliers to Future Direction for Conflict Minerals and cut energy costs, we assessed their peak responsibly source conflict minerals and deAs part of its efforts to respond to the conflict demand and equipment management, and rivative metals from the Democratic Republic minerals issue, LG Electronics established a provided an improvement plan. of Congo (DRC) and neighboring countries in corporate level taskforce led by the Product order to prevent an embargo and associated Testing Laboratory at the Quality Center. In Conflict Minerals worsening of economic conditions and human collaboration with relevant departments and Overview of the Conflict Minerals Issue suffering. Korea/international experts, the taskforce Over many years and continuing to this day, works to trace the origin of the four minerals the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), loLG Electronics’ Response to used in our products as well as to establish cated in Central Africa, has been ravaged by Conflict Minerals relevant processes and IT systems by the end fierce armed conflicts over the country’s vast In 2010, LG Electronics introduced a ban on of 2013. More recently, the environmental reserves of natural resources. Armed groups illegally mined minerals in our global sourcdestruction and poor working conditions at in the eastern DRC have been routinely coming policy and the Supplier Code of Conduct. the tin mines of Bangka Island, Indonesia mitting heinous acts such as massacre and In 2013, we also revised the Master Purchase are causing a great level of concerns within rape in the process of taking control over the Agreement to introduce the same provision the international community. LG Electronics mines and forcing people, including children, and to require supplier compliance in accorraised the issue to the EICC and to participate to labor. Amid rising international concerns, dance with relevant legal provisions. In 2012, in related work groups organized to address the U.S. enacted the Dodd-Frank Consumer we released “LG Electronics’ Statement on this problem. Protection and Wall Street Reform Act in July Conflict Minerals” on our corporate website to 2010. Under the conflict minerals reporting make a full and transparent disclosure of our provisions (Section1502) of the law, corporapolicy and to confirm our firm stance on this tions listed in the U.S. stock market must issue, as well as to inform the public about Results of Due Diligence Survey on Smelters disclose on the origin of conflict minerals and our progress in this area. We are continu(As of February 2013) their derivatives in their annual reports as ously expanding cooperation with external Category Regional Distribution of No. of well as to illustrate their due diligence efforts organizations and stakeholders including Major Smelters Smelters concerning conflict minerals sourced from the industry peers, governments and the EICC to Gold Japan, China, U.S. 77 DRC and neighboring countries. The provision respond effectively to this challenging issue Tantalum Japan, China, U.S. 11 aims to prevent violence and exploitation and that requires organized efforts by a coalition Tin Indonesia, China, Japan 53 to promote responsible sourcing by disclosof diverse stakeholders. Tungsten China, Japan, U.S. 20 ing businesses using minerals sourced from Total 161 conflict areas in the region. In August 2012, ☞ LG Electronics’ Statement on Conflict Minerals * Survey Period: December 2012 to July 2013 (on 459 suppliers) (URL: www.lg.com/global/sustainability/businessthe Securities and Exchange Commission (the (Response rate: 61.4%) partner/conflict-minerals) SEC) adopted annual disclosure requirements that implement Section 1502 of the DoddDue Diligence Survey Frank Act to mandate corporations listed in In 2012, LG Electronics conducted a seven Conflict Areas: Democratic Republic of the U.S. stock market to make disclosures remonth due diligence survey to verify smelters Congo (DRC) and Neighboring Countries lating to conflict minerals in a separate report used by our suppliers (both Korea and overbeginning with the 2013 calendar year. seas) that produce parts containing the four conflict minerals. The survey was conducted LG Electronics’ Approach to Conflict Minerals with the EICC’s Conflict Minerals Reporting Suppliers to LG Electronics must develop Template on approximately 460 suppliers policies toward preventing the use of conflict identified through the internal hazardous minerals or derivative metals sourced from substance management system, and about mines controlled by armed groups in all items 300 smelters have been identified (based on a to be supplied to LG Electronics. In addition, response rate of 60%) as a result. As of Feball suppliers to LG Electronics must document ruary 2013, we have reduced the number of their efforts to determine the source of any smelters down to 161 through the validation conflict minerals or derivatives and provide process conducted with the EICC Extractives LG Electronics with evidence of the origin of Work Group. the metals tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold in products to be supplied to LG Electronics. Any smelters producing tantalum, tin, tungsten or gold metals subsequently used in LG Conflict Free Smelter Program Electronics’ products are requested to seek and obtain certification through the EICC/ GeSI Conflict Free Smelter (CFS) program. The Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) established the Extractives Work Group to tackle the issue of conflict minerals, and LG Electronics joined the group to contribute to this worthy cause. As part of its efforts, When there are an adequate number of CFS the EICC operates the Conflict Free Smelter Program in cooperation with GeSI (Global e-Sustainability Initiasmelters/refiners available for sourcing, LG tive), a coalition of major Information and Communication Technology (ICT) companies. The program aims to Electronics will require sourcing from CFS verify smelters free of conflict minerals with professional organizations, encourage its members, including LG Electronics, to use minerals sourced by conflict-free smelters, and contribute to ending the conflicts over these certified smelters. minerals in the long term. As of April 2013, 18 tantalum smelters and 12 smelters have been certified free of conflicts, and the EICC and its partners work continuously to increase this figure. ☞ www.conflictfreesmelter.org CSR in Supply Chain/Conflict Minerals 55 Social Contribution In response to the call by all nations to cut poverty in half by 2015, LG Electronics partnered with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to screen a promotional video for the 10th Annual Match against Poverty, organized by UNDP Goodwill Ambassadors Zinedine Zidane and Ronaldo, on its giant Times Square billboard in New York City. LG Electronics’ actions directly contributed to raising awareness of the more than 1.7 billion people in 109 countries who live in extreme poverty and of the UN Millennium Development Goal’s (MDG’s), and it deserves credit for promoting the initiative that encourages millions across the world to take action against poverty. UNDP looks forward to working with LGE in continuing to propagate the MDG’s again next year. Satinder Bindra/Spokesperson and Director of Communications, UNDP Our Approach Our Performance FUTURE DIRECTION Number of business sites participated • Contribute to achieving the UN •Contribute to fostering young talents in 48 in social contribution activities Millennium Development Goals emerging and developing countries Percentage of employees participated in the • Provide development support to 96% Salary Rounding Fund • Develop “good” products and technologies developing countries using our products Number of employees participated in the that contribute to resolving social issues in and technologies 49,954 Life’s Good Day events local communities • Take a long term approach to collabora• Expand voluntary social contribution tion with stakeholders initiatives Our Performance LG Corp.’s Social Contribution Policy LG Electronics’ Social Contribution Strategy Based on its management philosophy of Goals Area “Customer-Value Creation” and “PeopleSupporting people with the will to stand up on their Oriented Management,” LG Electronics strives own feet and become independent Youth Education to deliver differentiated value for sustainable development of the humanity and makes soGuidelines (applies to all LG affiliates) cial contributions that cater to the needs of local communities. In line with the LG Social Differentiation 1. Develop and execute social contribution programs that utilize LGE's unique innovation. Contribution Strategy adopted by LG Corp., 2. Realize substantial change for the beneficiary through continuous and consistent execution. LG Electronics focused our efforts on providing support to those who strive to reach their Participation 3. Guarantee paid work hours for volunteer work to promote employees' voluntary participation in dreams in 2012. We also strive to contribute social contribution (8 hours or more per year). to meeting the UN Millennium Development 4. Company is obliged to execute matching grant fund that matches to employees' donations. Goals with social contribution efforts that 5. Company will make effort to create a culture that promotes employees' voluntary participation. utilize our products, technologies and core competencies. Going forward, LG Electronics will provide active support to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), from The Future UN Millennium Development Goals we want announced at the UN Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20) held in Rio Adopted by 192 world leaders in the year 2000 and set to be 1 2 3 4 achieved by 2015, the United Nations Millennium Developde Janeiro in 2012, Brazil. ment Goals (MDGs) are international pledges to reduce the To this end, we will make the following efworld population living below the poverty line by half. The forts. Firstly, we will expand our corporate eight international development goals include eradicate 5 6 7 8 level social contribution program “Life’s Good extreme poverty and hunger (Goal 1), combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases (Goal 6), and ensure environwith LG” to all our overseas subsidiaries to mental sustainability. contribute to every country and local com56 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report munity in which we operate. Secondly, we will utilize our products, technologies and core 2012 Donations Breakdown (Parent) competencies to make a tangible difference in local communities. Finally, we will continue to implement systems and programs designed to 3% 1% raise awareness of corporate social respon6% 1% 6% sibility among our employees and to engage them in volunteer works and donations based on “Creativity and Autonomy.” 18% By By 44% Key Focus Areas for Social Contribution Category Area 49% Efforts 45% LG Electronics’ social contribution efforts are largely focused on two areas. First is the basis 27% for self-reliance. We strive to achieve this goal through poverty eradication efforts, education Charitable donation Poverty Eradication Win-Win Growth support and medical support and become a Community Investment Environment Disabled People company that grows together with local comCommercial Initiatives Culture Diseases Education munities. Such efforts will help us contribute to sustainable development of the humanity and expand potential customers. Second is the environment and Safety & Health. We will develop energy efficient products and utilize our technologies, products, and marketing 2012 Social Contribution Performance against London Benchmarking Group (LBG) Model infrastructure to raise awareness of the environment. We believe that not only we can contribute to resolving social issues by focusInputs (Parent) Outputs Impacts ing our efforts into what we do best and by Costs Support for Local Social Impacts utilizing our know how but also we can expand KRW 19.4 billion Communities · Made contribution to local Sponsored and supported community development markets to emerging countries and create Category the socially marginalized and · Fostered young talents shared value. Charitable donation 45% welfare facilities from local from underprivileged backCommunity Investment 49% communities grounds Achievements in 2012 Commercial Initiatives 6% i.e.) Helped increase a In 2012, LG Electronics made a total of KRW Stakeholder Engagement social enterprise’ revenue 19.4 billion in donations (11 Korean business Region Maximized impact by collaboby 20% (estimated) with 48 Business Sites in Total rating with local NGOs and productivity improvement sites), and 71% of our donations were directed Korea: 41 cases from 11 sites business partners consulting to poverty eradication and environmental Overseas: 211 cases from 37 sites i.e.) The Most Big Hug protection. A total of 37 LGE overseas subsidcampaign in partnership with Business Impacts iaries also participated in social contribution Area a Greek detergent maker · Promoted employee eninitiatives. We issued 27 press releases on our Poverty Eradication 44% gagement through employ social contribution efforts to Korean media Environment 27% Connection to Business participation Culture 18% Distributed 27 press releases · Sales increased from outlets. Education 6% (Korea) enhanced brand profile Win-Win Growth 3% i.e.) Blood drive with a RusDisabled People 1% Employee Participation sian retailer attracted 153 Diseases 1% 87% of Initiatives in Korea cases of media coverage 59% of Overseas Subsidiaries and led to year-on-year sales growth of 24% LG Talking Book Phone Since 2005, LG Electronics has cooperated with LG U+ and the LG Sangnam Library to develop mobile phones that read books for the visually impaired. A total of 10,000 units were donated between the period of 2005 and 2012. The fifth LG Talking Book Phone was developed and donated to social welfare facilities for the disabled in 2012. The new model features a function that allows users to access the LG Digital Talking Book Library of the LG Sangnam Library and download audio books. Social Contribution 57 Key Social Contribution Activities 1 2. Fostering Young Talents with Education One of the LG Way management philosophies, LG Electronics makes a wide range of efforts “Customer-Value Creation,” conveys our belief to contribute to fostering responsible global that we need to identify customer needs even citizens and future leaders. Our efforts include before they themselves realize it. We strive developing products that bridge the digital to identify the needs of stakeholders, includdivide, establishing IT training facilities and ing potential customers and local community running environmental education programs. members, and to deliver differentiated value, 2 In order to foster future generations with a especially by making social contribution efstrong sense of responsibility towards the forts. In 2012, LG Electronics actively engaged environment, LG Electronics introduced the in social contribution initiatives designed to Life's Green Class in 2006 in association with support self-reliance of the underprivileged, Hanyang University and educated more than foster young talents, and protect the environ76,000 children as of 2012. This program was ment. also introduced in India at 2010, and operated 3 in conjunction with LGEIL (Indian Subsidiary) 1. Supporting Self-reliance of the and the University of Pune. In 2012, the Life's Underprivileged Green Class visited a total of 64 schools and LG Electronics operates the “LG Hope Famprovided classes to more than 63,000 chilily” program to help the underprivileged in dren. In Indonesia, LG Electronics operates developing countries to achieve self-reliance the “LG Loves School” program to create an and works to eradicate waterborne diseases improved learning environment for students to further facilitate its efforts. We also partici4 from schools in developing areas by replacing pate in emergency relief missions in regions old computers and IT equipment and donating ravaged by natural disasters and armed conelectronic products. Our employees also teach flicts to create a caring world. Our efforts are IT classes for students, and the program is not limited to financial support we also make operated in conjunction with scholarship proour professional capabilities and marketing grams and training programs for students and infrastructure available to public organizateachers. tions to advance great causes championed by 5 the organizations. The “LG Hope Family” Pro3. Job Creation gram is a local infrastructure improvement In accordance with the agreement with the project led by the UN World Food Programme Ministry of Employment and Labor and the in Bangladesh and Cambodia in partnership Ministry of Environment in Korea, LG Elecwith the respective national governments. LG tronics provides support to social enterprises Electronics selected about 7,000 households in the environment sector, which applies comthat participated in the construction projects Major Social Contribution Initiatives mercial strategies to maximize improvements (i.e. roads and canal) and provided food and in human and environmental well-being. To cash in exchange for their labor. For two years support their cause and establishment, LG since the project was launched in 2011, a to1 | LG Hope Family (Bangladesh) Electronics provides financial support, mantal of 20 km of roads, waterways and levees 2 | Emergency Relief Efforts (Philippines) agement advice and productivity improvement (combined) were constructed in Bangladesh 3 | LG Hope Screen (U.S.) know how. In 2012, an advisory board spe4 | Productivity Improvement Consulting for under this project. Start-up Social Enterprise (Korea) cifically organized for this purpose provided In Ethiopia, LG Electronics, in partnership with 5 | UNEP’s Champions of the Earth Awards support to 14 start-up social enterprises, supLG Corp., launched the “LG Hope Community” porting initial investment costs and providing program aimed to promote the economic deconsulting on business strategy. As a result, velopment of local communities, and cooperthe 14 enterprises recorded a 14% of sales ated with the International Vaccine Institute LG Hope Community in Ethiopia increase on average and created 27 jobs. In to develop a vaccine for waterborne diseases. 2013, we plan to expand the beneficiaries to We have acquired the approval on the vaccine social cooperatives in the environmental area In January 2013, LG Electronics established an from the World Health Organization (WHO) and Ethiopian subsidiary whose main task is to operate and support a total of 20 companies. plan to launch a large scale vaccination effort CSR projects in the country. With the subsidiary in LG Electronics also operate education/trainplace, LG Electronics, together with LG Corp., will in 2013. In Philippines, LG Electronics raised ing programs for underprivileged youth from work to create self-reliant farming villages through an emergency relief fund for the 2012 flood infrastructure improvement projects (i.e. solar power countries in which we operate, including victims and operated the LG Service Camps at generation system) and productivity improvement Kenya and Brazil. Through the program, we major cities to provide a free product repair training. We also plan to establish a vocational school provide vocational training and internship opto transfer our technological know how to Ethiopians service and free medical check-up. We also and implement programs to support the descendants portunities to create jobs. made our Times Square digital billboard availof Korean War veterans. We expect such efforts to able to the UNDP and UNEP to raise public contribute to fostering young talents and creating jobs in the long term. awareness of global issues such as environment and poverty under the LG Hope Screen Program. 58 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 4. Raising Environmental Awareness 1 2. Donation Programs As a responsible member of the global comIn order to facilitate employee donations, LG munity, LG Electronics strives to raise awareElectronics runs diverse programs such as ness of environmental sustainability and “Executive Contribution Fund” and “Salary promote customer participation in protecting Rounding Fund,” and bi-monthly donation the environment. To this end, we sponsored menu program. Launched in 2004, the ExecuUNEP’s Champions of the Earth Awards, one tive Contribution Fund is raised with the parof the most prestigious environmental honors 2 ticipation of more than 85% of LGE Korea exin the world. In 2012, the Awards honored ecutives who donate a set amount from their numerous world-renowned environmental monthly salaries. LG Electronics also makes scientists and activists, including President matching donations on the amount raised. In Tsakhia Elbegdorj of Mongolia for making a 2013, we established the Steering Committee great contribution to the prevention of deserof the Executive Contribution Fund to ensure tification in the country. fair and transparent operations of the fund. 3 The Salary Rounding Fund is raised with the Employee Participation Programs voluntary participation of more than 96% of In the “Charter of Social Contribution” estabLGE Korea employees. Participating emlished in 2005, LG Electronics declared, LG ployees donate less than KRW 1,000 from Electronics operates its corporate citizenship their monthly salaries. The fund is directed programs by forming partnerships between to supporting local disaster relief efforts and labor and management, executives and ememployees dealing with hardships. In 2012, ployees, customers and local community Employee Participation Programs the fund was used to help employees facing citizens, and related NPO/NGOs. In order to hardships and sponsor the Korea Muscular remain true to this pledge, we make social Diseases Foundation. LG Electronics expects contribution efforts such as donations and volsuch donation programs to promote corporate 1 | Global Volunteer Day unteer work in local communities where we 2 | Life’s Good Volunteers social responsibility among our employees. conduct business, both in Korea and overseas. 3 | Life’s Good Day In 2012, we offered the donation menu four Based on the operation principles of the LG times (the company cafeteria offers a reduced Social Contribution Policy introduced in 2012, price menu, and the employees who choose LG Electronics strives to create a corporate from that menu pay the original amount and culture that promotes employees’ voluntary Improving Productivity of Social Enterprise donate the difference), to provide greater participation and introduced a program that Heuksalim contribution opportunities with the participaoffer paid leave for volunteer work in March tion of 49,954 employees. The entire proceed2013. As part of its consulting program for start-up social ings from the program were directed to a In celebration of World Environment Day (June enterprise, the LGE Labor Union provided productivchildren’s foundation to be used in fostering 5), we organize the “Global Volunteer Day” ity management consulting to the organic produce young talents from underprivileged backretailer “Heuksalim” for approximately five months. event at our business sites across the world. Consultants form the LGE Labor Union installed a grounds. In 2012, we also expanded opportunities for conveyor belt and performed consulting on ways to taking an act of sharing through employee talimprove Heuksalim’s production environment and distribution process. As a result, the company’s ent donation programs and convenient cash productivity improved by 46%*, achieved annual cost donation programs. savings of about KRW 38 million from reduced overLife's Good Product time and unessential manpower, and created 10 new jobs. Based on the production volume (up 20% from 1. Talent Donations Our recycling centers collect disposed electronic the previous year) from its business plan for 2013, the Since 2005, volunteer activities by LGE Emcompany is expected to save about KRW 59.7 million products through the e-waste take-back program, which was introduced to promote environmental ployees expanded to talent donation with the in costs. protection through recycling. Here, we select refrig2010 launching of the “Life’s Good Volun* Based on daily processing volume of erators and washing machines in relatively good conteers.” A total of 80 volunteer groups selected small-size packages dition and donate them to those in need. In 2012, we from 11 business sites in Korea utilize their donated a total of 80 recovered items (refrigerators, washing machines, PCs) to nonprofit organizations, special talents, interests, and expertise in a including welfare facilities. We also donated PCs and variety of volunteer works that bring them monitors to Jeongnip Hoegwan, a welfare facility for closer to local communities, including photo the severely disabled, and supported the establishment of “LG Plaza,” helping the severely disabled shoots for elderly citizens and mural paintings overcome the digital divide. for community beautification. As of December 2012, more than 3,000 employees participated in the program. Social Contribution 59 S Special page Around the World 3 Mexico LG Electronics makes earnest efforts to spread hope to local communities across the world. In 2012, our employees from 48 business sites participated in 252 social contribution initiatives. LG Electronics will continue its efforts to earn the trust and respect of each and every community where we do business by assisting the underprivileged to become self-reliant, protecting the environment and promoting employee participation in volunteer works. 1 2 Korea: LG Design Street | Designers from the Corporate Design Center Korea: Beautification of Local Mineral Spring | The HA Company and the utilized their design expertise to beautify the neighboring community. City of Changwon came together to transform a local mineral spring into Over 150 designers from the center donated their professional talent and an attractive spot. The HA Company utilized the stainless steel used in transformed a local sports park into a unique and beautifully designed water purifiers to produce over 300 sophisticated ladles and donated them space. to be used at the mineral spring. 3 4 Mexico: Water Tank Donations to Underprivileged Neighborhoods | Russia: Blood Drive | LGE’ Russian subsidiary, in partnership with the In 2012, LGE’s Mexican subsidiary invested a part of its profits from washMinistry of Health & Social Development of Russia, organized a blood ing machine sales to install a total of 28 water tanks at underprivileged drive that tours eight cities on a train. The event was planned to raise neighborhoods suffering from drinking water shortages, relieving over awareness of the importance of blood donation. The train traveled a total 4,000 low income residents from drinking water concerns for the next 30 of 5,000 km and attracted 1,241 blood donors. years. 60 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 1 Seoul 4 Russia Changwon 2 6 Greece Korea 5 Israel 8 Indonesia 7 South Africa 5 6 Israel: Charitable Photo Exhibition | LG Electronics has organized the Greece: The Most Big Hug | LG Electronics ran a clothes donation camcharitable photo exhibition “Art to Heart” for the past four years. The exhipaign at Greece’s largest shopping establishment “the Mall Athens,” bition showcases interesting photos by famous photographers that feature where we collected clothes from shoppers and washed them with LGE’s refrigerators and renowned chefs. The proceedings from the sales (USD largest capacity drum washing machines that were installed on the prem50,000) were directed to supporting children with disabilities. ise. 300 boxes of clothes were collected (12 kg per box) and passed on to underprivileged families. 7 8 South Africa: Education Program for Underprivileged Neighborhoods | Indonesia: LG Nutri Fridge Campaign | LGE’s Indonesian subsidiary enLGE’s South African subsidiary toured orphanages and grade schools gaged in an SNS campaign on Facebook to address children’s nutrition isin underprivileged neighborhoods and provided free electronics repair sues. During the campaign, over 1,000 people played a social media game service and performed disinfections. The subsidiary also offered a free 3D about nutritionally balanced meals to raise funds, and the proceedings movie screening and IT classes on the service bus. were used towards providing nutritious meals to children from three local orphanages for six months. Social Contribution 61 Talent Management During my stay at HQ for the In-Nation Service Employee (ISE) High Potential Individual Pool (HIPO) HQ Job Assignment/OJT Program, I was deeply impressed by the work our colleagues from HQ HR Team had put into preparing this program. My initial concern was the possible language barrier but fortunately, I didn’t have any problems thanks to the language fluency of the well-trained HQ staff and outstanding interpretations, which are great examples of LG Electronics’ capacity as a global corporation. The training was a great opportunity to network with High Potentials from across the world and to have direct communication with the company’s leadership. Through the program, I also realized that LG Electronics has a strong belief in the overseas employees. Piotr Grygo/LGEWR (Wroclaw, Poland) Our Approach Our Performance FUTURE DIRECTION • Secure quality talent and foster them with •Recruit talented employees with global 1.4% Percentage of female executives (Korea) systematic HR management competitiveness and secure business • Motivate employees with merit-based 58% Percentage of overseas employees competitiveness through job rotation evaluation/reward • Strive for continuous HR system • Implement HR system tailored to 85 Average training hours per employee improvement and motivate employees global talent with HR operations efficiency Our Performance Talent Sought by LG Electronics LGE’s Efforts to Secure Quality Talent Based on the conviction that the driving force Those who are fully behind the company’s growth is its people, committed to the LG Way and possess LG Electronics continuously works to find and strong execution skills acquire quality talent with a wide range of recruiting activities. As part of our efforts, we Those who develop their Those who are inspired to capabilities continuously become best in the world tour universities to host recruitment events with passion and compete with integrity and provide career counseling to students, while pursuing industry-academia cooperation programs with numerous universities to Those who promote Those who always put create a talent recruitment process that benteamwork and work with customers first and creativity and autonomy never cease to innovate efits students, universities and LGE alike. We also have diverse open recruiting programs in place to discover quality talent on an ongoing basis. Our talent acquisition efforts extend to overseas as well; every spring, top executives People from LG Electronics participate in the Techno Achieving a Dream with Perseverance and Passion Conference hosted by LG Corp. to introduce Cheon Bok Park (Assistant, Korea Marketing Company) our business operations and latest technologies to potential employees and make recruitI had to put my education on hold to support my family through financial difficulment efforts to secure quality talent based ties after my father’s death. I was able to go back to school when I was 24. I put on mid to long term HR requirements. In myself through college with a series of part time jobs but still managed to excel 2013, we plan to further strengthen our talent academically, taking the top spot for seven semesters and the second for one semester. When the time came to consider my career options, I decided that the acquisition efforts with diverse recruitment Korea Marketing Company of LG Electronics was where I wanted to be. To achieve activities. this goal, I got a part-time job at a discount store that sold LGE products and worked there for three years to teach myself marketing, customer needs, sales channels, etc. on the shop floor. My hard work and thorough preparation paid off; I was able to get an offer from the Korea Marketing Company despite the record high competition rate and was even acknowledged for my preparedness during the interview. 62 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Systematic HR Development based on Career LG Electronics identifies employees who have 2. Functional Training System Development Program and Training great potential as business leaders at early In order to foster top class experts in diverse 1. Career Development Program stages of their careers and put them through business functions, LG Electronics estabAt LG Electronics, employees are required to a systematic training process to foster them lished the Business Function College for each establish their own Career Development Prointo business leaders, function leaders, of its 12 business functions and offers 713 gram (CDP) along with annual performance and experts depending on their respective training programs taught by internal experts. targets. Based on the CDP, employees have development tracks. We carefully monitor Employees undergo required training based “One-on-One Caring” interview with their the course of employees’ development and on their CDP and must complete at least two managers to receive any support they need encourage employees to progressively excredit hours per calendar year. Credits from to follow through with the plan. Under the pand their capacities through job rotations, the training are reported to the HR system system, employees choose their own career particularly to ensure that employees do not and reflected upon promotion. In addition tracks, identify work experience and trainbecome too specialized for a specific functo courses offered at the Business Function ing required for the chosen track, and map tion or business. LG Electronics operates a College, study groups and seminars are orout detailed action plans based on the career career development management program in ganized to promote professional capability development roadmap standardized for each conjunction with the performance evaluation development in specialized business funcbusiness function. As an outcome of this process for all its office employees. All LGE tions such as R&D. We also provide additional meeting, LGE designs a career development members have regular One-on-One caring credits to employees who serve as instructors and training plan appropriate for each meminterviews with their managers to achieve infor internal training programs to promote ber's needs and also discusses their grievancdividual development goals, including detailed participation. The training program for busies and support needed to achieve established training plan. As an outcome of this meeting, ness leaders and Foreign Service Employee objectives. One-on-One Caring interview is LGE designs a career development and train(FSE) candidates is implemented based on the conducted on a semiannual basis in conjuncing plan appropriate for each member's needs Business Leader Training Roadmap to develop tion with employee evaluation. Employees are and also discusses their grievances as well as professional capabilities. Mandatory and elecensured to receive training support based on support needed to achieve established objective training courses are determined based on the finalized CDP and provided with opportutives. candidates’ chosen career track. nities promised regardless of business/manFor our overseas employees, we established agement issues. the In-nation Service Employee (ISE) Standard Training System and offer leadership/ Standard Career Development Roadmap (Sample: HR Staff) Switchable Job Family (Rotation) Training Development Position Org. Leader Org. Leader Complexity/Difficulty Various HR Experiences In-depth HR Experiences HR Division Leader (HQ) (Part Leader Level) (Team Leader Level) HR Division Leader (Company) Business Unit Division HR ↔ Company HR ↔ Corporate HR (Rotation) [HR Role & Job System] HR Planning T/L (HQ/Company) · Talent Management (TM) Marketing/ Finance Recruiting R&D Strategy Sales (CFO HR) L&D T/L (HQ/Company) Talent Development (HIPO) Labor Relations T/L Executive HR (HQ/Company) FSE HR Management FSE Dispatch (HR) * · Compensation & Benefit (C&B) HR Planning P/L Org. Culture T/L Performance Management TM (HQ/Company) L&D P/L Compensation, Benefit, Payroll C&B Executive HR T/L (HQ) · Learning & Development (L&D) Org. Culture P/L L&D Strategy & Planning HRIS Talent Recruiting T/L Labor Relations P/L Functional Capability Development L&D (HQ) Leadership Development Knowledge on org. structure Employee Corporate-wide task leader E-Learning, Global L&D Relations · Employee Relations Talent Mgt. C&B Labor Relation Planning/Cooperation, (TM) Cross-functional task participation, Global HR experience Global Labor Relations Org. Culture · HR General Employee FSE Pre-dispatch Training Preliminary Mgt. Course L&D HR Planning, Business Partner Relations Part Leader Management Skill (Project Mgt. etc) New Team Leader Training HRIS (HR Information System) Understanding on corporate job structure and various HR Information System MBA (Global CHO, Short-term Global MBA, LG MBA, Helsinki MBA) Mandatory Training Course for each grade/Job Training (HR College) New Division Leader Training G1 G2 G3 G4 Executive Level Development Phase (Assistant Manager) (Manager) (Senior Manager) (Division Leader) Talent Management 63 functional training from the 13 regional training centers (U.S., France, China – Beijing and Employee Training Unit: KRW 100 million, hour Nanjing, UAE, Dubai, Panama, Indonesia, India, Egypt, Brazil, Russia, Poland, and Mexico). 2012 618 85 Training Costs High Potentials from overseas subsidiaries Training Hours undergo training in Korea. 2011 621 62 2010 637 56 Motivating Employees with Merit-based Fair Evaluation & Reward System LG Electronics has a single standardized corporate-wide process that governs its evaluation and incentive systems for its employees. Payroll Costs (Korea) Unit: KRW 100 million Our merit-based employee evaluation system adopts relative evaluation to facilitate accurate assessment and discriminatory reward 2012 28,684 based on merit. 2011 24,885 We also minimize the complexity of the sys2010 21,735 tem (performance and capability evaluation) to make it more accessible to employees. We also ensure that clear feedback on improvement points (performance and professional capabilities) is provided to employees based LGE Establishes “Standard Workplace for the Disabled” as Subsidiary on the outcome of evaluation to promote employees’ longer term development and contribution to organization performance. In On December 11, 2012, LG Electronics signed an MOU with the Korea Employment Agency for the Disabled addition to regular evaluation, managers also (KEAD) to establish “Standard Workplace for the Disundergo 360 degree multidimensional evaluaabled” as its subsidiary. At the ceremony held at LGE’s Pyeongtaek Digital Park, Employment Promotion Direction of their leadership to create a strong and tor Jong Ran Cho and LGE’s Pyeongtaek Business Supsound organization. port Office Leader Jin Gwan Park signed the MOU to finalize the agreement, which is expected create quality Our business staff is evaluated on individual jobs for the disabled by developing and discovering performance, common capabilities, and leadbusiness functions ideal for the disabled. Based on the agreement, LG Electronics established ership, while the technical staff is assessed “Hanwoori” (42 disabled and 34 non-disabled employbased on professional knowledge, teamwork ees) on March 19, 2013 in Pyeongtaek. LG Electronics also plans to expand the “Standard Workplace for the ability, sense of responsibility, management Disabled” program to all its business sites. ability and performance. Based on the outStandard Workplace for the Disabled come of employee evaluation, LG Electronics “Standard Workplace for the Disabled” is a program rewards high performers with differentiated designed to promote employment of the severely discompensation in the form of raise/incentive abled, who have great difficulties in finding jobs in the competition-driven labor market. The program encourand promotion/staffing. Excellent organizaages large corporations to establish a subsidiary to tional performance is rewarded with promoprovide the disabled with stable employment, which is expected to help the disabled achieve self-reliance in tion and staffing. The outcome of employee the long term. evaluation also serves as grounds for differentiated compensation such as salary raise and regular/ad-hoc incentive bonuses. There is each region. Corporate HR and subsidiary HR its, and watching the performance “Nanta.” no salary gap between male and female emcooperated to review and revise the guidelines Additionally, we implemented a mentoring ployees, and we reward high performers with to suit local needs. Through these efforts, our program that partners each of the 233 high differentiated compensation based individual global HR process was taken to the next level. potentials from overseas subsidiaries with a performance to motivate employees’ strong LG Electronics also made a wide range of efKorean high potential as their mentor. The performance. We also provide clear feedback forts to strengthen its training programs for program enables overseas high potentials to and coaching to inspire excellent performance high potential employees from overseas subreceive the professional support they need across the organization. sidiaries. In addition to training opportunities and to form close relationships with their Kothrough our integrated global training sysrean counterparts. Global HR System & Training System for tem, we invited 60 high potential employees High Potential Employees from to Korea on a job rotation lasting from three Facilitating Employee Diversity with Overseas Subsidiaries months to one year and provided an opportuEfficient HR System In 2012, LG Electronics’ HQ and overseas nity to train and work at related departments. Based on the belief that diversity leads to subsidiaries closely collaborated to impleWe also invited 70 overseas employees to greater organizational competitiveness, LG ment the global HR system based on the Korea and provided an opportunity to increase Electronics makes every effort to create a standardized process. HQ provided guidelines their pride in the company through a program working environment where social minorion key HR issues (i.e. leadership/performance comprised of training sessions designed to ties, including females, foreigners and the evaluation, acquisition of key talent, employee enhance participants’ understanding of LGE disabled, are respected and subjected to no compensation – salary, incentives and promoand Korea, production sites and LG Shop visdiscrimination or inconvenience. As of yeartion) and assigned dedicated support staff at 64 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Turnover Rate Unit: % No. of Overseas Employees 2010 2011 2012 Korea 4.9 6.0 5.5 2012 86,697 58% Korea 36,378 50,319 Overseas Overseas 30.7 37.6 29.8 Percentage 2011 91,045 61.2% 35,286 55,759 2010 90,578 64.8% Percentage of Non-regular Employees (Korea) 31,840 58,738 2010 1.0 2011 1.4 2012 2.7 No. of Female Employees Percentage of Disabled Employees (Korea) 2012 21,514 24.8% Korea 5,830 15,684 Overseas 2010 2011 2012 Percentage 1.3 1.3 1.3 2011 25,739 28.3% 5,770 19,969 2010 24,200 26.7% end 2012, the total number of LGE employees 5,179 19,021 was 86,697 (Korea: 36,378/Overseas: 50,319). 21,514 of the employees were female (Korea: 5,830/Overseas: 15,684), and 65,183 were male (Korea: 30,548/Overseas: 34,635). Out of 5,830 female employees from Korea, 68.8% Return/Retention Rate after Childbirth/Maternity Leave, Gender Breakdown (Korea) were office staff and 31.1% worked at production sites, with 1.4% of female employees Category 2010 2011 2012 serving as team leaders. The number of years Childbirth/maternity leave Male 1 9 16 Number used Female 313 403 403 in service for Korean employees was on averPercentage of employees returned after leave Male 100% 100% 94% age 8.3 years. 988 non-regular workers made Female 100% 100% 99% up 2.7% of the entire workforce, and 468 emPercentage of employees remained at work for 12 months or Male 100% 89% 90% ployees with disabilities made up 1.3% of all longer after returning from leave (=Retention rate) Female 84% 86% 96% Korean employees. Focus LG Electronics College On October 9, 2012, LG Electronics launched LG Electronics College Curriculum “LG Electronics University,” the first corporate Department Course Target Duration No. of university certified by the Ministry of EmploySessions ment and Labor, from which it receives supOpen Digital Appliance Service Employees (expectant) from customer 120 days 13 port. The University has three departments Recruiting service suppliers (Open Recruiting for expectant employees, Mobile Phone Service Employees (expectant) from customer 94 days 6 Win-Win Partnership for employees and supservice suppliers plier employees, and Skill Development for Production Engineering Production staff (expectant) 41 days 1 LGE employees) and offers 15 courses, includWin-win Win-win Growth Business High Potentials from suppliers 13 days 1 ing Digital Appliance Service, Win-win Growth Partnership Administration Business Administration, Metal Molding, QualElectronic Appliance Service New recruits from customer service 48 days 4 ity Engineering, and Global Marketing. The Engineering suppliers University courses run up to 120 days and are Mobile Phone Service New recruits from customer service 27 days 3 expected to educate 1,600 students annually. Engineering suppliers Service Management High Potentials from suppliers/subsidiaries 22 days 1 SW Development R&D SW new recruits 40 days 17 Skill Metal Molding Metal molding expert candidates 50 days 1 Development Six Sigma New MBB candidates 12 days 3 Quality Engineering Quality expert candidates 11 days 3 Product Liability Product Liability expert candidates 11 days 2 Global Marketing High Potentials from marketing 20 days 1 B2B Marketing High Potentials from B2B marketing 13 days 2 Management Innovation Internal consultants 15 days 1 Talent Management 65 Corporate Culture/ WORK-LIFE Balance Family is the value that Mexicans treasure the most, and spending quality time with their family tops their priority. To honor their family-oriented lifestyle, LGERS provides a wide range of programs and events for employees and their family members, including a photo studio on the company premise that offers free family portraits. Programs and events for employees increase their work satisfaction and help them take pride in the company by promoting a sound corporate culture. Our efforts for employee work-life balance also create positive impact on employees, their family members and in the long term, local communities. Claudine Zamora/LGERS (Reynosa, Mexico) Our Appproach Our Performance FUTURE DIRECTION • Based upon the “LG Way”, establish a • Work environment that promotes Strengthened direct communication corporate culture that encourages “Creativity and Autonomy” creativity and autonomy Promote employee engagement • Corporate culture that promotes • Create a corporate culture that promotes employees’ work-life balance employees’ work-life balance Our Performance members to overcome differences in posiworkshop on a semiannual basis and track tion, age, language and culture, and promotpost-workshop changes in participants. We ing face-to-face, direct communication. For also introduced success cases to all LGE Direct Communication across the example, we have in place a program called members at the Monthly Morning Meeting Organization “Assimilation” to facilitate trust based comstarted in June 2012. Encouraged by the sucIn order to establish a corporate culture that munication between newly appointed leaders cess of our efforts to promote employee enencourages creativity and autonomy based on and their members. The program organizes gagement, we hosted a product idea contest the “LG Way,” LG Electronics makes ongoing a Q&A session between the new organization for all employees from LG Group companies efforts to promote communication built on leader and members to provide an opportunity and their family members, to which employtrust and mutual respect among its memto members to verify facts and ask questions ees and their family members responded bers. In line with the CEO’s strong drive for to gain information about their new leader (the enthusiastically with over 1,700 ideas in six promoting communication, our approach to Assimilation session needs to be held within product groups. A total of 31 ideas were secommunication has been expanded to “direct three months of a new leader’s arrival). In this lected and awarded. Employee ideas collected communication across the organization.” communication session, newly arrived orgathrough the contest were organized into a daAs part of our efforts to deliver employee nization leaders earnestly answer questions tabase and managed as basic reference data feedback directly to management, we have from their team members and identify the for future product planning and development. established a communication channel named thoughts and concerns of their team members LG Electronics plans to hold the product idea “Mr. CEO Email Account” and received a in the process. contest on an annual basis. Change Agents total of 309 messages since 2011. The CEO (CA) and Junior Board (JB: Staff Council) are reviews each and every one of the messages Promoting Employee Engagement playing an important role to bolster a culture himself and organizes a monthly meeting to As part of its efforts to promote teamwork of participation among our members. As momake direct communication with members of and open communication based on employee tivators and communicators, Change Agents diverse backgrounds and positions. “Mr. CEO engagement, LG Electronics developed a lead various activities to bring about changes Pizza” was organized as a surprise event to teamwork building workshop and implements in the organization, and JB communicates encourage employees who exert themselves the program across the organization. The employees’ opinions to top management and to overcome tough business conditions and to workshop helps participants identify capabiliengage in diverse activities to protect employproduce results, delivering pizzas as well as a ties they need to develop to work creatively ees’ rights. JB pays particular attention to pleasant surprise to 69 teams (40 Korean and and take initiatives, assess the current state Voice of Employees registered to the internal 29 overseas) between 2011 and 2012. of their team including the leader, devise a bulletin boards (JB Bulletin Board: 348 postSuch communication efforts have been exdevelopment plan themselves, and go through ings, Idea Suggestion Board: 1,390 postings) panded to the entire organization and are with the plan independently. We offer the and works to incorporate employee feedback facilitating vibrant communication, helping 66 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report and suggestions to our operations and prod1 2. Overseas ucts. For example, based on JB’s suggestion, Our overseas subsidiaries also offer diverse we moved the company anniversary holiday programs and events designed to promote (March 27) to the second Friday of April to alemployees’ work-life balance based on their low employees to take advantage of a threecomprehensive understanding of local culday weekend. The Labor Union anniversary tures. holiday is also decided by each production site LG Electronics’ Southern China Office desigbased on a consensus of its members. 2 nated the region’s most popular sport badminton as the official sport of the subsidiary and invites employees every Friday to enjoy playing badminton with their coworkers. The “Creativity and Autonomy Index” from the Southern China Office also hosts an annual LG Way Index badminton competition for its employees and local residents. LG Electronics regularly assesses employee’s awareLG Electronics’ Indian subsidiary (LGEIL) 3 ness of the organization’s efforts towards promoting “creativity and autonomy” at workplace. Although makes its best efforts to maintain a regional changes in the index no longer carry much weight and cultural balance in its management and since it has been stabilized, we plan to continue our welfare policies and accommodate disparate efforts to promote creativity and autonomy and to create a great work environment for our employees. employee needs arising from the country's multi-ethnic and multi-cultural background. A case in example is religious holidays; since 2012 74 Work-Life Balance not all religious holidays and anniversaries 2011 75 are designated as national holidays, the 1 | Employees at the Counseling Center (Korea Marketing Company) subsidiary allows employees to take leaves 2010 77 2 | Employee Reenactment Actors’ Club “Broadway” flexibly to celebrate their ethnic and religious (HE Company) 3 | LGEIL’s Employee Engagement Program Inspired by traditions. During the semiannual plant main* Survey Target: Korea and overseas office staff Traditional Indian Culture tenance period, LGEIL provides extended holidays to every employee to give them an opportunity to have a quality time with their families and loved ones. A variety of informal Work-Life Balance groups (i.e. traveling, volunteering, music) are 1. Korea supported by the subsidiary to promote emA wide range of efforts are made to help our ployees’ work-life balance. employees achieve work-life balance and to create a happy workplace. Each business site Work Style Unique to LG Electronics has a Family Day to encourage its members In order to help our employees maintain to leave work on time to have quality time with work-life balance, we need not only to intheir families. On “Family Day,” JB members crease employee engagement but we also at Korea Marketing Company make an anneed to promote smart work practices and nouncement on the company’s internal broadtime management skills. To this end, LG Eleccasting system to let employees know it’s time tronics engages in a campaign to enhance its to go home. meeting/reporting practices and to establish We also provide counseling centers and ema smart work style that is unique to LG Elecployee lounge at each business site to help tronics. Management is leading our campaign our employees cope with professional and efforts, such as producing a video about impersonal stresses. As part of our efforts to provement cases and screening the video at create a fun workplace, we organize diverse the Monthly Morning Meeting, to promote a events (i.e. internal talent competition “Star smart work style. As part of the campaign, fun Discovery”) and promote informal groups, promotional cartoons were created to inspire including the employee reenactment actors change and raise awareness. We also estabgroup Broadway. Work Style Unique to LG Electronics lished a discussion-based approval system to facilitate swift decision-making, which was Cartoon Featured in the Campaign for Promoting received favorably by our employees. “Meeting/Reporting Culture Renewal” Corporate Culture/Work-Life Balance 67 Decent Work Based on the integrity it has built by advocating “Harmony” since its foundation, LG Electronics can create an overarching impact as an advocate of human rights as universal value. Demonstrating the observance of human rights is a complex and difficult process, which is why such an effort requires clear and strategic objectives. Although LG Electronics has a Global Labor Policy already in place and conducts systematic self-assessment on its production sites across the world, it still needs to expand such efforts throughout the value chain. I hope that LG Electronics fulfills its role as a leader in human rights management by establishing an effective structure for stakeholder engagement that lends its ears to the voices of its diverse stakeholders. Seon Ae Jeong/Executive Officer, Korea Human Rights Foundation Our Aproach Our Performance FUTURE DIRECTION • Manage risks associated with labor • Increase the number of business sites 86% Percentage of low risk production sites rights/human rights in accordance that receive the third party CSR audit with international standards 85% Completion rate for remedying non-compliances • Identify weaknesses shared by business • Enhance working conditions at our sites and make ongoing improvement business sites across the world efforts Employee grievance resolution system Work hours Our Performance Major Amendments to Global Labor Policy (As of March 18, 2013) Global Labor Policy Article Previous Amended LG Electronics recognizes the rights of all Article 3. LG Electronics does not employ children or LGE will abide by the local labor laws with employees and stakeholders to pursue happiProhibition of youths aged 15 or younger, and does not respect to minimum age of employment and ness, to work with dignity and to be respected Child Employment permit employees aged 18 or younger to does not permit employees aged 18 or as human beings. Accordingly, LG Electronics perform certain tasks that expose them to younger to perform tasks that jeopardize complies with international standards as well significant health or safety risks. their health or safety. as labor laws and regulations, such as the Article 5. LG Electronics will follow local laws with LGE will comply with the local labor laws with Universal Declaration of Human Rights by the Work Hours respect to working hours, including regular respect to working hours, including regular and United Nations, the ILO Tripartite Declaration and overtime hours. overtime hours, and holidays. If relevant laws are of Principles Concerning Multinational Enterabsent, LGE will comply with the EICC standards. prises and Social Policy, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the United Nations Global Compact, and the EICC Code of Labor Relations (Korea) improve business competitiveness and enConduct. Labor-Management Relations is a unique hance employees’ quality of lives, to socially Established and announced in August 2010, term that LG Electronics uses to describe the responsible labor-management relations that LG Electronics’ Global Labor Policy has been company’s exceptional labor relations built strives to fulfill their respective responsibilitranslated into 20 different languages and based on trust and mutual respect. In contrast ties as a global corporate citizen and to credistributed to all its business sites throughout to the conventional term “labor–company ate value for customers. All employees of LG the world. In March 2013, we amended some relations,” which is charged with negative Electronics are eligible to join the Labor Union provisions to provide greater details and clarconnotations such as conflict and vertical under the labor collective agreement and the ity. relationships. Labor-Management Relations union bylaws, and as of the year-end 2012, the implies that labor and management fulfill membership reached 8,311 employees (about ☞ LG Electronics Global Labor Policy their respective roles with utmost sincerity 23% of the total employees in Korea). (URL: http://www.lg.com/global/sustainability/employee/labor-rights-protection.jsp) and create exceptional value together. Based In addition to official meetings such as quaron such strong trust, LG Electronics and the terly labor-management council meetings Labor Union of LG Electronics are working and annual wage negotiations and collective together to take our labor-management relabargaining, LG Electronics engages in ongoing tions to the next level; from value creating communication with the Labor Union through labor-management relations that strives to diverse channels, focusing on labor issues 68 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report such as labor conditions. We have close disa careful review of the UN Guiding Principles Motivated by this analysis, LG Electronics cussions with the Union when major changes on Business and Human Rights: Implementselected “Labor Rights/Human Rights” as are made in our businesses, and agreements ing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and the topic for its Stakeholder Consultation on made in collective bargaining are applied to Remedy” Framework. Based on the analysis CSR held in November 2012 and gathered all Korean employees including non-union commissioned by the EICC, the organizaexpert opinions. We are also exploring many members. tion’s risk assessment program, which LG options to assess human rights impact on a Based on such a relationship built on trust Electronics utilizes to assess CSR risks, faithbroader scale and making particular efforts to and mutual respect, we have been able to confully reflects the principles that are laid out strengthen our employee grievance resolution clude annual bargaining without dispute for by the United Nations with respect to impact process, the area on which the UN Framework the past 24 years. In order to also collect the on human rights. However, the program puts great emphasis. voices of non-union members, LG Electronics still requires more aggressive activities and utilizes diverse communication channels such improvements on transparent disclosure of as Junior Board (Administrative Staff Council) progress as well as on stakeholder engageand regular meetings with diverse groups ment. (business unit, job position, etc.). As part of its efforts to comply with international standards concerning labor rights and human rights, LG Electronics established the Risk Level by Country/Area (Based on Self Assessment Results) Low Risk (Higher than 85) Global Labor Policy. In 2012, we abolished Medium Risk (65-85) High Risk (lower than 65) the disciplinary wage reduction from our disciplinary system to bring our system up to Country Total/ Labor Ethics Environment Health & Management international standards. Average Safety System Korea Employee Grievance Resolution China LG Electronics categorizes and handles emSoutheast Asia ployee grievances in the following six areas: Africa career development, HR, working conditions, Middle East work environment, relationships, and personSouth & al matters. For example, meeting with a team Central America leader in charge of the unit is recommended Eastern Europe for resolving employee grievances concerning career development, reassignment, performance evaluation, etc. In addition, we established the “Mr. CEO Email” in 2011 as a The UN Framework for Business and channel for reporting grievances directly to Human Rights the CEO to collect the voices of employees and to address employee grievances in real time. 1. The State Duty to We also established the grievance resoluProtect Human Rights 2. The Corporate tion committee and counseling centers in our Responsibility to business and production sites in Korea to acRespect Human Rights Results of Assessment on All Production Sites tively address employee grievances and offer 3. Access to Effective Remedy counseling service to the family members of our employees to help them focus at work. EICC-ON: CSR Risk System by EICC CSR Risk Management Program In order to manage CSR risks such as protection of labor rights, LG Electronics assesses all its production sites in accordance with EI CC standards and makes ongoing improveLGE CSR Risk Management Process ment efforts. As a full member of the EICC, LG Electronics requres its major suppliers to Selection of Management Target implement the same process and standards (more details on p. 53). In 2012, we operated our risk management program in accordance with the EICC standards and focused on fosMonitoring of Improvement Efforts CSR Self-Assessment Questionnaire CSR tering internal CSR risk management experts Risk Management and performing site inspections to bring Program concrete changes to each of our production Response to Client Assessment & sites (3 Site visits in 2011 > 12 Site visits in CSR Audit & Consulting Third Party Verification 2012). LG Electronics had internal discussions on ways to improve existing programs after Decent Work 69 Results of CSR Self-Assessment on Entire Production Sites Results of 2012 CSR Audit and Improvement Task Completion Rate, Regional Breakdown For the month of March 2012, LG Electronics conducted a CSR risk assessment on all of its No. of Non-Compliances Site Location Improvement Task Total Major Minor 37 production sites (6 Korea, 31 overseas). In Completion Rate (%) Non-Compliance Non-Compliance the assessment performed with the EICC risk Korea 8 2 6 100 management tool, EICC-ON, we measured the China 27 8 19 93 potential risk level of each site in the areas of Southeast Asia 48 12 36 81 labor, ethics, environment, Health & Safety, Africa 41 20 21 86 and management system. South & Central America 40 5 35 84 The assessment results were the same as Eastern Europe 16 6 10 85 the previous year, indicating that none of our production sites are at high risk, and our production sites averaged 86.7 points, up about 5 points from 2011. Improvement Targets based on Self-Assessment Results Unit: % CSR Audit and Improvement Efforts Based on the results of the self-assessment, 2012 Low Risk corporate-wide improvement efforts were 24 76 Medium Risk made at each production site. We performed High Risk 2013 Target a CSR audit on 12 production sites, including 14 86 9 locations identified as at medium risk, and 2014 Target our CSR experts came up with 180 improve100 ment tasks. The audited sites made improvement on 85% of non-compliances cited during the CSR audit, conducted in accordance with EICC Validated Audit Process (VAP) operation manual, based on ongoing discussion and monitoring. Uncompleted improvement tasks were organized into mid to long term tasks and managed accordingly. Focus Special Inspection on Production Sites in China In 2012, LG Electronics conducted a special inspection on its productions sites (13) and major supplier sites (881) to prevent risks associated with child labor and exploitation. In order to discuss this overarching issue, all management personnel from our production subsidiaries in China gathered at LGE China HQ and held a forum to come up with solutions. After the forum, management from production subsidiaries promised to take preventative measures including thorough age verification in the hiring process (deployment of ID scanner, etc.) and agreed to make mid to long term efforts to bring down extended work hours to the international standard of 60 hours a week. Chinese production subsidiary managers also agreed to revise their HR system, which was found to be collecting information that could potentially lead to discrimination. LG Electronics will utilize special inspections along with regular programs to strengthen its CSR risk management system and expand the scope of management on potential issues Special Inspection Process Checklist for Special Inspection in China 1 Area Checklist September –October 2012 Child Labor Child labor (Aged under 16) Survey Questionnaire Verification efforts in the hiring process Employment of juvenile workers (Ages between 16-17) November 2012 Work Hours Juvenile workers put on late night shift/ Validity Review by Management 2 hazardous processes, Monthly overtime (-36 hours), One day off per 7 days Wages & Wages lower than legal minimum, Back January 2013 Treatment pay/delayed pay, Work injury related Site Inspection medical costs borne by employees, 1 | Working Conditions at Special Inspection Site in China Disciplinary wage deduction 2 | LGE China HQ CSR Forum 70 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Improvement Cases in Korea and Overseas 1. Korea Key Amendments to Disciplinary System (As of March 12, 2013) In Korea, LG Electronics amended its employee disciplinary system. As part of our efforts Provision Before Amendment After Amendment Disciplinary Actions Wage deduction (Less than 10% of Suspension (No more than 3 days) to improve our CSR management system up to (Listed under Terms normal wage) international standards, we decided to remove of Employment) wage deduction from disciplinary options to Details The amount of a single wage deduction The length of suspension shall not exceed three prevent potential Infringement of labor rights. shall be half the amount of the employees (3) days. Employees on suspension still retain Wage deduction (temporary reduction of base average daily wage, and the total amount of the rights as employee but shall be removed wages implemented as a result of disciplinary combined pay cuts shall not exceed 10% of from the workplace. Employees on suspension action) has been used as a legal disciplinary the employee’s total annual wages are considered as being absent from work and option in Korea. We had close discussions shall not be paid for the duration of suspension. with the Labor Union on this issue and agreed to implement the amended system from 2013. 2. Overseas – Thailand Check List for Staffing Agency Inspection (Production Subsidiary) Passport Returned to Migrant Workers Checklist LG Electronics’ production subsidiary in ThaiTerms and Condition of Contract land removed the local practice of holding Labor Management migrant workers’ passports from its policy Working Hour Management and eliminated potential risk of labor rights Overseas – Production Site in Thailand Education and Training Compensation and Benefit infringement. Migrant workers, mostly from Relation Management Laos, had been asked to surrender their passDiscipline Management ports to the subsidiary upon employment. LGE Passports Returned to Laotian Migrant Workers Termination Management Information Security Management Thai subsidiary returned passports to all LaoSafety Management tian workers in the second half of 2012. Health Check Management Strengthened CSR Audit on Labor Agencies LG Electronics strengthened CSR audit on labor agencies that provide staffing servicefor its production subsidiary in Thailand. The Grievance Resolution System a Mexican Subsidiary CSR audit was conducted with an emphasis on compliance with local labor laws and inGrievance fringement of labor rights and human rights. Grievance Complainant Manager Solution CSR audit on labor agencies was adopted as a preventative measure and is planned to be Submission implemented as a regular CSR management Mail Box program. Daily Site Patrol Amendment of Disciplinary System Notification of Result Grievance LG Electronics’ production subsidiary in Resolution Committee Thailand revised their disciplinary system to address unfair disciplinary practices. Prior Submission to the amendment, employees were fined half a day’s worth of pay for coming in late by Management more than an hour. After the amendment, the deduction is calculated based on the amount of time lost from coming in late on an hourly rate, which made the system more reasonAs part of strengthened grievance identificaRequiring Major Suppliers to Make CSR able. tion and collection efforts, labor relations staff Efforts and Regular CSR Audit members patrol the site and try to identify As part of its effort to promote supplier CSR 3. Overseas – Mexico (Production Subsidiary) potential grievances that exist at the site. The compliance, LG Electronics’ production subEffective Grievance Resolution System subsidiary also installed a mail box to collect sidiary in Mexico is distributing a Spanish ediLG Electronics’ production subsidiary in employee grievances as a measure to protect tion of Local Standard Contract (LSC), which Mexico enhanced its grievance resolution the anonymity of complaints and to help emrequire CSR efforts to suppliers as contracsystem in conjunction with the existing laborployees feel more comfortable about coming tual terms, and the Supplier Code of Conduct. management open communication sessions. forward with their grievances. The subsidiary also plans to conduct regular Based on enhanced grievance identification CSR audits on its suppliers to prevent potencollection efforts, the subsidiary works to tial risks of labor rights and human rights address employee grievances in a swift and infringement. more systematic manner. Decent Work 71 Additional data Management Report Appendix 72 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report BOD status (As of March 31, 2013) Category Name Title/Position Note Inside Director Bon Joon Koo CEO, Vice Chairman Management Committee (Chairman) Corporate Non-executive David Jung Yu Sig Kang CFO, Executive Vice President Vice Chairman, LG Management Management Committee Chairman of BOD Governance Director Development Institute Outside Director Candidate Recommendation Committee (Chairman) Management Committee Outside Director Chang Woo Lee Professor, Business Administration, Audit Committee (Chairman) Seoul National University Kyu Min Lee Advisor, SK Research Institute for Audit Committee SUPEX Management Former Editor-in-chief, Dong-A Ilbo Outside Director Candidate Recommendation Committee Sang Hee Kim Lawyer Audit Committee Former Vice Minister of Justice Outside Director Candidate Shareholders Recommendation Committee As of year-end 2012, LG Electronics’ toChong Nam Chu Professor, Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering, Seoul National tal shares issued and outstanding were University 180,833,806 (common stock: 163,647,814 / preferred stock: 17,185,992). The number of non-voting shares amounted to 17,949,160 (9.9%) of the total outstanding. The largest shareholder, LG Corp. (the LG Group’s holdBOD Committees ing company) owned 34% of the shares. Every year, the Chairman of BOD personally updates BOD shareholders on current management issues at the Annual General Meeting (AGM). Shareholders’ opinions and suggestions are gathered, carefully reviewed by management Outside Director Candidate Audit Committee Management Committee and the BOD, and incorporated into corporate Recommendation Committee policy. 3 Outside 2 Outside Directors 2 Inside Directors Directors 1 Non-executive Director 1 Non-Executive Director Board of Directors (BOD) The BOD consists of seven Directors, four of Review of and Decision Audit of Financial and Outside Director Candidate on Management Issues whom are Outside Directors, and operates Accounting Records Recommendation Delegated by the Board independently of any influence from major shareholders and management. The Outside Directors make up the majority, with a total of four members. They are appointed at the AGM BOD Committees following a careful review by the Outside DiThe BOD is supported by three Board ComComposition of Shareholders Unit: % rectors Candidate Recommendation Commitmittees: the Audit Committee, the Outside (As of December 31, 2012) tee to ensure fairness and transparency in the Director Candidate Recommendation Comnomination of candidates. The Outside Direcmittee and the Management Committee. The tors monitor overall corporate management LG Corp. Audit Committee is comprised entirely of 34 Foreign Investors activities and keep management in check,  three Outside Directors and is responsible Individuals and while offering concrete and substantial advice Institutional for oversight and monitoring to ensure fair 49 Investors to management. corporate management as well as accounting The BOD actively provides recommendations transparency and conformance. The Managefor important management decisions and 17 ment Committee reviews and determines conducts unbiased evaluation and supervithe agendas delegated by the BOD and other sion of the management. In 2012, the BOD ordinary management activities. In 2012, the was convened seven times to review a total Management Committee reviewed a total of of 42 agendas (34 for approval, 8 for reportdetermine whether they have set and achieved 36 agendas. ing), including the approval for self-dealing challenging goals, whether their business by directors. The Directors’ attendance rate objectives, comprised of quantitative and nonEvaluation and Compensation for the BOD meetings was on average 96%. In quantitative factors, were achieved, as well as Compensation for the board members is made the meeting held in April 2012, the BOD was their professional capabilities based on a fair within the regulations pertaining to BOD combriefed on our CSR activities and moved to inand objective process. Appropriate compenpensations and as approved by the AGM. The clude CSR as its official responsibility. sation is determined and made based on the evaluation of management and executives of LG Electronics is performed year round. Top outcome of the evaluation. management and executives are evaluated to Corporate Governance 73 1 | 2012 Position-specific Compliance Training 1 2 | 2012 Online Compliance Training Compliance Risk Management 2 Strengthening Compliance Awareness of Employees Compliance Control System In order to increase employee awareness of compliance risk and to enhance compliance mindset, LG Electronics is continuously Compliance Policy expanding compliance training programs. In 2012, we conducted a mandatory online compliance training (first conducted in 2009) in 16 Code of Conduct Compliance Risk Management Standard different languages with 45,993 administrative Standards for Each Compliance Risk Guidelines for Each Compliance Activity staff members completing the program (90% of all training targets). In addition, we conducted a total of 23 sessions of position-specific compliance training for 1,262 business unit leaders, subsidiary presidents and FSEs Focus (Foreign Service Employees) to build “the tone LG Electronics Compliance Policy at the top and tone at the middle.” In order to respond to emerging compliance risks, we LG Electronics established the Compliance Policy on April 27, 2012 and engages in systematic produce and distribute additional compliance compliance risk management activities. training materials to be used in field training sessions. Introduction of “Compliance Control System” LG Electronics established a compliance risk management program in 2008 and has continuously worked to enhance our compliance risk management. In line with the changes to the Commercial Law of Korea as effective of April 2012, we also implemented the “Compliance Control System” and completed the foundation for systematic compliance management. In accordance with the “Compliance Control Guidelines” established and distributed by the Ministry of Justice and the Korea Listed Companies Association, LG Electronics appointed a “Chief Compliance Officer” and established the “LG Electronics Compliance Policy” based on which we perform compliance risk management activities such as regular assessment of compliance risk and compliance training. 74 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Cases Reported (Past Three Years) Unit: No. of cases 2012 450 Jeong-do 2011 452 management 2010 446 Types of Reports (Based on 2012) Unit: % Actions Taken (Based on 2012) Unit: % Irregularities/Corruptions Strong Disciplinary Actions 9 Complaints Light Disciplinary Actions 25 27 27 Other (HR) Warning CEO’s Strong Commitment toward Jeong-Do Management Jeong-Do Management, the action guidelines 66 for all LG Electronics employees, expresses 46 our belief that we can still come out on top and produce meaningful results by consistently strengthening fundamentals and competing in the market with integrity. Such a belief is Voluntary Reporting System Promoting Jeong-Do Management clearly expressed in the CEO’s statement: “It In accordance with our Code of Ethics, emErrors and violations identified in the assesstakes a long time to build strong fundamenployees are not allowed to receive gifts (cash ment process are organized into example tals, but even a moment of complacency can and/or valuables) that exceed a certain limit cases, and then shared via the internal bulleundo everything we have achieved through from interested parties. Employees who have tin board and the Jeong-Do Management webdecades of efforts.” Led by his strong leaderreceived such gifts must report this fact and site. In addition to providing information about ship based on Jeong-Do Management, LG return the items. When it is impossible to company rules, we present action guidelines Electronics requires not only our employees return a gift, employees must donate it to and make efforts to prevent the recurrence but also our suppliers to conduct themselves welfare facilities and send an official letter of such irregularities. As part of our efforts to in line with Jeong-Do Management. signed by an LGE executive to the party which attract employee interest in Jeong-Do Manprovided the gift and their company’s CEO, reagement, we also produce newsletters and Code of Ethics questing that such gift-giving not be repeated, crossword puzzles, and host quiz and promoLG Electronics’ Code of Ethics is comprised along with documented proof of the donation. tion poster competitions. of “Code of Ethics,” the public declaration of In 2012 and 2013, we held an in-company aucour ethical values, “Guidelines for Practice,” tion for gifts that could not be returned, the Online Whistleblower System which provides employees with practical entire proceedings from which were directed Our Whistleblower system receives reports guidelines for their conducts, and the “Explato our social contribution programs. concerning any actions in violation of Employnation Guidelines for Practice” for detailed ees’ Code of Ethics and Jeong-Do Manageinformation about the concept and philosophy Global Training on Jeong-Do Management ment, such as reception of gifts from interestbehind the action guidelines. The LGE Code Between 2012 and early 2013, we conducted ed parties, lack of transparency in selecting of Ethics has been translated into 14 different and completed a mandatory online Jeong-Do suppliers, improper acquisition of the shares languages and distributed worldwide, and the management training for Korean employees. of the company’s business partners, illegal/ Handbook was produced in Korean, English, In 2013, we are conducting the training overimproper use of company assets, manipulaChinese, Spanish, and Polish, and distributed seas with the English and Chinese editions of tion of documents/figures, false reporting, to all employees to increase our employees’ the same training materials. In 2012, a total etc. Over the past three years, a total of 1,348 awareness of LG Electronics Employees’ Code of 18,589 employees, and 801 suppliers as violations were reported through the system, of Ethics and to encourage them to embrace well, received offline Jeong-Do Management assisting LGE in its effort to prevent risks. Jeong-Do Management. In 2013, we also protraining. The training program is comprised of Once a violation is reported, we conduct a preduced the Arabic edition of the Handbook for internal and external case studies and “Guideliminary and field investigation to thoroughly our employees based in the Middle East where lines for practice”, focusing on preventing corverify the facts. Based on the findings of these ethics management is gaining increasing imruptions and irregularities based on increased investigations, follow-up measures, such portance. The Handbook not only provides inemployee awareness. In addition, starting as disciplinary action and business process formation about the LG Way, the concept and from the 2008 training session for Chinese improvement, are implemented. In order to philosophy behind Jeong-Do Management and suppliers, we are making ongoing efforts to protect whistleblowers, we maintain a through a full text of the Code but also a Q&A section promote Jeong-Do Management to overseas protection mechanism and ensure that identito offer guidance about how to act in real life suppliers. LG Electronics has also conducted ties are never disclosed. If a whistleblower situations and handle ethical dilemmas. anti-corruption training at our business sites has clearly suffered repercussions, we guaracross the world since 2010. antee restoration to their previous state, or provide compensation equal to the loss he or she has suffered. Compliance Risk Management/Jeong-Do Management 75 Fair Trade Fair Trade Compliance Activities Electronics conducts ad-hoc inspections and viewing suppliers’ technical data in a manOur Fair Trade Compliance Program is comaudits on business departments and projects ner that can better protect their proprietary prised of internal control activities designed that are exposed to compliance risks, aiming technologies. Additionally, we fulfilled such to prevent compliance risks and to increase to prevent risks associated with unfair trade commitments on our part as funding support, employee awareness about fair trade. Fair practices such as cartel activities. payment process improvement, technical/ Trade Compliance Managers are responsible training/manpower support, etc., as specified for planning and managing the Fair Trade Fair Trade & Win-Win Growth in the Fair Trade & Win-Win Growth PartnerCompliance programs and provide support Partnership Agreement ship Agreement with our suppliers. for fair trade compliance activities that are LG Electronics conducts regular training for carried out by Business Divisions and overrelevant staff members and continuously imFuture Directions seas subsidiaries, such as employee training proves its business processes to prevent inIn Korea, a penalty was levied against LG Elecand business process improvement. Our Fair stances of non-compliance and disadvantage tronics for unfair trade practices in March, Trade Compliance Program in 2012 focused against our suppliers during business transand the company was fined in accordance with on compliance risk management efforts taiactions. In 2013, we enhanced and reestabthe findings of an unfair trade practice probe lored for each business function. lished our business process for requesting/ conducted in July 2012. In December 2012, a penalty was assessed against the company by Activities for Preventing Unfair Trade the European Commission for cartel activiPractices including Cartel ties in the CRT (Cathode Ray Tube) field. We LG Electronics holds a “Pledge of AntitrustLG Electronics Cartel Prevention System are currently in the process of handling legal Compliance” signing ceremony with participroceedings for the cases. LG Electronics sinpation from the highest level, including the cerely regrets these incidents and is making CEO and other top executives, sending a clear every effort to prevent similar conduct from message to all employees that participation in Repeated being committed in the future due to the lack cartel activities is a profound betrayal of our conveyance of of awareness on the part of our employees or the CEO’s customers’ trust and the company’s values. commitment inadequate business processes. To this end, In addition, we established and announced a we are focusing our efforts on raising emset of Cartel Guidelines organized around the ployee awareness of the issue (training comDisciplinary following procedures: 1) repeated conveyance Employee Cartel actions against pleted by 97% of Korean employees and 90% training of the CEO’s strong commitment toward fair and pledge Prevention non-compliancof overseas employees in 2012) and enhancing System es trade practices, 2) strengthening of action relevant business processes. Additionally, we guidelines, 3) employee training and pledge, will continuously expand internal compliance/ 4) ongoing monitoring, and 5) disciplinary accontrol activities and utilize ad-hoc inspections against non-compliances. Additionally, tions and audits to prevent non-compliances. Ongoing we mandate a review of the Fair Trade Act to Enhancement We will also strengthen the roles and responmonitoring of action determine conformance before carrying out against nonsibilities of each Business Division and overguidelines compliances business activities that involve high compliseas subsidiary and enhance the capabilities ance risks and require caution for consumer of Fair Trade Compliance Managers to proprotection, such as those related to product mote Fair Trade Compliance activities at each mark and advertisement. In particular, LG organization. 76 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 1 | Interior of LGE Service 1 2 Center (Korea) 2 | Pink Service (Dubai) 3 | Service Motorbikes (Morocco) 4|f  ree repair service for Victims Customer of Hurricane Sandy (U.S.) satisfaction through service 3 4 activities Proactively Expanding Service Infrastructure Korea: Differentiated Service Designed to EnLG Electronics is continuously expanding its hance Customer Convenience U.S.: Free Repair Service for Victims of service center network to increase customer As part of our efforts to meet customer needs Hurricane Sandy satisfaction as well as to enhance service arising from changes in lifestyle (increasLG Electronics makes best efforts to help cusquality. As of 2012, we have over 1,900 service ing number of singles/working couples), LG tomers recover from natural disasters such centers across the world and directly handle Electronics offer weekend repair service for as typhoons, hurricanes and earthquakes by approximately 70% of service requests from mobile handset products. Customers can running product repair camps and providing our customers, demonstrating our service make a service reservation through LG Elecactive support for recovery efforts. In October excellence based on speed and accuracy. We tronics Call Center (Korea: 1544-7777), ser2012, LG Electronics offered free repair seralso established a field-oriented management vice website (www.lgservice.co.kr) or smart vice to customers who had suffered damages system to make faster response to customer app (Android phones: search “LG Electronics” from Hurricane Sandy. Our service engineers needs. on Google Play). Additionally, we designed showed strong dedication and professionalour service centers to provide an ambiance ism despite challenging repair conditions (i.e. Expanding Service Scope just like a café to help customers feel comsalt water damages to electronics products) Increasing Customer Value through fortable and to express our commitment for and delivered customer satisfaction. Their Expansion of Online Service service excellence. Customers just need to dedicated efforts demonstrated our service LG Electronics provides a wide range of cusrelax (surfing the web and watching TV) until excellence and enhanced LGE’s brand value in tomer-friendly content on its service website our service engineers find them with a fully the United States. to help our customers take care of simple repaired product. product issues themselves. The website’s Raising Brand Profile with Service Activities user interface is optimized to provide fast and Dubai: “Pink Service” for Female Customers LG Electronics is enhancing its brand profile easy access to the content users need and ofFemale customers from countries with Iswith service programs customized to local fer useful information for self-diagnosis and lamic culture feel uncomfortable with a needs. Such programs include Indonesia’s repair. Our online service helps customers visit by male service engineers without the “10 Cube Service” (Make a call 10 days after save time and effort (i.e. waiting for their turn presence of their male family members. LG purchase > Inquire about product condition at the service center, holding for a service Electronics introduced “Pink Service,” which after 10 weeks of product purchase & provide representative), and we are providing greater offers service visits by female engineers, in follow-up service > Notify customers of warbenefits and services to our customers with the Middle East region to help female customranty expiration (in 2 months) after 10 months the cost savings. ers feel more comfortable with our service. of product purchase) and India’s “211 Service” (URL: 1. Korea www.lgservice.co.kr/ We are currently running a pilot program in (Call up within 2 hours to set up appoint2. Overseas www.lg.com/COUNTRY/support) the United Arab Emirates and Iran starting ment + Visit Service Within 1 day + Service with installation service and plan to gradually appointment of 1 hour interval), specialized Developing and Expanding expand the service to other regions. for providing speedy and accurate service. Differentiated Service We also provide “Non Stop Service” (24 hours LG Electronics is committed to increasing our Morocco: Motorbike for Service Visits and holiday call center and holiday call center service quality, delivering customer satisfacLG Electronics utilizes motorbikes as serservice) in Russia and “No Kindness, No Lation and gaining customer trust in global marvice vehicles in Middle Eastern and African bor Service” (no repair charge on inadequate kets with the development and expansion of countries where a majority of roads in these service) in Thailand. LG Electronics plans to differentiated service programs. countries are too narrow and not accessible expand region-specific service programs to by service vans. Our choice of motorbikes as worldwide. service vehicles greatly helps us in providing fast and efficient service to our customers, making LG Electronics synonymous with service excellence. Fair Trade / Customer Satisfaction through Service Activities 77 Information Security/ Personal Information Protection Information Security Training Industrial Security Management System Personal Information Management System LG Electronics conducted training on informaCertification for Suppliers (PIMS) Certification tion security and personal information protecAs part of our efforts to create an information As part of our efforts to promote systematic tion for domestic and overseas employees. security environment that facilitates Win-Win protection of customers’ personal informaThe training was provided in 14 different lanGrowth, LG Electronics conducts regular astion, LG Electronics acquired the Personal guages to increase effectiveness for overseas sessment and training for information secuInformation Management System (PIMS) ceremployees and organized into sessions on rity. Of our suppliers, five that produce design tification in December 2012. LG Electronics information security practices, understandmodels and require a high level of information is the first Korean manufacturer to acquire ing personal information protection, and security completed the certification process the certification, which is issued by the Korea management issues at each stage of personal for their industrial security management sysCommunications Commission. The certificainformation lifecycles. LG Electronics plans tem in March 2013. tion is significant in that it establishes LG to provide the training annually to raise emThe Industrial Security Management System Electronics’ compliance with the nation’s ployee awareness of information security Certification, issued by the Korean Association legal requirements on protection of personal and personal information protection and to for Industrial Technology Security, is awarded information, while increasing customer trust help employees embrace it in their everyday to businesses that hold the rights to industrial and attesting to the company’s commitment business practice. Employees who regularly technologies and have in place preventative to customer privacy. Moreover, the certifihandle personal information due to their measures against improper information leaks cation serves as an official recognition by a business functions are required to undergo and asset loss from a wide range of disasters government organization of its performance in additional training on a semiannual basis. The for each of their production processes. Busiprotecting customers’ personal information. training offers courses tailored to trainees’ nesses are evaluated on over 300 items from Going forward, we will make ongoing efforts business functions (administrative staff/sys65 criteria in 5 areas (general management, to retain the certification based on systematic tem administrators/subsidiary employees) to physical infrastructure, technical infrastrucmanagement of information security and perhelp them better protect personal information ture, responsiveness to security breaches, sonal information protection. of customers. and security knowledge management) for the certification. Focus Content of Information Security Training Response to Malicious Code (Zombie PCs) Ⅰ. Management Messages on Information Recent security breaches have been caused mostly by attacks that utilize personal computers Security compromised by a computer virus. LG Electronics has established a response system to effectively detect emerging security threats and prevent information breaches. Ⅱ. Personal Information Protection 1. Personal Information 2. Personal Information Protection · Operation Procedures of Impact Assessment System 3. Lifecycle of Personal Information 4. Employees Handling Personal Information Detection Security Analysis Corrective Measure Ⅲ. Information Security 1. Entry/Exit Security Implements corrective measures 2. Document Security Screens for zombies Analyzes detected zombies/ on the compromised PC 3. Non-disclosure Agreement (implement a solution) Distributes the list (Korean/overseas information 4. Laptop/Storage Device Management security staff) 5. IT·Communications Security · Implements corrective measures · Websites distributing on the compromised PC malicious codes Korean/overseas business · Monitoring staff analyzes mali· Externally controlled servers sites, subsidiaries cious codes and distribute the · PCs compromised by Hard drive formatting and list malicious codes vaccine software update · Blocks the network connection to externally controlled servers 78 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Certificate Award Ceremony (Industrial Security Personal Information Management Management System) for Suppliers System (PIMS) Certification Global Compliance Risk Management on Establishment of Personal Information Deleting Personal Information from Personal Information Protection Impact Assessment System Employee PCs Currently, the global society is faced with LG Electronics has established a personal inFor better protection of customers’ personal increasingly diverse threats against performation impact assessment system to preinformation, LG Electronics not only implesonal information security, and nations are vent compliance risks associated with related ments necessary technical measures to prostrengthening the relevant laws and regulalaws and regulations and to systematically tect its systems and networks but also takes tions to address such threats. LG Electronics and automatically manage personal informapreemptive actions designed to minimize is making a wide range of efforts to effectively tion data and associated risks at a corporate risks. As part of such efforts, we scanned prevent information breach and respond to level. With the system in place, we have the employee PCs for files containing personal incompliance requirements, such as establishinfrastructure to prevent non-compliances formation (resident registration number, bank ing control measures against information and information breaches, and to manage account number, credit card number, phone leaks and judiciously complying with the legal personal information systematically at a cornumber, etc.) and deleted them. Employees requirements prescribed by countries. LGE porate level, thereby minimizing risks as well who need such files for business purposes are also requires all its business sites, Korean as potential damages. Prior to deployment, all required to maintain encrypted files. We also and overseas, to carry out risk management LGE systems that handle personal information provide software solutions and guidelines to activities based on the list of requirements undergo assessment and verification by the help our employees safely protect customers’ issued by HQ, while assessing their perforInformation Security Department, in addition personal information throughout the lifemance on a semiannual basis. The assessto discussions taking place among relevant cycle from generation to deletion. In order to ment results are reported to top management departments (IT/Marketing), to further ensure minimize personal information stored on emand follow-up measures are implemented. We the protection of personal information. ployee PCs, we conduct regular training and are responding effectively to compliance risks assessment for Korean employees and plan to by carefully managing risks commonly shared expand the programs to overseas employees. by our business sites in Korea and overseas. Operation Procedures of Personal Information Impact Assessment System Development of new personal information processing system/Deployment of a new service Complete a review 3 Request a review Collaborating/ Relevant Departments Y 2 Provide development guidelines/impact assessment guidelines 4 Perform impact assessment Department Leading Department in charge of Review/Discussion by Review Collaboration personal information Relevant Departments Completed 1 Request a ·정보보안부서 preliminary review · IT/Customer Relations · Online marketing N 5 Request modifications/improvements and/or response measures Information Security/Personal Information Protection 79 EESH Management EESH Management System Third Global EESH Conference with Environmental Protection Activities LG Electronics established the EESH manageDomestic and Overseas EESH Staff LG Electronics actively participates in environment system to facilitate integrated manageIn May 2012, LG Electronics hosted an EESH mental protection initiatives worldwide. The ment of energy, environment, safety, and conference and training for its global EESH Changwon Plant carried out environmental health issues, and is applying the system to staff. The training included lectures by exterprotection activities in partnership with the all domestic and overseas business sites. In nal experts and EESH best practice sessions Changwon Animal Protection Society as well 2010, HQ took over the control of the acquisito share professional knowledge in EESH as local corporations, and also cooperated tion and management of the Environmental with the participants (over 120 EESH/Facility with the Labor Union in the removal of traps Management System (ISO 14001) and OccupaManagement department leaders and staff and snares set by poachers in an effort to tional Health and Safety Management System members from 40 overseas sites). In 2013, protect wildlife animals. LGE will continue to (OHSAS 18001) certifications for production we plan to maintain effective communication expand its environmental protection activities sites in Korea. Also, all our overseas producwith production sites by providing the new asand promote employee participation. tion sites (except for 2 new sites, South Africa sessment system and EESH standards, and by and Mexicali in Mexico) acquired the ISO promoting our strategic directions for EESH 14001 certification (Details on certification management. status of overseas production sites: p.86). We plan to complete the certification process for the new production sites by 2014. In 2012, we performed an EESH audit on all domestic EESH Audit Results in 2012 (100 Point Scale) Unit: Point sites using the new assessment system which was developed based on the ISO standard 88 Domestic (EESH Policy: Energy·Environment·Safety·Hea 2012 Overseas 81.3 lth Policy) and corporate standards. Unlike the existing assessment system that utilizes an 2011 90.3 activity-based audit checklist, the new system 83.3 focuses on compliance with EESH manage90 2010 ment requirements and the PDCA (Plan-Do81.5 Check-Action) process defined based on the corporate standards. The audit revealed that improvements are required particularly in the planning phase. In assessing environmental impact and risk, for example, it has become Integrated Global EESH Management System clear that we need to make improvements such as participation of relevant departments, expansion of assessment scope, promotion of Planning Do employee training and exercise management 1. Policy & Leadership 6. Emergency Response system, and promotion of employee aware2. Goal & Plan 7. Document P D 3. Organization Management ness. We plan to make ongoing improvements /Accountability 8. Communication to the assessment system and perform EESH 4. Risk Management 9. Operation & 5. Training & Exercise Global EESH Management audits on overseas sites with the new and improved system. Check Action 10. Investigation & A C Analysis 12. Management Review 11. Evaluation & Improvement 80 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 1 | The 3rd Global EESH Conference 1 2 2 | Anti-smoking Campaign in Korea 3 | Fire Drill 3 Employee Health Management business sites and R&D centers in 2012. This preparation led to a slight increase in the total LG Electronics engages in Total Health Proyear, we plan to compile an index of fire hazinsurance amount, the insurance premium motion (THP) activities to promote and protect ards, produce a manual for domestic sites, and remained the same level, resulting in overall employee health. As part of our efforts to conutilize the manual in our efforts to minimize cost savings of 6%. tain rising employee health-related costs (20% fire hazards. In 2012, we also conducted adannually), we offer regular medical check-ups hoc inspections (semiannual basis) to assess to all domestic employees and provide health the emergency response system of our busiconsultations to employees with diagnosed ness sites, evaluating each business site’s reconditions to help them manage their condisponse to ad-hoc fire drills by the Emergency Mid to Long Term Activities for Enhancing tions and focus on work. The Seocho R&D Operations Center, operation of the emergency Integrated EESH Management System Campus (MC Company), in particular, was contract network and effectiveness of rescue named an “Excellent Business Site in Workefforts. Our inspection revealed that training 1. Strengthen overall system management, place Health Promotion” by the Ministry of for first responders and rescue missions still including establishment of Chemical Management System Employment and Labor for its inspiring emneed improvement. We conduct regular exer2. Strengthen fire prevention system and ployee health promotion efforts. In response cises for diverse emergency situations, as well risk management system to the increasing global awareness of the as ad-hoc inspections to make improvements. 3. Strengthen resource management system and environmental management system harmful effects of smoking (cancer, fatality, Although our various efforts for emergency etc.) as well as anti-smoking efforts on a national level, LG Electronics launched a corporate-wide anti-smoking campaign in 2012 with programs such as “Smoking Cessation Fund,” Generated/Recycled Waste (Korea) Unit: ton, Basic Unit: ton/KRW billion “Smoking-free Department” and “Smokingfree Day.” We designate departments whose 2012 team members succeed in smoking cessation 162,553 Total Waste 3.19 T  otal as “Smoking Free Department” and issue a 126,448 2011 Recycled Waste certificate presented by their business unit 175,175 Basic Unit 3.23 leader. This is announced on the company’s 129,011 2010 internal bulletin board as a way to honor the 170,420 awardees and to encourage other employees 3.06 125,618 to also quit smoking. Our anti-smoking efforts generated positive responses from employees, * Data is based on international standards from the 2012 report. * Intensity data was revised according to the global sales (consolidated) increasing employee awareness and reducing the rate of smokers. In 2013, we plan to expand our workplace health promotion efforts to include management of employee health, including health management consultations Incident Rate Unit: % for employees with diagnosed conditions. 2012 0.02 Korea Reduction of Industrial Accident 0.43 Overseas Compensation Insurance Costs with 0.03 Fire Hazard Assessment Model 2011 0.61 In 2012, LG Electronics developed a fire hazard assessment model (quantitative) to evaluate 2010 0.05 and prioritize fire hazards and manage them 0.54 visually, and applied the model to domestic * IR= Number of incident cases/total work hours×200,000 EESH Management 81 Economic Data Summary of Consolidated Statements of Income Unit: KRW million 2010 2011 2012 1. Net sales 55,753,804 54,256,585 50,959,978 2. Cost of sales 43,453,096 42,057,595 38,652,915 3. Gross profit 12,300,708 12,198,990 12,307,063 4. Selling and marketing expenses 12,178,684 11,819,977 11,171,082 5. Operating income 122,024 379,013 1,135,981 6. Financial income 819,218 571,693 441,380 7. Financial expenses 1,007,444 909,804 735,719 8. Gain (loss) from equity method 469,509 (329,472) 46,189 9. Other non-operating income (expenses) 31,219 (110,743) (363,764) 10. Profit (loss) before income tax 434,526 (399,313) 524,067 11. Income tax expense 141 33,492 433,246 12. Profit (loss) for the year 1,282,119 (432,805) 90,821 * Net profit from the fiscal year 2010 includes profit from discontinued operations (KRW 847,734 million) due to changes to financial accounting standards. * Financial statement presented above is not expressed in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard No.1110 “Consolidated Financial Statements,” which takes effect from the 2013 calendar year. Summary of Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Unit: KRW million 2010 2011 2012 I. Current Assets 16,514,533 15,783,126 14,554,289 Trade receivables 7,001,962 6,752,559 6,519,157 Inventories 5,872,420 4,947,160 4,599,422 Other current assets 3,640,151 4,083,407 3,435,710 II. Non-current Assets 15,803,966 16,875,331 16,903,097 Investments in jointly controlled entities and associates 6,008,145 5,603,199 5,477,070 Tangible assets 6,500,484 7,290,413 7,517,611 Intangible assets 763,382 1,035,797 1,077,440 Other non-current assets 2,531,955 2,945,922 2,830,976 Total assets 32,318,499 32,658,457 31,457,386 I. Current liabilities 15,317,233 14,214,522 12,815,912 II. Non-current liabilities 4,141,629 5,295,687 5,937,257 Total liabilities 19,458,862 19,510,209 18,753,169 I. Paid-in capital 3,017,088 3,992,348 3,992,348 Capital stock 809,169 904,169 904,169 Share premium 2,207,919 3,088,179 3,088,179 II. Retained earnings 10,108,173 9,499,534 9,407,667 III. Accumulated other comprehensive loss (209,844) (326,584) (674,221) IV. Other components of equity (271,277) (271,339) (271,382) V. Non-controlling interest 215,497 254,289 249,805 Total equity 12,859,637 13,148,248 12,704,217 Total liabilities and equity 32,318,499 32,658,457 31,457,386 82 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Social Data Employees Data : Total 86,697 (As of December 31, 2012) Unit: No. of employees (%) 6,859 (7.9%) 288 4,252 (4.9%) 9,718 (11.2%) 931 (1.1%) 14,408 (0.3%) 33,195 (16.6%) 1,907 (38.3%) 30,214 2,528 (2.2) (34.9%) (2.9) 36,378 (42.0%) Age Region Position 164 4,935 (0.2%) (5.7%) 53,214 (61.4%) 2,615 37,823 (3.0%) 14,280 (43.6%) (16.5%) 6,382 (7.4%) 20’s and under Korea Japan Staff 30’s China Middle East & Africa Operator 40’s CIS North America Executive 50’s and over Europe South & Central America India South East Asia Other Employee Benefits and Support Programs Employee Benefits and Support Programs (Korea) LG Electronics has in place systematic employee benefits and support programs to Leisure Activities Vacation: Employees plan their yearly vacation at the beginning of the year and are encouraged to provide employees with personal time for take their leaves freely vacation, child birth, and maternity leave. Our Resort Facilities: Employees have access to 10 resort facilities (i.e. condominiums and pensions) diverse benefits and support programs help across Korea our employees achieve work-life balance and Informal Groups: Hobby and volunteer groups promote creativity at workplace. Childbirth and Lounge and nursing room for female employees: For female employees and pregnant/nursing Maternity Leave employees Childcare Facilities (Available in Seoul, Pyeongtaek and Changwon). Plans in place for expansion to all business sites Maternity Leave: Paid maternity leave for female employees before/after childbirth (up to 90 days), Employee Benefits Unit: KRW 100 million (%) time-off offered in the event of miscarriage/stillbirth (30-90 days), time-off offered for fertility issues (2 days) Time-off offered to employees whose spouse has given birth (3 days): time-off offered to 1,173 L  egally Required Benefits (39.9%) employees to raise infants under one year of age (up to 12months): Reduced work hours Other Benefits offered to employees during child-rearing years (15-30 hours/week) Housing and Housing Loans: Housing loans offered to employees who have served at least two years KRW Stable Living Relocation Costs: Assistance offered to employees who relocated for work related reasons, 2,937 such as transfer Congratulatory/Condolence Cash Gift: Support for congratulatory events and funerals of 1,764 employees and their families (60.1%) Disaster Relief Support: Financial support offered to employees and their families who have suffered property damages caused by natural disasters 1) Legally Required Benefits: National Pension, Medical/Health Medical expenses for employees and their family members Health Insurance, Employment Insurance, and Group insurance related to disasters: Operation of Health Care Center and Counseling Center Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance 2) Other Benefits: Support programs other than legally Paid sick leave: 70% of average wages are offered to employees on sick leave due to required benefits occupational injuries, 30-100% of wages to employees on sick leave due to illnesses Education Scholarship for employees’ children: Support for employees starting/resuming their education Special lectures on healthcare, personal finance/investment, family life, etc. Legally Required National Pension, Health Insurance, Employment Insurance, Industrial Accident Compensation Benefits Insurance Retirement Pension: Fixed benefits Optional Benefits KRW 1,000,000 worth of points awarded to employees annually Points can be redeemed for personal development, leisure/health, gift & product purchasing Economic Data / Social Data 83 Environmental Data INPUT DATA GHG Emissions Unit: K tonCO2e Water Unit: K ton 2010 2011 2012 Category 2010 2011 2012 Korea Scope 1 118 145 145 Korea 5,914 6,373 5,498 Scope 2 516 534 517 Overseas 6,214 6,540 6,046 Overseas Scope 1 303 297 264 Total 12,128 12,913 11,544 Scope 2 363 385 425 Intensity (K ton/KRW 10 billion) 2.18 2.38 2.27 Total 1,300 1,361 1,351 Intensity (K tonCO2e/KRW 100 billion) 2.33 2.51 2.65 * Applicable business sites: 14 Korean (production, office and R&D centers) and 30 overseas (production) sites Ozone-depleting Substances Unit: ton * Based on the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, the WRI’s GHG Protocol, etc. * Verification status: Category 2010 2011 2012 Korea: Third party verification completed (2008-2012), except for refrigerant emissions HCFC Korea 1,509 1,070 772 Overseas: Third party verification completed (2008-2011), except for LGEAT and (R22) Overseas 3,023 2,881 2,548 Third party verification completed (2012), except for LGEWR, LGEND and LGEVN * Data correction may occur after the completion of third party verification Total 4,532 3,951 3,320 Unit: tonCO2e Volume Released by Product Group (Korea) Unit: ton Category 2010 2011 2012 Leased Properties 7,673 7,987 9,377 Product Required to be Recycled Total Volume Released Scope 3 Domestic Logistics 86,210 95,282 42,344 Refrigerator 88,419 (Transport) Refrigerator (for Kimchi) 22,024 Business Trips 84,425 62,153 72,400 Washing Machine 33,252 * Verification Status: Third party verification completed (2009-2012) for leased properties, Washing Machine (Drum) 26,794 and business trips Air Conditioner (Indoor Unit) 27,420 Air Conditioner (Outdoor Unit) 46,113 TV (LCD) 15,713 TV (PDP) 1,093 Energy Unit: TJ Monitor 4,902 Laptop Computer 630 Category 2010 2011 2012 Desktop Computer 2,356 Electricity 5,911 6,056 6,093 Personal Computer (Keyboard) 331 Steam 582 807 770 Mobile Handset (Body) 565 LNG 1,178 997 1,202 Mobile Handset (Battery) 138 Coal 1,152 1,223 1,160 Mobile Handset (Charger) 103 Other 302 353 409 Stereo (All-in-one) 63 Total 9,125 9,436 9,634 Stereo (Body, Separate body-speaker type) 12 * Applicable business sites: 14 Korean (production, office and R&D centers) and Stereo (Speaker) 126 30 overseas (production) sites * Applicable energy usage: Combustion facilities in business sites, and external electricity and Printer (Laser) 23 heat usage (energy consumed by vehicles excluded) Printer (Non-laser) 318 * Energy consumption is calculated based on net heating value. Total 270,395 * Verification status Korea: Third party verification completed (2008 2011), except for refrigerant emissions Overseas: A third party verification completed (2008 2010), except for LGEAT and LGEQA * Data correction may occur after the completion of third party verification. 84 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report All LG Electronics business sites are managed according to internal environmental standards that far exceed the legal requirements (by 50%). Such disciplined management approach helps us reduce risks and contribute to protecting the environment of local communities. In order to increase the integrity of our environmental data, we are implementing overarching efforts to enhance our data management system, including training for staff members in charge of environmental management at each business site. In this process, we discovered some errors in our 2012 report and confirmed that such errors had occurred due to omission of some data and disparate data management methods at our business sites. We promise our stakeholders that we will continuously work to enhance the integrity and reliability of the data we disclose by improving the management of environmental data. OUTPUT DATA Air Emissions Unit: ton Discharge into Water Unit: ton Category Region 2010 2011 2012 Category Region 2010 2011 2012 NOx Korea 1.8 3.3 2.2 T-P Korea 1.3 0.9 0.6 Overseas 114.1 79.0 74.3 Overseas 0.5 1.3 2.0 Total 115.9 82.3 76.5 Total 1.8 2.2 2.6 SOx Korea 0.4 0.6 0.8 T-N Korea 58.0 49.4 (36.6) 53.3 Overseas 89.1 47.6 46.7 Overseas 5.3 2.5 9.5 Total 89.5 48.2 47.5 Total 63.3 51.9 62.8 Dust Korea 5.0 7.5 7.3 SS Korea 38.8 14.6 (12.9) 18.0 Overseas 80.7 58.1 66.5 Overseas 30.5 49.7 43.2 Total 85.7 65.6 73.8 Total 69.3 64.3 61.2 VOCs Korea (ppm) 16.4 11.1 9.4 COD Korea 106.8 96.3 (77.8) 128.6 Overseas (ton) 21.8 30.3 30.3 Overseas 99.2 108.5 107.8 * Since there is no standard for VOC measurement in Korea, this report presents the average Total 206.0 204.8 236.4 concentration of Total Hydrocarbon (THC) in ppm from some of our painting facilities. * The numbers in parenthesis “( )” indicate an error in the disclosed data from the 2011-2012 report. The values have been adjusted to correct the errors identified in the verification process. Waste Generation Unit: ton Category Region 2010 2011 2012 Waste Water Discharge Unit: ton Recycle Korea 37,529 38,739 30,332 Overseas 80,472 81,124 83,000 Category 2010 2011 2012 Total 118,001 119,863 113,332 Korea 3,922,150 4,140,130 3,783,044 Landfill Korea 6,452 6,848 7,012 Overseas 1,493,185 4,140,130 1,252,379 Overseas 1,166 2,300 7,004 Total 5,415,335 5,591,906 5,035,423 Total 7,618 9,148 14,016 * The amount of waste water discharge sharply decreased in Korea due to the Incineration Korea 4,368 5,437 5,432 close down of the Gumi 2 Plant. Overseas 40,434 40,726 30,662 Total 44,802 46,163 36,094 Total Korea (General) 45,883 48,490 39,636 Korea (Regulated) 2,466 2,533 3,140 Safety Data Korea Total 48,349 51,023 42,776 Overseas Total 122,072 124,150 120,666 Category Region 2010 2011 2012 Total 170,421 175,173 163,442 Fatality Korea 0 0 0 (No. of case) Overseas 0 0 0 * Our 2012 data includes the waste generated from R&D centers. Due to the close down of the Gumi 2 Plant, our performance in recycling declined compared to the previous year, while the Total 0 0 0 amount of incineration increased. Incident Korea 12 8 5 * The amount of incineration increased overseas due to changes in the waste management laws in (No. of case) Overseas 333 406 279 Manaus, Brazil. * Incineration also includes heat recovery. Total 345 414 284 * For hazardous wastes, this report only presents the data from Korea, as the definition of Total Hours Worked Korea 47,708,018 53,862,314 50,830,658 hazardous wastes varies by country. Overseas 122,422,941 132,892,824 128,970,653 Total 170,130,959 186,755,138 179,801,311 Environmental Data 85 Environmental Data Global Production Network (As of December 31, 2012) Region Country City Subsidiary Product ISO Certification North, Central Mexico Mexicali LGEMX LCD TV, Monitor & South America Reynosa LGERS LCD/PDP TV, CRT TV, PDP Module ISO 14001 Monterey LGEMM Refrigerator, Oven ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Brazil Manaus TV, DVD, Audio, Car Audio, Microwave Oven, Airconditioner ISO 14001 LGEBR Taubate Monitor, Mobile Handset, Laptop, Washing Machine ISO 14001 Europe Poland Mlawa LGEMA TV, Monitor ISO 14001 Wroclaw LGEWR Refrigerator, TV ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Middle East & Africa Egypt Ismailia LGEEG CRT TV, FPD ISO 14001 Turkey Istanbul LGEAT Air Conditioner ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Saudi Arabia Riyadh LGESR Air Conditioner ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 South Africa Johannesburg LGESA LCD TV, PDP TV, Monitor Asia India Noida CRT TV, LCD TV, PDP TV, Monitor, Refrigerator, Air Conditioner, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 LGEIL Pune Washing Machine, Compressor, Optical Storage, Mobile Handset ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Thailand Rayong LGETH Washing Machine, Air Conditioner, Compressor ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Vietnam Hung Yen TV, Monitor, Mobile Handset, Air Conditioner, Washing Machine ISO 14001 LGEVN Hai Phong Refrigerator , Microwave Oven, Vacuum Cleaner ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Indonesia Cibitung LCD Monitor, LCD TV, PDP TV, CRT TV, VCR, COMBI, REC COMBI, DVD-P, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 LGEIN Tanggerang DVD-R, BD-P, BD-Home Theater, DVD-Home Theater, Audio, Refrigerator ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 China China Taizhou LGETR Refrigerator, Compressor ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Huizhou LGEHZ Media, Optical Storage ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Nanjing LGEND Monitor, LCD TV, PDP TV ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Nanjing LGEPN Washing Machine, Motor ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Qinhuangdao LGEQH Casting ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Shanghai LGESH Security Camera ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Shenyang LGESY CRT TV ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Tianjin LGETA Microwave Oven, Air Conditioner, Vacuum Cleaner, Compressor, MGT ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Yantai LGEYT Mobile Handset ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Kunshan LGEKS Telematics, Audio ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Hangzhou LGEHN Video Cassette Tape, USB, HDD, Prism Sheet ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Qingdao LGEQD Mobile Handset ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Qingdao LGEQA Chiller ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 CIS Kazakhstan Almaty LGEAK TV, Washing Machine ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Russia Ruja LGERA TV, Monitor, Refrigerator, Washing Machine ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 * Number of Overseas Production Sites: 33 (Number of Production Subsidiaries: 29) * All our production sites in Korea acquired the ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certifications. 86 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Independent Assurance Statement To the Stakeholders of LG Electronics: Findings and Conclusions LG Electronics commissioned the Korea Productivity Center (the “AsIt is the Assurer’s opinion that the Report presents the sustainabilsurer”) to provide an independent assurance of its 2012-2013 Sustainity efforts and performance of LG Electronics in a fair and accurate ability Report (the “Report”). way. Also, the assurance verified that the self-declared requirements claimed by LG Electronics for the GRI Application Level A have been Responsibility and Integrity met. The following is the Assurer’s findings and recommendations LG Electronics is entirely responsible for the reliability and accuracy based on the AA1000 Accountability Principles (2008) of Inclusivity, Maof all information and opinions presented in this Report. The Assurer teriality and Responsiveness. is responsible solely for providing a third party verification of the content in the Report. As an independent assurance agency, the Assurer 1. Principle of Inclusivity: Stakeholder Engagement was neither involved in the process of preparing this “Report” with LG The principle of inclusivity articulates that organizations should include Electronics, nor in any conflicts of interest that may undermine our instakeholders in the development and achievement of accountable dependence. and strategic responses to sustainability. LG Electronics identified six major stakeholder groups based on mutual impact and accessibility Assurance Standard and Objectives (customers, employees, suppliers, communities, governmental and The independent verification process was planned and performed in international organizations, and shareholders and investors), clearly accordance with the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) to provide Type understands the expectations of and communication channels for each 1 moderate level of assurance, while providing Type 2 assurance for group, and actively accommodates their feedback based on open comselect sustainability performances (i.e. water use and waste managemunication. LG Electronics is also working towards customizing comment) that require the evaluation of data reliability. This was achieved munication channels for each stakeholder group through efforts such through the evaluation of the organization’s adherence to the AA1000 as open communication with employees, labormanagement conferAPS (2008) of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. Additionally, ence, multi-dimensional communication with suppliers for Win-Win the assurance was performed to ascertain the organization’s adherence Growth, and field-oriented communication and problem solving efforts to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Guidelines in preparing and for customers. In particular, the Assurer highly commends the compresenting sustainability performance information. pany for having firmly established the Stakeholder Consultation on CSR (since 2010) as the most representative communication channel and Assurance Limitations for creating values based on the LG Way by actively incorporating key Based on the aforementioned assurance standards, the Assurer veriissues that emerged from the Consultation into its business operations, fied the organization’s sustainability performance for 2012, and pari.e. briefing top management on such issues. Going forward, the Assurtially verified the data from 2010 and 2011 as well as the plan for 2013. er recommends that LG Electronics further expands and enhances its The scope of our procedures did not include verification of the reliability stakeholder communication system to actively accommodate feedback of data related to LG Electronics’ financial and environmental perforfrom overseas customers and business sites as part of its efforts to mance (including GHG emissions) and information linked with LG Eleccreate a truly global stakeholder engagement system that is expected tronics’ websites. Site inspection was performed, in a limited scope, on of a global corporation. In particular, the Assurer recommends that LG LG Electronics’ Headquarters in Seoul. Therefore, the Assurer clearly Electronics establishes an integrated stakeholder management system. states that any future verification may produce varied results. 2. Principle of Materiality: Selection of and Reporting on Assurance Methodology Material Issues The assurance was undertaken with the methodology specified below: The principle of materiality articulates that organizations should focus 1. V  erified if the Report satisfies requirements for GRI Application level on issues relevant and material to both the organization and their major A by reviewing the coverage rate of and presentation method for ecostakeholders. The Assurer found that LG Electronics successfully idennomic, environmental and social indicators specified in the GRI G3.1 tified issues relevant and material to the company and its major stakeGuidelines. holders based on a logical materiality analysis process. LG Electronics 2. V  erified consistency with the principles dictating the content and also made a wide range of efforts to identify issues material to its susquality of sustainability reports based on the GRI G3.1 Guidelines. tainability management from a balanced perspective based on diverse 3. V  erified objectivity and appropriateness of key issues selected and sources such as global initiatives, social norms, stakeholder engagecontent in the Report by reviewing media reports and performing ment, management policy, etc. Furthermore, the material issues idenbenchmark analysis. tified in the process are discussed at the Stakeholder Consultation to 4. V  erified errors in conformity and the information presented in the seek comprehensive solutions. For the past four years, LG Electronics Report by comparing and analyzing the same information from difhas closely tracked and managed material issues and made swift and ferent sources. appropriate responses to changes in the external climate, which clearly 5. V  erified the basis of data and information by performing site inspecproves that LG Electronics has in place a systematic sustainability tion at LG Electronics’ Headquarters in Seoul, and verified the intermanagement process (identify material issues > implement response nal process and systems. measures > report progress and performance). Going forward, the As6. V  erified the validity of LGE sustainability management strategy and management messages by interviewing 10 members of the executive management team. Environmental Data / Independent Assurance Statement 87 surer recommends that LG Electronics continues to track changes to Recommendations the material issues presented in “Key Progress and Performance” from The Assurer commends LG Electronics for making a variety of efforts this Report so that external stakeholders can better understand the to enhance sustainability and for the resulting performances, and presconnection between LG Electronics’ strategies for material issues and ents the following recommendations for improving future sustainability the progress it makes in each area. reports and sustainability management. 3. Principle of Responsiveness: Organizational Response to Issues 1. The Assurer recommends that LG Electronics establishes a global The principle of responsiveness articulates that organizations should sustainability management system that can support LG Electronbe responsive to issues that may impact the performance of their ics’ sustainability management efforts as a global corporation. This stakeholders. The Assurer found that LG Electronics successfully idenrecommendation pertains to not only strengthening sustainability tified issues that may impact stakeholders’ performance, implemented management efforts in Korea as well as overseas but also decision measures to address them and adequately presented relevant informamaking from a global perspective and integrated global data mantion in the Report. The Assurer commends LG Electronics for grouping agement. The Assurer believes that LG Electronics will be able to information on its sustainability management efforts into “Materiality enhance the quality of its reports as well as the substantive value of Report” and “Management Report” to differentiate its responses to maits suitability management based on such efforts. terial issues and management of general sustainability issues. In par2. W ith increasing interest in the environment and diverse environmenticular, the company clearly presented mid to long term directions and tal issues associated with the overseas business sites, the Assurer quantitative targets associated with material issues as an expression recommends that LG Electronics establishes a management system of its commitment towards ongoing improvement efforts. The Assurer for issues related to water use and biodiversity in addition to GHG also commends LG Electronics for expanding overseas sustainable emissions. management efforts, including CSR risk management initiatives for 3. T he Assurer recommends that LG Electronics makes a shift towards overseas business sites and suppliers, and social contribution efforts a reporting system that reviews multi-year efforts and accomplishoverseas. The Assurer recommends that LG Electronics presents spements in sustainability management and clearly presents the concific solutions for each material issue, creative response measures and nection between mid to long term objectives and financial perforvalue-oriented achievements resulting from such efforts. The Assurer mances. also recommends that LG Electronics continues to expand its sustainability management efforts at overseas business sites and presents the progress in future reports for global stakeholders. May 2013 Hong Jin Chairman Korea Productivity Center Dong Soo Kim, Ki Hwan Lee, Tae Min Kim, Director Team Leader Researcher Sustainability Management Center Sustainability Management Center Sustainability Management Center The Sustainability Management Center of the Korea Productivity Center is an assurance agency officially certified by AccountAbility (the organization that established AA1000, the international standard for stakeholder participation and verification) and is qualified to perform independent assurance engagements. Our Assurance Committee is comprised of competent experts who have in-depth experience in sustainability management consulting and assurance and have completed the relevant professional training. 88 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Membership/Awards & Recognition Membership Council of Economic Organizations Korea Radio Promotion Association Korean Industrial Technology Association Korea Home Network Industry Association International Vaccine Institute Federation of Korean Information Industries, Korea Association of Industrial Designers Korea Audit Bureau of Circulations CIO Forum (KAID) International Trademark Association (INTA) Korea Association for ICT Promotion Korea Listed Companies Association (KLCA) Korea Investor Relations Service Organization of Consumer Affairs Korea Business Council for Sustainable Korea Forum for Progress Digital Europe Professionals in Business Development (KBCSD) Industrial Health Association Korea Employers Federation Korean Society for Noise and Vibration European Committee of Domestic Equipment Engineering (KSNVE) Manufacturers (CECED) Korean Society of Mechanical Engineers Korea Economic Research Institute Korea Smart Grid Association Quality Brand Protection Committee (QBPC) (KSME) Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry Fair Competition Federation GS1 Korea ZigBee Alliance The Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers Accreditation Board for Engineering Korea Electronics Association Japan Article Management Promotion Education of Korea Consortium (JAMP) Trade Related IPR Protection Association Korea Advertiser Association Korea Association of Electronics Environment Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (TIPA) (EICC) Korean Academy for Trade Credit Insurance Korea Management Association Korean Information Display Society (KIDS) United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Maekyung Safety and Environment Licensing Executive Society Korea Telecommunication Technology Association UNGC Korea Network (LES Korea) (TTA) International Council Society of Industrial Korea Micro Joining Association (KMJA) Korea Products Safety Association Design (ICSID) Center for Asian Law Korea International Trade Association Korea Intellectual Property Protection Association (KIPRA) The Foundation of Korean Industries Korea Invention Promotion Association Korea Intellectual Property Association (KINPA) Korea Electronics Association Korea Association of Information & Society of CAD/CAM Engineers (Private Sector Council for Electronics Telecommunication Trade Promotion) Awards & Recognition Date Award/Recognition Awarded by February 2012 LG Drum Washing Machine ranked first in sales (fifth consecutive year) and Stevenson Company market share (fourth consecutive year) March 2012 14 product modes (including 3-door refrigerator and dishwasher) received the Red Dot Award Red Dot Award and honorable mentions March 2012 Received “ENERGY STAR” Partner of the Year Award U.S. Environmental Protection Agency April 2012 LGEES (Spain) named one of the 50 best companies to work for in Spain Great Place to Work Institute April 2012 LGE Levant received the Best Interactive Award in the Electronics category Pan Arab Web Awards June 2012 Received the Prime Minister’s Prize at the 16th Energy Winner Awards Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy/Consumers Korea June 2012 LG TV acquired the Green Product Mark certification TUV Rheinland (Germany) June 2012 LG French-Door Refrigerator received the top rating Consumer Reports (U.S.) June 2012 LG TV received the Best Solution Award IEEE Infocom 2012 August 2012 LG TV received the IDEA Awards IDEA (International Design Excellence Awards) August 2012 LG TV received the Global Efficiency Medal SEAD September 2012 LG Washing Machine acquired the Green Product Mark certification TUV Rheinland (Germany) September 2012 Included in the DJSI World Index Dow Jones Index/RobecoSAM (Swiss) October 2012 Ranked first in the Carbon Management Global Leaders Club CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) Korea October 2012 Received the Presidential Prize at the Good Design Awards Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy/Korea Institute of Design Promotion (KIDP) October 2012 Received the KES Innovation Award 2012 Electronics & IT Industry Fair November 2012 Received 2 iF Product Design Awards iF Product Design Award November 2012 Received the Korea Advertising Award Korea Federation of Advertising Associations December 2012 LGEGF received the Best Project Award Climate Control Middle East December 2012 LG 84 inch Ultra-large Screen HD TV named “Product of the Year” at VIP-ASIA 2012 AVING Independent Assurance Statement / Membership, Awards & Recognition 89 GRI Index GRI Index Related Content Page 1.1 Statement from senior decision maker about the relevance of sustainability CEO Message 4-5 to the organization 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities CEO Message, Top Management Messages, Stakeholder Engagement, 4-5, 6, 24-25, Key Progress and Performance, Compliance Risk Management 28-29, 74 2.1 Name of the organization Corporate Overview 8-9 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services Corporate Overview 8-9 2.3 Operational structure of the organization Corporate Overview 8-9 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Corporate Overview 8-9 2.5 Number and names of countries where the organization operates Global operations 11 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Corporate Governance 73 2.7 Markets served Corporate Overview & Economic performance 8-11 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Corporate Overview & Economic performance 8-11 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Corporate Overview & Economic performance 8-11 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Membership/Awards & Recognition 89 3.1 Reporting period for information provided Report overview 2 3.2 Date of most recent previous report June, 2013 93 3.3 Reporting cycle Report Overview (Annual) 2 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Report Overview 2 3.5 Process for defining report content Report Overview, Stakeholder Engagement, Materiality Analysis 2, 24-25, 26-27 3.6 Boundary of the report Report Overview 2 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Report Overview 2 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, Report Overview, Corporate Overview 2, 8-9 outsourced operations, and other entities 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations Report overview, Economic & Environment Data 2, 82-86 3.10 Explanation of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports Some data from the previous report have been adjusted. 84-86 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods No Significant Change 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report GRI Index 90-92 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance Report Overview, Independent Assurance Statement 2, 87-88 4.1 Governance structure of the organization Corporate Governance 73 4.2 Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer Corporate Governance 73 4.3 State the number of members of the highest governance body Corporate Governance 73 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations Corporate Governance 73 or direction to the highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the upper management Corporate Governance 73 and the organization's performance 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure confiicts Corporate Governance 73 of interest are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members Corporate Governance 73 of the highest governance body 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission and principles Management Philosophy, Corporate Overview, CSR Management System 7, 8-9, 12-13 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the management CSR Management System, Corporate Governance 12-13, 73 of economic, environmental, and social performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance Corporate Governance 73 4.11 Explanation of whether and how precautionary approach or principle is addressed Product with Greener Features, Low-carbon Management, 32-40, 41-47, CSR in Supply Chain, Compliance Risk management, EESH management 52-54, 74, 80-81 4.12 Externally developed charters to which the organization subscribes Membership/Awards & Recognition 89 4.13 Memberships in associations Membership/Awards & Recognition 89 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Stakeholder Engagement 24 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Stakeholder Engagement 24 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement Stakeholder Engagement, Materiality Analysis 24-25, 26-27 4.17 Key concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement, Materiality Analysis 24-25, 26-2 GRI Index Application Level Related Content Page Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ○ Corporate Overview & Economic Performance 8-11 EC2 Financial implications for the organization’s activities due to climate change ○ Exploring Opportunities and Managing Risks Associated with 41-47 Climate Change EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations ○ Social Data, Benefits and Support Programs 83 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government ○ Shared Economic Gains 10 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage ○ Fair Evaluation and Rewards 64 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers ○ Win-Win Growth 48 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of local senior management ○ Talent Management, Corporate Overview & Economic Performance 62-65, 8-11 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided ○ Shared Economic Gains, Social Contribution 10, 56-61 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts ○ Shared Economic Gains 10 Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume ○ Environmental Data, Corporate Overview & Economic Performance 84, 8-11 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials ○ Product with Greener Features 39 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source ○ Environmental Data (Energy) 84 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source ○ Environmental Data (Energy) 84 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements ○ Environmental Data, Low-carbon Management 84, 41-46 EN6 Reductions in energy requirement as a result of energy efficient or renewable energy ○ Product with Greener Features, Low-carbon Management 32-40, 42 initiatives 90 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report GRI Index Application level Related Content Page EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved ○ Expanding GHG Management Across Businesses 43 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ○ Water Use Management, Environmental Data 43-44, 84 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water × EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused ○ Water Use Management 43 EN11 Location and size of areas of high biodiversity value ○ LGE’s facilities are located in industrial complexes. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities on biodiversity ○ EN13 Habitats protected or restored ○ EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity ○ EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species N/A Data not available EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ○ Environmental Data (Input Data (GHG)) 84 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ○ Environmental Data (Input Data (GHG)) 84 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved ○ Low-Carbon Management 41-47 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight ○ Environmental Data (Ozone depleting chemicals) 84 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight ○ Environmental Data (Air Emissions) 85 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination ○ Environmental Data (Waste Water) 85 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method ○ EESH management (Waste), Environmental Data 81, 85 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills △ EESH management, No significant spills occurred in 2012 81 EN24 Weight of exported, imported, transported, or treated hazardous waste under the × terms of Basel Convention EN25 Identity, size, and protected status of water bodies and related habitats × EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services ○ Product with Greener Features, Low-carbon Management 32-40, 41-47 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials ○ Product with Greener Features (Recycling, Package volume 38 improvement) EN28 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with environmental regulations × EESH management, None of significant spills occurred in 2012 81 EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods ○ Low-carbon Management (Product Usage Level GHG Reduction), 41-43, 84 Environmental Data (Input Data (GHG)) EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments ○ Low-carbon Management (Campaign, etc) 44-47 Labor Practices and Decent Work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region ○ Global Network, Employees by Country, Percentage of Temporary 11, 65, 83 Employees, Status of LGE’s Employees LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region ○ Turnover Rate 65 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees ○ Social Data (Benefits and Support Programs) 83 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ○ Decent Work (Labor Relations) 68-69 LA5 Minimum notice period (s) regarding operational changes ○ Decent Work (Labor Relations) 68-69 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health ○ Decent Work (Labor Relations) 68-69 and safety committees LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and fatalities ○ EESH Management, Incident Rate, Safety Data 81, 85 LA8 Programs to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding ○ EESH Management 81 serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions × LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee ○ Talent Management 64 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning ○ Talent Management 62-64 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews ○ Talent Management 63-64 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category ○ Talent Management, Corporate Governance, Status of LGE’s Employees 11, 62-65, 73, 83 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category ○ Talent Management (Fair Evaluation and Rewards, Motivation) 64 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender ○ Use of Childbirth and Maternity Leave (Korea) 65 Human Rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that ○ CSR in Supply Chain 52-54 include human rights clauses HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers that have undergone screening on ○ CSR in Supply Chain 52-54 human rights and actions taken HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies/procedures concerning aspects of ○ Jeong-Do Management 75 human rights HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken ○ CSR in Supply Chain, Decent Work 52-54, 68-71 HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and ○ CSR in Supply Chain, Decent Work 52-54, 68-71 collective bargaining HR6 Operations identified as having risk for incidents of child labor and measures taken ○ CSR in Supply Chain, Decent Work 52-54, 68-71 HR7 Operations identified as having risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor and ○ CSR in Supply Chain, Decent Work 52-54, 68-71 measures taken HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures × HR9 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures ○ LGE’s facilities are located in industrial complexes. HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to ○ CSR Risk Management Program 69-71 human rights reviews and/or impact assessments HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and ○ Grievance Resolution Process, Jeong-Do Management 69, 75 resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Society SO1 Effectiveness of any programs/practices that asses and manage the impacts of operations ○ Social Contribution 56-61 SO2 Total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption N/A Compliance Risk Management 74 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies ○ Jeong-Do Management 75 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption ○ Jeong-Do Management 75 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying ○ e-waste Management and Recycling, Low-Carbon Management, 39, 44-45, Win-Win Growth 48-51 GRI Index 91 GRI Index GRI Index Application level Related Content Page SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and ○ Prohibited in Korea by Law related institutions by country SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, antitrust, and ○ Fair Trade 76 monopoly practice and their outcomes SO8 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with regulations ○ Fair Trade 76 SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities ○ EESH Management 80-81 SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with ○ EESH Management 80-81 significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Product Responsibility PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed △ Product with Greener Features 32-40 for improvement PR2 Total number of non-compliance incidents with regulations concerning health and safety △ Responsible Marketing Communication 92 PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures ○ Product with Greener Features 32-40 PR4 Total number of non-compliance incidents with regulations concerning products and △ Compliance Risk Management, Responsible Marketing Communication 74, 92 services information & Labeling PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction including survey results on satisfaction ○ Consumer Satisfaction through Service Activities 79 PR6 Programs for adherence to standards and voluntary codes related to marketing ○ Code of Conduct Code of Conduct communications 12-14 PR7 Total number of non-compliance incidents with regulations concerning marketing × communications PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding customer privacy and data losses ○ Information Security/ Personal Information Protection 77-78 PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws concerning the provision △ Compliance Risk Management, Responsible Marketing Communication 74, 92 and use of products and services * Responsible Marketing Communication: LG Electronics fully complies with all applicable laws and regulations pertaining to marketing & communication activities including advertisements, sales promotions and sponsorships in countries where we operate, and follows up on non-conformances with voluntary improvement efforts (2011-2012 Sustainability Report pp.28-29). UNGC Index Ten Principles Our Activities Related Content Page Human Principle 1: B  usinesses should support and respect the Based on our management philosophy People-oriented Management, LGE respects Management Philosophy 7 Rights protection of internationally proclaimed and complies with the standards, laws and regulations established by international CSR Management System 12-13 human rights; and institutions and organizations such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights Win-Win Growth 48-51 Principle 2: m  ake sure that they are not complicit by the United Nations. To ensure fundamental human rights and labor rights of CSR in Supply Chain 52-54 in human rights abuses. employees as well as those of our suppliers. Decent Work 68-71 Labour Principle 3: B  usinesses should uphold the freedom of LGE continues its efforts to establish a corporate culture that values the diversity Decent Work 68-71 Standards association and the effective recognition of of our employees and promotes creativity and autonomy. Owing to its efforts, Win-Win Growth 48-51 the right to collective bargaining; LGE is leading an exemplary labor management relationship, reaching an a CSR in Supply Chain 52-54 Principle 4: t  he elimination of all forms of forced and greement in collective bargaining and wage negotiations without labor dispute for CSR Management System 12-13 compulsory labour; 24 consecutive years (as of February 2013) and declaring Union Social Responsibility Principle 5: t  he effective abolition of child labour; and (USR) charter. Additionally, LGE joined the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Principle 6: t  he elimination of discrimination in respect of (EICC), established an enterprise-wide policy for protecting labor rights across the employment and occupation. supply chain and amended standard purchase agreement forms accordingly. Environment Principle 7: B  usinesses should support a precautionary LGE strives to contribute to the society’s sustainable growth by minimizing negative Product with Greener Features 32-40 approach to environmental challenges; environmental impacts resulted from our business activities. LGE made great Low-carbon Management 41-47 Principle 8: u  ndertake initiatives to promote greater strides in improving energy performance and carbon disclosure in development of environmental responsibility; and greener products. The company also surpassed its GHG reduction targets across Principle 9: e  ncourage the development and diffusion of products’ life cycle, while being highly recognized by Carbon Disclosure Project environmentally friendly technologies. (CDP) Korea for its efforts towards promoting low-carbon culture. LGE strengthened the integrated EESH (Energy, Environment, Safety, and Health) certification system and global EESH audit system at all production sites. LGE is currently participating as a member of the steering committee represent Korean companies at Caring for Climate. AntiPrinciple 10: B usinesses should work against corruption in LGE’s “Jeong-Do Management” is a guiding principle for all action taken by employees. Jeong-Do Management 75 Corruption all its forms, including extortion and bribery. To help our employees remain true to the spirit of Jeong-Do Management, Decent Work 68-71 LGE established Code of Ethics and Conduct Guidelines. LGE also applies the same Win-Win Growth 48-51 standard to all suppliers and business partners. LGE translates and distributes CSR in Supply Chain 52-54 code of ethics handbook and requiring employees and suppliers to sign a pledge for Jeong-Do Management. Additionally, LGE maintains the ethics category in its CSR risk management program to monitor its business sites’ and suppliers’ ethics management systems. 92 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Contributors to Special Issue Management Report Report Preparation IMC Team (MC Company) Ik Bae Choi Corporate Legal Team Joo Hwa Park Marketing Communication Team 1 Kyung Won Park Compliance Team Cheong Seok Lee, (HE Company) In Kyoung Lee Washing Machine Marketing NA Team Yoon Chul Shin Ethics Bureau Team Ha Yeon Moon NPI Marketing 2 Part (HA Company) Sung Eun Chang Fair Trade Team In Sang Cho RAC Marketing Team (Korea) Jin Hye Lee HQ Information Security Team Young Jin Kim, Ji Brand Communications Team Ji Sun Yang CS Strategy Team Hoon Kim Labor Relations Innovation Team Jin Ho Kim, Environment & Safety Team Jee Hye Jung Jae Woong Kim Jin Yeub Jung Materiality Report CSR Team Green Strategy Part Hee Myung Shin Roy Kim, Ho Sung Joo, Jung Min Song, Tae Ho Chung, Climate Change Technology Team Seung Jun Lee Se Won Min, Ji Young Kim, Hyun Jin Jeon, Chang Woo Yu, Shared Growth Drive Team Sun Geol Kwon Jung Hyun Park, Yong Hee Kim Procurement Strategy Team Ahn Young Cheong HR Planning Team Jae Won Kim Corporate Culture Team Seon Hee Jeon, Jong Koo Kang Planning/Design · Honey Communications Printing · Daehan Printech LG Electronics' Sustainability Report 2005 2006/2007 2008 2009 published in october 2006 published in october 2008 published in july 2009 published in june 2010 2010 2011-2012 2012-2013 published in may 2011 published in May 2012 published in june 2013 This report is printed with soy-based ink on environmentally-friendly, FSCTMcertified paper stocks (both cover and body). The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) mark is only awarded to paper and pulp products that are produced with materials from forests which are developed and managed based on environmentally friendly standards. As opposed to traditional petroleum-based ink, soy-based ink helps to significantly reduce air pollution by minimizing toxic emissions from the printing process. 94 2012-2013 LG Electronics Sustainability Report
