LUNDIN PETROLEUM’S 2012 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS TO UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Index 1. Letter from the CEO p.4 2. Highlights p.5 3. Corporate Responsibility Framework p.6 4. Code of Conduct p.8 5. Corporate Responsibility Policies p.9 6. EITI Supporting Company p.10 7. Climate Change p.11 6. Health, Safety and Environment p.12 7. A Sustainable Approach p.14 8. Sustainable Investments p.16 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2012 3 Lundin Petroleum AB Hovslagargatan 5  SE – 111 48 Stockholm, Sweden Highlights Telephone: + 46 8 440 54 50 Fax: + 46 8 440 54 59 E-mail: info@lundin.ch  Website: www.lundin-petroleum.com Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact demonstrates 24 April 2013 its on-going commitment to the 10 principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General Letter from the CEO United Nations New York, NY 10017 In its letter to the UN Secretary General, Ashley Heppenstall, Lundin Petroleum’s Chief Executive USA Officer, reiterates the Company’s commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and emphasises the importance of being a signatory company. Lundin Petroleum’s Commitment to the United Nations Global Compact & Communication on Progress 2012 Corporate Responsibility Framework & Policies Lundin Petroleum’s Corporate Responsibility framework, constituted of the Code of Conduct, policies Dear Mr Secretary-General, and guidelines, demonstrates how the Company integrates the commitments made under the United I am pleased to confirm that Lundin Petroleum supports the ten principles of the Global Nations Global Compact. In 2012, the Company took additional steps to the implementation of the Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Lundin Petroleum confirms that adhering to the Global Compact in 2010 has been of benefit to the commitments. The Board of Directors endorsed the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business Company. In fact, the commitments under the Global Compact guide our behaviour as a and Human Rights in September 2012 and adopted a Human Rights Policy in December 2012. Lundin corporate citizen and encourage us in our continuous efforts to improve our corporate responsibility. The ten principles of the Global Compact have been presented and Petroleum adopted a new Climate Change Statement and participated for the fourth time in the discussed internally at the operational level as well as at the management and Board of Carbon Disclosure Project. Furthermore, at the beginning of 2013 Lundin Petroleum adhered to the Directors’ level and have been promoted externally in a variety of fora. Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) by becoming an EITI Supporting Company. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engage in Health, Safety and Environment collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Lundin Petroleum has and will continue to As an international oil exploration and production company, health, safety and environmental (HSE) make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. management is of particular relevance. The HSE management is an industry specific approach to the We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual company’s employees and environmental management. In this specific field performance is measured submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to by Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress annually according to the Global Compact COP policy. Sustainable Investments Sincerely yours, Through its Sustainable Investment Program Lundin Petroleum seeks to further the Millennium Development Goals and to contribute to the preservation of the environment. In this respect the Company funded a variety of projects mainly in its areas of operation. In order to increase the scale and impact of the Company’s sustainable investments, Lundin Petroleum has entered into a partnership C. Ashley Heppenstall agreement with the Lundin Foundation starting 2013. Lundin Petroleum AB President and Chief Executive Officer Registered office: Stockholm, Sweden Organisation no: 556610-8055 4 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2012 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2012 5 CR/HSE FRAMEWORK BY JOINING THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT, LUNDIN Health and Safety Policy and Green Book PETROLEUM AFFIRMS ITS COMMITMENT TO ABIDE BY ITS 10 PRINCIPLES ON HUMAN RIGHTS, LABOUR STANDARDS, Environmental Policy Anti-corruption LUNDIN PETROLEUM’S COMMITMENT and Green Book Policy and Guidelines ENVIRONMENT AND ANTI-CORRUPTION. TO ITS STAFF, SHAREHOLDERS, HOST GOVERNMENTS, LOCAL COMMUNITIES Lundin Petroleum’s HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT Code of Conduct AND SOCIETY IS TO ACT AS A VALUES · VISION · PRINCIPLES Lundin Petroleum’s Board of Directors strengthened the Company’s The Company continues to promote environmental protection and commitment towards human rights in September 2012 by formally awareness. Preservation of biodiversity and environmental protection were RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN. THIS endorsing the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and of particular focus in 2012; operations assessed potential effects of their Human MEANS MAKING THE RIGHT DECISIONS Community Relations Rights Policy adopting a Human Rights Policy in December 2012. activities and supported environmental projects. Policy and Sustainable IN THE BOARD ROOM AND IN THE FIELD, Investment Guidelines Lundin Petroleum’s Vice President Corporate Responsibility attended the Climate Change remains an important issue for Lundin Petroleum; the Forum on Business and Human Rights at the United Nations in Geneva in Company has adopted a new Climate Change Statement, emphasising DAY AFTER DAY. Whistle-blowing order to learn about means to implement the Guiding Principles and to the commitment to seek energy efficiency measures to reduce its carbon Policy and Guidelines engage with its stakeholders. footprint and in 2012 participated for the fourth time in the Carbon Disclosure Project. PRESERVING Lundin Petroleum is committed to carry out its worldwide operations in a responsible manner. This means that the strategic decisions and field activities take into consideration LABOUR STANDARDS ANTI-CORRUPTION VALUE potential impacts on people and the environment. Lundin Lundin Petroleum guarantees in its Code of Conduct the right to freedom The Anti-corruption Policy and the Guidelines, adopted in 2011, were Petroleum has developed a Corporate Responsibility (CR) of association. It ensures equal opportunity without discrimination on the subject of staff training in 2012. There were no cases of corruption framework that establishes systems and procedures to protect the basis of age, culture, disability, gender, race, religion, etc. by selecting reported throughout the Group under the Guidelines or the Whistleblowing the health, safety and security of its stakeholders and the FOR ALL OUR candidates based on their competence and qualifications to perform the job. Procedure. environment. The commitments to responsible corporate citizenship by which the Company is guided are set out in Robust processes for contractor selection and evaluation ensure that there To further reinforce Lundin Petroleum’s commitment to transparency, as STAKEHOLDERS its Code of Conduct. Lundin Petroleum’s policies, guidelines is no child or other form of forced labour in relation to Lundin Petroleum’s per the Board of Directors’ resolution, Lundin Petroleum became an EITI and the management system further detail how operations worldwide operations. Supporting Company in 2013. must implement the principles in their activities. Corporate Responsibility is an evolving field which requires continuous improvement; in practice it means seeking to achieve social, STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT and the Graduate Institute of International and Development environmental and economic benefits simultaneously. In its Code of Conduct Lundin Petroleum recognises five key Studies, Geneva), panellist (Global Energy Forum 2012, Geneva) stakeholder groups: shareholders, staff, host countries, host or participant (CSR Conference, Oslo, ISO 26000 Open Forum, In 2012 Lundin Petroleum focused on further embedding the communities and society at large. The type of engagement Geneva, Forum on Business and Human Rights, Geneva, Risk United Nations Global Compact Principles in its operational differs for each group; shareholders are informed of the Management Master Class, Amsterdam) in various conferences sites. The UN Global Compact is an initiative of the United Company’s activities through public disclosure in the form or workshops which also offer the opportunity to meet Nations to encourage businesses and other societal actors of quarterly and annual reports, website and Annual General experts in relevant corporate responsibility fields from whom to adopt sustainable and socially responsible practices by Meeting, whereas, engagement with staff is a daily occurrence. the Company can learn about best practice. In 2012, Lundin endorsing and reporting on the implementation of the Contacts with host governments take place prior to the Petroleum’s Vice President Corporate Responsibility contributed ten principles covering human rights, labour standards, acquisition of a licence and throughout the lifetime of an asset, an article on “The Evolution of Corporate Social Responsibility in environment and anti-corruption. Lundin Petroleum formally while local communities engagement takes place prior to the the Past Ten Years: the Viewpoint of a Practitioner” to Oil Gas and became a member of the Global Compact in 2010 and commencement of and throughout the period of field activities. Energy Law Intelligence (OGEL). Lundin Petroleum continued has taken numerous steps to embed the principles in its CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY As for society at large, the Company seeks to contribute to to support research on governance in, and the economic daily operations. In 2012, the Company continued to train MILESTONES AT LUNDIN PETROLEUM the better understanding of the importance and impact of impact of, the extractive industry at the Center on Conflict, operational staff on the principles and focused on their Corporate Responsibility in its business conduct and to the Development and Peace Building of the Graduate Institute of Code of Conduct relevance to everyone’s day to day work. sector by participating as speaker (The University of Stockholm International and Development Studies. Health and Safety Human Rights Community Relations Sustainable Investment Climate Change Whistle-blowing Anti-Corruption Human Rights EITI Supporting Policy Primer Policy Programme Statement Policy Policy Policy Company Environmental HSE Management Corporate Donation Carbon Disclosure UN Global Policy System (Green Book) Policy Project Compact 200120022003200420052006 Internal Corporate Documents International Initiatives 2007200820092010201120122013 6 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2012 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2012 7 Lundin Petroleum’s Lundin Petroleum’s Code of Conduct Corporate Responsibility Policies VISION Provide a safe and healthy working environment As an international oil & gas exploration and production company Realise each employee’s individual potential through training and job HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY HEALTH & SAFETY POLICY operating globally, we aim to explore for and produce oil & gas in an promotion economically, socially and environmentally responsible way, for the Respect the cultural diversity of our employees In furtherance of the commitments Lundin Petroleum AB made under its Code It is the policy of Lundin Petroleum AB to conduct all its operations in a manner, Ensure equal opportunity without discrimination on the basis of age, of Conduct and the United Nations Global Compact, as well as following the which protects people and property and which complies with all applicable benefit of all our stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (“UN Guiding legislation. Lundin recognises that prevention of accidents and ill health is business partners, host and home governments and local communities. culture, disability, gender, race, religion, etc. Principles”), the company reiterates through this Policy its commitment to essential to the efficient operation of its business. Accordingly, the control and Avoid the direct or indirect use of child or forced labour respect human rights wherever it operates. management of health and safety issues commands at least equal prominence, We apply the same standards to our activities worldwide to satisfy both Attitude towards Host Countries when balanced against operational and commercial considerations. our commercial and ethical requirements. We strive to continuously Lundin Petroleum is committed to respect internationally recognised human improve our performance and to act in accordance with good oilfield We seek to respect and gain the respect of the countries in which we rights, not to infringe on individuals’ human rights, and not to be complicit nor Lundin Petroleum’s principal health and safety objective is to provide a safe practice and high standards of corporate citizenship. operate. Good relations with host countries are prerequisites to our contribute indirectly to human rights abuses. working environment, for employees, contract personnel and members of the business. Wherever we operate we are committed to: general public who may be put at risk by the activities of the company. VALUES Observe local laws and rules Human rights are to be understood as those referred to in the Universal We are committed: Respect the sovereignty of the state Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), the International Covenant on Civil and Lundin Petroleum recognises the value of its employees and considers their well To act in a fair, honest and equitable way Observe and, through our example, promote the rule of law Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural being to be a major factor in the success of all its business activities. To observe local laws and regulations Rights and in the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) Conventions and, in Attitude towards Local Communities relation to business activities, in the Global Compact, the OECD Guidelines for To respect local customs and traditions Local communities may be affected by our operations. To ensure that Multinational Enterprises and the UN Guiding Principles. To observe applicable international laws and standards communities benefit from our presence, we are committed to: To uphold the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact on Encourage local employment While Lundin Petroleum respects all human rights, it focuses primarily on those ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption human rights that potentially may be most impacted, directly or indirectly, by Where appropriate, engage in capacity building, through the transfer of skills and technologies its activities. It is the policy of Lundin Petroleum AB, and its international exploration and RESPONSIBILITIES production affiliates, to ensure that exploration and production operations are Where appropriate, work with local communities to improve their We are responsible: As per its Code of Conduct, respecting the human rights of its employees conducted in compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations health, education and welfare means providing for a safe and sound working environment. In particular, Towards our shareholders, to realise and sustain a good return on and, as a minimum, meet company-specified environmental procedures and Respect local people and their traditions Lundin Petroleum recognises the importance of respecting the rights of local investment and a continuing growth of the assets programmes. Minimize disturbances that may be caused by our operations communities, and thus prior to any new investment, it analyses potential impacts Towards our employees, to provide a safe and rewarding working Assess the potential impact of our security arrangements on human rights. Lundin Petroleum is committed to the protection of the environment in which its environment Refrain from any implications in tribal, internal or other armed conflicts activities are conducted. Lundin also emphasises the importance of conservation Towards host countries, owners of the resources, to find and produce Lundin Petroleum expects its employees, business partners, contractors or acts of violence and the need to minimise the effects of pollution within the scope of its oil & gas professionally, efficiently and responsibly and suppliers, to respect human rights and to observe highest standards of operations. The company will co-operate with industry, government and the Towards local communities, to contribute to local development and Attitude towards the Environment professional integrity. public on programmes to protect the environment. higher living standards We strive to limit adverse impacts on the environment, thereby Towards society, to contribute to wealth generation while limiting contributing to sustainable development, and are committed to: Lundin Petroleum is also committed to promote human rights in its sphere of Lundin Petroleum will provide the necessary training for its employees to ensure possible adverse impacts on the environment Comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations and influence. that they have the knowledge and capability to conduct operations in a manner international standards that is consistent with sound environmental practices. Lundin Petroleum will also PRINCIPLES Lundin Petroleum will ensure that appropriate training is provided throughout its provide the necessary resources, advice and guidance to ensure implementation Adhere to our environmental policy and sound management practices operations and will monitor and assess compliance with this Policy. and communication of this policy, monitor and audit all aspects of its compliance We are guided by: Use appropriate products, equipment and processes Attitude towards Business and develop contingency plans for emergency situations. Cooperate with industry, government and the public on programs to This Policy will be subject to periodic review through the company’s human rights We seek to achieve high standards of performance, while being attentive protect the environment due diligence process. and sensitive to the way our business is conducted. Minimise and mitigate the effects of pollution within the scope of our We are committed to: operations Continuously seek growth opportunities Assess and monitor our environmental performance, including in ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY Promote innovation throughout our operations relation to climate change COMMUNITY RELATIONS POLICY Be flexible and take measured risks It is the policy of Lundin Petroleum AB to conduct its operations in an honest, Practice free and fair competition COMPLIANCE transparent and ethical manner, observing the highest standards of professional Uphold internationally proclaimed human rights It is the policy of Lundin Petroleum AB, while engaging in oil exploration and integrity and complying with applicable international and national legislation. This Code constitutes the commitment of the company and its production activities, to operate in a manner that is consistent with the welfare of Maintain transparency in the way we conduct operations employees to aspire to the highest standards of conduct. It is an integral neighbouring communities. In furtherance of the commitments it made under its Code of Conduct and Honor our commitments part of employment contracts. the United Nations Global Compact, Lundin Petroleum prohibits all forms of Use appropriate and adequate means to protect our staff and Lundin Petroleum seeks to contribute to enhancing the living standards and well Any violation of this Code by anyone within our company will be the corruption, in whatever form it may take, direct as well as indirect, active as well operations being of the people in the areas it operates, by hiring local staff and participating as passive, wherever it has activities. Corruption may include, among others, Refrain from accepting/offering improper payments, gifts or engaging subject of an inquiry and appropriate remedial measures. in local projects. Depending on the needs and circumstances prevailing in the abuse of function, breach of trust, bribery, embezzlement, extortion, facilitation in bribery or any form of corrupt business practices We will promote compliance under this Code throughout our operations, area, Lundin Petroleum will contribute to community development projects payments, fraud, kickbacks, trading in influence, etc. Seek similar standards from our partners and contractors aimed to improve the level of health, education and welfare services. by way of training, reporting or other appropriate actions. Lundin Petroleum’s Guidelines on Anti-Corruption provide guidance on the Attitude towards Employees We will assess performance under this Code on a yearly basis. These activities are carried out in consultation with representatives of the local communication and implementation of this Policy. Lundin Petroleum will ensure Our performance as a corporate entity is dependent upon the community and other stakeholders. that appropriate training is provided throughout its operations; it will monitor performance of our employees as individuals. We therefore aim to The Code of Conduct was revised and approved by the Board of and assess compliance with this Policy. achieve maximum employee satisfaction and ultimate standards of Directors on May 5, 2011. performance. To that end we are committed to: Respect and promote employees’ rights, including freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining Offer rewarding working conditions 8 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2012 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2012 9 EXTRACTIVE INDUSTRIES TRANSPARENCY INITIATIVE LUNDIN PETROLEUM’S COMMITMENT TO LIMIT SUPPORTING COMPANY POTENTIAL IMPACTS ON THE ENVIRONMENT Lundin Petroleum’s Statement of Support to the EITI Lundin Petroleum’s Statement on Climate Change Lundin Petroleum’s Board of Directors has re-affirmed the Company’s engagement towards Lundin Petroleum is committed to explore for and produce oil and gas in an economically, transparency by becoming an Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) Supporting socially and environmentally responsible way. The Company’s mission is to meet the ever Company. increasing demand for energy; it is committed to fulfill this mission by taking into consideration the potential impact of its activities on people and the environment. Lundin Petroleum’s commitment to anti-corruption and transparency, expressed in the Company’s Code of Conduct, dates back to the Company’s creation in 2001. Through its In the context of climate change, the Company assesses its activities from an environmental membership in the United Nations Global Compact in 2010, the Company reinforced its impact perspective on a regular basis and develops mechanisms to increase its energy efficiency commitment to promote anti-corruption, and in 2011 Lundin Petroleum adopted an Antiand/or to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Corruption Policy and Guidelines to assist its staff worldwide to act in conformity with the Company’s commitment. Lundin Petroleum’s approach, when carrying out its operations, is to use the most economically and environmentally efficient means. It adheres to the BAT (Best Available Technique) principle Lundin Petroleum has communicated its support for the EITI objectives in different forums and in order to minimize emissions, such as heat recovery, variable speed drives on large pumps and reported in accordance with the EITI requirements in Norway, currently the only EITI Compliant compressors, closed flare, low NOX turbines, etc. In addition, the Company participates in the Country within the Company’s countries of operations. It will continue to cooperate with EITI Emissions Trading Scheme in countries where the system is in place, such as Norway. compliant and candidate countries to promote transparency, as it believes that the transparent accounting of revenues contributes to good governance and the well-being of communities Lundin Petroleum considers that only concerted action, not only on the part of energy in resource rich countries. As an EITI Supporting Company, Lundin Petroleum will promote producers, but on the part of consumers as well, will be able to achieve a notable change in transparency especially within the oil and gas industry and contribute on the international level current emission patterns. to the fight against corruption. » Lundin Petroleum’s Statement of Support to the EITI is available on: http://eiti.org/supporters/companies/lundin-petroleum-ab or http://www.lundin-petroleum.com/eng/corporate_responsibility.php 10 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2012 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2012 11 HSE MANAGEMENT The purpose of an HSE management system (the Green Book) is to have systems and procedures in place to prevent accidents HSE EXCELLENCE – DECOMMISSIONING IN TUNISIA or incidents with an impact on people, “ environment and assets. Since the Company The Oudna field, offshore Tunisia, had produced most of its recoverable reserves was created, there have not been any when in March 2012 exceptionally bad weather caused damage to one of the risers, HAVING A STRONG SAFETY CULTURE MEANS THAT work-related fatalities in its operations. In beyond economic repair. Field decommissioning was declared in June 2012. As PEOPLE WORK SAFELY NOT JUST BECAUSE THEY 2012, Lundin Petroleum’s Key Performance operator, Lundin Tunisia promptly mobilised the required resources and commenced Indicators (KPIs) are all better than in 2011 the decommissioning of the Ikdam Floating Production, Storage and Offloading Unit ARE BEING TOLD TO BUT BECAUSE THEY SEE THE (see table on page 13), except for the (FPSO) in July. number of Lost Time Incidents and Incident VALUE TO THEMSELVES, OUR COMPANY AND OUR Rate among contractors. Incidents reported The scope of work included dismantling of the mooring system components. A total STAKEHOLDERS IN DOING SO. were of low severity with no lasting impact “ of 170 tons of steel components with up to seven tons loads were dismantled subsea on people or the environment. by divers and recovered to the surface with a dynamic positioned vessel. The chafe MIKE NICHOLSON, chain, the main part of the mooring system under more than 500 tons tension, WE ARE PROUD TO REPORT The Company uses KPIs as the basis of its General Manager South East Asia pro-active HSE management approach, was safely released from the FPSO bow and passed on to a support vessel which THAT THE DECOMMISSIONING focussing on areas where incidents have was positioned only a few metres from the FPSO. Concurrently, tank cleaning was occurred. In 2012 the emphasis was placed conducted to prepare for gas free certification. OF THE FPSO WAS COMPLETED on contractor evaluations and management EFFICIENTLY AND INCIDENT FREE through onsite reviews, as well as sharing These operations involved over 15 contractors including five support vessels from experiences and lessons learned within the various nationalities and backgrounds. Over 150 persons were involved in the FPSO CHERIF BEN KHELIFA, Group on an ongoing basis and through decommissioning operations for a highly active 70 day-period. bi-monthly HSE teleconferences. General Manager, Tunisia Lundin Petroleum also reinforced its management of risk to continue to prevent accidents. HSE INDICATOR DATA 2012 2011 2010 2009 5 Employees 909,196 1,036,831 731,793 905,166 HSE EXCELLENCE – 4 YEARS WITH NO Exposure Hours HSE FRAMEWORK Contractors 1,561,482 2,354,452 2,336,409 3,454,980 RECORDABLE INCIDENTS HSE GOALS Employees 0 0 0 0 Fatalities » Zero fatalities Contractors 0 0 0 0 The crew and the management of the West Courageous » Zero incidents Employees 2 3 2 2 jack-up rig used by Lundin Malaysia in Block PM308A » Zero harm to the environment Lost Time Incidents 1 Leadership and commitment, responsibilities, local Contractors 5 3 2 1 achieved its fourth year with no recordable injuries. management, planning and implementation, Employees 0 0 0 1 contractor management, communication and Restricted Work Incidents 2 HSE Management System Contractors 0 3 7 0 Senior management from Lundin Malaysia went offshore training, risk assessments, emergency response, audits, monitoring and evaluation (Green Book) Employees 1 1 0 2 to recognise the outstanding efforts by the crew each Medical Treatment Incidents 3 Contractors 0 4 17 7 and every day and to emphasise the importance of the Policies and Guidelines Employees 0.44 0.58 0.55 0.44 human factor as a key element in this success story. Lost Time Incident Rate 4 Contractors 0.64 0.25 0.17 0.06 Major Risks, Oil Spill Preparedness, Emergency Response, Monthly Key Performance Indicators, Total Recordable Incident Employees 0.66 0.77 0.55 1.10 Corporate Requirements Climate Disclosure Rate 4 Contractors 0.64 0.85 2.23 0.46 1 Lost Time Incident (LTI) is an incident which results in a No. 2 7 1 1 Oil Spills person having at least one day away from work. CORPORATE HSE PLAN COUNTRY HSE PLANS Vol. (m3) 4.18 33 10 40 2 Restricted Work Incident (RWI) is an incident which results No. 1 2 1 2 Chemical Spills in keeping a person from performing one or more routine Vol. (m3) 1.75 3.50 7.70 129.78 functions. Country Monitoring Reporting on and Supervision Corporate Requirements No. 0 0 0 1 3 Medical Treatment Incident (MTI) is a work related injury or Hydrocarbon Leaks Mass (kg) 0 0 0 4 illness that does not result in a job restriction or days away Near Misses with High from work. Country Yearly Reviews Self-assessment against No. 5 3 3 24 4 Lost Time Incident Rate and Total Recordable Incident Rate Potential and Audits HSE Management System are calculated on the basis of 200,000 hours. Non-compliance with Permits/ No. 0 0 6 19 5 Includes United Kingdom. Consents Bi-monthly HSE Teleconferences to review and Group HSE Network Meeting analyse incidents, trends in the industry, share best practice, lessons learned, etc. 12 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2012 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2012 13 A SUSTAINABLE Mapping of the Ecosystem in the Barents Sea Seabed mapping in the Barents Sea consists of visual, sediment The results of Lundin Norway’s mapping work have been and species sampling, as well as geophysical methods, within widely shared through academic articles, presentations at APPROACH and adjacent to its licence areas, with the purpose of: seminars and international conferences, as well as through the Norwegian Government Marine Research Programme » Increasing environmental knowledge and understanding of (Mareano). “ ecosystems » Increasing knowledge of pre-existing geohazards like gas Based on the positive experience in the Barents Sea, Lundin LUNDIN NORWAY’S SUSTAINABILITY hydrates and seabed gas leakage Norway plans to expand detailed seabed mapping to other core areas on the Norwegian Continental Shelf such as the APPROACH IS KEY TO ITS STRATEGIC North Sea. GROWTH AND SUCCESS ERIK SVERRE JENSSEN, ECOSYSTEM MAPPING IN THE BARENTS SEA Chief Operating Officer, Norway LUNDIN PETROLEUM’S SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH IN NORWAY Ship wrecks and disposal sights Deep water reefs Lundin Norway is committed to carry out its activities in a responsible way, in adherence with the Company’s Code of Conduct, ENVIRONMENTAL REQUIREMENTS Natural oil seep HSE Policies and Management System, as well as in conformity Natural gas seep with applicable Norwegian legislation including the Framework Applying for Pock mark Regulations, the Petroleum Act, the Pollution Control Act, the consent to Gas hydrate Plough mark conduct certain Seabed trawling Working Environment Act and the Health Act. petroleum activities tracks (AfC) Reporting on NOx Applying for Shallow gas The Company’s HSE Policy states that “Lundin Norway shall perform – tax metering use of all operations in line with the principle of sustainable growth. Company and CO2 emissions dispersant Natural oil migration allowances along fault profit, the society in which we operate and communicate with, and the Natural gas migration environment, are interdependent factors.” along fault DRILLING/PRODUCTION Oil reservoir ENVIRONMENTAL Reporting type and quantity Discharge permit REQUIREMENTS of dispersant used in Gas reservoir application emergencies In the exploration phase, as part of its sustainability strategy, Lundin Norway gathers environmental data and conducts comprehensive analysis of ecosystems beyond Annual what is required by the authorities. It acquires a full Action plan reporting of for combatting operational discharges understanding of the natural environment in its licence acute pollution to sea, emissions to areas before it commences any field activity whether air and waste seismic, exploration or appraisal drilling, field development, and eventually production. Once the environmental data LUNDIN NORWAY IS INVOLVED IN A NUMBER OF R&D PROJECTS IN ORDER TO ENSURE THE SUSTAINABILITY OF ITS OPERATIONS has been duly collected and analysed, Lundin Norway shares its findings with partners, authorities and the public. The Best Available Technique principle is adhered to and energy » Introduction of cutting edge technology and methods useful for the oil industry efficiency is optimised, through heat recovery from exhaust gas and » Sponsorship of a CO2 storage project at Spitsbergen For all field development projects such as Edvard Grieg, variable speed drive on large pumps and compressors. » Sponsorship of five PhD and one MSc students from Norway, Sweden and Germany to support the seabed mapping project the facilities’ design ensures that emissions to air and » Participation through the Norwegian Oil and Gas Association in a project looking at improved methods for cleaning oil based drill cuttings discharges to sea are minimised through closed flaring, low Lundin Norway does not commence seismic acquisition, drilling, » Contribution as member of the Norwegian Clean Seas Association for Operating Companies (NOFO) of approximately NOK 3 million (USD 500,000) between 2010 NOx turbines, the possibility to receive electricity from the field development or production unless it has ascertained that it is and 2012 to research and development (R&D) on means to improve oil spill clean-up shore, heat recovery, re-injection of produced water in the environmentally sound. reservoir, amongst others. 14 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2012 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2012 15 SUSTAINABLE NORWAY » Scholarships for 6 students participating in the seabed mapping initiative RUSSIA INVESTMENTS » Artificial breeding of sturgeons in the Volga Delta area, Society for Nature Conservation NORWAY » Nesting of Siberian cranes, Oksky and Astrakhan » Seabed mapping reserves, Society for Nature Conservation » CO2 storage “ For more information see pages 14–15 THROUGH OUR SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT PROGRAMME FRANCE SWITZERLAND » WE SEEK TO HAVE A POSITIVE » Matching program volunteer work » Staff in Geneva participated in a For more information on Lundin Lundin France HR Manager volunteered national initiative promoting IMPACT IN OUR AREAS OF for a two month period at the Population commuting by bicycle, Bike to Work Petroleum’s sustainable investment Caring Organization in Ghana programme visit the Responsibility OPERATIONS pages on www.lundin-petroleum.com TUNISIA CHRISTINE BATRUCH » Contribution to running costs of House 1, TUNISIA Gammarth Village, SOS Children Village Vice President Corporate Responsibility » Lundin Petroleum supported the MALAYSIA MALAYSIA restoration of the Belvédère Park, » Scholarship for an internship in » Matching Programme Race for a Purpose, the biggest inner city park in Tunis, the Lundin Malaysia engineering Lundin Malaysia employees raised funds Association des Amis du Belvédère INDONESIA In 2006, Lundin Petroleum established a Sustainable department for Mercy Malaysia Investment Programme to promote social, economic, » Contribution to running costs of Cibubur and environmental projects and organisations as well as Village, Jakarta, SOS Children Village citizenship among its staff. Since then, the Company has » Construction of a music room, Cibubur funded a significant number of projects, primarily in its ZANZIBAR Village, Jakarta, SOS Children Village areas of operations. » Funding of 2 rural solar workshops serving 200 households and nearly 1,000 people, In 2012, Lundin Petroleum continued to fund some Barefoot College Solar Initiative of its long standing projects, such as SOS Children INDONESIA INDONESIA Villages, while it initiated new ones focussing on the » Scholarships for two petroleum engineering students, » Donation of 2,500 mahogany trees planted Bandung Institute of Technology in school grounds to emphasise the preservation of the environment. The main projects CAPACITY BUILDING » Sponsorship of a competition for “the best environmental importance of environmental protection, supported by Lundin Petroleum and its affiliates in 2012 initiative in the E&P sector” for petroleum engineering Go Green can be seen on the adjacent map. SOCIAL WELFARE and environmental science students, Bandung Institute Lundin Petroleum intends to pursue sustainable ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION of Technology investments and community development projects associated to its operations. However, as the Company’s operations grow, so does the need to engage in larger scale and more sustainable projects whose impact can be measured over time. This will better fulfil the attributed to Lundin Petroleum’s thematic focus, namely energy, commitment the Company made under the United environment, good governance and sustainability, primarily in its Nations Global Compact to further the Millennium countries of operation. The remaining funds will go to the Lundin Development Goals. Lundin Petroleum has therefore Foundation’s other projects. The Lundin Foundation has adopted The Lundin Foundation decided to seek the support of an organisation with the Impact Reporting & Investment Standards, which provide a The Lundin Foundation is a philanthropic organisation founded annual revenue, hired over 1,800 employees, paid over USD 8.7 a strong track record in philanthropy and social standardised set of metrics and definitions that permit comparison by the Lundin family. The Lundin Foundation is currently million in wages, transacted over USD 22.8 million in business investments. on social and economic performance, to measure its impact on the supported by a number of publicly traded natural resource with over 55,000 rural farmers and microenterprises, and projects it supports. companies committed to the highest standards of corporate enabled over 375,000 rural customers gain access to improved Partnership with the Lundin Foundation social responsibility. The Lundin Foundation provides early agricultural products and equipment, financial services and In 2013 Lundin Petroleum entered into a partnership To ensure that the projects are aligned with Lundin Petroleum’s stage capital, technical assistance, and strategic grants to off-grid energy. All proceeds realised from impact investments agreement with the Lundin Foundation in order Community Relations Policy and Sustainable Investment Programme outstanding social enterprises and organisations across the are reinvested in charitable purposes. The Lundin Foundation to increase the scale and impact of the Company’s a Management Committee will be formed by respectively two globe, with a view to contributing to sustained improvements additionally provides strategic grants to support education and sustainable investment projects and benefit from representatives of Lundin Petroleum and the Lundin Foundation. in social and economic development. The Lundin Foundation health initiatives needed to create the enabling conditions for the Lundin Foundation’s expertise and network of Furthermore, Lundin Petroleum will have a representative on Lundin works collaboratively with a number of leading private, bilateral social enterprises to flourish. implementing organisations. Lundin Petroleum has Foundation’s board of directors. and multilateral organisations both to leverage impacts and committed to annually contribute 0.1 percent of ensure alignment with host communities and governments. For more information about the Lundin Foundation and its its previous year’s operating income to the Lundin Lundin Petroleum will report on an annual basis on the Lundin To date, Lundin Foundation’s investments have supported 35 projects see www.lundinfoundation.org. Foundation. At least 70 percent of the funds will be Foundation’s projects, progress and their impact. enterprises, which in turn have generated USD 42 million in 16 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2012 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2012 17 Social Responsibility Belvédère Park Project in Tunis, one of the projects supported by Lundin Petroleum since 2011 Lundin Petroleum is committed through its Code of Conduct and its Community Relations Policy to enhance living standards and well-being of people in the areas it operates. In Tunisia, Lundin Petroleum participates in a social project with a local NGO, Association des Amis du Belvédère. The project contributes to the preservation of nature and community development. The NGO “Association des Amis du Belvédère” AAB (Association of the friends of Belvédère), was founded in 1989 in order to save the ecological equilibrium of the Belvédère park and to promote social activities related to the park and the neighbouring inhabitants. The Belvédère is an urban park of 110 hectares situated in the heart of Tunis; it is the main green space of the city. Ian Lundin, Chairman, Christine Batruch, VP Corporate Responsibility and AAB staff (April 2012) The project Lundin Petroleum supports began in November 2011 with a social-cultural inquiry; it aims to develop the west side of the Belvédère park, adjacent to Jbel Lahmar neighbourhood, a particularly poor inner-city area of Tunis. AAB targets three objectives: 1 Improve quality of life in the neighbourhood of Jbel Lahmar 2 Change residents’ behaviour towards the environment AAB activities for the youth to increase their environmental awareness 3 Promote community life, social cohesion, and collective action by involving residents in the decision making process Stairs at the entrance of the park, built in 2012, with Lundin Petroleum’s donation 18 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2012 www.lundin-petroleum.com April 2013
