October 6 University UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) May 2013 1 October 6 University Mr. Georg Kell Executive Director UN Global Compact 27/5/2013 Dear Mr. Kell , AS the second year is drawing close since October 6 University (O6U) has become a member of the United Nations Global Compact, it gives me great pleasure in communicating on progress (COP). I take this opportunity to reaffirm O6U continued support for the ten principles of the Global Compact in the central areas of human rights, labour standards, environment and anticorruption considering the great internal and external benefits of engagement with these principles. O6U associates itself with the view that reporting on sustainability has a great value in articulating sustainability strategy and implementation plan, supports knowledge sharing and learning, promoting credibility and helps drive brand value in addition to providing useful information on environmental, social and governance performance to decision makers. To ensure the full realization of the value and benefits of COP, O6U will make this public communication available to different stakeholders: government, media, investors, civil society, organized labour, employees and consumers based on the concept of public accountability, transparency and continuous improvement. The attached COP attempts report to demonstrate O6U resolve to actively participate in the Global Compact and outline the related actions to incorporate its principles into business strategy, operations and culture. Hope this communication fits well in our common endeavours to enhance sustainability. 2 October 6 University Contents ‫ـــــــ‬ Subject Page  Communication ON Progress Submitted by October 6 University, Egypt, May 2013……………………………... 4 Human Rights:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 4 Annex No. (1) leaflet of the last International Cultural Festival……………………………………………………………………………. 5 Annex No. (2) Middle East Studies Centre in Thailand……………………………………………………………………………………………. 5 International Students Department (ISD):……………………………………………………………………………………………….. 5 International Cooperation: …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 5 Cultural Interactions at the Domestic Level: …………………………………………………………………………………………………… 7 Annex No. (3) Activated Agreements with other Educational Institutions both at the Domestic and International 7 Levels…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. Labour Standards:……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 8 Annex No. (4) leaflet on Career Day……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 8 Annexes No. (5,6,7,8,9,10) Distribution according to gender…………………………………………………………………………………. 8 Annex No. (11) Social and Medical Insurance of O6U employees………………………………………………………………………….. 9 Environment:……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 11 Annex No. (12) O6U took part in the Rio+20 Corporate Sustainability Forum 2012……………………………………………..... 11 Annex No. (13) the talking points deliberated during the Forum……………………………………………………………………………. 11 Annex No. (14) League of Business Administration (LBA)……………………………………………………………………………………….. 11 Annex No. (15) O6U joined the “Egyptian Junior Business Association (EJB) …………………………………………………………. 11 Combating Corruption………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 12  October 6 University Community Engagement…………………………………………………………………………………….. 13 1. Social Solidarity Program (SSP)………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 13 2. Examples of the Program Contribution………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 13 3. Scholarships……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 14 4. Dispatching Free Medical Convoys…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 14 5. Directing Students Technical Study Projects…………………………………………………………………………………………………… 15 6. The Central Library of October 6 University (dubbed as Sixth of October University Library = (SOUL) 15 Annex No. (16) full account of SSP………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 7. Community Service Department (CSD) …………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 15  Some Import Service Community and Environment Activities……………………………………………………………. 16 Annex No. (17) The Community Engagement Circles…………………………………………………………………………………………….. 16 Annex No. (18) some important events and activities in community service 2012/2013………………………………………. 16 Annex No. (19) AIESEC…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 16 Annex No. (20) ENACTUS………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 16 Annex No. (21) O6U Students Medical Association……………………………………………………………………………………………….. 16 Annex No. (22) Egyptian Pharmaceutical Students Federation, O6U…………………………………………………………………….. 16 Annex No. (23) O6U efforts to raise awareness on critical environmental issues………………………………………………….. 16 Glance at October 6 University O6U………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 17 Photo Gallery…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 19 3 Communication on Progress Submitted by October 6 University Egypt May 2013 ‫ــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــ‬ This COP attempts to exhibit October 6 University’s resolve to pursue the implementation of the UN Global Compact principles in the fields of human rights, labour, environment and fighting corruption and incorporating these principles into O6U strategy and practices. Human Rights: 1) O6U strongly recognizes that the inherent dignity and the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family are the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world. O6U ensures that rights are exercised without discrimination of any kind and ensures the equal right of men and women to the enjoyment of rights and fundamental freedoms. 2) Human rights are an integral part of O6U strategy and policies. O6U provides the resources needed for a safe, healthy and favorable labour conditions. Personnel members can report directly or through complaints and grievances boxes scattered on campus. These procedures help identify and manage risk. 3) Valuing the vital relevance of human rights and its critical role in improving performance and enhancing credibility, O6U introduced human rights course in addition to many awareness seminars and conferences all the year round. Example of these activities are the series of lectures delivered lately by some constitutional and administrative law judges and lawyers on raising awareness on legal rights and duties. 4 It is worth mentioning here the organization of the Annual Cultural Festival which provides the opportunity to Egyptian and International students to interact together and helps foster the spirit of mutual respect and understanding and the sense of togetherness thus empowering students to exercise their cultural rights and learn to respect and appreciate others cultures (leaflet of the last International Cultural Festival – Annex No. (1)). International Students Department (ISD): The ISD cares for international students throughout their university life. ISD is dedicated to provide guidance and service to ensure smooth landing and settlement. The ISD is also the student vehicle of communication with the university administration and governance. It is through ISD that vast opportunities are offered for international students to interact with Egyptian students and community at large to ensure easy, positive relationships and integration thus enhancing the feeling at home tradition. 4) Along the same lines O6U pursues the development and dialogue with different cultures through: 1) The establishment of Middle East Studies and teaching Arabic Language centres in some countries (O6U established one at CMRU University in Thailand – Annex No. (2), other centers planned in the pipeline in other countries). 2) Recognizing the benefits to be derived from the encouragement of international contacts and cooperation in the scientific and cultural fields. International Cooperation: Cognizant of the central role of culture in international relations as it is widely perceived as the most instrumental vehicle of communication and mutual understanding among peoples and states, October 6 University attaches the utmost importance to International Cooperation and Cultural Affairs through undertaking a vast array of cultural activities and interactions all the year round. 5 This area is undertaken by the Office of International Strategies and Cultural Relations (OISCR) which is mainly responsible for:  Providing students with training programs abroad during the academic year and summer in collaboration with foreign universities with a view to promote and enhance learning (e.g. summer courses conducted with Limouge University in France , University of Krakow(KSW) – Poland, Winona State University-Minnesota-USA and Savannah State University – Georgia-USA ).These programs enable students and faculty to gain a different perspective, add on their academic and see a different world.  Encouraging students participation in international competitions in different areas that help enhance creativity, initiation and positive competing (e.g. Robocon Competition on Engineering Inventions).  Encouraging students participation in activities conducted by international organizations such as the Arabic Council for Arab League Students Training, (Association of Arab Universities, Association of African Universities, Arab Universities Student Union, United Nations Commission for Refugees).  Providing the students with the opportunity to take part in some international conferences such as the participation of O6U students in the Arab League Review Conference held in Kuwait in collaboration with the Arab League.  OICR is also dedicated to developing a coherent strategy to promote the university at the international level, promoting its global prolife international competitiveness and raising the prolife of international awareness of O6U. 6  Seeking to activate and implement the signed scientific and academic agreements and MOUs between O6U and other foreign universities and at the same time explores the possibilities of reaching new agreements. Special stress is laid on the students and teaching faculty exchanges, scholarships, and participation in symposia, seminars and conferences. Reviewing and maintaining administrative oversight over agreements signed is a key responsibility of OISCR. Most of opportunities and activities are underpinned by formal agreements. Coordinating and preparing for participation in international projects like Tempus project supported by the European Union. Cultural Interactions at the Domestic Level Another main feature in this respect is taking part in competitions and cultural activities organized by other universities in order to foster ties of cooperation and exchange experience. These interactions are further enhanced through the different agreements reached with other domestic universities such as Cairo University, Alexandria University and Helwan University (e.g. joint festival of the Faculty of Fine Arts of O6U and its counterpart of Helwan University and the participation of O6U students in the competition organized by the American University in Cairo AUC) Annex No. (3) showing activated agreements with other educational institutions both at the domestic and international levels.. 5) O6U pursues policies aiming at helping the disadvantaged students through the university social solidarity programme by providing scholarships to a large number of students both Egyptian and International. 7 Labour Standards:  O6U pursues policies based on strategic objectives: employment, social protection, social dialogue and rights at work. These policies stress a holistic and integrated approach by recognizing that these objectives are inseparable, interrelated and mutually supportive. O6U strongly supports productive employment and decent work for all. One example to illustrate O6U resolve in this respect is the organization of Annual Career Day which aims at providing jobs, training and income opportunities for students and graduates (leaflet on Career Day Annex No. (4) ). To achieve the full realization of the rights to work O6U provides/ensures:  Principles of accountability and transparency are in force and implemented in university practices and transactions.  Technical and vocational guidance and training programs. O6U provides training opportunities in computer sciences and information technology, industrial security, safety, professional and vocational health, foreign languages, law awareness, human rights, public relations and protocol. Access to skills development programs and training are provided on the basis of qualifications.  The enjoyment of just and favorable work conditions (fair wages and equal remuneration for work of equal value.  Treatment of all personnel is based on the principle of nondiscrimination of any kind (Annexes No. (5,6,7,8,9,10) show distribution according to gender).  Equal opportunity for everyone to be promoted to an appropriate higher level (subject only to seniority and competence).  Personnel recruitment, placement, training and staff development in respect of employment and occupation is based on qualifications, skills and experience. 8  Cultural Committee: The Committee consists of students from O6U who are responsible for organizing all the events conducted by the university like The International Cultural Festival, and The Employment Fair. Members of Cultural Committee elect every year its president. It was established in 2004 by a number of students from different faculties and works under the supervision of Cultural Relations Department.  Student Union: Students exercise political participation through their “Student Union” which is formed through annual elections to elect the Union President, his deputies and heads of different committees. The Student Union works through 6 different committees:  Committee of the working teams and groups  Committee of sport activities  Committee of cultural and information activities  Committee of artistic activities  Committee of public services and scouting  Committee of social activities, trips and excursions.  AIESEC “Association internationale des étudiants en sciences”: O6U is a member in AIESEC, the largest student platform in the world, and the second biggest NGO after the United Nations Annex No. (19)  Enactus: O6U is a member in “Enactus” Organization, Formerly (SIFE). Enactus O6U member students undertake many activities serving community and environment Annex No. (20)  Alumni Association: O6U Alumni exercise their activities through their Alumni Association instituted in 2008 according to the civil society association law.  The enjoyment of rest, leisure and reasonable limitation of working hours and periodic holidays with pay including public holidays. 9  The right of employees to social security, including social and medical insurance Annex No. (11).  Special protection to mothers during a reasonable period before and after childbirth (paid leave).  Forced or compulsory labour and child labour are strictly prohibited.  O6U personnel are legally engaged and employed by clear and easy contracts showing the scope and description of the job and the procedures to freely quit job if the employee so wishes.  Confidentiality of personnel is preserved at all time 10 Environment:  Cognizant of the urgent need for collective responsibility and actions in addressing the alarming environmental challenges, two delegates from O6U took part in the Rio+20 Corporate Sustainability Forum (Rio de Jan eiro June 2012) Annex No. (12).  O6U benefited immensely from the wide deliberations and outcomes of the Forum which reinforced O6U commitment to align its strategies and operations with universal principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. This commitment is derived from the belief that corporate sustainability is an essential element is achieving sustainable development (Enclosed is the talking points deliberated during the Forum Annex No. (13).  Critical environmental issues are the core of special programs and courses provided by O6U. An example are the series of lectures delivered by the visiting Prof. David Lorant from the Hungarian University “Robert Karoly” between 21-26 April 2013 on “Green Tourism”. This is the first course of its kind in any Egyptian University.  Students of the Faculty of Economics and Management, supervised by a teaching staff member, formed the “League of Business Administration (LBA)” with a view to foster and incorporate the UN backed Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME) which O6U joined in 2012 Annex No. (14).  To complement these initiative O6U joined the “Egyptian Junior Business Association (EJB) in 2012 and actively participates in its activities, O6U chairs EJB Education Committee Annex No. (15).  O6U participated in the following events: o The workshop titled “Egypt Green Economy” in April 7, 2013 Cairo, Egypt sponsored by both UNEP and CEDARE. o The conference on “Sustainable Development in Community Service: Egypt’s Vision in 2020” sponsored by both UNDP and Cairo University (1st April 2013).  O6U organized: o An open interactive awareness lecture on Campus on April 15, 2013 titled “the Role of Higher Education in Sustainable Development”. 11 Combating Corruption A key component of O6U policies is promoting anti-corruption measures to establish systems of good governance based mainly on transparency and accountability. Awareness is constantly raised on the United Nations Convention Against Corruption and related laws and regulations currently in force at the university. It is also the policy of the university to incentivize and reward good behavior. The university is participating in the anti-corruption initiative advanced by Global Compact in collaboration with the Siemens Integrity Initiative who have selected the Egyptian Junior Business Association to be their partner in their collective action against corruption (O6U took part in the EJB sponsored conference “The Private Sector’s Role in Fighting Corruption”. O6U is a member in the EJB Anti –Corruption Committee. 12 October 6 University Community Engagement Community service activities and interactions are undertaken and carried out through an interrelated and integrated system that includes different university colleges, departments and units notably the Department of Community Service, Social Solidarity Program, the O6U Teaching Hospital and students organizations and unions. O6U seeks to operate and develop close partnership with some marginalized and impoverished communities in 6TH of October City and beyond to contribute in creating a better quality of life. The program, which is administered and managed by the Social Solidarity Program, is dedicated for O6U students and community by providing support in the areas of education, health, job opportunities and other services notably for the elderly and children with special needs. 1. Social Solidarity Program: The programme provides LE 3.000000 (*) in annual aid to cater for different social cases of marginalized people, the sick and persons of social needs. This annual aid includes monthly salaries, medical treatment and surgical operations, supporting medical units in remote areas with medical equipment such as incubators, renal dialysis, endoscopies, opening labs, classes for persons of special needs and providing prosthetic devices including artificial limbs, hearing aids and wheel chairs for various disabilities. 2. Examples of the Program Contribution:  Establishment of renal dialysis centre in both Badrasheen, Giza Governorate and El Ghar, Sharika Governorate at the cost of LE. 750.000 (12 units of renal dialysis).  Establishment of treatment centre for infants in the villages of Badrasheen, Al-Aiyat and Al-Shobak at the cost of L.E. 200.000 and donating L.E. 50.000 to Oncology Centre of the Expatriates House there.  Establishing classes for peoble of special needs equipped with visual, audio and mental devices in 10 Governorates at a cost of more than half a million Egyptian Pounds.  Providing free medical care at O6U Teaching Hospital and other hospitals for 28.000 cases at an annual cost of one million Egyptian Pounds. ________________________________________________________________ * Exchange Rate: One US Dollar = 6.9818 Egyptian Pounds (May 2013) 13  Providing free medical care at O6U Teaching Hospital to 7 orphanages in Giza Governorate.  Contributing in mitigating sufferings of the victims and the bereved emanating from disasters and accidents that afflict the country. Examples include: donating L.E. 3000 for victims families in addition to blankets and other accommodation materials (Collapse of Alexandria Factory, train disaster, Sinai Torrential Floods and Inundations).  O6U Social Solidarity Program continues its support to children of orphan houses in 6th of October City and Cairo by providing medical care in and outside O6U hospital. The program also bears education expenses in and outside O6U. laptop is presented to distinguished students of orphan houses.  The Program provides assistance to the orphan and needy brides. Assistance includes providing appliances and other marriage necessities according to their needs. O6U president witnessed the contribution and distribution event.  The program extended its support and assistance to persons of special needs through developing classes for educating persons of hard hearing to be implement through electronic programs. Two classes of the sort are established in El Gomrok Educational Directorate. Alexandria with state-of-the art technology in collaboration with Lotus Educational Institutions.  Assistance is provided by the Program to Arab brothers and students to the refugees in Egypt to alleviate their sufferings due to the dramatic situations in Iraq, Syria, Palestine and yemen. O6U Contributed through its Solidarity Program in providing winter clothes to dear children from Syria who were forced to flee atrocities there. 3. Scholarships: Total number of O6U students benefitting from scholarships in different forms is 2910 students (including 361 international students) at an estimated cost of LE. 9.391738. 4. Dispatching free Medical Convoys by O6U Teaching Hospital to the areas of the poor and the marginalized coupled with awareness campaigns organized by university colleges. 14 5. Directing students technical study projects towards community service with special stress on critical environment, energy, food safety……. Issues. 6. The Central Library of October 6 University (dubbed as Sixth of October University Library = SOUL): located on a space area of 9000 square meters outside the campus at a cost of 20 million pounds, including 160 computers, 120 thousand books, 4500 electronic periodicals, 60,000 e-books. There is also a public library, which provides children and adults with a continuing learning, particularly the intellectual and social life. Moreover, the university library plays a prominent role in developing the communities through providing potentialities for researchers from inside and outside the university to do research that supports development issues. There is a public library for children and adults opened daily for the residents of the 6th of October City; it comprises all educational and cultural books and activities. (full account of SSP contribution is enclosed for perusal Annex No. (16) ) 7. Community Service Department (CSD): CSD aims at asserting the concept of community service and volunteering work and the role of O6U in this respect in the framework of its social responsibility through:  Creating awareness among students regarding problems and challenges facing their communities and encouraging them to contribute in addressing them in important axes such as development issues, health, public service and education.  Fostering the values of partnership, citizenship, teamwork spirit.  Providing students with practical experiences and training opportunities. 15 Some Import Service Community and Environment Activities:  Conference on “Activating Political Participation of Woman”.  Conference on “the Role of Educational Institutions in Galvanizing Innovative Energy of Persons of Special Needs”  Conference on “Woman and Child: Future of Societal Development”.  Second Annual Conference on World Earth Day”.  Participation of O6U students and teaching faculty members in the Egyptian Forum on Sustainability Development.  Participation in a seminar titled “Reality of Electronic Education in Egyptian and International Universities”.  Participation in a seminar titled “Sustainable Development; option or Determinism”.  The organization of a series of training programs and workshops for members of the teaching faculty to produce electronic educational materials to serve e-learning project.  The organization of a series of training programs and workshops to train students on work skills in the field of serving and developing environment.  The organization of a series of training programs and workshops to train civil society organizations on developing and managing small enterprises.  The organization of a competition on students researches in the field of protecting environment arbitrated in environment conference.  Paying frequent visits to social care homes, schools and factories.  Community service activities are conducted through an integrated system in a holistic approach “Enclosed are the Community Engagement Circles’ Annex No. (17).  Some important events and activities in community service 2012/2013 Annex No.(18).  October 6 University joined AIESEC “Association internationale des étudiants en sciences économiques et commerciales “at the beginning of 2013, and AIESEC started its first recruitment campaign for the exchange program from 25/4/2013 till 30/4/2013 Annex No.(19).  Enactus O6U is engaged with 7 different projects in different fields like the project for paper recycling, the project for Syrians relief and the project of rehabilitation of the disabled Annex No. (20).  O6U joined Students Medical Association (SMA) on 2005 Annex No. (21).  O6U Joined Egyptian Pharmaceutical Students Federation on 2013 Annex No. (22).  O6U efforts to raise awareness on critical environmental issues Annex No. (23). 16 Glance at October 6 University (O6U) www.o6u.edu.eg  The pioneer of private university education since its establishment according to the presidential decree number 243 for the year 1996.  A member of the Association of Arab Universities since 1997.  A member of the United Nations initiative on corporate social responsibility (UN Global Compact).  Shareholders in O6U are institutions and companies, which adds a special institutional character to the university.  All the degrees awarded by the university are approved and accredited by the Supreme Council of Universities of Egypt.  The university is in a collaborative partnerships and agreements with many foreign and Egyptian academic institutions.  The number of students is estimated at approximately 12000,one third of that number are international students drawn from 47 nationalities.  The total area of the university campus is 173.527 thousand square meter (excluding the library building which covers 9000 square meter).  Educational and administrative buildings in O6U occupy (37.480) square meter representing (22%) out of the total area of the university campus whereas the rest of the area (78%) is dedicated to greenery and playgrounds.  The university campus houses four educational buildings, university hospital and girls hostel. As for the central library and boys hostel, they lie about 150 meters from the university campus.  The total capacity of the teaching halls and rooms in addition to labs, workshops and special halls can accommodate up to (20) thousand students at a time.  The university offers its services to students through the departments of cultural relations, international students, public relations, youth care, social solidarity program and transportations service. 17 O6U includes:  14 faculties that provide specializations in the fields of applied technological and social sciences.  A Center for Quality Assurance and Accreditation, aiming at spreading quality culture besides units for quality assurance and accreditation in all the faculties.  An Excellence Centre for Training and Human Development.  (189) laboratories with the total capacity of (6853) students.  An academic and therapeutic hospital with the capacity of 320 beds – equipped with up-to-date equipment. The hospital has advanced outpatient clinics offering medical services in all the different majors and subspecialties including: open heart surgery, intensive care, coronary artery care, catheter of interfering heart arteries in addition to the departments of artificial kidney and radiology. The emergency department works round the clock.  A huge library which is considered a center of cultural dissemination with different halls that display a variety of Arabic and foreign reference books. The library subscribes to more than 4500 electronic periodicals and it has 60 thousand e-book and 5 thousand books on CDs.  4 star hostel for female students with the capacity of 262 single and double rooms some of which are air conditioned.  4 star hostel for male students with the capacity of 231 single and double rooms some of which are air conditioned.  An outdoor educational museum and another indoor museum for tourism.  A fleet of buses to serve students and employees to commute between the different districts of Greater Cairo.  A shopping mall and courts for basketball, handball, football and tennis.  (124) studying halls and classrooms in addition to audio, visual and multimedia devices.  A hall for conferences and symposia that can accommodate up to 300 persons 18
