Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012-2013 UN Global Compact NKT wishes to protect the environment, safeguard human and labour rights and work against corruption About this report The objective of NKT’s sustainability reporting is to create transparency and to serve as a benchmark in terms of progress against comparable companies CONTENTS NKT became signatory to the UN Global Compact in March 2009 and this fifth CSR Report fulfils the company's obligation to provide Communication on Introduction Progress (COP) for the period 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2013. About this report 2 Foreword by the CFO 3 The business units NKT Cables and Nilfisk-Advance are also autonomous signatories to the UN Global Compact, and their obligation to provide NKT Group Communication on Progress is likewise fulfilled by this CSR Report. NKT Group in brief 4 Group strategy 5 Reporting structure Diversity 6 NKT consists of three business units with very diverse product portfolios, Group performance 7 organisations and markets. Accordingly, their sustainability focus areas Human and labour rights 8 and challenges also differ. The first part of this report therefore contains an Environment 8 overview of the NKT Group and its CSR performance while the second part Anticorruption 9 addresses progress in each of the business units separately. NKT sets the guidelines, whereas the goals are predominantly set by the business units Business units in close dialogue with NKT. To ensure commitment, all goals must be as NKT Cables 10 specific as possible and concrete actions to achieve them must be clearly Nilfisk-Advance 15 defined. Photonics Group 20 Accounting Reporting principles 25 GRI indicators 27 Contact Helle Gudiksen Communications Consultant NKT Holding A/S Email: helle.gudiksen@nkt.dk NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 Introduction 2/28 Michael Hedegaard Lyng, Group Executive Director & CFO Foreword by the CFO Since the formation of the current structure of the NKT Group in 1991 the principle aim of everything we do is to create value by exercising a long-term and active ownership in areas of business where NKT is best owner. To ensure our continued success and growth also in coming years it is fundamental that we conduct our businesses in a responsible way and always aim for sustainable solutions. We consider this a prerequisite for constant value growth of our businesses. We therefore place strong focus on employee commitment, care for the environment, and non-participation in illegal market practices. Being signatory to the UN Global Compact has formalised this work, and progress is becoming increasingly visible every year. I particularly wish to emphasise two areas where significant improvements have been made. First, the number of occupational injuries resulting in absence from work has declined by 56% over the last two years, and second, Group CO2 emission relative to output has decreased significantly since we set the first target in 2008, and we continued to see a notable reduction of 6% in 2012. These achievements should not lead us to rest on our laurels, however, and continuous efforts must be made to improve our sustainability further. That is our responsibility as an active owner of businesses with a global presence. Megatrends as strategy drivers NKT's business strategy ‘Powered by NKT’ spotlights global megatrends such as urbanisation, renewable energy, sustainability and emerging markets. We expect these trends to generate new sales and business opportunities, which we believe the NKT Group is well positioned to exploit. We also believe that as an active player in these fields we can contribute to making the world a good and better living place for coming generations. For NKT, long-term value creation in our businesses and in the international community goes hand in hand. It is the only way to ensure future development and growth, as we see it. NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 Introduction 3/28 NKT Group in brief Group facts Global presence NKT is an industrial conglomerate driven +100 countries by a global mindset and focus on growth and value creation through long-term Employees as of 30 June 2013 and active ownership of its businesses Photonics Group 204 Nilfisk-Advance NKT is headquartered Photonics Group in Denmark whilst 92% of Group revenue (2012)  5,285 NKT Cables is generated abroad and some 87% of the workforce is based in other Nilfisk-Advance 3,312 countries. The NKT Group is active in six continents through three separate NKT Cables business units: NKT Cables is a front-line supplier of power cables to the energy sector primarily in Europe and China. Focus is on supplying cables and solutions for expansion of transmission and distribution grids (electrical infrastructure), Revenue (LTM)*, market prices cables for buildings, wires for cars, as well as catenary wires for high speed mDKK railways and signal cables. NKT Cables' main focus is to be at the forefront 10,000 developing sustainable innovative products and solutions. 8,000 8,566 Nilfisk-Advance is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of professional 6,000 6,557 cleaning equipment. The products are sold worldwide and primarily focus on the 4,000 commercial cleaning market, but vacuum cleaners and high pressure washers are also supplied to the domestic market segment. Nilfisk-Advance's strategic focus 2,000 is to become Customer's Preferred Choice partly through supplying resource243 efficient products that reduce customer cleaning costs while promoting a more 0 NKT Cables Nilfisk-Advance Photonics Group sustainable cleaning profile. EBITDA (LTM)* Photonics Group manufactures technologically sophisticated products mDKK based on the unique light-conducting properties of optical fibers as well 800 as lasers for multiple purposes. The products are used in a broad range of 700 783 industry sectors in the development of totally new and innovative solutions. 600 This development is typically fuelled by the need for more efficient use of 500 global resources, smarter communications tools, increased security of food 400 and energy supplies, prevention of pollution and heightened personal safety. 300 318 200 100 7 0 Visit www.ntk.dk/uk to learn more about the NKT Group. NKT Cables Nilfisk-Advance Photonics Group * Last twelve months (1 July 2012 30 June 2013) NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 NKT Group 4/28 Group NKT Sustainability timeline strategy 2013 Diversity policy 2012 Group Code of Conduct 2010 NKT's strategy 'Powered by NKT' Whistleblower system Reporting system for non-financial data builds on key trends driving global 2009 development such as urbanisation, Signatory to UN Global Compact Ethical guidelines renewable energy and emerging 2008 markets, combined with the need to Signatory to Carbon Disclosure Project, CDP find sustainable solutions 2000 New Group environmental policy Recent decades' increased globalisation is breaking down the hitherto 1998 more regionalised distribution of economic growth, higher living standards, Group policies on competition, trading patterns, etc. This new 'world order' is leading to employee conditions, growing urbanisation, demographic changes, improved living standards environment, communications and and thus also the need to find sustainable solutions to preserve scarce other issues global resources. 1997 All NKT’s business units are strongly positioned within their markets to The environment policy provide products and solutions that are inherently environment-friendly. is supplemented by a requirement for all However, NKT can create much greater impact in terms of a more production companies sustainable future by providing products that deliver substantial savings to introduce environwhen deployed in solutions and by end users. mental management with special focus on utilisation of resources, This opens up an opportunity as the above-mentioned trends will necessitate materials and working investments in: environment • Efficient and flexible electricity supply (e.g. high and medium voltage 1996 cables and optic-fiber sensors) Support reaffirmed • Sustainable energy production (e.g. submarine cables for offshore wind for the Int. Chamber farms) of Commerce's • Expansion of transport infrastructure (e.g. catenary wire for high speed Environmental Charter railways and optic-fiber fire sensors for tunnels) 1995 • Deepwater oil recovery (e.g. optical sensors for seismic surveys) Some Group • Improved recovery from existing oil and gas reservoirs (e.g. optical sensors) companies introduce Environmental • Development in new growth markets with improved pay and prosperity Account Statements levels, and increased environmental focus (e.g. automation of cleaning processes and related need for cleaning equipment). 1993 Accession to the DeGroup environment claration of Sustainable policy Development Visit www.nkt.dk/uk to: issued by the Int. • Read more about NKT's strategy Chamber of Commerce • See the video about NKT and urbanisation NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 NKT Group 5/28 Diversity In NKT diversity is primarily a matter of ensuring the right and best competences combined with social and cultural skills in order to reach business strategy and goals NKT perceives diversity as an important asset and is firmly The prerequisite for achieving this target is that the list of committed to providing equal opportunities to all our candidates prior to nomination for first-time election always employees. Therefore we do not tolerate discrimination or includes persons of both sexes. harassment of any kind. 2. Set up an action plan to promote equal conditions for For several years NKT has been collecting data and monitoring both sexes to attain a senior position the development in diversity, including gender distribution, in NKT will: the senior levels of management in the entire Group. Data shows • Demand of recruitment firms and headhunters that both that women are under-represented both in the management sexes shall be represented in the field of candidates for and in the staff functions in general. The reason is partly historical senior positions. and may be ascribed to the sectors in which NKT operates and • Annually monitor the development in diversity, where there is a marked preponderance of men. including gender distribution, in the most senior levels of management. NKT will continue to focus on offering both sexes equal • Increase focus on career plans at annual staff development conditions for achieving a position at all management levels and interviews with persons having management potential. has in 2013: 1. Defined target figure for AGM-elected Board members It is the objective that both sexes shall be presented as AGMVisit www.ntk.dk/uk to learn more about diversity in NKT. elected Board members. The target for the under-represented sex is 17%, corresponding to one AGM-elected member. Gender diversity in senior management 2013 Senior Age profile Gender No. of nationalities Man. Total <40 40-54 >54 Women Men (The predominant nationality in %) NKT Board of Directors* 6 0 4 2 1 5 2 (Danish 83%) NKT Management 6 3 2 1 1 5 1 (Danish 100%) NKT Cables 70 14 45 11 5 65 11 (German 50%) Nilfisk-Advance 72 12 47 13 2 70 31 (Danish 36%) Photonics Group 14 0 9 5 0 14 3 (Danish 43%) Total 168 29 107 32 9 159 * Elected at the AGM NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 6/28 Group performance In 2012-13 NKT introduced a Group Code of Conduct, realised another significant reduction in number of occupational injuries, and increased supplier acceptance of the UN Global Compact In 2009 NKT published an Ethical Statement outlining the scenarios are divided into three main categories: Employees, Group’s position on a number of issues based on the UN’s External Relationships, and Environment & Society. Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ILO (International Labour All business partners representing NKT are also expected to Organisation) Principles of Rights at Work, and the ten UN Global know, comply with and respect the NKT Code of Conduct. Compact principles. The Code of Conduct applies everywhere NKT companies do In the present reporting period NKT added a Group Code business subject to local laws and regulations. However, each of Conduct providing guidance on appropriate conduct for NKT business unit may formulate further details or add additional everyone at NKT employees, management and Board of guidelines if necessary. Directors in a number of ethically challenging scenarios. These Visit www.ntk.dk/uk to learn more about NKT's Ethics Statement and Code of Conduct . Key sustainability figures 2012-2013 2011-2012 2010-2011 NKT NilfiskPhotonics NKT NilfiskPhotonics NKT NilfiskPhotonics As of 30.06.2013 Cables Advance Group Cables Advance Group Cables Advance Group Revenue LTM, standard metal prices (mDKK) 5,588 6,557 243 5,436 6,433 228 5,782 6,000 191 Number of employees 3,312 5,285 204 3,367 5,329 189 3,609 5,378 181 Occupational injuries with absence from work 47 71 0 98 93 0 139 130 0 Suppliers* accepting the UN Global Compact (%) 84 50 63 86 44 43 80 36 37 CO2 Scope 1+2 (tonnes CO2) 78,012 26,213 700 82,409 29,043 864 94,141 29,294 645 Emission relative to revenue (tonne CO2 13.96 4.00 2.88 15.16 4.51 3.79 16.28 4.88 3.38 per DKK million, standard metal prices) Emission relative to employees (tonne CO2 per 23.55 4.96 3.43 24.48 5.45 4.57 26.09 5.45 3.56 employee) Material utilisation efficiency (%) 95.8 95.8 95.6 Water (m )3 111,116 166,934 N/A 144,375 199,330 N/A 188,305 190,853 N/A Development projects with environment 71 71 60 improvements (%) N/A: Not available * Annual purchase value above 50,000 EUR NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 NKT Group 7/28 HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS Increasing supplier acceptance of UN Global Compact In the previous reporting period and particularly in the present, NKT has a global presence and its licence to operate is based Nilfisk-Advance has noted significant progress in obtaining on compliance with local laws and regulations. Furthermore, UN Global Compact acceptance by US-based suppliers, and NKT is a strong advocate for respect for international rights, also acceptance by this segment now exceeds 80%. Suppliers in parts in areas of the world where these rights may not necessarily of Asia remain hesitant, so Nilfisk-Advance continues to push this be prioritised. Compliance is integrated in NKT’s due diligence agenda when negotiating new contracts and expects to reach a procedures when acquiring companies as well as in numerous target of 80% compliance by 2015. policies. The continuous focus on this issue is based on an initiative Significant reduction of occupational injuries taken by NKT when the Group became signatory to the UN All NKT business units attach great importance to having a safe Global Compact in 2009. At the same time NKT introduced the and healthy working environment, and efforts focused on specific requirement that suppliers representing an annual purchase injuries are bearing fruit; the Group has registered a 38% decrease value above 50,000 EUR should also comply with the ten in occupational injuries in the present reporting period and an principles. The target was to obtain acceptance from 80% of the impressive 56% reduction over the last two reporting periods. suppliers concerned. Progress since the launch is illustrated in the table below. Occupational injuries causing work absence Suppliers* accepting the UN Global Compact No. % 150 -29% 100 % -28% Oper.EBITDA Oper. EBITDA% 2012/2013 mDKKLTM, std. 80 86 84 120 80 Oper. EBITDA% LTM 2011/2012 Target -52% -29% 2010/2011 90 60 63 60 40 44 50 36 37 43 30 20 139 98 47 130 93 71 0 0 NKT Cables Nilfisk-Advance NKT Cables Nilfisk-Advance Photonics Group 2010-2011 2011-2012 2012-2013 2010-2011 2011-2012 2012-2013 No injuries have occurred in Photonics Group for the past three years * Annual purchase value above 50,000 EUR The table above shows the development in occupational injuries A reason for the fluctuating results is that the business units in NKT’s businesses over the last three reporting periods. Part differ considerably in terms of supplier base. Whereas NKT of the significant improvement is due to the introduction by Cables has a small number of large suppliers and procurement NKT Cables in 2011 of a new Health & Safety Policy, and the is concentrated in Europe, Nilfisk-Advance has many small, local renewed focus on this issue has led to not only fewer injuries but suppliers around the world. Photonics Group also has small, local also increased awareness of unsafe situations and actions. The suppliers. ambition is to reach best-in-class level by 2016 by reducing the accident frequency by a minimum of 75% compared with 2011, corresponding to 5 occupational injuries per million working hours or less (current reporting period: 8.0). In Nilfisk-Advance, ENVIRONMENT e.g. training sessions for new employees have led to increased attention on reduction of injuries. NKT's efforts relating to environmental savings have a twofold objective: to reduce the Group’s own utilisation of resources, and Employee engagement surveys to supply products with environment-friendly purposes and/or In the current reporting period Nilfisk-Advance finalised a direct environmental savings. comprehensive employee engagement survey covering more than 40 countries and some 4,400 employees. Based on the CO2 emissions reduced results, key focus areas have been identified, and these will be Having reduced CO2 emission by 12% relative to revenue over a the main drivers for Nilfisk-Advance to become an even more three year period from 2009-2011, NKT has set new targets for attractive workplace. NKT Cables conducted a similar survey reducing CO2 consumption in the previous reporting period and has launched a number of initiatives based on the results, including an opportunity • An average 3% annual reduction in fossil energy for employees to meet the management for discussions on consumption primarily for heating of buildings (Scope 1 relevant issues. emission) NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 NKT Group 8/28 • An average 3% annual reduction in total energy ANTICORRUPTION consumption measured in relation to revenue calculated at standard metal prices (Scope 1+2 emissions) NKT has business operations worldwide, including in parts of the world where corrupt practices have previously existed and to These objectives are based on the reported CO2 levels in 2011 some extent still do. Some of the business units also operate in and NKT’s existing number of business units and entities. The sectors where cartels have occurred. It is therefore crucial for our 2012 result reported to the Carbon Disclosure Project in May credibility that NKT is a strong advocate of fair competition and 2013 was: lawful practices. Internal compliance 6 % CO2 An extensive anticorruption review is part of the annual Statement of Representation (see section ‘Reporting Principles’ for more information) signed by the managers of all NKT entities. The managers submit their findings, if any, on a number of potential corrupt practices, such as cartels, money laundering, reduction relative to output bribery and facilitation payments. The managers also declare whether necessary actions are taken to ensure that employees in contact with external partners are aware of and trained in NKT’s anticorruption policy. In the present reporting period there were no registered cases of corruption or other misconduct. Product development with focus on energy Whistleblowing The NKT Group’s greatest environmental contribution, however, NKT has an internal whistleblower system, provided by is development of new products that reduce user energy an external partner, who's purpose is to help disclose any consumption or support the spread of sustainable energy irregularities. All employees can anonymously report any serious production. Examples are: concerns about irregularities or inappropriate actions. Reports may be submitted in a number of languages and in writing or • Nilfisk-Advance strives to incorporate environmental orally. improvements in new products in at least one of four focal areas: water consumption, energy consumption, use of None of the reports submitted for 2012-2013 have led to material detergents and disposal. In the present reporting period adjustments in business procedures. 71% of new launches featured improvements in at least one of the four areas. Statement of objections In July 2011 NKT Cables and NKT Holding received a Statement • NKT Cables develops its submarine cables and high voltage of Objections from the European Commission in connection products to meet the need for energy infrastructure created with the Commission’s investigation of the submarine and by the growing number of alternative energy sources. For underground high voltage cable markets in the period 1998example submarine cables are used to convey electricity 2008. NKT Cables and NKT Holding examined the documentation from offshore wind farms to the high voltage grid on shore. from the European Commission and submitted their response by the deadline in early November 2011. Subsequently the • The optical fibers supplied by Photonics Group are typically European Commission produced additional documents, and incorporated in innovative applications driven by the need NKT Cables and NKT Holding launched a review. The findings of for improved use of global resources, new discoveries within this review were submitted on 16 March 2012. NKT Cables and life sciences, smarter communication tools, prevention of NKT Holding gave an oral presentation of NKT’s viewpoints at pollution and greater food or personal safety. a hearing held by the European Commission in June 2012. The European Commission is expected to reach a decision on this issue within the next few years. For more information about NKT's CO2 emissions please visit www.nkt.dk/uk. NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 NKT Group 9/28 The 2012 employee survey revealed a wish for an increased level of communication, appreciation and recognition throughout the NKT Cables organisation. 'Meet the Board' sessions have therefore been set up giving everyone the opportunity to participate in informal meetings with a Board member. Here ideas and experiences are exchanged and open discussions on all relevant subjects take place. This initiative has proved popular and will continue. NKT Cables Highlights 2012-2013 Water consumption halved since 2010 A number of improvements ranging from substitution of evaporation cooling to establishment of closed free cooling or compressor systems, and identification and repair of leakages, have resulted in a halving of the total water consumption since 2010. Number of accidents in free fall Combined heat and power plant saves CO2 2013 Demolition of an old boiler and outsourcing of heat supply to a combined heat and power plant has reduced carbon footprint for both electricity and heat at one of our plants 2013 in the Czech Republic. The Safety Buddy Award 2013 *** Nominate a safe colleague or team *** Member of the NKT Group / copyright © 2013 nkt cables The Safety Buddy Award 2013 *** Nominate a safe colleague or team *** Member of the NKT Group / copyright © 2013 nkt cables Completing the picture 2013 The new health and safety (H&S) policy Completing the picture rolled out since autumn 2011 giving H&S top priority has shown its value. Accident frequency fell by 25% from 22.4 to 16.8 in the first 12 month period and by a further impressive 52% to 8.0 in the current reporting Result: An annual atmospheric emission The Safety Buddy Award 2013 period (July 2012 June *** Nominate 2013). a safe colleague or team *** saving of approx. 3,000 tonnes CO2. Member of the NKT Group / copyright © 2013 nkt cables NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 NKT Cables 10/28 Completing the picture NKT Cables CEO letter Our relations with co-workers, customers, suppliers, communities and other stakeholders are seen within the framework provided by the UN Global Compact Our actions are guided by strict adherence to our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) principles as we believe this provides for a strong and lasting foundation for our business. In some ways CSR has been part of our heritage and our way of doing business for decades, even before it was given a global framework by the United Nations. The NKT Group acceded to the UN Global Compact in 2009, with NKT Cables autonomously following suit in 2011. Being signatory to the UN Global Compact has helped us greatly in expanding the reach and awareness of CSR to all parts of the company and making CSR unconditional. Our relations with customers, suppliers, communities and other stakeholders are seen within the framework provided by the UN Global Compact. Our plant operations focus on minimising any negative environmental impact and on being a good citizen of the communities “ of which we are part. With our commitment to the UN Global Compact we continue to invest in the development of our company, our employees as well as in our product and production standards. We continue With our to train our employees in the importance of compliance with laws and regulations. We continue commitment to the to work hard at generating the awareness that all our employees can contribute to a safer working environment and that an accident-free work place is a realistic and feasible mediumUN Global Compact term goal. We continue to invest resources in reducing the energy and water consumption of our operations and in reducing the emissions that our operations generate. We see process we continue to invest optimisation to reduce the materials consumption of our products as a never-ending challenge. in the development We know that for all of the above, measuring and reporting is key, and we continue to invest in further improvements in this domain. By keeping up our commitment we will ensure that of our company, our respect for CSR standards continues to be part of how we conduct our business. employees as well as Our efforts have generated progress in many fields but, as we continue to expand our business in our product and internationally, we know we can and must do more. We will therefore not relax our efforts in production standards” this regard. We are strongly convinced that our CSR principles will help us to be a long-term successful company in our industry, a good partner to our customers and a great place to work. Marc van't Noordende CEO, NKT Cables Group NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 NKT Cables 11/28 Human and labour rights As a global company with locations in more than 20 countries & Safety, a Safety Buddy Award will be introduced in second and with suppliers and customers all over the world, NKT Cables half 2013 and first election of a 'champion' is scheduled for the is committed to respecting human and labour rights as a natural beginning of 2014.  part of daily business. Accordingly, we annually ask all our local management teams to sign a Statement of Representation Our employees are our key asset and we firmly believe that their affirming adherence to the principles of the UN Global Compact education and training positively influence the company’s results. In  to ensure that the fundamental principles of NKT's ethical line with this conviction, NKT Cables has successfully implemented guidelines are known and complied with throughout our special training sessions on communication skills, offered English organisation. NKT Cables also conducts regular surveys with classes, and provides organisation-wide development opportunities its suppliers regarding their position on acceptance of the UN regardless of gender, race, age or religion.  Global Compact. The most recent survey results showed that 84% of NKT Cables’ total purchase volume was represented by Against this background NKT Cables conducted a worldwide suppliers committed to the ten principles. employee survey in 2012 to identify further focus areas and to measure employee satisfaction. The results showed a desire Our Health & Safety policy was updated in January 2013 by for greater communication, appreciation and recognition introducing firm focus on unsafe situations and behaviour. throughout the company and have been translated into specific If unsafe situations and behaviour are eliminated the risk of actions at all locations. For its part, the management of NKT accidents is also minimised. All production sites have been asked to identify such cases and make risk assessments followed by relevant improvements. The target is to be able to close a Cables has organised periodic 'Meet the Board' sessions at all sites (read more on page 10).   minimum of 3000 cases in 2013. A clear cause and effect might The next employee survey is planned for 2014 to measure the be difficult to prove, but the accident frequency has been halved effectiveness of the actions taken and the progress made. during the last 12 months. To keep employee focus on Health 2012-13   30.06.13 Procurement Goals & actions Target Achieved Status   ( ) Based on results of the previous survey, a further improvement in compliance with the UN Global Compact 100% 84% will be targeted by seeking a similar commitment also from smaller suppliers. () Request for commitment to UN Global Compact principles shall become standard procedure in qualification 100% 100% process for new raw material suppliers. Occupational injuries  Improve safety performance towards best-in-class industry standards defined as less than five accidents per one million working hours. Target is an annual 25% reduction (frequency 2011-2012: 16.6 vs. 2012-13: 8.0). 25% () 52%  Employee training Improve employee competences and capabilities, thereby improving company competitiveness. The process is ongoing and has our commitment. 100% () 100% Measurement of employee satisfaction by conducting a global people survey and developing action plans. 100% ( ) 100% Health management Focus on health management, all units being requested to address this issue in the action plans following the To be To be employee survey, if necessary by Group initiatives and a monitoring system. defined defined ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 NKT Cables 12/28 Environment An overall evaluation of the environmental aspects of our Moreover, we have successfully extended our business  activities shows that traditional industrial environmental impacts involvement in renewable energy fields by helping customers such as black smoke, loud noise and toxic effluent are not an to conserve natural resources and reduce CO2 emissions. Our issue. Discharge of substances of environmental concern to the submarine cables are instrumental in realising the benefits of atmospheric, terrestrial and aquatic environment is negligible, offshore wind farms, and our supply of monitoring solutions and except for the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide deriving mainly technologies contributes to significant reductions in transmission from natural gas-fuelled boilers that provide comfort heating. and distribution losses. Careful examination of our activities has identified four main potential areas for environmental improvement along with 83% of NKT Cables’ carbon footprint results to date: relates to our suppliers of raw materials • Energy consumption (consumption for comfort heating has 2%  15% Scope 1: decreased by 45% on 2008) Direct combustion of • Water consumption per tonne of cable (reduced by 43% fossil energy sources • compared with 2010) Materials utilisation efficiency (improved by 0.6% from 95.2% in 2008 to 95.8%) 83% 453,398 tonnes CO2 total emission Scope 2: Procured energy in the form of electricity and heat   • Product substitution (e.g. introduction of lead-free PVC cables in the 1990s. 10 years later we substituted the PVC Scope 3: Production of raw materials, plasticiser DEHP with other phthalates of less health concern transportation of goods, and marketed halogenand PVC-free alternatives for and business flights installation cables). • 2012-13  30.06.13 Goals & actions Target Achieved Status CO2 emissions CO2 emission from comfort heating reduced more by more than 40% compared with 2008. 40% () 45%  ( ) Optimise machinery energy consumption. Ongoing measurements followed by data analysis Target to >30 actions will lead to definition of specific goals. be defined planned New goal: Reduce natural gas by 500,000 kWh, i.e. approx. 1% saving in company consumption by 2014. New goal: Reduce electricity consumption by 1,000,000 kWh, i.e. approx. 0.7% saving in company consumption by 2014. Material utilisation efficiency  Increase efficiency by 0.1% annually, i.e. to 96.1% in 2013. 96,1% 95,8% () Water () Water saving of 35% per tonne of cable output compared with 2010 to be achieved before end-2013. 35% 43% (Results: 2010: 815 l/tonne cable vs. 2013: 468 l/tonne cable). New goal: Save 5,000 m³ drinking water, i.e. approx. 5% saving in company consumption by 2014. ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 NKT Cables 13/28 Anticorruption A growing number of companies across the world are increasingly recognising that doing business with integrity is the only “ sustainable option. Doing business with integrity is more likely to attract and retain highly-principled and motivated employees and investors. In contrast, companies confronted with corruption cases NKT Cables engages in have faced reputational damage. transparent business relations  Accordingly, NKT Cables engages in transparent business relations with partners who must respect with partners who must respect the principles of the UN Global Compact. We are also committed to taking responsible corrective the principles of the UN Global  action wherever and whenever we detect deviations from these principles. Rules and guidelines based on these principles are Compact” communicated throughout the company, and local management teams are regularly required to sign a Statement of Representation  affirming their knowledge of and compliance with the rules defined. Additionally, as part of an awareness campaign, the management has given presentations emphasising compliance with laws and regulations. The awareness campaign attracts continued attention  and commitment from management.   2012-13 30.06.13  Goals & actions Anticorruption  Target Achieved Status  Explicit communication to be established and understood by all employees and business partners. An awareness campaign started in 2012 using a variety of tools and forums. 100% 70% () Facilitation payments  ( ) 100% Ban on facilitation payments. Communication on non-acceptance of facilitation payments has been 100% () part of the awareness campaign. Compliance with laws and regulations ( ) 100% Renewed attention to be given to the Code of Ethics as regards conduct in contacts with competitors 100% by inclusion of this aspect in the awareness campaign and by scrutinising memberships of associations. ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 NKT Cables 14/28 Nilfisk-Advance is committed to reducing environmental impact by maintaining full cradle-to-grave responsibility and ensuring minimum environmental impact from life-expired machinery and equipment. Nilfisk-Advance Highlights 2012-2013 Cradle-to-grave responsibility In 2012 Nilfisk-Advance was one of the founding partners of European Cleaning Machines Recycling (ECMR), a Dutch-based initiative that recycles life-expired machinery and equipment. The equipment is donated to ECMR which strips out all the useful components. ECMR operates in accordance with the ISO 26000 standard, the international guidelines for Corporate Social Responsibility. Nilfisk-Advance is a proud partner of ECMR and was the largest contributor in the current reporting period, donating ~20% of ECMR’s equipment intake in 2012. Nilfisk-Advance core values Sustainability concept Nilfisk-Advance’s core values are shared by all At Nilfisk-Advance we continuously work its constituent companies around the world. to improve our products. New products are required to provide equal or enhanced cleaning efficiency while using less energy, less water and less detergent. We and our customers alike see significant potential in developing cleaning solutions that deliver improved environmental performance. We are committed to a leading position in this development, and we call our approach To succeed with our strategy of becoming Customers’ Preferred Choice by 2015, common goals have been defined. Shared core values will help us to realise our objective by guiding our internal conduct. NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 Nilfisk-Advance 15/28 Nilfisk-Advance CEO letter Sustainability and responsibility are crucial to achieving our ambition of becoming Customers’ Preferred Choice Our company has existed for more than a century, and there is no doubt in our minds that respect and pro-active behaviour when it comes to sustainability are essential to a company’s long-term prospects. Being one of the world’s leading manufacturers of professional cleaning equipment we have an obligation to lead the industry by setting high ethical standards. Sustainability and responsibility are crucial to achieving our ambition of becoming Customers’ Preferred Choice. We were therefore the first company in our industry to become signatory to the UN Global Compact. By adhering to its ten principles and in every way acting as a respectable business partner we can create a long-term advantage for both our customers and Our Green Meets Clean Nilfisk-Advance. promise to customers: The UN Global Compact sets high standards for our behaviour as a global company: Respect We develop products with human rights, say no to bribery and take care of the environment. We are certain that improved environmental committing to this agenda will help us develop our business in a new and positive direction performance and hereby and at the same time meet the growing demand from customers for sustainable and more enhance your capacity efficient products and offerings. for delivering sustainable cleaning services. We have named our Corporate Responsibility strategy Green Meets Clean, and are currently working on Green Meets Clean 2.0 to further improve our sustainability efforts. This strategy is We lower your total cost of a promise to both ourselves and our customers that we will dedicate ourselves to delivering operation and maximise cleaning solutions that are efficient and that improve the sustainability of the industry. Green your return on investment Meets Clean is also a promise to continuously work to improve our environmental footprint as a by developing products that company. uses less energy, water and detergents. Our fifth Communication on Progress Report contains data and status on goals and initiatives defined by Nilfisk-Advance. The data show that we have improved our performance in many We enable you to deliver on areas and there is much of which to be proud. We consider the results achieved to be a your promises in a longsignificant stepping stone on our path to becoming an even more sustainable company. term sustainable way. Jørgen Jensen We respond to the needs CEO, Nilfisk-Advance for sustainable cleaning and develop new opportunities for you to create lasting value for you, your employees and owners. NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 Nilfisk-Advance 16/28 Human and labour rights  We consider it important that all our employees are assured commitment and engagement, our first global Employee of good and fair conditions, and we are committed to setting Engagement Survey was conducted in 2012 and a response rate an example in the countries where we operate. As a global of 90% was obtained. company we operate in parts of the world that have a long  tradition of respect for individual rights, and also in parts of the Based on the results, key focus areas have been identified and will world where these rights are not necessarily prioritised. be the main drivers for Nilfisk-Advance to create an even more attractive workplace regardless of location, and to ensure that our Our approach to human and labour rights is described and globally people have the opportunity to achieve their full potential. communicated through the Nilfisk-Advance Code of Ethics and through Business Integrity Principles that were introduced in 2012. Furthermore, through our new 'Ride-on programme' 300 It is also mandatory for human and labour rights to be addressed at managers were hand-picked for a training and education course local business board meetings at least once a year. to ensure the continued development of our talent. We are firmly committed to providing equal opportunities to our Our customers wish to make sure that the products they use   employees and will not tolerate discrimination or harassment of have been produced in a responsible way. We are therefore in any kind. Accordingly, we have established a registration system for such cases in our whistleblower system. No incidents were registered during the current reporting period. the process of ensuring that not only we, but also our suppliers,  conform to our standards and observe the principles of the UN Global Compact. The full integration of these principles in our  To achieve our business goals it is crucial to have a dedicated workforce, an inspiring working environment and an ability to  standard supplier contracts led to a 50% signature rate in the current reporting period, an improvement of 6% points on last year, but we realise that we still have a way to go to reach our continuously foster new talent. To ensure dialogue and generate target of 80% by end-2015. 2012-13   30.06.13 Goals & actions Target Achieved Status Management All local managements have been informed of our policies, have issued their comments, and have endorsed the policy. 100% ( ) 100%  Zero tolerance of acts of discrimination of any kind and hence no cases to be reported. We will foster talent so that skilled employees have the opportunity to achieve their full potential.* 100% Index 77 ( ) 100% Index 70 ()  Derived goal: To conduct global Employee Engagement Survey and set targets for Employee Engagement Index. 100% ( ) 100%  Procurement 80% of procurement (above 50,000 EUR in value) to be supplied by partners who have agreed to abide by the 80% 50% () principles of the UN Global Compact by end-2015. Occupational injuries  To be Reporting of the number of injuries leading to absence from work, followed by definition of reduction target. 71 defined Labour rights ( ) 100% Our Code of Ethics is an integral part of Nilfisk-Advance’s M&A due diligence process and any 100% non-conformities are reported. * With the 2015 target being a score of index 77 on the internal leadership assessment. ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 Nilfisk-Advance 17/28 Environment We see environmental sustainability as an element of sound Our own consumption of resources is another focus area. In business practice. If we can reduce our consumption of all forms our manufacturing entities we continuously strive to minimise of resources it will benefit the environment and will benefit us environmental impact. Single-site examples include installation of and our customers financially as well. Green Meets Clean reflects new low-energy lighting in our Chinese factories, and installation Nilfisk-Advance’s environmental approach to developing new of new and faster automatic gates in our European Distribution products for our customers. Centre to minimise heat loss during winter. Rollout of company wide initiatives is currently being discussed as we closely monitor Our cleaning machines consume energy, water and sometimes our energy consumption and related CO2 emissions. detergent. Designing equipment that can clean to the same high standard but uses fewer resources is therefore our greatest In the present reporting period we have achieved a 3% reduction challenge. It is therefore also the area where our efforts can in CO2 emissions normalised to revenue, which is an important achieve the greatest possible environmental impact. second step in achieving our overall reduction target of 10% over three years; 2012-2014. Last year we reduced our emissions The environmental impact of future products is a high-priority by 7%, so this goal has already been achieved one year ahead of  parameter for our technology development platform ‘Customer schedule. Focused Technology Development’. 71% of new products launched by Nilfisk-Advance in the present reporting period Our target of a 5% reduction in energy consumption for heating include environmental improvements in at least one of the and electricity in manufacturing facilities has partly been reached, four environmental focus areas: Energy consumption, water mainly due to a higher level of efficiency and focus on resource consumption, use of detergents and disposal. consumption. We have a methodology for identifying the environmental footprint of our products, and we have introduced it in one of our New targets will be created as a part of the Green Meets Clean strategy 2.0 that we are currently developing.  seven product groups to reduce the environmental footprint of new products.  2012-13 30.06.13 Goals & actions Target Achieved Status Product development All new products feature sustainability improvements in at least one and preferably more of the 100% 71%  (  )  following four areas: Energy consumption, water consumption, use of detergents and disposal. CO2 emissions () 10% reduction in 2014 normalised to output as compared with 2011. 10% 10%  () Reduction in energy consumption in our manufacturing facilities compared with 2011.  5% 2% Heating*, ** 5% 8% Electricity** Product environmental footprint Set target for reducing environmental footprint for best-selling products based on conclusions from previously conducted pilot project. 100% 0%() () Actively participate in industry-related activities, boards and committees to push for agreement 100% 100% on industry standard for measuring environmental performance of products. * Based on natural gas consumption only. ** From plants with consistent data for 2011-13. ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 Nilfisk-Advance 18/28 Anticorruption As a global company doing business in all parts of the world, Nilfisk-Advance is committed to combatting the negative effect “ that corruption has on fair competition and the development of a stable society. Based on the Transparency International Corruption Perceptions Index (www.transparency.org), we have identified areas of the world where business integrity issues are In order to support our  most likely to occur. business integrity efforts we have In order to support our business integrity efforts we have published the Nilfisk-Advance published the Nilfisk-Advance Code of Ethics stating our Code of Ethics stating our position on this issue. To further support our efforts in this area, position on this issue  a code of Business Integrity Principles provides everyone at Nilfisk-Advance with guidelines on what and what not to do in specific circumstances and situations related to our business. To ensure management commitment and promote our anticorruption agenda, all our local company managements  are obliged to personally sign a Statement of Representation Nilfisk-Advance also has a global whistleblower system affirming their commitment to the principles of the UN Global enabling employees to anonymously report corruption Compact. The individual documents are then consolidated by and other unlawful incidents. These reports are handled the CEO of Nilfisk-Advance. The Statement of Representation receives significant attention from all parties. No major anonymously by an independent party. Every case receives  the utmost attention, being discussed and dealt with by NKT incidents were registered in the present reporting period. Group Management.        2012-13  30.06.13 Goals & actions  Target Achieved Status Management  Local managements have been informed of our policies, have issued their comments and have endorsed our policies. 100% ( ) 100%   Implement global Code of Conduct by end-2012. 100% ( ) 100%  () Anticorruption  No reported corruption or cartel cases. 0% ( ) 0% ( ) 100% Ensure employees are knowledgeable regarding how to act in accordance with Nilfisk-Advance 100% expectations on business integrity issues. 20%( ) Apply risk management in growth markets on business integrity issues. 100% Markets have been identified and the first step in the process has been completed. ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 Nilfisk-Advance 19/28 Overskrift overskrift For the fourth consecutive year no occupational injuries were recorded by Photonics Group. Occupational injuries in the labour market are usually easily observed and registered. At Photonics Group, however, there is a risk of gradual and unnoticed eye damage as a number of employees work with high-intensity laser light sources. Employees subject to particular exposure therefore undergo eye tests every two years. To date, no cases of eye damage have been identified. Photonics Group Highlights 2012-2013 New cooling system to reduce CO2 emisson In the long-term testing of our high power laser products a significant amount of electrical energy has previously been used to cool the power sources. A new cooling system has now been built based on passive cooling by use of forced water and air cooling, and this is expected to lead to sizeable reduction in our CO2 emission. Support to colleagues who were victims of Hurricane Sandy When Hurricane Sandy hit the east coast of the United States in October 2012 it caused severe damage in the region of New Jersey where Vytran is located. As a consequence the company had no power supply for three weeks, some employees had their homes damaged and some lost their cars. Photonics Group employees started a collection to help the Strong stance on facilitation payments victims and the total amount was quadrupled Photonics Group does not accept facilitation by the NKT Group. payments. The only exception to this rule is if the safety of our employees is threatened. Although this strict policy has in some cases caused considerable delays in obtaining product approvals and has thus meant loss of orders, we continue to uphold this stance as we know it is the only way to bring such unfair business practices to an end. NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 Photonics Group 20/28 Photonics Group CEO letter We develop and supply technologically advanced high-quality fiber and laser-based products which enable solutions of high value for the customer Photonics Group’s products and solutions are instrumental in enabling the development of new applications that will lead to better and more efficient use of energy resources, new and improved tools for early detection of diseases, and better systems for human safety and for protecting high-value assets, etc. These are solutions and applications that contribute to a better and more sustainable development of our planet. We consider this important and we are proud that our efforts support better living conditions for future generations. Our customers are leading global professionals. They and the end users of their products are increasingly demanding more environment-friendly products, and they are asking for assurance that the products are produced in a safe and responsible manner. Of course, these expectations also extend to the materials and components we receive from our suppliers. We in turn therefore make similar demands on our supply chain and business partners for the responsible provision of goods and services. As designers and manufacturers of high-performance products it is vital that we can attract and retain skilled and committed employees and provide them with an incentive to do their best. Accordingly, continuous dialogue is maintained with our employees concerning the company’s developments, goals and our performance. A positive working environment is also “ We are proud that our efforts support important and we are therefore dedicated to offering our employees a good, stimulating and better living conditions also challenging workplace. for future generations Our products are marketed and sold with a reputation for high quality, and they represent significant input in the form of R&D and investment. For us it is therefore of paramount importance that the players in our industry compete on fair terms. We tolerate no form of bribery or other acts contributing to unfair competition. Human and labour rights and anticorruption are thus priority issues for Photonics Group. Our parent company is a signatory to the UN Global Compact, underlining its commitment to responsibility and to promoting sustainable global development. Photonics Group wholeheartedly supports this initiative. Søren Isaksen Chairman of the Board of Directors, Photonics Group NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 Photonics Group 21/28 Human and labour rights Photonics Group is based on business started in Denmark, A safe and healthy working environment is also important. Very Germany and the US. Today we buy components and services high light intensities are often used in the development and worldwide, we sell our products globally, and we have sales manufacture of our lasers, and this can cause eye damage in case offices internationally. In this context we need to ensure that of accident or careless equipment handling. As well as detailed respect for human and labour rights is and remains an integral work instructions we therefore take numerous precautions, such part of how we run our business. as eye protection, screening and alarm systems.  Historically, our focus has been to ensure that we conduct We operate in a global and very competitive high-tech business correctly. Now, our focus is to ensure that, throughout the environment and employee engagement is therefore vital to our production chain to customer delivery, all our products are performance. Following employee engagement surveys covering manufactured responsibly and without infringing the rights of some 50% of our personnel in the previous reporting period, the individual. These same demands are therefore also made on surveys for the remaining 50% were scheduled for 2012-2013. our suppliers. Currently our sights are primarily set on companies However, these have now been postponed to the next reporting from whom we have a large and stable procurement volume; In period. the past year the target of 80% supplier acceptance of the UN Global Compact (see also table below) has been achieved by one of our three business units, and overall compliance has improved from 43% to 63% during the present reporting period.  2012-13    30.06.13 Goals & actions Target Achieved Status Procurement  80% of procurement (above 50,000 EUR in value) is to be supplied by partners who have agreed ()  80% 63% to abide by the principles of UN Global Compact. Development of monitoring plan, based on inspections, to check the extent to which the conduct of our suppliers conforms to the agreed criteria. 100% 0%()  Delayed new target date: 30.06.2014. Occupational injuries  No injuries causing work absence to be registered in the reporting period. 0% ( ) 0% Eye tests conducted every two years reveal no eye injuries caused by working with high light intensities. 100% ( ) 100%  New goal: No injuries causing work absence in the next reporting period. Employee engagement Employee engagement to be measured in all business areas and action plans to be prepared on the basis of the results. Delayed new target date: 30.06.2014. 100% () 50% ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 Photonics Group 22/28 Environment Photonics Group’s environmental footprint from production is a new system that replaces traditional electrical cooling with very modest. The principal environmental impact relates to the one that combines passive cooling via relatively low outdoor use of our products. temperatures with electrical cooling. This is planned to produce a sizeable reduction in our internal energy usage. Many of our products find application in solutions aimed at improving either environmental conditions, supply of We have developed a new fiber design suitable for peak-power goods, personal safety or human living conditions. Examples pulsed lasers. The new fiber replaces traditional solid-state  include fire detection in tunnels, efficient use of high voltage lasers in such equipment and significantly reduces energy cables, improved use of wind energy, quality control of food, consumption. development of new and improved medicines and diagnosis of diseases. Demands for greater environmental accountability, As a manufacturer of electro-optical products and production increased security and improved living conditions are thus equipment we use relatively small raw material volumes in our important development drivers for our business and support our products. Electrical components are used and installed in almost investments in the photonics field. all our products, and new products are designed to comply  with the directive to restrict the use of hazardous substances in We use a significant and increasing amount of energy in testing electronic and electrical equipment (RoHS Directive) and similar our high power laser products, and the power sources need regulations. Older products are being re-designed to comply cooling to avoid catastrophic damage. We have invested in with this directive or being phased out.    2012-13 30.06.13  Goals & actions CO2 emissions Target Achieved Status   ( 12% reduction of CO2 intensity* relative to the 2008 level by end-2011. Increased activity in long-term testing of high power products has led to increase of power consumption compared to the set-up in 2008. 12% -3% ) Deadline redefined: 30.06.15. () 15% reduction in CO2 intensity* relative to level at 30.06.11 (25.2 tonnes of CO2/mEUR) planned to 15% 15% be by achieved 30.06.14. This reduction has been achieved one year ahead of schedule. Transition to unleaded products  All products must comply with the RoHS Directive by 30.06.2013 (all new product designs completed or in development are now in compliance with the directive). 100% >95% () Improved efficiency of microstructured fibers ( ) 100% We will offer microstructured fibers for commercial use in pulsed lasers with a long-term conversion 100% efficiency above 60% by 30.06.2013. * CO2 intensity is defined as CO2 emissions from Scope 1+2 activities relative to output. ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 Photonics Group 23/28 Anticorruption We consider corruption to be a problem for the international  community. As a company with global activities we operate in parts of the world where corruption and facilitation payments are “ very rare, and in other areas where they are a regular occurrence.  We wish to compete on fair and honest terms. We will not We have developed a tolerate our employees being involved in corruption or accepting facilitation payments. The only exception to this programme for training all rule is if our employees are exposed to situations where their safety is threatened. We have therefore developed a employees in our anticorruption  programme for training all employees in our anticorruption policy” policy. The structure of this programme was presented to the  management group in June 2013 and all employees must be  trained within the next year.  Photonics Group has registered no instances of corruption during the present reporting period. As in the previous period, however, we have experienced that our policy on facilitation payments has caused considerable delays in obtaining product approvals and that such delays have meant loss of orders. Our patience has paid off in the sense that approval has eventually been granted in such cases.     Goals & actions 2012-13  30.06.13 Target Achieved Status Ethical conduct  A code of conduct is to be established and communicated to all employees by end-2012. 100% () 100%   Anticorruption Develop a programme by 30.06.2013 for training all employees in our anticorruption policy. 100% () 100%  () New goal: Train all relevant employees in our anticorruption policy relative to their specific job functions within the coming year. Facilitation payments  Non-acceptance of facilitation payments. No facilitation payments to be reported. 0 () 0 Agents and distributors All agents and distributors have been informed of our Fair Trade Policy. 100% () 100% New goal: Risk assessment of business areas and regions in which we operate, and active follow-up on employees, agents and distributors in high-risk areas by 30.06.2014. ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 Photonics Group 24/28 Reporting principles A comprehensive reporting system provides data from the individual business units and delivers most of the necessary information on which NKT's CSR efforts and reporting are based NKT's reporting system is composed of four elements: Statements of Representation • A whistleblower system, maintained by an external provider, which allows all NKT employees to raise serious concerns about seemingly inappropriate conduct, events or circumstances. Reporting may be anonymous. NKT BOARD OF DIRECTORS • A data collection system where various Key Performance Indicators, KPIs, are registered on a quarterly basis, covering e.g. occupational injuries, types and amount of fuel and energy consumption, CO2 emissions from travel and transport, utilisation of raw materials and irregularities such NKT GROUP EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR as environmental spills and fines. The business units are responsible for the data collection and for KPI quality. Data consolidation is done by the NKT Finance Department. • A Statement of Representation on Corporate Social CEO BUSINESS UNIT Responsibility signed off by local management in the business unit entities once a year to ensure that managers are familiar with and work to advance the principles of the UN Global Compact. • A special reporting scheme where the business units ENTITY MANAGER annually report on matters such as diversity in management in terms of nationality, gender and age, R&D efforts to support the UN Global Compact, etc. NKT wishes to ensure that CSR is an integral part of the daily activities in all NKT business units and entities. Once annually The reporting system and the Statement of Representation both therefore all entity managers (around 100) draft and sign a comprise around 100 legal entities worldwide. Statement of Representation detailing the progress on all UN Global Compact principles within the entity concerned. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) NKT has been inspired by the parameters of the Global Reporting Each Statement of Representation is submitted to the CEO of Initiative (GRI). Based on the methodology proposed by GRI an the relevant business unit who signs a Statement on behalf of assessment of the materiality of the GRI indicators has been the entire unit. Ultimately, NKT’s Group Executive Director signs a carried out. The methodology remains unchanged from the Statement of Representation for the entire Group and the Board of previous report, and NKT has chosen to assess a total of 20 GRI, Directors is informed of the conclusions. G3.1 indicators. An overview is available on page 27. NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 Accounting 25/28 Data reliability Since the start of data registration in 2010 the majority of data have become more consistent. However, the CO2 emission data for transport of goods are still subject to some uncertainty. Consequently, as from 2012 the data relating to Nilfisk-Advance solely cover the transport of goods from company factories to distribution centres. This has been done to focus efforts more effectively on areas under the company’s control. All Group companies apply the NKT reporting system (see page 25). However, in the present reporting period NKT Cables has collected data in a similar reporting system. NKT Cables has used this alternative system internally for a number of years and no discrepancies between the two systems have been observed. The reporting system deployed by NKT Cables is actually more elaborated than the NKT Group system. It is the opinion of NKT that the NKT Cables approach will generate an even more accurate reporting. Auditing The NKT CSR report for 2012-13 has not been audited by an independent auditor. In the previous reporting period a readiness assessment was conducted by KPMG, an international provider of audit services. The process looked into NKT’s CSR governance and information flow with a view to identifying the strengths and weaknesses of the current management and reporting system. Based on this assessment and NKT's own observations, CSR reporting was considered to have improved in terms of data accuracy across the business units. NKT intends to conduct similar readiness assessments at certain intervals to track systems development and data quality. NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 Accounting 26/28 GRI indicators The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a comprehensive sustainability reporting framework which enables all organisations to measure and report their economic, environmental, social and governance performance the four key areas of sustainability The NKT business units report on parameters inspired by the GRI indicators listed below. Not all parameters are elaborated upon in the present report, but are data used in other contexts. NKT NilfiskPhotonics GRI, G3.1 indicators GRI parameters* Cables Advance Group Human Rights Investment and Procurement practices HR1, HR2A, HR3 ü ü ü Non-discrimination HR4 ü ü ü Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 ü ü ü Child, forced or compulsory labour HR6, HR7 ü ü ü Labour Practices & Decent Work Employment LA1 ü ü ü Labour/Management Relations LA7 ü ü ü Training and Education LA10, LA11, LA12 ü ü Diversity and Equal Opportunities LA13, LA13A-C ü ü ü Environment Materials EN1A-D, EN2B-C ü ü Energy EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7 ü ü ü Water EN8, EN8A ü ü Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16, EN17, EN18, EN23, EN24 ü ü ü Product and Services EN26 ü ü ü Compliance EN28 ü ü ü Transport EN29 ü ü ü Anticorruption Local Community SO1, SO9 ü ü ü Anticorruption SO3, SO4 ü ü ü Public Policy SO5, SO6 ü ü ü Anti-Competitive Behaviour SO7, SO7A-B ü ü ü Compliance SO8 ü ü ü * In-depth descriptions are available on page 28. NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 Accounting 27/28 GRI, G3.1 Appendix HR Human Rights Percentage and total number of significant investment EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating Indirect energy consumption by primary source HR1 EN4 human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights Non-renewable energy source screening Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other EN5 improvements HR2 A business partners that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energyEN6 based products and services, and reductions in energy Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures requirements as a result of these initiatives HR3 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and EN7 reductions achieved HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the EN8 A Total water withdrawal by source right to exercise freedom of association and collective HR5 bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight taken to support these rights EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Operations and significant suppliers identified as having Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions HR6 significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken EN18 achieved to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Operations or significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste HR7 deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or EN24 compulsory labour Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and LA Labour Practices & Decent Work EN26 services, and extent of impact mitigation Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonLA1 and region broken down by gender EN28 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, laws and regulations LA7 and total number of work-related fatalities by region and by Significant environmental impacts of transporting products gender EN29 and other goods and materials used for the organisation’s Average hours of training per year per employee by gender operations, and transporting members of the workforce LA10 and by employee category Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that LA11 support the continued employability of employees and assist Social Anticorruption them in managing career endings Percentage of operations with implemented local community Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and engagement, impact assessments, and development proLA12 career development reviews by gender SO1 grammes. Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programmes Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations employees per employee category according to gender, age on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting LA13 group, minority group membership, and other indicators of Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s diversity SO3 anticorruption policies and procedures LA13 A Distribution of employees by gender SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption LA13 B Distribution of employees by age group Public policy positions and participation in public policy SO5 LA13 C Distribution of employees by nationality development and lobbying Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political SO6 parties, politicians, and related institutions by country EN Environment Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behaviour, SO7 EN1 A Materials used by weight or volume anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes EN1 B Materials used by weight or volume SO7 A Facilitation payments (to public body) EN1 C Materials used by weight or volume SO7 B Sales agent non-specific payments EN1 D Materials used by weight or volume Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonSO8 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials regulations EN2 B Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Operations with significant potential or actual negative SO9 EN2 C Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials impacts on local communities NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2012-2013 Accounting 28/28
