CSR REPORT August 2013 Head office: 165 Tatoiou str., 145 64 ATHENS, GREECE Tel: (0030210) 6251971 Ÿ Fax: (0030210) 6251977 Ÿ E-mail: info@coco-mat.com Factory: Industrial Area of Xanthi, 67 100 Xanthi, GREECE Tel: (003025410) 77360 Ÿ Fax: (003025410) 77361Ÿ E-mail: Xan-factory@coco-mat.com TABLE OF CONTENT • COCO-MAT Around the World……………………………. 3 • Company Profile…………………………………………….. 4 § Awards and prizes……………………………………………….. 8 • Human Rights…………………………………………………9 § Principle 1…………………………………………………………..10 § Principle 2………………………...……………………………….. 13 • Labour Principles……………………………………………. 16 § Company’s HR Policy – Vision & Values………………………. 17 § Principle 3…………………………………………………………. 21 § Principle 4…………………………………………………………. 26 § Principle 5…………………………………………………………. 29 § Principle 6…………………………………………………………. 30 • Environmental Principle……………………………………. 39 § Principle 7………………………………………………………….. 40 § Principle 8………………………………………………………….. 42 § Principle 9………………………………………………………….. 44 • Anti-corruption……………………………..………………... 45 § Principle 10………………………………………………………… 46 • Annex I………………………………………………………... 48 • Annex II………………………………………………………...53 • Annex III..……………………………………………………...54 COCO-MAT Around the World GREECE : Kifissia, Halandri, Faliro, Kolonaki, Patissia, Alimos, Maroussi, Freatida, Terpsithea, Voula, Gerakas, Argos, Agrinio, Chania, Heraklion, Kalamaria, Diagonios, Pylea, Ioannina, Kalamata, Korinthos, Corfu, Larissa, Xanthi, Patra, Rodos, Alexandroupoli, Orestiada, Mitilini, Katerini, Chalkida, Karditsa, Volos, Kozani, Komotini, Pyrgos, Sparti, Tripoli, Trikala EUROPE : Nicosia, Madrid, Barcelona, Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Arnhem, Antwerben, Hamburg, Berlin, Milan, Paris CHINA : Beijing, Hangzhou, Souzhou, Derlook, Ningbo, Ayd, Meten, Shenyang SAUDI ARABIA : Jeddah U.S.A : N. York, Manhattan KOREA : Seoul COMPANY PROFILE Pythagoras, Plato and Socrates, all spent their lives sleeping on nature. Sleeping on handmade mattresses, made with seaweed, aromatic plants, wool and cotton. In COCO-MAT we follow the same principles as our ancestors, and we preach a way of living which may come from the past, but has never been more modern. We make our mattresses by hand, using the same materials our fathers did. We learned to listen to Nature, to its whispers and its calls, in light and in darkness. And you? COCO-MAT was established in Athens in 1989, and was originally involved in the production of bed mattresses made of natural raw materials. Since then it has expanded, and in 1992, the company’s headquarters relocated to the industrial region of Xanthi. Nowadays, an increased range of products is manufactured in privately owned factories of 26.000 m2 in 123.000 m2 of land. COCO-MAT currently employs 212 people. Since its first steps, the company has developed a policy focused on quality, and has taken part in the European Foundation of Quality Management Excellence Model since 1997. The vision of the founders of COCO-MAT is to remain at the top position worldwide in the manufacture of natural products, and to achieve a working culture of sustainability, embracing all types of human activity giving equal chances to everybody irrespective of their nationality, colour, religion, or physical disability. COCO-MAT has acquired a dynamic profile with excellent prospects in a very competitive field. This has been achieved through the use of highly specialised, technically advanced equipment, proficiently and continuously trained personnel and first-rate associates. In addition COCO-MAT has implemented contemporary management methods, and made use of results from recent research on the needs of its European customers. The company has implemented the Systems of Quality Management and Environmental Management, whose design and function are based on the requirements of the models of ISO 9001:2000 and ISO 14001 respectively. COCO-MAT’s policy is based on sustainable development and is focused on four main areas: 1. NATURAL QUALITY PRODUCT 2. CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 3. EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION 4. SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION The raw materials used for COCO-MAT products are 100% natural, therefore the manufacturing of products and the products are friendly to human being and the environment. As an indication, some of the raw materials that constitute the manufacturing basis of COCO-MAT products are: coco fibre (the fibres covering the coconut fruit which after suitable processing together with natural rubber, produce elastic coco fibres) natural rubber (the juice from the HEVEA tree becomes a foamy layer of natural rubber) cotton (coming from the region of Thrace and considered to be of best quality due to the unique climate conditions and soil composition) wool (pure, virgin wool is perhaps the most hygienic natural material. It is light, warm but also exceptionally cool) seaweed (used to provide extra iodine to customers with asthma and breathing problems) horsehair (is attributed to its special origin which regulates humidity and thus develops a dry environment) silk (is used in our products due to its texture, lightness, shine and endurance) linen (a tiny almost invisible seed yields the yarn to make this exquisite, robust, long lasting textile, valued for its exceptional coolness and freshness) levanter (the scent is soothing, relaxing and reduces stress while it is also beneficial to the respiratory system) cactus (With their hard texture and resilience, the cactus fibers contribute to the regulation of the humidity, keeping the environment dry) down (an exquisite material, which is light, fine, airy, soft, delicate and longlasting) COCO-MAT places great emphasis on the protection of the environment, a commitment that is evident in the use of ecological materials and the avoidance of chemical materials. This includes the packaging of products mattresses are transported in cotton cases. New technologies are also a focal point for the company. Their contribution to the formation and realisation of policy and strategy is important and relates to the company’s resolution that it would use technology to reduce harmful effects to the environment, to improve work conditions and reduce waste of energy and of raw materials. The number of outlets has increased drastically over the past few years. For these investments COCO-MAT was able to use its own capital and not rely on loans. The tremendous growth and expansion of COCO-MAT, in combination with its high quality products, has now resulted in the name of “COCO-MAT” being familiar in most European consumer markets. COCO-MAT is one of the 500 nominated companies of Europe’s fastest-growing, entrepreneurial and job-creating companies, according to Europe’s 500 Listing. Furthermore, it is one of the 10 fastest growing companies in Greece. The cultural variation and multilingual pattern of its work force are quite evident, as most of the employees do not speak the Greek language fluently, being refugees from exEastern Block countries such as Russia (54% of the personnel). It is also important to point out that COCO-MAT implements a recruitment and employment policy that provides equal opportunities to people with “special skills” (the usual term used is “disabled people”). COCO-MAT’s presence in society is also evident in other ways; it participates in the local community providing sponsorships for athletic teams, associations and cultural events, funding environmental activities, information campaigns and supporting people in need (flood victims, old age pensioners, rehabilitation centres for drug addicts, prisoners, refugees etc.). To promote and support its culture of sustainability, COCO-MAT has established partnerships with individuals, social teams, external organizations and professional bodies in Greece and abroad. Examples are COCO-MAT’s partnerships with various Universities in Greece and abroad, EFQM, Cambridge University, UNESCO, WWF, United Nations, CSR Eurochambres in Brussels. During the 24 years of its operation, COCO-MAT has won significant awards and top distinctions, showing extremely positive results on issues of quality, personnel management, protection of the environment, methods of production and its social contribution. Such awards and distinctions make COCO-MAT proud of its achievements and giving strength to continue its efforts towards excellence. Awards and distinctions 1994 Brussels, Belgium European leader, establishing and promoting the Eco-label st 1995 Athens, Greece 1 Award, “Sustainability, Eco-friendly product Award”, Ministry of Development, 1996 Brussels, Belgium Award, Quality Reservation Initiative, ADAPT, 1996 Essen, Germany ISO 9001 certificate st 1997 Athens, Greece 1 Award, “Eco Award for products and producing methods”, Hellenic Commercial and Industrial Chamber, 1997 New York, USA Award, “Research & Use of Natural, Pioneer Raw Materials”, Henry Ford European Conservation Awards 1998 Cambridge, United Kingdom First Prize, “Business & the Environment Program from Industry”, Cambridge University Research 1998 Brussels, Belgium Prize, “SAFE”, Public Health & Safety in Working Areas and Installations 1999 Brussels, Belgium Amongst Top 8 companies in TQM, EFQM* 2000 Istanbul, Turkey Finalist of TQM, EFQM’s quality contest for the International prize “Environment and Peace” 2001 Brussels, Belgium Finalist in TQM, EFQM* nd 2002 Brussels, Belgium 2 Prize in TQM, EFQM* 2003 Brussels, Belgium Award in TQM, EFQM ‘No. 1 company in Europe’* st 2006 Athens, Greece 1 Prize, Human Resource prize, KPMG st 2007 Athens, Greece 1 Prize, Entrepreneurial Excellence Award of the Ministry of Development 2009 Prague, Czech Republic European Corporate Responsibility Award of the E-I Consulting Group 2010 Athens, Greece Corporate Social Responsibility Award for HR/Equal Opportunities by the Greek Advertisers’ Association Corporate Superbrand Award 2010 European Business Award for Environmentally-Friendly Products 2011 Athens, Greece Strongest Companies in Greece (*) TQM, Total Quality Management / EFQM, European Foundation of Quality Management Human Rights Principles Principle 1 “Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights” Human rights are rights inherent to all human beings, whatever our nationality, place of residence, sex, national or ethnic origin, colour, religion, language, or any other status. We are all equally entitled to our human rights without discrimination. All human rights are indivisible, whether they are civil and political rights, such as the right to life, equality before the law and freedom of expression, economic, social and cultural rights, such as the rights to work, social security and education , or collective rights, such as the rights to development and self-determination, are indivisible, interrelated and interdependent. The improvement of one right facilitates advancement of the others. COCO-MAT supports and respects human rights by implementing a series of HR policies and taking actions that underly its philosophy. The company offers equal opportunities to all employees by adopting a democratic management. More than half of the people are refugees and a further 12% are from what the company calls “special social groups” which includes disabled people. The company’s effort for motivating its employees is consistent with the formation of a common vision, by everyone for everyone, for the creation of development prospects, perfect working conditions and reduction of the hours of work. Continuous training and further education are encouraged along with the cultivation of a positive view on the part of the employees for the social aspect of their work. COCO-MAT encourages its employees to learn the English language by providing extra salary for the tuition, as well as employees who want to improve their knowledge on computers may attend lessons funded by the company. Employees receive a number of benefits such as continuous training, recognition and reward of personal achievements (in the form of salary bonuses, promotions and gifts) and recreational activities including Sunday excursions, football games etc. COCO-MAT supports its personnel by providing flexible hours of work and special leaves of absence for pursuing personal interests and activities (horse riding, football games, Sunday excursions, playing music etc). Additionally, COCO-MAT pays attention to the health of its employees through the assistance of a pathologist who periodically measures the blood pressure and heartbeats of the workforce. Figs, nuts, fruits of the season and freshly squeezed orange juice are offered to COCOMAT employees every morning. Employees are accommodated (buying at special prices or by interest-free installment plans) in order to use the products manufactured by them, and hence improve a vital part of their lives, that of sleep. Colleagues with physical handicaps, such as people with “special skills”, are encouraged to actively participate in the customer service procedure. AVERAGE OF EMPLOYEES SATISFACTION PER DEPARTMENT 100% 95% 90% Despite the variations noted in each department, the related figure shows that the average employee satisfaction per department is above 97%. The Statistics Office gives to the Head of TQM Department all the information concerning employees’ satisfaction As a result of company’s diversity and inclusiveness policies is that absenteeism is virtually zero and turnover is also very low. Moreover, COCO-MAT reinforces teamwork and collaboration. During the monthly meetings of the departments, the heads of the departments have the possibility to examine potential problems and malfunctions and take appropriate measures to resolve them. MAN-HOURS LOST MAN-HOURS ALLOCATION 0,76% MAN-HOURS LOST 17,62% DUE TO SICKNESS MAN-HOURS LOST Apart from its internal policies, COCO-MAT demonstrates interest for the human rights through a series of charity content activities. The company supported the habitants of Ileia, who suffer from fire recovery, by offering a truck full of COCOMAT’s product for their needs. Furthermore, COCO-MAT offered food supplies to the “Table of Love” and offered company’s products to support “Resteio” nursing home. Regarding, it is worthy to mention the company’s actual contribution to charities and welfare institutions such as “to Chamogelo tou Pediou”, “Karelleion”, “Special Olympics Athens 2011” and “MDA Hellas”. More recently, COCO-MAT collaborated on the Heart Pillow Project, a volunteer effort started in Greece by AWOG to support breast cancer patients with specially designed heart pillows that effectively help ease their pain. Principle 2 “Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses” COCO-MAT employees are encouraged to communicate their ideas and their problems without censorship. Direct communication between the employees and the Management is COCO-MAT’s basic philosophy. Through its communication policy the company makes sure that any potential problem could be heard and faced as well, so that employees’ rights are thoroughly protected. It is significant that the H.O.D. is addressed by his first name or nickname and not by his surname or title. COCO-MAT’s leadership has close relationships with all employees and is in permanent contact with them. “When I first met the people at COCO-MAT, I was impressed by their hospitable feelings. Simply by entering a COCO-MAT shop -in Greece and abroadanyone automatically becomes a friend and is treated more as a friend than as a customer. People visiting our shops are treated to homemade pies, local traditional delicacies, fresh fruits and juices, and then we talk with them; we listen to them. With a heartfelt sense of honour for the visit, we get lost in the moment, the interaction with another human being, a guest, and... forget about sales. Personally, I am always incredibly happy to host or participate in the various events held at COCO-MAT shops”. Giorgos (COCO-MAT Associate, owner of the shop in Iraklio, Greece) Apart from direct communication there is also indirect communication through the specific questionnaires referring to the person’s perception in terms of satisfaction with their job. The questionnaires are answered every six months by the employees and are collected by the statistics office for analysis. Employees can keep their anonymity, something that allows free expression of their views, though a 99% add their name to the questionnaires. “Employees’ Satisfaction Questionnaire” was reviewed last year. The new questionnaire covers more aspects of human resources management and permit to collect more accurate data (see Annex I). Employees’ Satisfaction Questionnaire – Old form EMPLOYEES’ SATISFACTION HOW YOU ASSESS THE COMPANY AT THE FOLLOWING SUBJECTS FORM DP-021 0 2 4 6 8 10 1 Health conditions 2 Safety conditions 3 Working hours 4 Salary 5 Facilities and extra benefits 6 Education 7 Career development 8 Taking initiatives 9 Participation in decision making processes 10 Communication with the leadership 11 Handling complaints 12 Cooperation with colleagues 13 Access to information 14 Creativity 15 Use of innovation 16 Fair processes 17 Recognition from the company 18 Organization of cultural events 19 Company’s role to the society 20 Company’s environmental action 21 Company’s products 22 Company’s services DATE: DEPARTMENT / STORE: NAME (optionally): Employees’ Satisfaction Questionnaire – New form EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION SURVEY 1st Part: You and the Com pany --+++ To w hat extent do you agree: 1 2 3 4 5 1 Would you spend the rest of your career in this company 2 I strongly feel that I belong to this company. 3 I feel proud to be w orking for this company. 4 I receive enough recognition from this company 5 When I talk about the company I usually use the term w e and not them . 6 My company has a great reputation. 7 My company provides support to personal problems. To w hat extent are you satisfied w ith : 1 2 3 4 5 1 The sanitation 2 Working Hours 3 Your salary 4 Facilities and extra benefits 5 The occupational security 6 The training 7 The communication w ith the management 8 The recognition you receive w hen you do a great job 9 The settlement of complaints 10 The merit-based procedures 11 The information access 12 The participation in decision making process 13 The attention given by the company to your suggestions 14 The opportunity to develop initiatives 15 The creativity of your w ork 16 The degree of variety of your w ork 17 The degree of your responsibility 18 The opportunities you have to improve your skills 19 The potential for promotion 20 The collaboration w ith collegues 21 The organization of social and cultural events 22 The company's role in the society 23 The action to protect the environment 24 The company's products 25 The company's services 2nd Part: Your m anager and your team or your departm ent --+++ My supervisor 1 2 3 4 5 1 Is present w hen I need him/her 2 Speaks w ith optimism for the future 3 Makes me feel proud 4 Devotes time to teach us things and guide us 5 Treats me as an individual and not simply as part of a team 6 Makes an attractive vision for the future 7 Does not avoid to take decisions 8 Helps me to develop my assets 9 Proposes me new w ays to do w hat he has assigned to me 10 Is fair 11 Keeps his promises 12 Is consistent and reliable 13 Has straightness 14 Works w ith responsibility 3rd Part: You and your job --+++ How clear are the follow ing in your job: 1 2 3 4 5 1 Job objectives 2 Your duties and responsibilities 3 The w ay you could improve your job perfomance 4 How to do your job 5 How your job relates to the general objectives of the team or the department 6 How to allocate your time among the different task that your job includes 7 The w ay your performance is assessed 8 Overall, how satisfied are you w ith your job NAME (opional) ………………………………………………………………………… Labour Principles COMPANY’s HR POLICY Vision & Values COCO-MAT has created a sustainable corporate culture that include equal opportunities for all and democratic management. COCO-MAT achieves high levels of customer and employee satisfaction as well as high quality natural products through effective leadership. Company’s leaders are role models for its values. They take part in total quality managemant training, drive the same sorts of cars as employees, donate blood, do not smoke and take exercise. COCO-MAT tries to maintain a family environment were people are free to speak openly and honestly. The company believes it is capitalising on the variety and freedom of opinion in the company while helping to ensure that its vision and values remain in accordance with employee attitudes. The company’s values and prospects are not the exclusive responsibility of the leadership; at the beginning of each year, leaders of the company, heads of the departments and employees come together to present their attitudes and express their own views for the purposes and the targets of the company. The mission, vision and values of the company are in complete accordance with every employees’ attitude as it is the result of the combination of everyone’s ideas (leadership + employees). Through this process the company manages to empower employees participation and communicate its targets. The vision and the values of the company are postered in visible places at the factory, the central offices and the shops. That decision, was very important for the employees because they learnt about company’s values. Moreover, this fact made confirmed their feeling that they are part of a big family. Furthermore employees continiously receive training and recognition for personal achievements as well as people from “special social groups” are give special working terms dependinding on their needs and abilities. COCO-MAT’s leaders act as role models for the company’s values by demonstrating their commitment to the company’s quality culture. Leadership participates actively in the procedure of improvements by watching all the stages of implementation and by proceeding in corrective actions when is judged necessary. The head of TQM department gathers all the information about the process of the improvement actions and is in permanent touch with the leadership. After the implementation of an improvement action, the head of TQM department studies all relative information, evaluates the effectiveness of those actions and inform the leadership about the results. COCO-MAT’s management, in an effort to understand and meet the needs and expectations of employees, customers, partners and external stakeholders follows a job model based on relevant research, and on the personal contacts made at the annual in-house conferences and seminars (at which the participants are customers, professors and specialists) as well as through direct personal contacts of managers. These partnerships refer to new technologies, training in new methods of production, storage and distribution of products, production and supply of raw materials, environmental protection, research programmes, training and occupation programmes for people with “special skills”, etc. Within this policy, come the employees’ training programmes, the purchase of equipment of advanced technology, the leaders’ participation in national and international conferences and communication of newly gained knowledge. Furthermore, the company’s policy is to communicate “best practices” outside the organisation through its co-operation with social and educational institutions and the exchange of knowledge and experiences on a theoretical and practical basis. Furthermore, it is COCO-MAT’s prime concern to allocate its resources to activities that create a sense of social awareness. Figure 7.6: EMPLOYEES' SATISFACTION OF THE 1% LEADERSHIP'S EFFECTIVENESS 2% VERY SATISFIED SATISFIED DISSATISFIED 97% Its sensitivity to social issues is demonstrated by its relationship with social groups and services, such as psychiatric institutions, people with “special skills”, athletic clubs, educational institutions, associations of Greeks repatriated from ex-Soviet Union countries, ecological organisations, rehabilitation centres of drug addicts. During the yearly self-assessment all the issues relating to people’s management are examined systematically. The head of the TQM department, in collaboration with the Head of H.R.O., plans the necessary actions for improvement, which are then passed to the general manager for conformation. COCO-MAT’s leaders review and improve the effectiveness of their leadership during the regular monthly meetings of the B.O.D. The performance of the departments as well as the suggestions from the heads and the personnel of the departments is considered and decisions on appropriate improvement actions are taken. The effectiveness of the leadership is evaluated during the six monthly review meetings of the board of directors. Principle 3 “Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining” The communication policy is clear and specific and is classified as internal – between the H.O.D. and the employees and external between the head of department and external partners and institutions. The internal communication flow is as follows: Commands Conveyance: B.O.D. à G.M. à TQM.D. à H.O.D. à EMPLOYEES The reverse commands conveyance is considered as imperative in order for every interested party to be informed. Complaints and ideas Conveyance: EMPLOYEES à H.O.D. à TQM.D. à G.M. à B.O.D. This communication is obtained through the institution of the “Morning coffee”, the departments’ meetings, the company’s conferences, the internal seminars. Moreover, the company adapted the institution of “morning coffee” in order to be more accessible and to meet better employees’ expectations. It is a very important innovative idea, which has been implemented in COCOMAT since September 2001. Every morning, after starting their duty, all employees, instead of working, gather in the workspace for 15-20 minutes, to meet one another and discuss football or any other social topic, the problems of the previous day and plan the timetable for the next day. This institution satisfied all the employees and contributes not only to solving operating problems but also in ameliorating communication problems between managers and employees. All employees are encouraged to take action and initiate projects. Employees involvement in the decision making process is a focal point for the smooth operation of the company. Through their extensive participation in the decision making process, the employees can express their views and problems, take initiatives and suggest any solutions regarding the improvement of the quality of the company’s products and services, the improvement of the production procedures and the working conditions. The head of TQM has special forms, where every employee can write down his or her proposals and ideas. The procedure for the collection and assessment of innovative ideas involves three stages: 1) Collection of employees’ ideas by the H.O.D. 2) Grouping and assessment of ideas by the Head of the H.R.O. 3) Presentation of ideas by the Head of the H.R.O. to the B.O.D. and decision making during its regular meetings. Moreover employee career development is directly connected with the company’s development. In this way, the employees’ participation in the improvement procedures draws its motivation from their own prospects of development. According to the company’s policy, all employees are encouraged to express their views and problems, take initiatives and suggest any solution. Coco-mat’s leadership awards those initiatives morally (promotion through the company’s newsletter, election of the employee of the year). At the same time, the company finances, (when is judged necessary by the heads of departments) educational programs so that the employees will be ready to respond to the new challenges. After a proposal has been judged necessary and realizable, the employee who made it takes part actively at the whole process of implementation by adding his own ideas. This is because we believe that this person knows more than anyone else what has to be done in order to obtain the best results. Employees’ extensive participation and involvement in the formulation of practical and realistic targets and plans is not only welcomed but also indispensable. Therefore, twice a year, in a departmental meeting following the regular meeting of the board of directors and the heads of departments, personnel can put forward any suggestions regarding the targets for the following six months. Every employee sets his or her own targets in order to modulate the targets of his or her department. COMMUNICATION PLAN MORNING DINNER SUNDAY MONTHLY FORM COFFEE TRIPS MEETINGS DP-021 When a problem comes up in a department, the head of department mobilizes a team of 3 persons to solve it. This team is called Instant Problem Solving Team (IPST) and consists of employees of the department who have knowledge of the problem. The IPST is in permanent cooperation with the head of department and the head of TQM Department. When the possible causes of the problem are located, the IPST is searching for solutions. The IPST operates as following: Form an IPST Locate the problem Find the reasons Check indicators Analise relative input The IPST Accept / reject solution logic Propose solutions Measure the Check if it is effectiveness realizable Implement improvements Employees’ attitudes are very important as they have full knowledge of every day problems and know all the weak points. Then, the heads of the departments have a meeting once a month in order to discuss new ideas, problems or malfunctions etc. The suggestions are recorded by the heads of departments in a relevant form and communicated to the TQM department, which in turn, assesses whether the targets are realistic and finally submits it to the general manager for approval. The heads of departments are empowered to implement the targets. COLLECTING MONTHLY MEETINGS MONITORING OF THE HEADS OF PROBLEMS EMPLOYEES’ THE DEPARTMENTS SET NEW IDEAS IMPLEMENTING EVALUATION OF THE NEW IDEAS BY THE B.O.D. NEW IDEAS TRANSFORM POLICY AND MEASURE THE STRATEGY EFFECTIVENESS Principle 4: “The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour” Labour exploitation can occur in many forms but forced labour is something quite distinct. It occurs where work or service is exacted by an authority who has the will and power to threaten workers with severe deprivations, such as withholding food or land or wages, physical violence or sexual abuse, restricting peoples' movements or locking them up. Forced labour does not only constitute a violation of fundamental human rights, but it also deprives societies of the opportunity to develop skills and human resources, and to educate children for the labour markets of tomorrow. COCO-MAT places great emphasis on people embracing all types of human activity – giving equal chances to everybody irrespective of their nationality, colour, religion, or physical disability. Moreover, all employees are treated with respect and they are given multiple opportunities of training and development.. “Every time a grateful customer comes to the shop to thank us for the relaxing and restful sleep he enjoys thanks to our products, we feel truly happy about the choice we made, 15 years ago, to become members of the COCO-MAT family. The company was very young at the time, just 8 years old, but certain things convinced us that it would stand out. What mostly captivated us and made us confident about entering into a partnership with COCO-MAT was its philosophy and commitment to the environment, society and people with special skills (our word for the disabled). Today we are proud to be members of a Greek company that continues to inspire us. The products are manufactured in Xanthi. The company respects the environment, as it has been doing since the beginning, and embraces people of different nationalities and abilities. We enjoy being part of a colourful group of people with talent, honesty and vision. It makes us sleep well at night.” Eugenia & Marianna (owners of the shop in Kalamata, Greece) Other measures that areintended to integrate company's employees into a very friendly working environment, include: Sunday excursions in the company's buses, the ability of personnel to receive an interest-free loan from thecompany of more than 3.000 Euros, special working terms for special skilled people(specific number of hours or days a week, depending on their needs and abilities), special awards and organisation of events to honour employees with significant contribution to the company. COCO-MAT’s employees follow a specific job description that is defined and updated periodically by the head of department. The head of department, based on proposals coming from employees, updates the job descriptions annually, if required. All the job descriptions are kept on file and are studied by the head of the H.R.O. in association with the heads of departments in order update and improve them if necessary. Having received and studied the job description, every employee becomes familiar with his basic responsibilities as well as with the procedures for the execution of his duties, within the framework of the Quality Management System. Consequently, it becomes easier for the employee to present his personal targets and contribute to the formulation of targets of his department. Departmental targets and suggestions for their achievement are recorded by the head of department, and are then forwarded to the H.R.O., in order to be reviewed and ensure their compliance with the company’s overall principles and expectations. The H.R.O., taking into consideration all the aforementioned, may proceed with appropriate modifications, and requests the general manager’s approval to do so. Departments are empowered to implement their improvement plans, so as to achieve the agreed targets. F ig u re 7.6: EM PL OY EES' SAT ISF AC T ION OF T H E C OM PAN Y 'S R OL E IN T H E C OM M U N IT Y 1% 2% VER Y SAT ISF IED SAT ISF IED D ISSAT ISF IED 97% During the 23 years of its operation, COCO-MAT has won significant awards and top distinctions, showing extremely positive results on issues of personnel management that confirm its best human resources practices. Regarding, the company was nominated by the 1st Human Resource prize by KPMG in 2006 and more recently, in 2010, by the Corporate Social Responsibility Award for HR/Equal Opportunities by the Greek Advertisers’ Association. Principle 5 “The effective abolition of child labour” Child labour is work that harms children or keeps them from attending school. It threatens children’s physical, mental, or emotional well-being by involving intolerable abuse, such as child slavery, child trafficking, debt bondage, forced labour or illicit activities. COCO-MAT supports every possible effort to help social groups in need, especially children, as part of company’s philosophy concerning social contribution. A series of sponsorships and donations to organizations that protect children reinforce company’s social contribution and demonstrate its profound social awareness. During 2011, COCO-MAT supported the non governmental organization “Kivotos tou Kosmou” that helps children experiencing abandonment, racism and social exclusion by providing products value of 50.000€. Moreover, the company supported the Christian house of girls “Agia Anna” and offered 20.000 school bags to Ivory Coast. “I embraced COCO-MAT's outwardness, its philosophy and ideas about human-centered development. A mighty vessel, COCO-MAT proudly sails the world, delivering its products to the ends of the earth. But mostly, spreading the priceless Greek civilization, the values of hospitality, tolerance and cooperation throughout America, China, the Arab World, across Europe, leaving a smile in every corner of the world.” Danielle (Head of COCO-MAT China) Principle 6 “The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation” In the above framework, COCO MAT focuses on offering equal opportunities to all employees and a democratic management. It is worth noting that COCO-MAT has achieved an exceptional and honoring novelty: more than 54% of its employees are refugees from the ex Soviet Union and Turkey, a fact that demonstrates the company’s interest in special social groups. This interest is also expressed by the recruitment of “special skilled” people, people from families with many children and people who face racial, religious and ethnic discrimination. In our company we have 13 nationalities and 9 religions. Twice yearly, January and June, the each head of department, always in agreement with the strategic decisions of the board of directors, records his or her department’s employment needs and compiles and then submits a relevant report to the head of the human resources office (H.R.O). The head of H.R.O., in turn, reviews the report and submits it to the general manager for approval. There are different reports for the factory (Xanthi), the central office (Athens) and the stores. The recruitment process, which is supervised by the H.R.O., includes: Advertisements of positions in the daily press. Resume collection and evaluation by the H.R.O. Interview of the candidate by the Head of the H.R.O. One month training of the candidate by the Head of the relevant department in order for candidate to be introduced to the company’s culture. COCO-MAT, acknowledges variation in human character and does not apply concrete and bold criteria in recruiting new employees. Characteristics, such as behaviour, personality, professionalism, career orientation, commitment, loyalty and ecological sensitivity are considered as the most crucial criteria for selection, in combination with candidate’s background, specific knowledge, professional training and working experience. Hire employees from sensitive social Provide all groups. necessary facilities to these people. Communicate COCO-MAT’s directly with all employees. HUMAN Act as a family. RESOURCES POLICY Feel proud of your achievements. Promote your philosophy. WISDOM Continuous training and further education of COCO-MAT’s people is considered by the company as vital both in achieving its competitive advantage and in sustaining the top professional value of its people. Training needs and plans are identified through the following procedure: A. Training needs are identified twice a year, during the months of January and June, where the departments can record the training they feel they require, and submit the relevant reports to the H.R.O. B. The head of department may also submit additional reports for further education or training, such as in cases of new products being introduced or the recruitment of new employees. C. Suggestions regarding the most convenient place, methods and time of training are also submitted. D. The specifications of the training programmes are identified by the head of the H.R.O. in association with the head of department who submits them to the general manager for obtaining approval of the necessary funding. The head of the Human Resources Office keeps a file containing personnel training charts for each department and a Personnel Training Record. The head of the Human Resources Office makes different educational plans for each department according to its needs. He also tries to find innovative training programs. So, in collaboration with the creative team of the company, they created a CD-ROM including all the appropriate information. This method had a great success and it reinforced the employees’ interest. The effectiveness of the training scheme, at employee level, is evaluated through written exams and through the review of performance indices. At the same time, the heads of the departments are evaluating every employee according to the monthly department results, the application of good practices, the number of mistakes, his speed etc. So, if an employee is not as efficient as expected in a specific domain, the head of his department gives a written report to the General Manager explaining the problem. The General Manager examines the whole situation and if it is needed, gives the authorisation for financing the employee’s training: for example a feeble knowledge on computer use can be improved by watching relevant seminars. So, the first Sunday of each month, employees who want to improve their knowledge on computers may attend lessons funded by the company. Moreover, in case of new technologies, all the involved employees have to be trained accordingly (for example a new machine that its use needs special training). It is obvious that employees are the biggest investment for COCO-MAT. That is why COCOMAT does not hire employees for limited time, but looks for permanent positions. Through continuous training and education all the employees are ready to correspond to the future demands of a very competitive field. Employees consider COCO-MAT as a learning institution because of the continuous passion for learning in the company. During the reviewing meetings, the leadership evaluates the effectiveness of the training procedure according to information given from the head of each department. This information is based on the improvement of the employee after finishing the training program and on the evaluation of his trainers that is given in written to the head of the department. The company organises seminars that are attended by the head of each department (H.O.D.), outlet managers, and company personnel. In addition, every head of department organises two-hour lectures every month, to update personnel in the department on new requirements and developments. The certification of improvements is controlled and documented on the company’s electronic database. COCO-MAT has adopted an internal training flow that is presented below: COCO-MAT’s EDUCATION PLAN Training of the B.O.D. Training of managers through organisations and by the B.O.D. and universities’ conferences external trainers Internal seminars for training and information for H.O.D. Training of Managers and the H.O.D. in new technologies that can be applied in the particular field (by external trainers) Training of employees by the H.O.D. Review and assessment of training effectiveness Consideration of any improvements in the structure of the training plan Furthermore COCO-MAT places great emphasis in the assessment process.. Employees’ assessment has three stages: 1. The head of the department or the store examines the semi-annual targets. 2. The leadership takes into account the individual and department targets. Employees’ assessment is done by the head of each department, the leadership and the annual vote for the “Employee of the Year”. Moreover, each year the company organises a surprise-party in honour of the best employee. Every semester, during the reviewing meetings of the B.O.D., the leadership discusses issues concerning company’s development. Furthermore, they discuss about the new positions and who is the most appropriate to cover them, who has to be promoted etc. All employees are informed about these processes so that they have an important incentive in order to be more effective and propose innovative ideas. In other words COCOMAT’s employees do not just view their occupation as means of securing an income, but also as an opportunity for personal achievement and fulfillment. COCO-MAT has consistently recognized employees’ contribution to the company. Accordingly, the company has established procedures regarding the appraisal of personnel performance and satisfaction of personal aspirations and career development opportunities. Performance appraisal is based on the degree to which the targets have been achieved. The targets may be individual and/or team targets. Below you can find our employees assessment form: ASSESSMENT REPORT assessment period : A. GENERAL INFORMATION NAME Department: Hiring Date : Birth Date : QUALITY OF WORK To w hat extent does he/she contributes to the achievement of department's objectives 1 2 3 4 5 ςProduces the required amount of w ork 1 2 3 4 5 Has the ability to execute tasks w ith accuracy according to the instructions given 1 2 3 4 5 Has the ability to effectively manage time and to complete tasks w ithin specific timetables 1 2 3 4 5 Has the ability to w ork independently w ith the minimal supervision 1 2 3 4 5 Has the ability and the w illingness to participate in decision making and in the development of new ideas 1 2 3 4 5 Has the ability to react quickly and to manage high pressure situations in periods of great w orkload 1 2 3 4 5 ΤΗΣORGANIZATION OF WORK TO ENSURE ITS SUCCESSFUL EXECUTION Schedules so that the separate tasks are completed on time 1 2 3 4 5 Responds promptly to customers' requests and company's demands 1 2 3 4 5 Τηρεί τις διαδικασίες π ου έχουν οριστεί απ ό την εταιρείαFollow s the procedures that the company has set 1 2 3 4 5 Is interested in learning more about his/her job (eg. by asking other colleagues) 1 2 3 4 5 Has the ability to identify and resolve problems and take initiatives 1 2 3 4 5 Monitors the successful completion of separate tasks and informs his/her supervisor for possible delays or problems 1 2 3 4 5 ORIENTATION/ FOCUS ON SALES IN ORDER TO PROMOTE THE COMPANY Identifies new costumers or new opportunities 1 2 3 4 5 Actively promotes the company by participating in all company's activities 1 2 3 4 5 ORIENTATION/FOCUS ON CUSTOMER IN ORDER TO PROVIDE HIGH QUALITY SERVICES Places customer service over his/her ow n convenience 1 2 3 4 5 Has the ability to respond to the problems of internal and external customers as w ell 1 2 3 4 5 Takes initiatives in order to find w ays to overcome problems that affect customer service 1 2 3 4 5 Is consistent as far as the company's rules are concerned (eg. Attendance hours, presences e.t.c) 1 2 3 4 5 PARTICIPATION AND COOPERATION WITH THE MEMBERS OF A TEAM Fits in a team 1 2 3 4 5 Cooperates w ith and helps the other members of the team 1 2 3 4 5 Offers ideas and suggestions to the team 1 2 3 4 5 Helps to resolve issues, conflicts and problems w hen the need arises 1 2 3 4 5 Works for the achievement of team's objectives 1 2 3 4 5 ADAPTABILITY AND EFFECTIVE RESPONSE TO CHANGE Accepts the changes in the w ork environment 1 2 3 4 5 Becomes quickly effective in new situations 1 2 3 4 5 Approaches new systems, procedures and technologies w ith an open mind 1 2 3 4 5 COMMITMENT FOR A SUCCESSFUL CAREER IN THE COMPANY Demonstrates vigor and determination 1 2 3 4 5 Seeking and responding to new challenges (development, opportunities, perspectives) 1 2 3 4 5 Willing to undertake extra responsibilities boyond his/her ordinary job demands 1 2 3 4 5 Makes progress in acquiring professional skills 1 2 3 4 5 Takes advantage of opportunities for training and development 1 2 3 4 5 COMMUNICATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF HARMONIC RELATIONS WITH OTHERS He/She listens to others w ithout hurring to judge or to evaluate 1 2 3 4 5 He/She has the ability to exchange ideas and to foster a positive atmosphere of mutual respect 1 2 3 4 5 He/She expresses openly his/her ideas, feelings and needs 1 2 3 4 5 He/She tolarates view s and perceptions of others 1 2 3 4 5 Maintains friendly relations w ith customers w hile remaining impartial and unaffected in his relations 1 2 3 4 5 PRESENTATION OF IDEAS IN AN UNDERSTANDABLE WAY He/She demonstrates ideas convincingly, clearly, briefly and accurately and at the appropriate level for the specific audience 1 2 3 4 5 He/She configures communication in order to be logical and helpful 1 2 3 4 5 He/She demonstrates his/her ow n ideas ( 1 2 3 4 5 TECHNIQUES & PROFESSIONAL SKILLS/ EXPERTISE PROFESSIONAL SKILLS : 1 2 3 4 5 KNOWLEDGE OF THE PRODUCTS: 1 2 3 4 5 QUANTITY OF WORK (SPEED): 1 2 3 4 5 QUALITY OF WORK (ACCURACY): 1 2 3 4 5 FOREIGN LANGUAGES : 1 2 3 4 5 COMPUTER SKILLS 1 2 3 4 5 OTHER SKILLS/ COMPETENCIES: 1 2 3 4 5 DUTIES POSITIVE ASPECTS NEGATIVE ASPECTS POINTS TO BE IMPROVED TRAINING NEEDS POTENTIAL FOR DEVELOPMENT & PROMOTION · He/She has great capabilityl to undertake new expanded duties/ responsibilities and it is expected that w hen he/she w ill gain experience he/she w ill perform very w ell · He/She has the capability to undertake new expanded duties/ responsibilities and after the appropriate training and experience, he/she w ill perform w ell · He/She needs considerable time in order to be able to develop skills and qualifications that are essential for his/her new and expanded duties/ responsibilities · At the present time he/she does not seem to have the capabilities to undertake new expanded duties/ responsibilities Moreover, every employee is given the opportunity to achieve his or her professional aspirations. The criteria for employees’ career development are based on their general performance in the company, measured by personal performance indicators, teamwork, initiation of development projects and level of knowledge. As a new position is created, the head of the particular department seeks the employee profile that satisfies the relevant prerequisites and recommends him to the head of the H.R.O. With regard to the managerial positions, the head of the H.R.O. assesses the candidates and recommends them to the general manager. More specifically, during the first ten days of each year, the heads of the departments make a report to the leadership for the new positions created in their department. At the same time they indicate the employee who could be more sufficient for each position. Afterwards, the leadership makes the final evaluation based on the opinion of the heads of the departments, the results of each department, the performance indicators of each employee, the opinion of his colleagues (inside and outside the department) and the number and quality of his ideas-suggestions. Proposal of the B.O.D.’ s Department’s Performance Colleagues’ Number / Head of the Proposal results Indicators attitude realisation of Department innovative ideas PROMOTION Environmental Principles Principle 7: “Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges” Determined to create the best beds in the world, we turned to Nature and attempted to decode its secrets. We were inspired by the circles that tell the story of a tree's life. By the sea breeze. By the resilience of the cactus. Imitating Nature's ways, we arrayed its gifts in one body, harmoniously combining multiple layers of allnatural materials. The inherent elasticity of natural rubber, perfectly matched the stability of coconut fibre. Seaweed emits iodine to soothe respiration. Horsehair and cactus fibres regulate humidity and eucalyptus lends its seductive fragrance. All the materials together, unified, interact and create ideal sleeping conditions. COCO-MAT believes that Mother Nature’s products cannot be improved and based on this belief, the use of natural materials has become one of its indisputable values. With this, it leads by example, not only the competition, but also by creating close relationships with its customers who trust a company which puts its words and values into actions. The exclusive use of natural raw materials for the manufacturing of the company’s products aims at being able to provide a high-quality product to its customers and consists of COCO-MAT’s competitive advantage. Customer satisfaction is the guide and motivation in one for COCO-MAT. For this reason, products and services are designed based on the needs and expectations of the customers. Sustainability and the protection of the environment are part of COCO-MAT’s policy and belief system and putting this philosophy into practice every day by respecting the customer and the environment is a pillar of COCO-MAT’s philosophy. A series of significant awards demonstrate the recognition of many institutes and organizations concerning company’s environmentally – friendly manufacturing methods. To name but a few, Award of the Ministry of Development for pioneering production methods and environmentally friendly products in 1995, the Henry Ford European Conservation Award for “Research on the use of natural, innovative raw Materials” in 1997, 1st prize in “Business & the Environment Program from Industry”, 1st prize in the European Total Quality Competition in 2003, and the European Business Award for Environmentally-Friendly Products in 2010. Principle 8 “Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility” Our world is the gift of Nature to Chaos. All the elements working together to form and sustain our world have specific reasons for existence, clearly defined use value, and they present us with unlimited ways to make the most of them. Man, as the privileged beneficiary of this treasure, has only to discover it. COCO-MAT uses light and energy from the sun and sustainable raw materials to create its 100% natural products. COCO-MAT, known for its commitment to actions that protect the environment and promote sustainability, has taken a series of initiatives in order to enhance environmental responsibility. Therefore the packaging of products mattresses are transported in cotton cases. In addition, all the packaging materials that are used by the company are recyclable and are collected by the company upon delivery of its products to the customers, for returning to the factory for recycling. COCO-MAT’s leaders’ marked sensitivity to environmental issues and their efforts to protect the environment is demonstrated by their participation in relevant events, conferences, sponsorship of ecological organisations, the organisation of plantations, cleaning of rivers and beaches, visits to hospitals and nursing homes and so on. Regarding, in 2004 the company started a campaign for the suppression of use of plastic under the name “2004 without plastic”. That's why the plastic package of the mattresses has been replaced with cotton cases. According to this philosophy furniture is delivered in wooden boxes. In addition COCO-MAT uses gas for its cars and factories. Over the years COCO-MAT has gained a series of awards most of which concern its environmental policy. In 2010 the company was nominated with the “European Business Award for Environmentally-Friendly Products”. More recently, acting on its beliefs COCO-MAT has decided to launch a special program providing motivation to those who wish to take additional action for the protection of the environment and their own health. Since 1 September 2011, COCO-MAT employees in Greece earn a 5% increase in their wages by using a bicycle for their transportation to and from work, and a further 3% increase by quitting smoking. Also customers travelling by bicycle to visit a COCO-MAT store are given a 5% discount on their purchase. “We, in COCO-MAT, respect the environment and do everything we can to protect it. Our mattresses are packed and stored in fabric cases and delivered in specially modified bicycles:”. Alexandros (owner of the shop in Gerakas, Greece) Moreover, the Global Eco Forum 2011, an annual global conference on sustainability and ecology that was held in Barcelona, invited Paul Efmorfidis to speak on the conference about environmental responsibility and accountability in businesses. During 2011, the company in cooperation with “Arktouro”, an environmental organization for the protection of wild species in Greece, adopted a little bear and it also offered a donation to the association of protection of wild life “Anima”. Finally COCO-MAT sponsored a photography exhibition, an initiative to support Mediterranean wetlands. Principle 9 “Encourage the development & diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies” Quality sleep is more than just another factor promoting good health, well-being and longevity; it is, in fact, so important, it becomes a fundamental prerequisite. Restful sleep can improve physical, mental and emotional health. It enables the body to restore its energy and the mind to relax. A good night's sleep is the greatest reward for the efforts of the day that passed, and the best way to prepare for the following day. COCO-MAT operates in the industrial area of Xanthi, in the wider region of Thrace, which is designed to become one of the most developed industrial areas of Greece. COCO-MAT’s premises are located in the industrial park of the Industrial Development Bank of Greece. The infrastructure of the area allows the company to manufacture its products without any adverse noise pollution. The machinery is certified with the sign C.E. and as far as the level of noise is concerned, its contribution to the general noise is less than the limit imposed by E.U. legislation. The operation of COCO-MAT’s factory has the minimum possible harmful impact on the environment. The liquid waste of the factory is only that generated by the people and by ordinary cleaning. It should be pointed out that the percentage of rubber foam purity that is manufactured at the company’s premises, reaches a level of 96% for which COCOMAT can be proud as it has a worldwide record. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10 “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion & bribery” Being good is nice. Being perfect is better. In our pursuit of progress, we evolved. But we didn't change. Every step forward only brings us closer to the values we leaned upon when we first started. We insist on manufacturing our products by hand and devote countless hours trying to reach perfection. We work with our hands, tirelessly. We work with our hearts, passionately. From mattresses and headboards, to armchairs and sofas, everything is made by the hands of people who best know how. We measure wood with precision. We cut fabrics with skill. Without smoke or noise, we work patiently, as only those who truly love what they do, can. And loving what we do, we learned how to do it perfectly. Corruption occurs at all levels of society such as local and national governments, civil society, judiciary functions, large and small business, military and so on. By this way, corruption wears out confidence in national institutions and contributes to a sustained economic crisis. This phenomenon is both a major cause and a result of poverty around the world. Corruption affects all elements of society as it undermines democracy, political and economic development, the environment and people’s health as well. Corruption is now considered as one of the world’s greater challenges as it distorts competition and impedes economic growth. COCO-MAT is up to this challenge by following the rules of governance and focusing on anti-corruption measures in order to protect its philosophy and reputation. The company fights corruption through the implication of its business strategy, its organizational culture and its day-to-day operations. In general, COCO-MAT supports and intents to support in the future, the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. The company is also keen on engaging and subjecting to company’s capacities, in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations and undertaking to make a clear statement of this commitment to its stakeholders and the general public. Finally, COCO-MAT is proud to express its commitment to the Global Compact in its efforts to protect human rights, to support labour, to foster sustainable development, to respect the environment, and to promote anti-corruption. Annex I Employees’ Satisfaction Survey 2011 Annex II Environmental Indicators Annex III Updates 31/07/2013: Milan store grand opening Looks like COCO-MAT and Milan are meant to be! After so many years of COCO-MAT visiting the world's fashion and design capital for the prestigious Salone Internazionale del Mobile, the first COCO-MAT flagship store in Milan opened its doors with a grand opening party! If you happen to find yourself strolling around the beautiful Duomo area in Milan, don't miss out on the opportunity to visit our new store! Our friendly team there would be happy to treat you to a glass of freshly-squeezed orange juice. 31/07/2013: LIFE by COCO-MAT: Grand Store Opening in Berlin After Milan, COCO-MAT celebrated the opening of its newest store, this time right in the heart of Europe, in bustling Berlin, where we proudly presented our new concept. Life by COCO-MAT is a unique blend of restful sleep, natural living and unpretentious beauty, featuring a selection of high quality Greek brands. Visit our Berlin store to find not only COCO-MAT’s 100% natural mattresses and sleep products but also Greek designers' creations, from jewels and marble-made objects, to natural cosmetics and healthy natural snacks from ZEUS+ΔΙΟΝΕ, Korres, PentheRoudakiS, Citrus, Iktinos Marmaron, Dolly Boucoyannis, Tsanos and 157+173 designers. 27/01/2013: Our first store in the Chinese COCO-MAT is proud to announce the opening of a brand new store. Our new store in Beijing opened on January 26th in the We-life plaza, and this will be the first one in the Chinese capital. We-life plaza is located in the middle of the Asia Olympic business area, very close to the Easyhome plaza on the the north fourth ring. It is a central point for home furnishing business. This shopping mall is quite fashionable, and its high quality and unique design is very close to our philosophy of a green and healthy lifestyle. COCO-MAT will surely become a shopping destination for the fashionable and ecofriendly crowds of the Chinese capital, and it will bring a fresh and fashionable touch to this bustling city. 08/04/2013: COCO-MAT at the prestigious Salone del Mobile 2013 COCO-MAT is proudly took part in the prestigious Salone Internazionale del Mobile in Milan, Italy from 9 to 14 April, for the fifth year in a row. Salone Internazionale del Mobile is the global benchmark for the home furnishing sector. Over 280,000 people visit Milan every year for the deco fair, which has become the meeting point of major designers, interior designers and architects who gather to see the world’s most established brands exhibit their creations. 16/06/2013: Million Tree project in Shanghai COCO-MAT held Million Tree Project Event with Shanghai Roots & Shoots in Shanghai Kerry Parkside on June. 16th, to raise donations for planting trees and arouse people's environmental awareness. Donating 30 yuan, there will be one more sapling born in Inner Mongolia in next year spring. All the children got a chance to plant by hand, they drew their dream on the fresh color pots, then planted the mints. The donations will be donated to Shanghai Roots & Shoots, Million Tree Project for planting trees in the next year spring, there will be handreds of volunteers go to Inner Mongolia to plant trees. 21/02/2013: ELSA and ME event at COCO-MAT On Tuesday, February 5th, 2013, COCO-MAT Soho hosted an event with Maja Svensson, the founder of Elsa & Me, to celebrate the launch of their spring collection. The Elsa & Me dress is a versatle dress that can be worn for any occassion and is made locally with organic, eco-fabric. The event also featured Care & S, a new detergent product promoting sustainable fashion care. As well as being biodegradable, hypoallergenic and certified with EU Ecolabel, each detergent capsule is produced in a single dose form to prevent detergent overdosing. Friends, fans and clients of Elsa & Me and COCO-MAT, as well as fashion designers and various people in the industry came together to celebrate the launch and promote sustainable fashion practices. 15/11/2012: COCO-MAT initiated environment education More than forty middle school studens and teachers from Singaporean 8 key schools visited COCO-MAT Kerry Centre store on Nov. 15th. They came to Shanghai to study a subject named “Afforestation and Environmental conservation”. As a part of the study, we tried to get COCO-MAT become a environment education base to train students to respect nature and focus on environment protection. Aimed to make them get used to green consumption. Miss Danielle Ruan, director of COCO-MAT in China, gave them a very wonderful speech about COCO-MAT philosophy. Danielle guided all the students to feel our raw material by themselves and experience our products. She also introduced that how we insist on using the 100% natural material and how we should be responsible for nature, people and society. Students and teachers were active to interact with us and express their opinion to do some effort about our environment. We are increasingly aware of our broader responsibilities through this event. For sparkpluging environmental and healthy consumption idea we have to do our best. In future, we hope we can share sleep on nature with more and more people. 31/10/2012: Setting sail to new destinations Now open in Seoul COCO-MAT is bringing its extraordinary style, its high quality mattresses & comfy sleep products made from natural materials, and its much-loved philosophy of hospitality to Seoul, South Korea. The new store is now open, introducing our unique philosophy and our handcrafted natural mattresses to the city of Seoul. The store is located at a popular shopping street and is carrying our full selection of sleep products, mattresses, bed linen and urban-chic furniture made from natural materials only, with honesty, true craftsmanship and care. 21/09/2012 • 30/11/2012: Drawings and Dreams... Art Exhibition in Thessaloniki Paintings, drawings and sketches, decorated with ornaments and materials, tell us a fairytale story of innocence and joy. Artist Eleonora Varati presented her work at our COCO-MAT store in Thessaloniki, Greece, and invited us to join her on a fascinating journey. The artist's forms are influenced by her deep emotional attachment to colours, neo-romantism and the transformation of materials. Everyday objects are used in unconventional ways, the colours seem to fade and a nostalgic feeling of our childhood years emerges. The object in the painter's work, petit girls and little misses, reflects her love for her two daughters, childlike innocence and everything that is pure and authentic, regardless of whether it is real. Dreams, wishes, fairytales, velvet and lace, materials and forms, intertwine and give us new forms, new impressions, new feelings. 15/10/2012 Green Party at COCO-MAT Barcelona, or how Design met Flora On Saturday October 13th Oh!BCN prepared a Green Party at COCO-MAT Barcelona. The party was filled with “green” surprises such as a “vegetable photocall,” and several interesting workshops that promote “green living.” Alongside workshops like a raw Food workshop and creating your own dishware out of fruits and vegetables, there was an art exhibit a concert, a guest speaker who talked about the healing aspects of amazonian flowers and even a speed dating. It was a party not to be missed, and those who did were green with envy. 09/10/2012: Sweet day in Madrid! The last two Saturdays of September 2012 were very sweet indeed! COCO-MAT store in Madrid hosted a yummy cookie decorating workshop for the whole family. The workshop was tough by La Tanana. 09/10/2012: COCO-MAT supports the Raval Solidarity Foundation The Raval Solidarity Foundation is a foundation that aims to support the most urgent needs of the Raval district of the city of Barcelona. Raval Foundation works with three entities to ensure the economic viability of the programs carried out. These entities are Montalegre Social Action (family), Braval (socio-educational support) and Terral (promotion of women). The programs are aimed at everyone in the Raval district of Barcelona, regardless of origin, and they intend to forge strong community relationships and improve the everyday life in Raval. The Raval Solidarity Foundation has organized a charity golf tournament with the help of COCO-MAT. 20/08/2012: COCO-MAT aids Healing Home charity organization A team of eager COCO-MAT volunteers from Shanghai visited “Shanghai Healing Home” and spent the whole day with the children, playing with them, donating supplies and helping making their home a warmer, safer place. Shanghai Healing Home is a non-profit organization that provides care for abandoned babies born with surgically correctable medical conditions. Shanghai Healing Home provides a familyfocused, home-like environment that meets not only the babies' physical needs but also their emotional and social needs. Babies born with cleft lip and palate face difficulties with their nutrition because they have a hard time drinking from the bottle. The trained nannies and chaperons of Shanghai Healing Home are taking care of the babies, prepare them for going into surgery and provide care for them until they are fully recovered. Our team of eight COCO-MAT volunteers visited Shanghai Healing Home on August 4th and was welcomed by the children and their nannies who were very happy to receive us as guests. We brought them toys and other useful things, such as baby blankets and bedspreads. At first we played together and had a great time, but then it was also time for some work! We divided up into two teams, and each team took action. The first group took care of the garden and weeded out all the nasty weeds, while the other group was responsible for cleaning indoors. 06/07/2012 • 06/07/2012: Bicycle event for kids at Chania On Friday, June 6, 2012 we organised a fun and educational event. We learnt how to drive our bikes with caution and how to keep safe. We talked to our young friends about the road rules and share some very handy safety tips. And, more importantly, enjoyed our bicycles and had as much fun as possible! 25/06/2012: Wine Event with New Wines of Greece We started the event at 5pm on Wednesday, June 20th. We served roasted eggplant and tomato, zucchini and squash, with chocolate covered figs. These foods were paired with excellent white, red, and dessert wines! Throughout the night we had the pleasure to welcome many guests from SoHo, and even some from Greece! And, since it was our co-worker's birthday, the night went on, after the wine tasting ended with many friends who joined us to celebrate our colleague's birthday! Everybody had a great time and we promised our guests that this will be the first of many wine tasting events to come! 20/04/2012 • 26/05/2012: Hatha yoga classes at Barcelona Hatha yoga is a kind of physical yoga. The word Hatha comes from Ha, which means the sun, and tha, which means the moon. Hatha is the balance between the two hemispheres of the brain and the two energy centers of the human body. This balance is achieved when we integrate these two different poles, so we can awake all our creative and spiritual potentials. In the practice of hatha yoga it is important to maintain a steady, calm breathing, so as to stop the fluctuations of the mind, and focus on the present moment. If you wanted to achieve this perfect sense of balance, you could join our Hatha yoga classes at COCO-MAT store in Barcelona. 22/04/2012 • 03/05/2012 FYSIE – a photo exhibition at Amsterdam store In her exhibition FYSIE, Lilian van Veen shows us a selection of her work from the past five years. Pictures are inspired by nature and show details many of us will fail to notice. Her images are applied to materials or altered with colours adding an extra dimension. Looking at the pictures of Lilian is like taking a journey through nature. 30/04/2012: COCO-MAT supports MDA Hellas COCO-MAT supports MDA (Muscular Dystrophy Association) Hellas and which aids people suffering from muscular dystrophy problems. It recently made a donation to furnish the home of MDA Hellas, where the members and friends of the organization get together to have socialize, to communicate and to make the most of their free time, taking part in different activities. MDA Hellas is a non-profit organization that was established to support people suffering from muscular dystrophy problems as well as their families. COCO-MAT is very sensitive in matters of sustainability and social contribution, and is always trying to support similar organizations of charitable cause. 20/03/2012 • 17/04/2012: Revitalize body & soul with energetic foods COCO-MAT is passionate about the benefits of a good night sleep for our health, both physical and psychological. However there’s more we can do to help our mind and body stay in top shape! Eating well is equally important, and we are keen to learn how we can improve our diet and get more energy from food. COCO-MAT Barcelona hosted two workshops with chef Mai Vives. Our beloved “energy” chef helped us explore the secrets of healthy, balanced and energizing meals. 07/03/2012: COCO-MAT joins the Heart Pillow Project Did you know that over 4,000 women in Greece alone are affected by breast cancer every year? Join COCO-MAT in support of these women. Join the Heart Pillow Project. By making your own pillow for the annual Pillow Week event, you are helping to make a heart pillow which will reach into the arms of a woman who truly needs it. For every pillow sold during Pillow Week, COCO-MAT made and donated a heart pillow to the Heart Pillow Project. The heart pillow, as the name implies, is a soft, heart-shaped pillow, developed to ease the pain of women who have gone through a surgical operation in their fight against breast cancer. It may be small, but it means the world to someone. It's not only a practical aid to newly-operated patients, but also a kind reminder that they are not alone in their struggle.
