the Volvo group sustainability report 2012 Our journey towards sustainable transport solutions Content STRATEGIC APPROACH 3 CEO comment 4 About the Volvo Group 6 Sustainability approach 13 Front cover: Tumelo Myeza has Governance 19 started as a Skills for Risk management 22 Life apprentice, having graduated from Star for Life schools in South Africa. She is now the FUTURE TRANSPORTS 24 first woman working as a technician at Volvo Sustainable transport solutions 25 Truck’s Pinetown Infrastructure 27 workshop. Carbon dioxide-neutral transport 28 Electromobility 30 Intelligent vehicles 32 Freight efficiency 34 Volvo Group Venture Capital 36 SOCIETY ENGAGEMENT 37 The Volvo Group – a part of society 38 Research partnerships 39 Professional training 41 Traffic safety 44 Commuting 46 Global partnerships 47 VALUE CHAIN 49 Product development 50 Purchasing 58 Production 60 Distribution and service 71 Product in use 77 Re-use 80 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 82 About this report 83 Standards 86 Memberships 87 Independent recognition 88 Contact 91 This document is a PDF-version of the Volvo Group’s Sustainability Report 2012. The complete report is available on www.volvogroup.com/sustainabilityreport. This report was not audited by third party. For more information, read ‘About this report’ under the section ‘Additional information’ of this report. Pages 3–23 As a provider of commercial transport solutions, the Volvo Group’s products and services play an important part in our everyday lives – they enable people and societies to fulfill their basic needs and are drivers for economic growth. Strategic approach Content CEO comment 4 About the Volvo Group 6 Sustainability approach 13 Governance 19 Risk management 22 S TR ATEGIC APPROACH CEO comment A bus transporting commuters early one morning in Curitiba, Brazil. This is a positive example of the Volvo Group’s effort to create sustainable transport solutions that take into consideration the environmental, social and economic dimensions of sustainability. The Bus Rapid Transit system, the type used in mitment to contribute to sustainable developCuritiba, has been developed by the Volvo ment through our operation. “The Volvo Group’s Group for many decades. Today, when nearly Several of the global challenges facing the half of the world’s population lives in cities, the world are directly or indirectly connected to vision is a bold vision need for sustainable transport solutions is the infrastructure and transport sectors: clithat clarifies our comincreasing. Transport systems must have high mate change, population growth, urbanization capacity, low environmental impact and must and the shortage of natural resources and mitment to contribute to be safe. At the same time, as supplier, we must raw materials. The Volvo Group’s global pressustainable developadapt to the different economic conditions that ence provides us with the opportunity to act exist in the many societies in which we operate. and contribute to a positive trend. ment through our operaThe Volvo Group’s vision is to become I am convinced that sustainable products and tion.” world leader in sustainable transport soluservices will be a prerequisite for us remaining a tions. It is a bold vision that clarifies our comglobally competitive group in the future. I am 4 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 S TR ATEGIC APPROACH also convinced that our vision will make us better at recognizing new business opportunities “I believe that only a susand thus capturing new market share, while tainable company, with contributing to sustainable development. Traditionally, sustainability in the automosustainable growth, is tive industry has first and foremost involved able to deliver sustainareducing the impact of products on the environment. Naturally, the environmental dimenble solutions.” sion is still very important, but to achieve sustainable transport solutions, we must also take into consideration the social and economic dimensions. I see a future with a highly effective transport system, with energy-effilished in our new Code of Conduct. Our new cient solutions that are safe and secure both Code will also send out a clear message for humans and goods. regarding what stakeholders can expect of us. During 2012, the Volvo Group implemented I believe that a responsible company has a number of activities that have brought us better prerequisites for becoming a credible closer to our vision. We are now in a period of business partner. To meet society’s needs for extensive product renewal and the launch of sustainable transport solutions, we must priour new Volvo FH series is very interesting marily cooperate with our customers but also from an energy-efficient and safety aspect, with other players in the industry and society. which will help our customers to make their To operate in many of our new markets, it is work even more effective. Other examples also a prerequisite to contribute to social are our methane-diesel truck that can operdevelopment. ate on renewable gas and the hybrid buses For example, in 2012, we initiated a trainthat are able to save up to 39% in fuel in cering course for mechanics in Ethiopia, trained tain applications. excavator operators in India and continued to I believe that only a sustainable company, promote our successful traffic-safety project with sustainable growth, is able to deliver in Brazil. This is in line with our philosophy to sustainable solutions. To demonstrate the contribute to social development, while creatseriousness of our vision, the Volvo Group ing value for the Volvo Group. Another examhas revised our CSR and sustainability stratple that I would like to highlight is the Volvo egy and is incorporating it into our daily work. step, our one-year training course for unemI feel that we have a method that is clearly ployed young people in Sweden, which connected to our business model and our started in 2012 with 4,000 applicants for the strategies. The model handles risks, supports 400 first positions. The Volvo step is an our business and contributes to sustainable investment in securing our supply of experdevelopment. tise, while contributing something to reducing The Volvo Group is active in 190 markets unemployment in young people in Sweden. worldwide, which are characterized by various One lesson learned from this three-year propolitical, legal and cultural systems and our ject is that we in the industry must listen growth in the past decade derived primarily more to young people. They know what they from new markets. Shared core values are want, which includes working in the industry. required to ensure that our work method is I am very proud of the fact that the Volvo “This is in line with our the same worldwide. In 2012, our Board of Group has been inspired by the principles of philosophy to contribute Directors adopted a new Code of Conduct, the Global Compact since 2001 in our effort which is based on the principles of the Global for sustainable development. The Global to social development, Compact, the UN initiative for companies’ Compact provides us with an excellent founwhile creating value for global responsibility, which includes the princidation on which to stand and this year’s ples pertaining to human rights, labor issues, report explains how we integrate the princithe Volvo Group.” the environment and corruption. The Volvo ples with our value chain and our initiatives to Group’s commitment to these issues is genucontribute to sustainable development. This ine and I trust that every employee will comply report presents what we have achieved but with these values and the guidelines estabeven more importantly, our road ahead. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 5 S TR ATEGIC APPROACH About the Volvo Group The Volvo Group is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of trucks, buses, construction equipment and marine and industrial engines. The Group also provides complete solutions for financing and service. The Volvo Group, which employs about 115,000 people, has production facilities in 18 countries and sells its products in more than 190 markets. In 2012 the Volvo Group’s sales amounted to about SEK 304 billion. The Volvo Group is a publicly-held company headquartered in Gothenburg, Sweden. Volvo shares are listed on OMX Nordic Exchange Stockholm. Strong positions • One of the world’s largest manufacturers of trucks • One of the largest within construction equipment • One of the world’s largest manufacturers of heavy-duty diesel engines • Global market presence This information is extracted from the Volvo Group Annual Report 2012. 6 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 S TR ATEGIC APPROACH Strong brands By selling products under different brands, the Group can address many different customer and market segments in mature as well as growth markets. Global strength Share of net sales by market 2012 Since the streamlining towards commercial vehicles was initiated more than ten years ago, the Volvo Group has significantly strengthened its positions outside the tradi37% tionally big markets of Western Europe and North America. Positions have been moved 23% forward by acquisitions, primarily in Asia, and 23% by the expansion of the distribution and service networks in for instance Eastern Europe and South America. In the year 2000 markets outside of Western Europe and North America accounted for 16 percent of Group sales. In 2012 that share had grown to 47 10% Rest of the world percent. 7% Volvo Group net sales Share of net sales Geographic distribution of employees 2000–2012, SEK bn Trucks, 63% Construction Equipment, 21% Europe 54% 303.6 North America 17% Buses, 7% Volvo Penta, 2% South America 6% +133% Volvo Aero, 2%* Asia 20% Customer Finance, 3% Other countries 3% 130.1 Other, 2% * Volvo Aero was divested on October 1, 2012. 2000 2012 This information is extracted from the Volvo Group Annual Report 2012. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 7 S TR ATEGIC APPROACH Key ratios 2012 2011 Net sales Volvo Group, SEK M 303,647 310,367 Operating income Volvo Group, SEK M 17,622 26,899 Operating income Industrial Operations, SEK M 16,130 25,930 Operating income Customer Finance, SEK M 1,492 969 Operating margin Volvo Group, % 5.8 8.7 Income after financial items, SEK M 15,355 24,929 Income for the period, SEK M 11,258 18,115 Diluted earnings per share, SEK 5.44 8.75 Dividend per share, SEK 3.001 3.00 Return on shareholders' equity, % 12.9 23.1 Number of permanent employees 98,717 98,162 Share of women, % 17 18 Share of women, Presidents and other senior executives, % 19 17 Employee Engagement Index, % 76 76 Energy consumption, MWh/SEK M 8.5 8.1 CO2 emissions, ton/SEK M 0.8 0.8 Water consumption, m3/SEK M 24.9 26.2 Share of direct material purchasing spend from CSR assessed suppliers, % 66 60 1 According to the Board’s proposal. Significant events 2012 AB Volvo signs memorandum trict Court for the District of Columbia issued The divestment of Volvo Aero, increased ownof understanding with Deutz an order directing the Volvo Group to pay a ership in Deutz and the launch of the new On April 5 it was announced that AB Volvo total of USD 72 M in penalties and interest. Volvo FH truck series were some of the had signed a non-binding memorandum of The decision has been appealed. important events in 2012. understanding with Deutz AG with the intention to explore the potential to extend the AB Volvo acquires shares in Deutz AG Annual General Meeting of AB Volvo long-term cooperation with a joint developOn June 13 AB Volvo announced that it had The Annual General Meeting of AB Volvo ment of the next generation of medium-duty signed an agreement under which the comheld on April 4, 2012 approved the Board of engines for off-road applications. pany was offered the opportunity to increase Directors’ motion that a dividend of SEK 3.00 The memorandum of understanding also its shareholding in Deutz AG from 6.7 perper share be paid to the company’s shareaims at analyzing the conditions for establishcent to just over 25 percent by acquiring a holders. ing a Deutz majority-owned joint-venture total of 22,117,693 shares from Same DeutzPeter Bijur, Jean-Baptiste Duzan, Hanne company in China for the production of Fahr Group at a price of EUR 5.88 per share, de Mora, Anders Nyrén, Olof Persson, Ravi medium-duty engines for off-road applicaEUR 130 M in total. The transaction was Venkatesan, Lars Westerberg and Ying Yeh tions. The production company is intended to completed in September and made AB Volvo were reelected as members of the AB Volvo provide support for the Volvo Group’s anticithe largest shareholder in Deutz AG, which Board. In addition, Carl-Henric Svanberg was pated growth in off-road applications in Asia. since many years is a strategic partner within elected member of the Board and Board Any implementation requires both companies medium-­duty engines. Chairman, replacing Louis Schweitzer who to agree on the final terms and conditions in had declined reelection. a binding contract. AB Volvo divests Volvo Aero to British Carl-Olof By, representing AB IndusGKN for SEK 6.9 billion trivärden, Jean-Baptiste Duzan, representing Unfavorable court ruling in the US On July 5 it was announced that AB Volvo Renault s.a.s, Lars Förberg, representing Viopertaining to Volvo Penta engines divests the Group’s subsidiary Volvo Aero to let Partners LP, Håkan Sandberg, representVolvo Powertrain Corporation and the US the British engineering company GKN for an ing Svenska Handelsbanken, SHB Pension Environmental Protection Agency are in a enterprise value of SEK 6.9 billion. The transFund, SHB Employee Fund, SHB Pensiondispute pertaining to emission compliance of action was completed on October 1, 2012. skassa and Oktogonen and the Chairman of 8,354 model year 2005 Volvo Penta engines The transaction generated a positive effect the Board were elected members of the Elecunder a 1999 Consent Decree entered on the Group’s operating income of SEK 568 tion Committee. between the parties. On April 13 the US DisM of which SEK 254 M in the fourth quarter. This information is extracted from the Volvo Group Annual Report 2012. 8 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 S TR ATEGIC APPROACH The divestment reduced the Group’s financial complete buses to the main plant in Wroclaw, improve the overall efficiency. In May 2013 net debt by SEK 5.5 billion. Poland. Production at the plant in Säffle, the Ota remanufacturing plant will be closed Sweden, will be terminated at the end of June and the operation moved to Ageo, the main New Volvo engine for Euro VI 2013. plant in Japan. The project also includes On July 5 Volvo Trucks presented an engine cleaning of the land, demolishing of old and tailored for the Euro VI emission regulation. New organization for the truck dealer outdated buildings as well as moving or phasNitrogen oxide emissions will drop by 77 pernetworks in Europe, the Middle East ing out equipment for old products. In total, cent and particulate matter emissions will be and Africa costs corresponding to SEK 280 M related to halved from already low levels. First off the mark On October 10 the Volvo Group announced these activities were recorded in the fourth is Volvo’s D13 460 horsepower engine, which that it as of January 1, 2013 introduces a new quarter of 2012, affecting the truck segment. powers more than one-third of all Volvo trucks. organization for its truck dealer networks in Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA). Events after balance sheet date Renault Trucks Defense acquires French The reorganization aims to capitalize more Strategic alliance with Chinese company manufacturer Panhard effectively on opportunities for the Group’s Dongfeng Motor Group On July 26 it was announced that Renault brands and products in line with the new On January 26, 2013 AB Volvo announced Trucks Defense, which is included in the Volvo truck strategy. that it had signed an agreement with the ChiGroup’s Governmental Sales business area, nese vehicle manufacturer Dongfeng Motor acquires the French company Panhard, which Full lineup of Volvo Group trucks in the Group Company Limited (DFG) to acquire 45 specializes in manufacturing light transport US earns 2014 greenhouse gas certificapercent of a new subsidiary of DFG, Dongvehicles adapted for defense operations. In tion feng Commercial Vehicles (DFCV), which will 2011 Panhard reported sales of EUR 81 M On December 12 the Volvo Group announced include the major part of DFG’s mediumand and operating profit amounted to EUR 9.4 M. that the US Environmental Protection Agency heavy-duty commercial vehicles business. At The transaction was finalized in October 2012. (EPA) and National Highway Traffic Safety completion of the transaction, the Volvo Administration (NHTSA) had certified all Group will become the world’s largest manuNew Volvo FH launched Volvo Group truck models in the US, both facturer of heavy-duty trucks. Completion of On September 5 the Volvo Group introduced Mack and Volvo branded, in accordance with the transaction is subject to certain condiits new Volvo FH series. The new Volvo FH is 2014 fuel efficiency and greenhouse gas tions, including the approval of relevant antipushing the envelope for what a premium regulations. trust agencies and Chinese authorities. The truck can offer. The Volvo FH is a truck built purchase consideration amounts to RMB 5.6 with the driver in mind and with the focus on Renault s.a.s. divests entire holding billion. The ambition is to complete the transimproving the haulage firm’s profitability. in AB Volvo action as soon as possible and completion is On December 13 AB Volvo received a expected to take place within approximately Volvo Group invests in Russia request for the conversion of 110,048,945 12 months from signing. On September 13 the Volvo Group Series A shares to Series B shares. Furtherannounced that it will invest SEK 783 M in a more, AB Volvo’s largest shareholder, Renault Detailed information about the events is new facility for the production of cabs at the s.a.s., announced that the company had available at www.volvogroup.com. plant in Kaluga, Russia. The facility, which is divested all of its shares in AB Volvo through expected to become operational in 2014 will the sales of 138,604,945 Series A shares on manufacture cabs for the Volvo and Renault the stock market. In connection with Trucks brands with a total annual capacity of Renault’s divestment, Industri­värden 15,000 cabs. increased its holding and at year-end was the largest owner with 6.5 percent of the outVolvo Group announced new truck stratstanding number of shares (19.5 percent of egy to achieve profitability improvement the votes). Norges Bank Investment ManageThe new strategy, which is an important step ment also increased its holding and at yearfor the Group towards achieving the objective end was the second largest owner based on to improve the operating margin by 3 percapital with 4.9 percent of the outstanding centage points, was presented in detail at the number of shares (5.1 percent of the votes). Capital Market Day on September 25. Consolidation of the Volvo Group indusVolvo Buses to consolidate the trial operation in Japan manufacture of complete buses in Europe On January 11, 2013 the Volvo Group On October 3 Volvo Buses announced plans announced that it had decided to consolidate to concentrate its European production of its industrial operation in Japan in order to This information is extracted from the Volvo Group Annual Report 2012. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 9 S TR ATEGIC APPROACH Long-term growth The registration of new trucks on a particu“The fact that the Volvo Group is global is First up and then down again. The transportalar market often follows the same pattern as an enormous advantage. If we had not been tion industry is cyclical with swings up and economic growth in the region. established on the growth markets, we down in the short term. Then add emission “The transport industry is largely in tune wouldn’t have been in the position we curstandards, political decisions and expectawith the overall economic development, but rently enjoy,” says Johan Adler. tions about the future, all of which impact demand for our products is also governed Another kind of event that impacts the customers’ decisions to purchase now or wait very largely by expectations about the future,” whole of the commercial vehicle industry is until later. However, in the longer term, the says Johan Adler, Head of Economic the introduction of new emission regulations. industry’s growth is closely linked to an Research in the Volvo Group. New standards have traditionally resulted in increasing need for transports and infrastrucThis is one of the explanations why many more expensive, more technically complex ture as economies grow. North American haulage companies chose to trucks. This has generated an advance purpostpone their investment decisions in the chasing effect, a prebuy, as haulage compaClosely linked to the autumn of 2012. Even if there was business nies have taken the opportunity to update GDP development to be done and goods to transport, with both their fleets just before the new regulations The Volvo Group is one part of the transport the presidential election and federal budget come into force. At the same time, new reguindustry that connects production with connegotiations around the corner, customers lations have positive effects on the environsumption. We are what you might call the life decided it was better to be safe than sorry ment. blood. Demand for transport capacity and thus and therefore postponed their purchases. for many of the Group’s products is closely Growth rates in different parts of the world linked to the GDP trend. Markets move at different paces According to Consensus Economics, global The extent of investment in infrastructure, The transportation industry is directly linked to GDP grew by 2.5 percent during 2012 comwhich drives demand for building and coneconomic developments, but the global econopared with 3.1 percent in 2011. GDP in the EU struction equipment, is also closely linked to mies do not move at the same pace. Countries declined by 0.3 percent following an increase the GDP trend. Increased global wealth that are heavily dependent on exports, such as of 1.6 percent in 2011. US GDP increased by means that there is a long-term need to build Sweden and Germany, are more affected when 2.2 percent (1.8 percent). Japan’s GDP roads, airports, railways, factories, offices, consumers in other countries tighten their belts. expanded by 1.9 percent following a decline of shopping centers, as well as housing and recCountries like the US and Brazil are also 0.5 percent in 2011. Growth in countries such reational facilities. In the short term, demand impacted by a slowdown, but to a lesser degree, as Brazil, India and China hit cyclical lows duris affected by a number of factors including as they have such large domestic markets and ing 2012. For 2013 global GDP is expected to fuel prices, the implementation of new emisa relatively small part of what they produce is grow by 2.6 percent. The emerging markets in sion regulations, interest rates, etc. exported. primarily Asia and Latin America are foreseen to be the prime drivers of global growth. Economic growth in the US, Europe Economic growth in Asia The Volvo business moves in close tandem and Brazil Annual GDP-growth, % with macroeconomic development Annual GDP-growth, % Euro area GDP and heavy-duty trucks registration growth % % 6 60 5 50 4 40 0 3 30 0 2 20 1 10 0 0 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 (1) (10) 5.2 (0.3) 7.5 2.7 1.0 Brazil 9.6 9.2 10.4 9.3 7.8 China (2) (20) 0.6 (4.1) 1.9 1.6 (0.3) EU 6.8 8.0 8.5 6.5 5.3 India (3) (30) (0.3) (3.5) 3.0 1.8 2.2 US 3.8 1.9 7.1 4.6 4.7 Asia/ (4) (40) Pacific* (5) (50) Source: Consensus Economics (1.1) (5.5) 4.5 (0.5) 1.9 Japan (6) (60) * China, Hong Kong, South Korea, Taiwan, 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, Phillippines, Vietnam, Australia, New Zealand, GDP growth (left axis) India, Japan, Sri Lanka New heavy-duty trucks registration growth (right axis) Source: Consensus Economics This information is extracted from the Volvo Group Annual Report 2012. 10 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 S TR ATEGIC APPROACH 1. The right product or service in order to contribute to high productivity in the transport system rld leader in sion: Wo Our vi transport solutions inable 2. Energy efficient susta transport solutions 3. Safe and secure with very low transport solutions emissions of CO2 , Wanted position PM, NOx and noise 2020 Strategies 2013–2015 Sustainable Transport Solutions 2012 Sustainable transport solutions to the Volvo Group are solutions that improve the short and long-term economic and environmental performance while also taking social impact into consideration. Strategy All work within the Volvo Group is based on undergone a dramatic change in the past The Volvo Group’s long-term plans stake out a long-term sustainable perspective, since we decade. The Group has grown considerably in the road to success – to our vision, our target, are convinced that corporate social responsiemerging markets and has welcomed new as well as our wanted position. Our core valbility will contribute to long-term success. employees and companies. As a conseues, focus areas, strategic objectives, road This approach will enable us to strengthen quence of this, the Group currently has opermaps toward targets and activity plans will help our brands and relations with business partations in approximately 190 markets and us to achieve this as efficiently as possible. ners and thus create new business opportuemploys about 115,000 individuals, who During 2012 we adapted the Volvo Group’s nities that offer long-term growth and strive to create efficient and sustainable governance to becoming more efficient and improved profitability. transport solutions for our customers. launched a new strategy to achieve the Volvo Group’s targets, wanted position and ultiChanged prerequisites mately, our vision. The global presence of the Volvo Group has All work in the Volvo Group is based on our vision, our values and the wanted position. Based on this core, outer rings are created in the form of objectives and focus areas all the way to tangible activities with clearly defined responsible parties. This will lead to responsible governance, based on a longterm sustainability perspective. This information is extracted from the Volvo Group Annual Report 2012. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 11 S TR ATEGIC APPROACH launched, which has resulted in three-year Adaptation of governance strategies for the individual business areas of In the past year, we made extensive effort to the Volvo Group. The process resulted in five adapt the Volvo Group to the conditions and to nine focus areas, which are particularly expectations of the business world and the significant for the future development, and future – and to achieve our wanted position approximately 20 strategic objectives per by 2020. The efforts resulted in us taking a business area. The strategic objectives have step toward governance as one Group with been divided into more than 100 road maps coordinated long-term plans for the business and a large number of activity plans. areas. The pace has increased with respect Our structure for governance encourages to governance and reconciliations connected close monitoring, as well as rapid and effito the development of the business areas. We cient decisions and early adjustments, when have established a distinct brand portfolio necessary. The system also aims to involve all and have moved from a regional focus with employees, by clarifying how each individual individual brands to a globally coordinated is important to achieving the targets. approach. In addition, we have created a more distinct distribution of responsibility with Creating value for many stakeholders measurable targets. It is necessary to have all The Group is dependent on stakeholders to of this in place prior to the commencement of develop its competitiveness, in the same work based on the new strategies. manner as its stakeholders are dependent on the Group in many respects. Accordingly, the Strategy process to achieve the wanted Volvo Group strives, jointly with stakeholders, position and vision to create common values in a manner that is During 2012 a new strategy process was sustainable in the long term. Value by stakeholder group SEK M 2012 2011 Purchase of goods and services 211,458 214,483 Salaries and remunerations* 39,446 37,039 Social costs* 9,680 8,652 Pension costs* 4,126 3,471 Income taxes 4,097 6,814 Interest paid to creditors 2,476 2,875 Dividend to shareholders 6,083 6,082 * For further information, please see note 27 to the consolidated financial statements in the Annual Report 2012. This information is extracted from the Volvo Group Annual Report 2012. 12 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 S TR ATEGIC APPROACH Sustainability approach Taking social, economic and environmental responsibility is not only about managing risks, it also creates business opportunities and builds trust. Done in the right way it is an effective way to contribute to the development and ­welfare of society and ultimately to fulfilling our vision – to become the world leader in sustainable transport solutions. Responsibility is deeply rooted within the We believe that this approach is essential customized to the Volvo Group business Volvo Group and is based on our values and to being perceived as an attractive business ­ nvironment and operations, and is based on e the principles in our Code of Conduct. We partner and to building lasting relations with actions and principles relevant to the Group strive to assume economic, environmental customers, owners, employees, suppliers and and our sphere of influence. and social responsibility for our operations, other stakeholders. During 2012 a project to review and furproducts and services within our sphere of As a Group, we are driven by the conviction ther define the Volvo Group’s CSR and susinfluence. Our commitment is reflected and that it is possible to run a financially sustainatainability strategy was carried out. implemented in policies, decisions and actions. ble business, while also creating long-term Based on the ten principles in the United value for our stakeholders. Nations Global Compact Initiative, other internationally recognized norms of behavior, and The Volvo Group is committed to: The Volvo Group’s commitment interviews with internal and external stakeOur Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) holders, the Volvo Group has developed a conducting business in and sustainability commitment is based on model that describes how we approach CSR a responsible manner our vision, core b ­ usiness, operating context, and sustainability. The Sustainability Report taking stakeholders’ stakeholders’ expectations as well as our 2012 is based on this model visualized as a ­perspectives into account core values and company culture. pyramid. The commitment includes economic, creating value for our ­environmental and social responsibility and ­shareholders and society covers risk management and value creation contributing to sustainable as well as the Volvo Group’s contribution to development sustainable development. The approach is VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 13 S TR ATEGIC APPROACH The foundation is sustainable profitability and The overall objective of the Volvo The Volvo Group’s vision is to become the world leader in sustainable transport the Volvo Group core values and company Group’s CSR work is to contribute to solutions, by: culture, which are also key aspects of the sustainable development and ultimately to • creating value for customers in selected CSR and sustainability commitment. fulfill the Group’s vision. The top of the pyra­segments The base of the pyramid comprises mid represents the vision – to become the • pioneering products and services for the the activities that are conducted in world leader in sustainable transport solutransport and infrastructure industries order to be a socially responsible company. tions. We contribute to sustainability through • driving quality, safety and environmental care This includes risk management with a focus our particular expertise in the development of • working with energy, passion and respect for the individual. on compliance aimed at maintaining the Volvo sustainable transport solutions. We join our Group’s ­reputation as a trustworthy company. forces with universities, authorities and other These activities are an integrated part of companies to develop tomorrow’s transport our ­everyday business and are described in solutions. Read more about these initiatives the ‘Value Chain’ section of this report. in the ‘Future Transports’ section of this report. The middle part of the pyramid is the Volvo Group’s engagement in society. The Group takes an active part in the development of a more sustainable society by applying our unique knowledge, experience and resources to addressing societal challenges, such as traffic safety, health and education. These activities create shared value, meaning that both society and the Volvo Group benefit from them. To read more, see the ‘Society Engagement’ section of this report. The Volvo Group’s CSR and sustainability approach Sustainability Future Transports PAGES 24–36 Creating value Society Engagement PAGES 37–48 Trustworthiness Value Chain PAGES 49–81 14 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 S TR ATEGIC APPROACH Short and long-term objectives Short-term objectives Result 2012 The Volvo Group firmly believes that only a As part of the commitment of the Volvo Group to the sustainable company can provide sustainable WWF Climate Savers Program solutions. Our vision is to become the world • Between 2009–2014 the total lifetime emissions of the Half time result shows a reduction of Group’s products shall decrease by 30 million tons 18 million tons between 2009–2011 leader in ­sustainable transport solutions. Our • The Volvo Group will develop a new truck prototype with Ongoing long-term ambitions and short-term objec20% lower fuel consumption than a corresponding truck tives guide us towards our vision. Here we manufactured in 2008 have chosen to present a few of the objec• Prior to 2014, the Volvo Group will offer commercial Fulfilled with the Methane Diesel truck market trucks that operate on renewable gas tives and key performance indicators that we • The Volvo Group will reduce carbon dioxide emissions Half time result shows a reduction of are using to follow up on our performance. from its production plants by 0.2 million tons (12%) 0.3 million tons (16%) between 2009How we address the objectives and our probefore 2014, compared with 2008 2011 gress is described throughout this report. All suppliers delivering automotive products shall be certiMore than 90% of spending on autofied in accordance with ISO 14001 motive products came from suppliers certified in accordance with ISO 14001 Examples of our long-term ambitions are: 100% of the suppliers in ‘high-risk’ countries, as defined 64% completed the self-assessment, • Zero accidents with Volvo Group products from a CSR perspective, shall be assessed in 2012 corresponding to 84% of the spend • Most attractive employer Between 2010-2012 the idling losses, i.e. energy use outThe total energy use on a Group level side production, shall be reduced by 50%. Beside the idling has only slightly decreased measured • Increased number of women in executive losses the energy consumption shall be reduced by 15% per in MWh/MSEK. However the emission teams produced unit in 2012 compared with 2008 of carbon dioxide decreased with about 20% measured in ton per • To offer carbon dioxide-neutral transports MSEK. Individual plants have been • To make all Volvo Group production facilities able to considerably reduce energy use carbon dioxide-neutral outside production (idling losses) e.g. the Renault Truck production plant in France and the Penta engine plant in Vara, Sweden All plants shall fulfill the minimum environmental All fully owned assembly plants fulfilled requirements the minimum requirements All plants shall have completed the energy mapping by 2012 Approximately 70% of the plants have done the energy mapping The carbon dioxide emissions from inbound and outbound Carbon dioxide emissions were reduced transports shall decrease by 18% between 2009 and 20111. Leadership pipeline project shall be launched in all countries Completed in 2012 where the Volvo Group has major operations All employees, both blue and white collars shall have a At the end of 2012 the plan had been ­personal business plan implemented for all employees The talent review shall be completed for the Group Completed for 2012 To attract and retain a diverse workforce 17% of the workforce was female and women represented 19% of the senior executives in 2012 The Employee Engagement Index (EEI) result in the The index among Volvo Group’s employee survey shall be higher than the norm employees was 76% compared to the global norm of 68% All wholly owned plants shall be certified in accordance with All but two plants were certified in ISO 14001 accordance with ISO 14001 All wholly owned plants shall be certified in accordance with All plants were certified in accordance ISO 9001 with ISO 9001 All white collar employees shall have conducted the anti-­ 31,952 employees have taken the corruption e-learning during 2010-2012 e-learning in anti-corruption All white collar employees shall have taken the competition More than 36,000 employees took the law e-learning in a three-year period starting in 2012 e-learning in competition law All employees shall have completed the Code of Conduct Approximately 11,000 employees took e-learning course the web-based training in November and December 2012 The Volvo Group shall be ranked as one of the most Included in DJSI World ­sustainable companies in the world, that is by being and Euro in 2012 included in Dow Jones Sustainability Index The Volvo Group’s financial goals are described in the Annual Report. 1 Results for 2012 will be presented during the second quarter of 2013. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 15 S TR ATEGIC APPROACH Global drivers In many countries while the population is 3. Shortage of natural resources and raw It is crucial to keep pace with a changing world. growing, the demographic balance is tipping material Today it is more important than ever to undertowards aging populations and the working age Population growth, a rapidly growing middle stand our operating environment, how it impacts share of the population is shrinking. These class and greater purchasing power leads to the Volvo Group and, above all, to find ways to trends will raise the significance of health increased consumption. Mankind is utilizing an better fulfill future transport needs. issues, and require greater focus on employee increasing amount of land, water and other There are numerous factors influencing the health. resources. More efficient use of resources is business of the Volvo Group. In this section, Likewise, the complex demographic shifts required and the recovery of a greater proporsome of the more significant global and longcombined with urbanization influence the tion of material is becoming increasingly importerm challenges are defined. How these chaldemands on transport. The overall trend is leadtant to secure access to materials. lenges are addressed is explained throughout ing to an increased need for transportation and this report. Together with results from the diainfrastructure, with effects on the requirements 4. Safety and security logues conducted with the Group’s various for public transport systems and freight logistics. Traffic and road safety is becoming even stakeholders and business aspects connected Cities, particularly major cities, have specific more important as demands on transportato the Volvo Group’s operations, the challenges requirements for urban and traffic planning. tion increases. The subject is a high priority described form the base for the prioritization of Congestion and noise pollution also need to be for governments and institutions worldwide. the Volvo Group’s business activities and serve addressed through the availability of vehicles There has also been an increase in awareas the foundation for the redefined CSR and specially adapted for these environments. In ness and the demand for safer products and Sustainability strategy. addition, a growing population increases the safety guidelines at construction and operaneed for housing, roads and facilities. tion sites. Challenges In the future, the focus on security is also •P  opulation growth and urbanization 2. Climate change and alternative fuels likely to continue to increase because of •C  limate change and alternative fuels Climate change is one of the most complex and crime, military conflicts, terrorism and natural •S  hortage of natural resources and raw difficult questions of our time. Burning fossil fuel disasters. In relation to transportation this will material is the single largest source of anthropogenic impact the safety of drivers, vehicles, goods •S  afety and security greenhouse gas emissions. Oil has long been and the general public. •C  ompetent employees considered a reliable source of energy, but today, oil use is a highly contested issue. This is 5. Competent employees 1. Population growth and urbanization primarily attributable to the environmental probIncreased global presence, new products, new The world’s population is steadily increasing. lems associated with oil, but also because future technologies, demographic changes and more By 2050 it is expected to exceed nine billion. access to oil is uncertain due to dwindling oil rapid fluctuations in the global economy will lead Since 2008 more than half the world’s populareserves, increasing price and instability in oil to challenges in the supply of expertise and tion lives in cities and in fifty years, that figure is producing regions. resources. For many years, interest has waned expected to reach two-thirds of the population. A shift to sustainable energy resources is for education and careers in the fields of matheThe most intensive pace of urbanization is takcrucial. Major efforts have already been made matics, natural sciences and engineering in ing place in Africa and Asia. In addition, the to develop the use of renewable energy some developed markets, while interest has number of cities and regions with populations sources. However, the development of renewgrown in some emerging markets. The need, exceeding ten million is growing rapidly. Approxiable fuels differs widely among regions however, for competent employees with these mately 20 percent of the world’s population is depending on the availability of natural types of specialist skills will grow as products expected to live in cities with populations in resources, which in turn drives the developand services become increasingly sophisticated. excess of two million inhabitants by 2015. ment of vehicles and machines adapted for various types of fuels. The move towards the large scale use of renewable energy is also 11//22 22//33 11//22 highly dependent on political decisions and investment capacity to create the necessary 22//33 production facilities and infrastructure. 2008 2008 2060 2060 2008 2008 2060 2060 Since 2008 more than half the world’s population lives in cities and in fifty years, that figure is expected to reach two-thirds of the population. 22 22//33 200816 2008 2060 2060 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 S TR ATEGIC APPROACH Stakeholders Customers An internal survey conducted in 2012 tarTo help identify and prioritize Corporate Social Products and services are developed in close geting 10,000 employees, concluded that the Responsibility (CSR) and sustainability issues cooperation with customers to help them most important CSR and sustainability areas for the Volvo Group, ongoing dialogues with improve their own productivity and profitabilon which to focus are the Volvo Group’s constakeholders are conducted. The dialogues enaity and support their environmental perfortribution to community development, followed ble us to better understand both internal and mance. We have long-term relationships with by fighting corruption and bribery, workplace external expectations on the Volvo Group, and most of our customers. Customer satisfaction safety and responsible sourcing. to ensure that our business operations build depends not only on the quality and perforThe Volvo Group maintains close relationvalue both for the company and society at large. mance of our products, but also on how cusships with a number of labor unions both in tomers are treated and how service is delivformal and informal forums. Round table discussions ered. More and more of our customers want During 2012 the Volvo Group began efforts to information about our CSR performance. For Potential employees engage a broad set of stakeholders in the some customers, like fleet owners, high CSR It is increasingly important for employees that Middle East, Asia and the US. Representaand sustainability performance increases our the company they work for has sound values tives from various stakeholder groups such as competitiveness in tenders. and engage in social matters. Therefore, the NGOs, employees, investors, academia, govSome examples of how we communicate Volvo Group also communicates with potenernment representatives and customers parwith our customers include: tial employees, in order to map their areas of ticipated. The participants were selected • Interaction in daily operations interest and make sure that the Group is because of their affiliation to one of the stake• Dialogue forums such as customer focus regarded as a preferred employer. holder groups, and for their connection to the groups in the product development phase This is done in such forums as career days Volvo Group’s business. The geographical • Dialogue via social media at universities and participation in industry areas were not ranked by level of importance. • Customer satisfaction surveys conferences and other events. The main focus of the dialogues was to get The Volvo Group follows up on the respective an overall understanding of how CSR and suscompanies’ and brands’ customer satisfaction Suppliers tainability is viewed in the region and what position and brand image perception in releThe Volvo Group works closely with its supplichallenges and opportunities can be identified. vant industries and markets. Customer satisers. We value long-term relationships and the The aim was also to map the expectations on a faction and brand image tracking is measured transfer of knowledge and understanding of company operating in this region and, more by established industry surveys. each other’s processes, procedures and valspecifically, what is expected of the Volvo ues. Group when it comes to CSR and sustainability. Employees and trade unions Forums for formal communication are: The results of these stakeholder dialogues The Volvo Group has formalized forums for • Our web-based supplier portal help us to better understand how we should employee dialogue and development, such • Training sessions act and how we can better create shared as personal development plans. We believe • Dedicated supplier days value around the world. During 2013 the that open dialogue contributes to personal Volvo Group will continue the stakeholder development as well as more committed Capital market dialogues in other regions. employees. We communicate regularly with shareholders, The Volvo Group uses several channels for other investors and financial analysts with Ongoing dialogues communication among employees such as: interest in CSR and sustainability issues. Apart from the discussions described above, • Intranet Among those, compliance issues are still of ongoing contact with all stakeholder groups is • In-house magazines high interest, but the focus has shifted maintained to help us shape our direct busi• Team meetings towards the Volvo Group’s strategy on susness operations and activities. When new • Films and webcasts tainable transport solutions and how CSR operations are started a stakeholder mapping All employees can ask questions directly to and sustainability is integrated in the Group’s is undertaken and when other major changes the Group’s CEO and management via the business model. We hold regular meetings for are done in the organization, additional contact intranet. For top-down communication we investors and issue a number of publications: with the stakeholders is conducted. Stakeholdoften practice cascading to employees • Annual reports ers always have the possibility to convey their through managers. Internally we communi• Interim reports questions or opinions via the different contact cate in many different languages. A survey • Press releases pages provided on www.volvogroup.com. among all employees, focusing on measuring A Capital market day is held at least once a Below are a few examples from our stakeemployee engagement is normally conducted year. holder map. on an annual basis. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 17 S TR ATEGIC APPROACH Decision-makers Issues in focus The Volvo Group communicates with politicians, Based on the global drivers described earlier, authorities and institutions on an ongoing basis. the issues raised by stakeholders and the This interaction includes responses to requests business environment, Volvo Group’s CSR for comments on proposed legislation and regumanagers have selected areas within CSR lations. The Group also communicates with local and sustainability that they believe are the authorities regarding such issues as employmost important. These areas are: ment and working conditions. • Health and safety at Volvo Group sites Most of the issues related to the regulation of • Product safety our products are dealt with industry organiza• Traffic safety tions of which the Volvo Group is a member. A • Availability of skilled workforce Society market day was held for the first time in • Employee training and development 2012. • Air quality in urban areas • Product related environmental issues Non-Governmental Organizations • Fuel efficient products The Volvo Group welcomes dialogue with • Transport efficiency NGOs. We have approximately 100 cooperative • Business ethics projects with NGOs around the world. The • Customer satisfaction Group has two worldwide strategic partnerships, • Anti-corruption WWF and Oxfam, but most cooperation is on a The above list is only a selection of issues in local level with local NGOs and aid organizafocus and the issues are not ranked by level tions. of importance. There are other areas within CSR and sustainability that are important for Universities and research institutes the Volvo Group. The Volvo Group is involved in a comprehensive series of cooperative ventures with research bodies and academic institutions to advance the technologies needed for future product development. One example is the Volvo Group initiative Academic Partner ­Program. Our involvement with universities is also important for creating relationships with students and potential employees and thus for securing access to future competence. 18 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 S TR ATEGIC APPROACH AB Volvo Board of Directors. At the back: Berth Thulin, Ravi Venkatesan, Anders Nyrén, Peter Bijur, Olof Persson, Hans Hansson, Mikael Sällström, Lars Westerberg, Lars Ask. At the front: Jean-Baptiste Duzan, Hanne de Mora, Carl-Henric Svanberg, Ying Yeh, Peteris Lauberts. Governance Sound governance is a platform for building a trusting relationship with shareholders and other stakeholders. The new Volvo Group organization, effective as of January 1, 2012, enables a faster decision-making process and clear responsibilities throughout the organization. We firmly believe that sound business pracIn the Group Executive Team, Jan-Eric Governance body for CSR tices are profitable in the long run as they help Sundgren, Executive Vice President Environand sustainability issues establish our reputation as a reliable business mental and Public Affairs, is responsible for CSR and sustainability issues are handled by partner. Our commitment to CSR and sustainCSR and sustainability issues. As of April 1, the Core Value and Public Affairs Council, ability is reflected and implemented in poli2013 Niklas Gustavsson will succeed Jan-Eric which is chaired by Jan-Eric Sundgren. cies, decisions and actions. Sundgren who was appointed Senior Expert The chairman of the council is responsible Adviser to the CEO and senior management. for making decisions and following up the Organization The responsibility for overseeing the implementation of decisions throughout the Members of the AB Volvo Board of Directors implementation, follow-up and development organization. have good knowledge and understanding of of CSR work is delegated to the Volvo The purpose of this governing body is to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Group’s Director, Corporate Social Responsiestablish strategies and directions and to folsustainability issues. bility Malin Ripa. low up on performance. This council also The Volvo Group’s Code of Conduct is Responsibility for CSR performance and supports and advances the Volvo Group’s approved by the Board of Directors, who also compliance with the Code of Conduct folbusiness in areas related to its core values, has formal ownership of the Code. The Board lows the ordinary line of business responsiCSR and sustainability, public affairs and relreviews the Code annually. bility. evant emerging issues. The Volvo Group’s CEO, Olof Persson, is For the complete corporate governance responsible for our vision – to become the report of the Volvo Group, see the Group’s world leader in sustainable transport solutions. Annual Report 2012. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 19 S TR ATEGIC APPROACH Chief Executive Officer Corporate Human Resources Corporate Finance & Control Corporate Public & Environmental Affairs Corporate Legal & Compliance Corporate Communication Corporate Process & IT Corporate Strategy GROUP TRUCKS Group Trucks Group Trucks Group Trucks Group Group Construction Business Volvo Sales & MarketSales & MarketSales & MarketTrucks Trucks Equipment Areas Financial ing Americas ing EMEA ing and JVs Operations Technology Services APAC Volvo Penta Governance structure of the Volvo Group Buses Governmental Sales CSR and sustainability committee Code of conduct The content is based on international charA CSR and Sustainability Committee coordiThe Code of Conduct is the Volvo Group’s ters such as the United Nations Global Comnates the work and makes recommendations mandatory, Group-wide policy for appropriate pact initiative and the OECD’s guidelines for to the Core Value and Public Affairs Council, business behavior and responsibility towards multinational companies. The updated version which is tasked with supporting and developour stakeholders, and is the backbone of the of the Code contains more principles on busiing the Volvo Group’s work with CSR and Group’s CSR and sustainability commitment. ness ethics, and guidelines on how to implesustainability. The Code of Conduct policy outlines the ment the principles of the Code in daily busiThe CSR and Sustainability Committee is Volvo Group’s principles and minimum standness. The effects of non-compliance are also chaired by the Director, Corporate Social ard for conducting business in an appropridescribed more thoroughly, as well as the Responsibility for the Volvo Group. The comate, responsible and transparent manner. It is process for reporting violations. mittee’s members comprise CSR managers the minimum behavioral standard and is manAs a complement to the Code of Conduct within the Group, representing different parts datory for all Group companies, meaning that approximately 20 other policies in areas such of the organization and ­relevant processes everyone in the Group must understand and as environmental issues, anti-corruption and for the implementation of the internal CSR comply with the principles in every day work. workplace practice are implemented in the work. The policy consists of business ethics, organization. These complementing policies human rights and social justice and environare often more extensive than the minimum CSR in the ­sourcing process mental principles which shall be applied in standard in the Code and describe in more The Volvo Group CSR Supply Chain network policies, decisions and activities. detail how to address the issues. develops and coordinates the CSR work in the The Code of Conduct is reviewed annually sourcing process. All companies within the and was recently updated due to higher Implementation and follow-up Volvo Group that have purchasing organizaexpectations on companies to assume The Volvo Group’s managers are responsible tions are represented. The network reports responsibility for their operations and to for communicating and demonstrating the to the CSR and Sustainability Committee as changes in the Volvo Group’s organization. content and spirit of the Code of Conduct as well as to a decision-making forum within the The new Code of Conduct was adopted by well as for complying with the rules and purchasing organization. the Board of Directors in September 2012. objectives it includes. 20 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 S TR ATEGIC APPROACH A Group-wide training program was Findings from the survey are discussed in Among these 33 cases, two cases were launched in November 2012 to support the work groups, involving managers and employdealt with as potential corruption cases in implementation of the new Code of Conduct. ees. Feedback discussions result in an action 2012. These were investigated and reported This is the third round of Group-wide training plan with activities addressing areas for to the Audit Committee. One case is still on the Code of Conduct since 2006. This improvement throughout the year. under investigation training helps our employees and managers to reflect on their own attitudes and behavior Report on violation Continued work in different situations. The training is available All employees within the Volvo Group are In 2013 the CSR and sustainability work in twelve languages as an e-learning course expected and encouraged to report suswithin the Volvo Group will continue. Some of and a workshop with open discussions. Since pected violations of the Code of Conduct to the activities planned include: the launch of the new Code of Conduct in their direct superiors or managers of their • Continued implementation of the Code of November approximately 11,000 employees superiors. To support this, a Whistleblower Conduct have participated in the web-based training. procedure is available. • Review of the Responsible Supply Chain In the event that a reported incident is not Management Program, including adjustCompliance with the Code taken seriously, or if an employee does not ments according to the new CSR strategy The compliance with the Code of Conduct is feel comfortable reporting the matter to his • Continued work towards integrated reporting monitored through audits and assessments. or her superior, the employee can report it to • Stakeholder dialogues The Volvo Group has a management conthe Head of Corporate Audit in accordance • Development of partnerships with strategic trol system to evaluate how well Group poliwith the Whistleblower procedure. Reports NGOs cies, such as the Code of Conduct, have been made using this procedure may be submitted • Development of the Creating Shared Value implemented and enforced by conducting an anonymously, to the extent permitted by law. strategy. annual self-assessment to measure the level In accordance with our Code of Conduct, we of maturity. The result of the self-assessment do not tolerate retaliation against a person is reported to Group management and the for making good-faith complaints of susAudit Committee and is used as input to the pected improper behavior. long-term development of our corporate valAll incidents are investigated. Suspected ues and business behavior. irregularities always lead to further investigaThe Audit Committee is established by the tion. The consequences are proportional to Board of Directors with the primarily responthe gravity of the action. It may vary from a sibility of overseeing the accounting and warning to demotion, dismissal and/or filing a reporting processes and the audit of the police report. financial statements. The members of the In total, 33 cases were reported in 2012 Audit Committee are independent from the under the Whistleblower procedure. Eleven of company and the company management. these were dismissed following investigation, as there were no grounds for the allegation. Employee commitment In 19 cases we found grounds for the allegaThe annual Volvo Group Attitude Survey tions and proceeded with appropriate actions. (VGAS) measures among other things Three of these cases are still under investigaemployee engagement which is critical for tion. All cases were investigated and reported achieving strategic objectives and for busito the Audit Committee of the AB Volvo ness success. Questions on Code of Conduct Board of Directors. are included and measured in the survey. Already in 1982 the Volvo Group adopted the first Code of Ethical and Social issues. Our present Code of Conduct was adopted in 2003 and is based on the United Nations Global Compact. It was updated in 2012 and adopted by the Board of Directors on September 5, 2012. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 21 S TR ATEGIC APPROACH Risk management All business operations involve risk – managed risk-taking is a condition of maintaining a sustained favorable profita­bility. Risk may be due to events in the world and can affect a given industry or market. Risk can be specific to a single company. At the Volvo Group work is carried out daily to • Operational risks – such as market recepsectors. Adverse changes in the economic identify, measure and manage risk – in some tion of new products, reliance on suppliers, conditions for the Volvo Group’s customers cases the Group can influence the likelihood protection and maintenance of intangible may also impact existing order books through that a risk-related event will occur. In cases in assets, complaints and legal actions by cuscancellations of previously placed orders. The which such events are beyond the Group’s tomers and other third parties and risk related cyclical demand for the Group’s products control, the Group strives to minimize the conto human capital. makes the financial result of the operations sequences. The financial risks and a few additional operdependable on the Group’s ability to react to The risks to which the Volvo Group are ational risks are described in the Volvo Group’s changes in demand, in particular to the ability exposed are classified into three main cateAnnual Report 2012, available on to adapt production levels and production and gories: www.volvogroup.com. operating expenses. • External-related risks – such as the cyclical nature of the commercial vehicles business, External-related risk Intense competition intense competition, changes in prices for The commercial vehicles industry is cyclical Continued consolidation in the industry is commercial vehicles and government regulaThe Volvo Group’s markets undergo significant expected to create fewer but stronger competitions. changes in demand as the general economic tors. The Group’s major competitors are Daim• Financial risks – such as currency fluctuaenvironment fluctuates. Investments in infraler, Paccar, Navistar, MAN, Scania, Caterpillar, tions, interest levels fluctuations, valuations of structure, major industrial projects, mining and Komatsu, Cummins and Brunswick. In recent shares or similar instruments, credit risk and housing construction all impact the Group’s years, new competitors have emerged in Asia, liquidity risk. operations as its products are central to these particularly in China. These new competitors This information is mainly extracted from the Volvo Group Annual Report 2012. 22 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 S TR ATEGIC APPROACH are mainly active in their domestic markets, but Need for engineering expertise and visitors as well as of suppliers. Volvo Blue are expected to increase their presence in As the Volvo Group’s products are getting Risk assessment is a key tool used during site other parts of the world. more sophisticated more experts are needed. inspections. This assessment is reviewed and At the same time the interest for mathematics, supported by the Corporate Security Function Prices may change science and technology in western countries and serves as an input to the insurance proThe prices of commercial vehicles have, at declines. A crucial factor for the implementagram. Managers are responsible for keeping all times, changed considerably in certain markets tion of the Group’s vision and wanted position workplaces free from potential risks and for over a short period. This instability is caused by is input from employees, their skills and comensuring that corrective action is promptly carseveral factors, such as short-term variations in mitment. A related risk is the need for expertise ried out whenever a risk is identified. demand, shortages of certain component and competent engineers to continue the products, uncertainty regarding underlying development of environmentally-enhanced Environmental risks economic conditions, changes in import reguproducts. Forthcoming regulations on environmental lations, excess inventory and increased compeissues related to the Volvo Group’s production tition. Overcapacity within the industry can Operational risk sites are dealt with by the Environmental Comoccur if there is a lack of demand, potentially The profitability depends on successful mittee. All sites have been audited by the Envileading to increased price pressure. new products ronmental Manager for the Volvo Group in The Volvo Group’s long-term profitability order to identify potential risks. Furthermore, all Extensive government regulations depends on the Group’s ability to successfully production sites in the Volvo Group have an Regulations regarding exhaust emission levlaunch and market its new products. Product environmental manager who is responsible for els, noise, safety and levels of pollutants from life cycles continue to shorten, putting working preventively to mitigate the conseproduction plants are extensive within the increased focus on the success of the Group’s quences of an accident if it were to occur. All industry. Most of the regulatory challenges product development. production plants must fulfill the Group’s regarding products relate to reduced engine requirements. emissions. The Volvo Group is a significant Reliance on suppliers Ninety-seven percent of the production is player in the commercial vehicle industry and The Volvo Group purchases raw materials, certified in accordance with ISO 14001. This one of the world’s largest producers of parts and components from numerous external means that risks are managed systematically heavy-duty diesel engines. The product suppliers. A significant part of the Group’s and preventively. development capacity within the Volvo Group requirements for raw materials and supplies is is well consolidated to be able to focus filled by single-source suppliers. The effects of resources for research and development to delivery interruptions vary depending on the meet tougher emission regulations. Future item or component. Certain items and compoproduct regulations are well known and the nents are standard throughout the industry, product development strategy is well tuned to whereas others are internally developed and the introduction of new regulations. require unique tools that are time-consuming to replace. The Volvo Group’s costs for raw Fossil fuel and peak-oil materials and components can vary signifiTwo important issues to address are the role of cantly over a business cycle. Cost variations carbon dioxide emissions and the approach of may be caused by changes in world market peak oil, which can influence the fuel prices. prices for raw materials or by an inability of our More than 95 percent of the energy consumpsuppliers to deliver. tion used in the transport sector today is crude oil-based, hence there is significant potential Safety risks for developing commercially viable alternatives. The Volvo Group has policies, routines and Reducing dependency on fossil fuels such as guidelines designed to help secure safe workoil, coal and natural gas by increasing the use places in all its operating locations. The Volvo of renewable fuels makes both business and Group has a process for handling issues environmental sense. Developing alternatives related to workplace safety such as fire protecthat are fuel-efficient and which can be opertion, emergency evacuation and so forth. Proated using renewable fuels is therefore a priorviding a workplace free from physical hazards ity and a valuable business opportunity for the is essential for ensuring the safety of the Volvo Group. Group’s employees, their families, customers This information is mainly extracted from the Volvo Group Annual Report 2012. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 23 Pages 24–36 The Volvo Group has a vision – to become the world leader in sustainable transport solutions. We look at present and future global challenges and collaborate with other partners in society to find sustainable solutions for the transportation of goods and people. We develop tomorrow’s solutions today. Future transports Content Sustainable transport solutions 25 Infrastructure 27 Carbon dioxide-neutral transport 28 Sustainability Electromobility 30 Creating value Intelligent vehicles 32 Freight efficiency 34 Volvo Group Venture Capital 36 Trustworthiness 24 FUTURE TR ANSPORTS Sustainable transport solutions Growing populations and further urbanization put increasing demands on sustainable and efficient transport ­solutions. The Volvo Group takes an active part in the development of future transports. The Volvo Group’s products and services play an cooperation among states, regions, companies important role in society. Trucks transport food and various sectors of society. Transportation and other goods to their destinations. Buses is essential but needs to be made sustainable. help many people to reach work, holiday destinaThe Volvo Group is committed to contributtions, friends and family. Machines build roads, ing to sustainable development and finding bridges and schools. Marine engines power insolutions in its sphere of competence. land waterway vessels and coast guard boats. If Transport solutions are based on several a fully functional power system is not available, interdependent components. In order to industrial engines can provide a secure electrical develop tomorrow’s solutions, aspects regardsupply to hospitals and airports. ing products, infrastructure and societal While the world keeps moving and needs needs have to be taken into account. efficient transport systems, it also faces The Volvo Group’s products and services are urgent global challenges, such as climate an important part of the transport system. In change, depletion of natural resources, traffic order for transports to continue to be a driving Our vision related accidents and population growth, all of force for development, the transport system To become the world leader in sustainable which need to be addressed. The complexity, needs to be made more efficient. transport solutions by: • creating value for customers in selected size and scale of these challenges require ­segments • pioneering products and services for the transport and infrastructure industries • driving quality, safety and environmental care • working with energy, passion and respect for the individual VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 25 FUTURE TR ANSPORTS Economic dimension 1. The right product or service in order to contribute to high productivity in the transport system 2. Energy efficient transport solutions 3. Safe and secure with very low transport solutions emissions of CO2 , PM, NOx and noise Environmental dimension Social dimension The above model outlines the three dimensions of sustainable transport solutions. It is in the intersection – where the circles meet – that transport is made sustainable and ultimately the Volvo Group’s vision is achieved. A holistic approach transport services. The Volvo Group strives to Attitudes and behavior are important factors The Volvo Group defines sustainable transincrease the market for sustainable products by for efficient and sustainable transports. The port solutions as solutions that improve the developing commercially viable customer offercustomers are therefore offered services and short and long-term economic and environings. By promoting the most energy-­efficient solutions that help them use the products mental performance while also taking social product available today, such as hybrids, and conduct their operations in the most effiimpact into consideration. Sustainable transreduced environmental impacts and lower opercient way possible. port solutions can be achieved by providing: ational costs are delivered to customers. This is one important path on the transformation 3. Safe and secure transport solutions 1. T  he right product or service in order to towards sustainable transport systems. As transports increase, traffic safety contribute to high productivity in the transbecomes increasingly important. There is an port system. 2. Energy-efficient transport solutions increased demand for security and safety 2. E  nergy-efficient transport solutions with very The Volvo Group strives to provide products equipment to protect the driver, vehicle and low emissions of carbon dioxide, particulate that enable more transport work using less goods as well as people surrounding the matter, nitrogen oxides and noise. resources. It is in the use phase of the prodvehicle like pedestrians, cyclists and other 3. S  afe and secure transport solutions. ucts that most advances can be made to road users. Modern technology enables proincrease efficiency. The focus is thus on tection in an efficient manner. 1. The right product and service for high reducing the environmental impact of prodThe Volvo Group’s research and develop­productivity ucts in use by developing: ment focuses on active and passive safety The aim is to provide the right products and • energy-efficient vehicles and services solutions. For example, research is conducted services to achieve energy-efficient transport • hybrid drivelines on solutions and systems that help by giving and attain high productivity in the transport sys• v ehicles that can be operated on alternawarnings if the driver is losing attention, and tem. The end user of the products and their tive and renewable fuel communicate with other parts of society in customers expect reliable and cost-effective order to increase overall safety. 26 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 FUTURE TR ANSPORTS Infrastructure Infrastructure is one part of the transport system and has to be developed to meet future transportation needs. Exclusive lanes for city buses and adapted highway stretches for trucks are one of many ways to reduce traffic congestion and increase the safety of transported goods and people. Two examples of how the Volvo Group is conthe environmental impact and increases the Green Corridors tributing to future transport solutions related safety of bus passengers. The key elements The Volvo Group is involved together with to infrastructure are Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) of BRT are: universities, authorities and other transport and Green Corridors. • High-capacity buses companies, in the EU Green Corridors initia• Exclusive bus and/or freight transport lanes tive to reduce the environment impact of Bus Rapid Transit • Off-board ticketing long-distance freight transport. Volvo Buses was a partner in the first BRT • Level boarding The idea is to concentrate goods traffic system in the world in Curitiba, Brazil in the • Priority at intersections between major urban areas by developing late 1970s. Since then, the Volvo Group has • Traffic control specially adapted routes with an efficient comsupplied more buses for BRT systems than • Passenger information bination of highways, sea routes and railways. any other supplier in the world. Future Green Corridors will provide safer and Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) is an efficient Cities in which the Group works on BRT more efficient transportation with a lower envipublic transport concept designed to meet s­ ystems include Curitiba in Brazil, Bogotá in ronmental impact and less traffic congestion. growing transport demands in cities around Colombia, Mexico City in Mexico, Gothenburg The Volvo Group shares its vehicle technithe world. It reduces traffic congestion, lower in Sweden and York in Great Britain. cal expertise as well as its knowledge of the transport system and participates in field tests under real operational circumstances. How much public transport does 1 2 3 USD 1 ­billion buy? 1. 10 kilometers of subway 2. 50 kilometers of tramway 3. 250 kilometers of Bus Rapid Transit VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 27 FUTURE TR ANSPORTS Carbon dioxide-neutral transports Switching to renewable fuels is one of the keys to reducing the carbon dioxide emissions of the transport sector. ­ Renewable fuels are produced from a renewable source, such as biomass, and production processes that add no excess carbon dioxide to the atmosphere. The Volvo Group is actively exploring and For long-distance transport, crude oilVehicles running on renewable fuels developing technologies that operate on derived diesel fuel with increasing renewable The Volvo Group’s ability to produce carbon renewable or alternative fuels. and synthetic components will remain the dioxide-neutral vehicles has already been dominant fuel. Liquid methane, DME and demonstrated in several vehicles. The The Volvo Group’s position on methanol are prioritized complements. research and development within this area alternative fuels For regional transport, compressed and continues, in order to present new products The Volvo Group prioritizes fuels with high liquefied methane fuel will grow as a result of running on renewable fuels. energy efficiency and low greenhouse gas price and reliability of supply. The Volvo Group In 2007 the Group produced seven demonemissions based on a well-to-wheel perspecbelieves that biogas will grow slowly, but total stration trucks that were adapted to run on tive. All relevant stages of the fuel chain are volume is limited. seven renewable fuels. In 2010 the Volvo considered; from the cultivation and harvestShort-distance transport will, in our opinGroup developed an airport snow sweeper ing to the distribution and use, as well as ion, lead the shift to electricity, especially in running on methane diesel and in 2012 started availability and long-term supply. urban areas. City buses with plug-in or fully the series production of the Volvo FM MethThe Volvo Group develops and offers a electric solutions will be followed by urban ane Diesel truck. Read more about these number of different solutions adapted for delivery and utility trucks. We believe comvehicles under ‘Product Development’ in various applications and commercial condipressed methane, later followed by DME will the ‘Value Chain’ section of this report. tions. There is no single existing alternative also be important. fuel that is optimal for all applications and all situations. 28 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 FUTURE TR ANSPORTS Some definitions: BioDME truck Transition to renewable fuels In the framework of the BioDME project The transition to a low-carbon dioxide society Alternative fuels Fuels that can replace conventional diesel or funded by the EU and the Swedish Energy requires collaboration between vehicle manupetrol fuel derived from crude oil. Alternative Agency, the Volvo Group, together with a facturers, vehicle users, politicians, governfuels include electricity. number of players including BioDME proment agencies and fuel producers. The main BioDME ducer Chemrec and fuel distributor Preem, challenge at this point is the availability of DME produced from renewable material such developed a transport system that encomfuels rather than the technology. as biomass, waste and agricultural products. passes the entire chain from production and In the foreseeable future there will be Biomass distribution of BioDME to operation in Volvo insufficient biomass or renewable fuels to Biological material from which energy can be trucks in a number of haulage firms. fully replace fossil fuels. There will not be a extracted. From 2010 to 2012, the Volvo Group consingle successor to fossil fuel but a range of Carbon dioxide-neutral transport ducted field tests with ten Volvo FH trucks alternative fuels, with various fuels being CO 2 -neutral transport is achieved by means of powered by BioDME, which covered a total of used in different parts of the world. vehicles powered by fuels or electricity pro830,000 km. This was the first time BioDME Through various collaborations, the Volvo duced from sources and production processes that add no excess carbon dioxide to was used as a vehicle fuel on a large scale, Group promotes the establishment of infrathe atmosphere. and the evaluation of the field test shows that structure that will distribute the fuels of the the BioDME trucks function very well on the future. DME has grown rapidly in the energy DME (Dimethylether) A gas with no sulphfur and ultra-clean comroad. The technology is reliable and the entire sector in recent years. The BioDME project in bustion that is easy to liquefy and transport. process is characterized by energy-efficiency, Sweden is just one example demonstrating DME can derive from many sources, including from production and distribution all the way to that infrastructure can be established to profossils fuels (natural gas and coal) and renewable material (biomass, waste and agricultural the vehicles themselves. mote use of this fuel in the transport sector. products). The Volvo Group will continue to operate the There are also signs that regional infrastrucBioDME trucks and further develop the techture for biogas production and distribution Electromobility Vehicles and machines which can utilize an nology towards a future market for BioDME. will be established during the years to come. electric motor to propel the vehicle or machine, Use of BioDME instead of diesel will reduce or to perform the main purpose of the machine. carbon dioxide emissions by 95 percent. Fossil energy Non-renewable energy from earlier geological periods, primarily oil, coal and natural gas. Fossil fuels Fuels based on fossil energy, primarily oil, coal Assessment of sustainability features of fuel categories and natural gas. The Volvo Group has conducted research on several renewable fuels assessed from seven aspects and from a well-to-wheel perspective. All of these renewable fuels have Hybrid vehicles the potential to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from transports. Vehicles and machines which can utilize two different power sources to propel the vehicle The results may vary for a particular fuel depending on the production process used. or machine, or to perform the main purpose Source: Climate issues in focus, Volvo Group, 2007. of the machine. They should also be able to recover and store kinetic energy. Methane + Methane, CH4, is a gas and the main compoel Bi od es roge ie se nent of natural gas and biogas, both in comdi n + l el tic no Bi og pressed and liquefied form. es he ha l no l og s og s as od i nt E et ha a a yd Bi Sy M Et Bi Bi D M H Renewable fuels Minimized climate impact Fuels produced from a renewable source, such as biomass, hydro, wind or solar power, Energy efficiency and production processes that add no excess carbon dioxide to the atmosphere. Renewable Efficiency of land use fuels include ­electricity. Fuel potential Well-to-wheel A concept in which all relevant stages of the Vehicle adjustment fuel chain are considered. This includes the Optimal Fuel costs cultivation (including fertilization) and harvesting of the raw material, its transport to the fuel Fuel infrastructure Less preferable production plant, production and distribution of the fuel to refueling stations, and its use in vehicles. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 29 FUTURE TR ANSPORTS Electromobility The Volvo Group is well positioned with a unique solution for hybrid technology for trucks and buses. This technology is best suited for urban operations since the most appropriate vehicles for hybrid drivelines are those operating in continuous stop-go conditions, such as city buses, refuse trucks and distribution trucks. The Volvo Group has tested various types Plug-in hybrid trucks of hybrid solutions since the 1980s and The Volvo Group has demonstrated several Plug-in hybrid drayage unveiled the first commercially viable hybrid hybrid vehicles in North America over the truck project solution for trucks and buses in 2006. Duration past five years. Between 2012 and 2014 a 2.5 years (2012 –2014) new project will develop and demonstrate Budget Hybrid vehicles plug-in hybrid technology on a Mack drayage USD 2.4 M (Volvo Group cost share: The Group started the serial production of the truck in California. USD 1.2 M) Volvo Hybrid city bus and the Volvo Hybrid Key objectives Port drayage refers to the movement of Demonstrate potential ­benefits of plug-in double-decker in 2010 and has offered two shipping containers between a marine termi­technology in a heavy-duty truck, including: models of hybrid trucks, the Volvo FE Hybrid nal and an inland distribution point. Short aver• fully zero-emission electric mode for up and the Renault Premium Hybrys-Tech, in age distances, frequent stops and prolonged to 10-mile at low speeds selected European markets since 2011. Read idling make the drayage truck a good candi• significant reduction of fuel usage and ­regulated emissions more about these vehicles under ‘Product date for hybridization and plug-in technologies. • engine downsizing Development’ in the ‘Value Chain’ section This project is a cooperation between the of this report. Volvo Group and South Coast Air Quality Other hybrid vehicles are currently being Management District, the air pollution control tested. agency for all of Orange County and the urban portions of Los Angeles, Riverside and San Bernardino counties. 30 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 FUTURE TR ANSPORTS Plug-in hybrid buses Currently tested Volvo Buses has also taken the next step in The Volvo Group is currently testing 13-ton electrification by commencing the developand 16-ton fully electric trucks in France and ment of a plug-in hybrid bus. The plug-in Switzerland in close collaboration with other hybrid has a new type of battery and charging transport industry actors. equipment that will make it possible to Two 13-ton Renault Midlum trucks were charge the battery via the electricity network. delivered in 2012 to supply stores in the Simulations have shown a potential for reducurban areas of Lausanne and Zürich and the ing energy consumption by up to 65 percent 16-ton fully electric Renault Midlum truck is compared with today’s diesel buses. The field tested by a logistics company supplying fresh tests will start in May 2013. products to store chains in the Lyon metropolitan area. The 16-ton vehicle is the largest Joint venture for drivelines electric-powered truck to be put on the road In 2011 Volvo Buses and the Chinese comfor delivering food products in an urban envipany SAIC Motors agreed to form a new jointronment. This distribution truck can carry venture company for the development of 5.5 tons of goods, has an operating range driveline systems for electric and hybrid drive. of 100 km and can be fully recharged in only The company conducts research and develeight hours. These trucks do not emit any opment, assemble new driveline systems and particulate matter, nitrogen oxides or carbon complete vehicle matching, prototype manudioxide and noise levels are low. facturing and test new energy driveline sysIn 2013 the city of Lyon and Renault tems. The company is based in Shanghai, Trucks will bring into service a fully electric China and operated by Sunwin Bus. boom lift truck to be operated by the city’s Street Lighting Department for four years. Fully electric vehicles This experimental application is a first in Sunwin Bus, Volvo Buses’ Chinese joint venture, France. The aim is to ascertain the perforhas sold more than 800 fully electric buses mance of a fully electric boom lift truck under and the first Renault Maxity delivered – a fully actual working conditions and adapt it as electric 4.5-ton truck – has been driven a total well as possible to operational requirements, of 100,000 km. Read more about these vehiparticularly in urban areas. cles under ‘Product Development’ in the ‘Value Chain’ section of this report. Driving distance for a bus with 5 l diesel equivalent to 50 kWh Diesel 10 km Hybrid 14.2 km Plug-in hybrid 25 km Full electric normal bus 34 km VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 31 FUTURE TR ANSPORTS Intelligent vehicles The Volvo Group is a leading actor in the development of intelligent vehicles. Modern communication is combined with advanced information technology to develop machines that work without an operator and vehicles that think for themselves. Road trains The concept could become a reality in the gence machines can see the ground and Driving in a close formation convoy could coming years, if challenges regarding legislastone piles through vision sensors and reduce accidents, improve traffic flow, offer tion, responsibility issues and communications ­perform excavation work and other tasks greater comfort to drivers and lower fuel constandards are resolved. ­efficiently. sumption and carbon dioxide emissions. While the manufacture of autonomous The EU-financed SARTRE (Safe Road Intelligent machines machines is already technically feasible it will Trains for the Environment) project presented Volvo Construction Equipment has developed still be several years before we will see a lot the results of three years of research and tritwo demonstration machines – an excavator of machines with this type of intelligence. als in 2012. The test fleet included a lead and a wheel loader – which can operate withMore development work on sensors and data Volvo FH truck followed by three cars driven out an operator on construction sites. processing applications is required, not to entirely autonomously at speeds of up to The project is partially financed by public mention all of the necessary infrastructural 90 km/h – with no more than six meters gap funding and is a close collaboration between development, as well as legislation and public between the vehicles. By using wireless techthe Volvo Group and two universities in Geracceptance. nology to link the road train, the lead truck, many and Sweden to develop machines that operated by a trained driver, controls a convoy can think for themselves. Since the beginning Automated queue assistance of vehicles driving behind it. The drivers of the of the project in 2008, continuous progress Traffic congestion is tiresome even for provehicles following the lead truck can let go of has been made; active safety features have fessional drivers and it is a recurring source their steering wheel and relax while the train been added and machines have become of accidents. Over the past few years the continues rolling. more and more intelligent. This type of intelliVolvo Group and other research partners 32 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 FUTURE TR ANSPORTS SARTRE (Safe Road Trains for have developed AQuA – Automated Queue To date, the focus has been developing the ­Environment) project Assistance – a technology that assists the vehicles that can “see” – for example, by Duration: 3 years (September 2009– truck driver in traffic congestion. AQuA is detecting lane markers and obstacles. The September 2012) part of the EU funded project HAVEit. next step is to make the vehicles “talk”. Many Budget: EUR 6.4 M (60% from EU ­C ommission and 40% from the participating When a truck driver activates AQuA, the accidents could be prevented if vehicles on companies) system regulates speed, direction and driving the road could communicate with each other Objective: To develop strategies and rhythm through sensors that monitor the area and with infrastructure. ­technologies that allow road trains which offer around the truck. It keeps the vehicle in the Cooperative Systems is one area within significant environmental, safety and comfort benefits on today’s motorways, without requirright lane and at the right distance from the ITS, which responds to the complexity of ing modifications to road infrastructure. vehicle in front. It also keeps a watch on the managing multimodal traffic systems and driver’s attention through camera surveilprovides users with the quality and variety of lance, making sure he or she stays alert and services necessary to match their mobility is ready to take over. Should the driver not demands. The systems can increase the respond to commands, the system can stop quality and reliability of the information availthe vehicle. AQuA makes travel more comable to drivers about the immediate surroundfortable and safe. ings. Road operators benefit from cooperative There are important benefits with this techsystems by receiving information about the nology. Today, 20 percent of all truck accidents vehicles, their position and road conditions. happen in traffic congestion or similar situaThis will lead to a safer and more efficient tions. AQuA will hopefully lower that figure siguse of our roads. Intelligent Cooperative Sysnificantly and reduce driver workload. As a tems have already been implemented in some direct consequence, accident-bound queues of the Volvo Group’s research trucks. will also be prevented. At the Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) Autonomous machines project World Congress in Vienna in 2012, the Volvo Duration: 7 years (2008–2014/2015) Intelligent Transport Systems Group conducted two demonstrations, both Budget: SEK 29.94 M (15.5% from German and Swedish public funding and approximately Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) is a conoperated in live Vienna traffic. Both vehicle20% from other partners) cept that will ultimately contribute to the more 2-vehicle and vehicle-2-infrastructure conShort-term objective: to develop fully efficient use of infrastructure and transport cepts were demonstrated. ­autonomous machines with high productivity, solutions. The combination of new technology low fuel consumption and advanced safety features. with advanced IT and communication techLong-term objective: to be involved in nology offers major opportunities to reduce zero accidents, have zero emissions, 100% congestion and environmental impact and to availability and approximately 10 times higher increase safety by offering real-time traffic energy efficiency. information, remote monitoring, and communication between transport vehicles and the infrastructure. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 33 FUTURE TR ANSPORTS Freight efficiency The Volvo Group is conducting several projects to improve the freight efficiency of its trucks. The objective is to reduce the fuel consumption calculated per volume of freight transported by looking at the truck from different aspects. The efficiency of the engine, the length of the at many innovative solutions to meet the trucks and the aerodynamics are some of the ­ rogram’s aggressive targets. With constant p Volvo Energy Efficient Vehicle project dimensions considered. load this means the fuel consumption and Duration carbon dioxide emissions could be reduced 5 years (2011-2016) Volvo Energy Efficient Vehicle by 33 percent. The team will also demonBudget for the US The Volvo Group is running a bi-lateral prostrate an engine concept capable of reaching USD 38 M (Volvo Group cost share: ject in the US and Sweden with a common 55 percent brake thermal efficiency. USD 19 M) goal of significantly improving the freightThe final deliverables for the project will be Budget for Sweden SEK 176 M (Volvo Group cost share: moving efficiency of future trucks and reduce two concept trucks, one in the US and one in SEK 93 M) their greenhouse gas emissions. The objecSweden, for evaluation and demonstration of Objective 1 tives are to improve freight efficiency by the new technologies. While the selection of Improve freight efficiency by 50% 50 percent, measured in ton-kilometer per technologies for each concept truck will ensure (ton-km/liter or ton-mile/Gal) liter, compared with 2009 truck models, that the unique demands of each market are Objective 2 and to increase the efficiency of the engine met, common technologies will be used when Demonstrate engine technologies that can reach 55% brake thermal efficiency by 20 percent. The five-year program focuses possible. on the complete vehicle – the truck and the For the US part of the project, called trailer – and Volvo Group researchers, Super Truck, the Volvo Group is closely worktogether with some key suppliers, are looking ing with the US Department of Energy and 34 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 FUTURE TR ANSPORTS the National Energy & Technology LaboraThe vehicle combination is built on standDuo2 project tory. The partners include Penn State Univerard European modules combined in a new • 32-meter-long truck sity, Grote and Freight Wing. After only two way. The project is also testing a number of • Weighing up to 80 tons years into this program, the Super Truck new and innovative safety and logistic fea• Recorded fuel savings of over 30% team has already demonstrated freight tures. Initial feedback from the project has ­efficiency improvements for trucks by over been positive in every respect, with recorded 35 percent. fuel savings of over 30 percent. The first offiThe Swedish part of the project is comcial reporting of the project will take place pleted in cooperation with the Swedish Energy during 2013, and the project will continue for Agency (Energimyndigheten) within the at least one more year when additional com­Strategic Vehicle Research and Innovation binations will be deployed. (Fordonsstrategisk Forskning och Innovation, The main advantage of using longer vehiFFI) and is done in partnership with Lund cle combinations is that fewer vehicles are ­University. Several significant improvements needed to transport a quantity of goods. As a have already been identified and verified in result there will be a substantial reduction of simulations and in engine test cells. carbon dioxide emissions – calculated per transported volume of freight. Duo2 In collaboration with Vinnova, the Swedish One more pile Governmental Agency for Innovation SysThe Volvo Group has received SEK 13.8 M tems, the Volvo Group is testing a truck with a from the FFI (Strategic Vehicle Research and length and weight larger than those available Innovation) for the ‘One more pile’ project that today in Europe. aims to develop a modular system for forest In the European Union the maximum transports in cooperation with Volvo Trucks length and weight of trucks is 18.75 meters and several other companies. By increasing and 40 tons, except in Sweden, Finland, the amount of timber per load, fuel consumpDenmark and the Netherlands where the limit tion and carbon dioxide emissions are reduced. is 25.25 meters and 60 tons. In this project, At the same time, there are fewer vehicles on special permission has been attained from the road. traffic authorities to test a 32-meter-long truck weighing up to 80 tons between Gothenburg and Malmö in Sweden (a journey of approximately 300 kilometers). Illustration of the Duo2 truck. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 35 FUTURE TR ANSPORTS Volvo Group Venture Capital Founded in 1997, Volvo Group Venture Capital is an investment company owned by the Volvo Group. The ambition is to be a leading corporate investor in sustainable transport and infrastructure solutions. Each investment should have a positive return in itself while also contributing to the sustainable growth and competitiveness of the Volvo Group. Volvo Group Venture Capital mainly focuses Excavator attachments on businesses with proven business models Steelwrist develops tiltrotators, quick c­ ouplers, directly linked to the Volvo Group’s activities accessories, tools and control systems for and also on companies ready to scale up excavators and backhoe loaders. The comtheir operations. Two companies in which pany recently designed Front pin lock™, an Volvo Group Venture Capital has invested are innovative quick coupler technology, that I-Tech AB and Steelwrist AB. maintains the attachment in a safe position even if the operator should fail in the connecMarine paint tion procedure. The development of this new I-Tech is developing a marine biocide called quick coupler technology responds to increasSelektope® which, when used in very small ing quality and safety demands. quantities in marine paint, prevents ­barnacle growth on ship and boat hulls. ­Selektope® has the potential of revolutionizing the boat paint industry by providing a superior and effective product that has minimal impact on marine surroundings. 36 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 Pages 37–48 Contributing to the community in which we operate is essential and we believe that our unique set of skills and knowledge can be used to make a difference. We work together with customers, government officials, local decision makers, non-governmental organizations, universities and other partners. Society engagement Content The Volvo Group – a part of society 38 Research partnerships 39 Professional training 41 Sustainability Traffic safety 44 Creating value Commuting 46 Global partnerships 47 Trustworthiness SOCIE T Y E NGAGE ME NT The Volvo Group – a part of society The Volvo Group is part of society and wants to contribute to the positive development of communities in which it operates. In its new Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability strategy the Volvo Group will build its community engagement activities on the concept of ‘creating shared value’. The aim is to create value both for society Volvo Group should only engage in projects conditions are essential to planning and exeand for the Volvo Group by matching sociewhere it believes it has a unique contribution cuting successful community projects. Due to ties’ needs with the Group’s business objecto make. its global presence and decentralized structives. It results in activities where both society ture, the Volvo Group considers the local and the company can benefit. Global approach to local needs organizations to be the most suited for identiThe Volvo Group engages in projects The Volvo Group operates in countries with fying, selecting and developing community related to its core business and operating different social, political, economic and culoutreach projects based on local circumcontext that address societal challenges such tural systems and conditions. While many of stances, expectations or priorities. as traffic safety, health and education, where the challenges of sustainable development the Group’s unique expertise and knowledge and CSR are similar across the world, priorican be applied. All projects are guided by the ties and stakeholders’ expectations may difcompany’s core values – quality, safety and fer from region to region. Knowledge and environmental care. As a rule of thumb, the understanding of the markets’ needs and 38 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 SOCIE T Y E NGAGE ME NT Research partnerships The complexities in the challenges ahead require collaboration of several actors in society. The aim of developing research partnerships is to create platforms for developing knowledge and innovation for the future. The research partnerships in which the Volvo partners are sought for mutually beneficial The Volvo Group’s academic partners: Group engages all have long-term ambitions projects and other forms of cooperation. Chalmers University of Technology, to work towards sustainable transport soluThere are two modules in place to date – ­Gothenburg, Sweden (T, R) tions. the Preferred Research Partners program for University of Skövde, Sweden (R) collaborative research projects and the PreSchool of Business, Economics and Law, Academic Partner Program ferred Talents Partners program for recruitGothenburg, Sweden (T) The Academic Partner Program (APP) is a ment purposes. In total, the Volvo Group has Mälardalen University, Västerås/Eskilstuna, Sweden (R) long-term partnership with selected universiten academic partners worldwide. INSA Lyon, France (T, R) ties and research institutes in areas of speIn Sweden, the Preferred Talents Partners EM Lyon, France (T) cial interest to the Volvo Group. The program initiative includes a scholarship program. North Carolina State University, US (T) aims to cooperate on specific projects, Every year, the Group pays tuition for four Penn State University, US (T, R) increase the Group’s visibility to students and new master’s students from China and India Tsinghua University, Beijing, China (T) researchers while also securing a pool of at Chalmers University of Technology. Tongji University, Shanghai, China (T) potential employees. The scholarships cover tuition fees for a In the Academic Partner Program expertwo-year master’s program in automotive R = Preferred Research Partner tise, knowledge and ideas are shared, and engineering, electric power engineering, T = Preferred Talent Partner the necessary strategies for the future are computer systems and networks or software discussed in a rare form of close cooperation. engineering. In addition to financial support, It is a partnership of trust in which long-term the Volvo Group maintains close contact with VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 39 SOCIE T Y E NGAGE ME NT the students during their time at Chalmers symposium took place in October 2012 in University of Technology by offering summer Gothenburg, Sweden gathering over 90 parinternships, degree projects and mentorship. ticipants around the theme “Urban Freight for Liveable Cities – How to deal with CollaboraResearch foundations tion and Trade-Offs”. Volvo Research and Educational Foundations For further information on the research (VREF) is the collective name under which foundations, the Centers and the FUT profour foundations collaborate: the Volvo gram, visit www.vref.se. Research Foundation, the Volvo Educational Volvo Environment Prize Foundation, the Dr Pehr G Gyllenhammar Center for research on traffic The Volvo Environment Prize 2012 was awarded to Gretchen Daily, a professor of Research Foundation and the Håkan Frissafety in China environmental science at Stanford University inger Foundation for Transportation The Volvo Group is one of five partners in California, who is currently developing Research. The foundations finance research behind a new center for research on traffic methods for valuing nature’s various eco­ system services. and education in the area of future urban safety in China that was inaugurated in Gretchen Daily is one of the pioneers in charttransport mainly in Australia, Chile, China, December 2012 in Beijing. ing and quantifying the world’s natural capital. India, South Africa, the UK and the US. In China, which is one of the world’s She is convinced that the only way to generate welfare in the long term is to put a price tag on In 2000 the VREF initiated a program ­biggest markets for cars and heavy trucks, the ecosystem. called Future Urban Transport (FUT) to suptraffic safety has emerged as an increasingly Over the last two decades the Volvo Environport the development of sustainable transimportant issue for both the Chinese government Prize has become one of the scientific portation systems in large urban areas ment and the general public. world’s most respected environmental prizes. Since the first award in 1990, the prize has around the world. The FUT program grants The China Sweden Research Center for gone to 39 people. Among them are many approximately SEK 30 M annually to ten Traffic Safety will conduct research projects well-known names and three Nobel Prize Centers of Excellence fully dedicated to with the aim of improving road safety both in winners. research and educational projects in the area Sweden and in China. Pilot projects are of sustainable urban transport. The Centers, already under way, including some whose integrated with universities or technology focus is on studying accidents in China institutes, are cooperating closely through involving trucks and buses. The research their case studies with key stakeholders center also aims to boost the exchange of responsible for urban transportation systems. technology and know-how between the two The VREF also finances other research countries and to support the two governprojects to complement the research of the ments’ decisions on issues relating to traffic Centers of Excellence and organize regular safety. conferences or symposiums that bring In addition to the Volvo Group, the other together FUT researchers and key stakeholdpartners are Volvo Car Group, Chalmers Uniers. The participants learn from each other versity of Technology, the Chinese Ministry of and develop new ideas that give rise to Transport’s Research Institute of Highways papers, articles or publications. The latest and Tongji University. 40 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 SOCIE T Y E NGAGE ME NT Professional training In the transport and construction industry, there is a shortage of people with the right competencies in some countries. To secure the development of the business and facilitate viable employment opportunities, the Volvo Group conducts a number of professional training programs for technicians, drivers, operators and people working in factories in different parts of the world. The training provides them with the right skills and increases their professional experience. The Volvo Step in Sweden ment within the Volvo Group, but it gives the To meet the need for skilled employees in the participants better opportunities in the labor future, the Volvo Group has launched the market. Successful participants will receive a Volvo Step, a one-year, paid vocational traincertificate showing that they are sufficiently ing program in industrial production for unemqualified to work in industrial production. ployed youth between the ages of 18 and 22. Representing an overall investment of The Volvo Step takes place at 13 plants and SEK 450 M, The Volvo Step is a three-year sites in Sweden, providing both theoretical project that will enable a total of 1,200 young and practical learning experiences. people to participate in a reimbursed training Frequently one of the obstacles for young program. Women accounted for 44 percent people looking for employment is their lack of of the 400 participants in 2012. experience. The purpose of the program, which started in November 2012, is to equip young Training of World Food Program people with the appropriate skills and experitechnicians in East Africa ence to work in the production sector, either To help the World Food Program (WFP) carry The Volvo Step is a three-year project that will within the Volvo Group or with other employers. out its mission, Renault Trucks deployed a enable a total of 1,200 young people to partici­ The program is not a guarantee of employmobile training unit in five East African counpate in a reimbursed training program. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 41 SOCIE T Y E NGAGE ME NT tries for three months in 2012, to train WFP skilled workers. Though students and apprenmechanics in the most advanced maintetices will not be under any obligation to work nance techniques. for the Volvo Group, the project will provide The United Nations’ World Food Program the Group with a very powerful way of buildworks to combat hunger by guaranteeing ing relationships with potential employees. access to food in the poorest parts of the While the Volvo Group facilitates teacher world. Reliable trucks are vital to their logistraining and supplies equipment, the school tics system for bringing food to people in handles administration, re-cruitment of teachemergency situations. More than 100 of ers and the selection of students. UNIDO these are Renault trucks, which carry food oversees the project. supplies under the most extreme conditions. The project, which will train about 30 stuRenault Trucks provided a mobile training dents a year, started in February 2013. If the unit, which together with a team of techninew program works well, the company will cians, was sent out to train the WFP’s consider expanding into other African counmechanics in East Africa in maintenance and tries in the future. repair skills. From Uganda to Southern Sudan, Rwanda, the Democratic Republic of Training of operators in India Congo and Burundi, Renault Trucks specialThe Volvo Group partners with the GMR Varists trained the WFP teams on site. alakshmi Foundation (GMRVF), a non-profit organization, to address the growing demand Training of technicians in Ethiopia for skilled operators in India’s booming conThe Volvo Group is confronting a shortage of struction equipment industry and make construction equipment and truck technicians underprivileged youth employable. Together in Sub-Saharan Africa in a joint project with they offer a three-month operator training the Swedish International Development course. Cooperation Agency (SIDA) and the United The course provides basic and advanced Nations Industrial Development Organization technical training on Volvo excavators to (UNIDO). The project helps support and modyouth. The curriculum includes training in ernize technical schools in Ethiopia. operational efficiency, safety and mainteThe Group takes a hands-on approach with nance, but also soft skills training such as a project at Selam Technical and Vocational speaking and writing in English and computer College in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, providing usage. Most of the training takes place in new equipment, training material, teacher GMRVF’s vocational training center in training, ongoing curriculum development and Shamshabab, except for one week of intense apprenticeship opportunities for students. training at the Volvo Construction Equipment Lack of well-trained technicians is a sericustomer center in Bangalore. ous problem in much of Africa. As a result, Volvo facilitates the training, providing dealers operating in countries like Ethiopia course material, curriculum design and are often compelled to hire expatriate techniappropriate equipment. It also helps with cians rather than invest in local workers who placements through its dealer and customer would remain in the country permanently – network after the training is completed. and keep more money in the local economy. In December 2012 the first class from the The few local technicians who are available joint training program graduated with a secoften have inadequate training, as many techond class following shortly thereafter. Despite nical schools in these countries use outpopular demand for the course, Volvo and moded equipment – sometimes dating back GMRVF intend to keep the class sizes small, to the 1970s or 1980s. to maintain the quality of training. The next Developing a technical program benefits step will be to start the training at multiple original equipment manufacturers like the centers across India to help improve skilled Volvo Group by providing a larger pool of operator availability across the country. 42 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 SOCIE T Y E NGAGE ME NT Professional training businesses in order to provide vocational in South Africa training and apprenticeships. The Volvo Since 2009 the Volvo Group has been conTrucks Center in Pinetown, Durban, employs ducting a number of professional trainings for a number of apprentices recruited and employees and the local community in South trained through the Skills for Life program. Africa. The purpose of the 12-to-18-month In order to raise money for the Star for Life “learnerships”, as they are called in South program, the Volvo Group donated the world’s Africa, is to update the staff on the latest first series-manufactured new Volvo FH truck developments within the industry, as well as to be sold to the highest bidder on eBay in to provide development opportunities for September 2012. All proceeds were donated members of the local community, including to the program. unemployed youth and people with disabilities. Learnerships are conducted in various areas such as production, sales, aftermarket, maintenance and literacy skills. The Volvo Group is closely working with the Manufacturing, Engineering and Related Sector for Education and Training Authorities (MERSETA) to design and implement these training programs. Apprenticeship and education on health in South Africa Several million people are infected with HIV/ AIDS in South Africa, the highest number in any country in the world. The disease has decimated the community and continues to do so. It is a threat for the Volvo Group’s employees, customers and the local community. The Volvo Group’s efforts to fight the spread of HIV/AIDS began in 2004 and the project has grown ever since. The company is mainly supporting two initiatives: the Star for Life Health and Education and the Skills for Life. The Star for Life Foundation is a nonprofit, school-based HIV and AIDS prevention program that informs youth about the disease and helps them make decisions that will reduce infection risks. The Foundation supports schools in South Africa, Namibia and Zambia, and the Volvo Group currently sponsors 24 schools in Durban, Johannesburg and Cape Town. The Skills for Life program aims to alleviate poverty and youth unemployment by linking the Star for Life schools to VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 43 SOCIE T Y E NGAGE ME NT Traffic safety Road traffic accidents are the most common cause of death among young people in many parts of the world. Through educational programs and sponsorships the Volvo Group participates in different initiatives to increase traffic safety and minimize the number of accidents. Traffic safety program in Brazil governments, traffic agencies, businesses, In the late 1980s, the Volvo Group launched schools and universities as well as the the Volvo Traffic Safety Program (VTSP) to media and the general public. help lower traffic accidents and death rates One of the primary projects undertaken in in Brazil which are among the highest in the recent years is the TransFORM Program world. According to statistics from compawhere professional truck drivers are trained nies linked to the freight carrier segment in safe driving skills. As a result, better and insurance companies, close to 91,000 trained drivers, reduced operational and accident involving freight vehicles occur truck maintenance costs, and fewer road every year in Brazil. In these accidents, accidents have been realized, leading to Since the first training in 2008, over 180 freight carrier companies have been involved 12,000 people die, approximately 4,000 of fewer deaths and reduced financial losses and over 700 professional drivers have been them are truck drivers. linked to accidents. trained via the TransFORM Program. The VTSP program has involved thouThe course is an intensive five-day sands of people and is based on confertraining with an average of ten students per ences, symposiums, seminars, training for class. Two instructors work together to professional drivers and interaction with teach about vehicle technology and driving schools, cities and communities. safety. The classes take place in the Volvo VTSP has become the country’s longest facilities, at the dealerships or at the running traffic alleviation program, mobilizing carrier’s own premises. 44 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 SOCIE T Y E NGAGE ME NT Since the first training in 2008, over 180 Traffic safety campaign in Denmark freight carrier companies have been involved Sixty percent of all accidents in which a truck and over 700 professional drivers have been collides with a pedestrian or cyclist is the trained. In 2012 approximately 100 truck drivresult of driver’s blind spot. Many of the peoers were given the training. ple injured are children. In Denmark Volvo Trucks and several other Road team in the US organizations have therefore joined forces in America’s Road Team is a national public outa project designed to teach children how to reach program led by a small group of profesbehave when they approach trucks. sional truck drivers who share superior driving The Traffic Safety at Eye Level campaign skills, remarkable safety records and a strong was launched in 2003 and so far, more than desire to spread the word about safety on the 60,000 children throughout Denmark have highway. participated in the course. American Trucking Associations (ATA), the voice of the trucking industry, created AmeriSafe & Sober campaign in Europe ca’s Road Team in 1986 to reach out to the The Safe & Sober campaign is run by the trucking industry and the motoring public. independent, non-profit European Transport Every two years, ATA searches for profesSafety Council (ETSC) with active support sional truck drivers, both men and women, from Volvo Trucks. The campaign focuses priwho are willing to take time away from the marily on politicians, opinion leaders, safety cab of the truck to serve as a Captain. As organizations and the transport industry. Road Team Captains, these professional drivThe aim is to reduce the number of deaths ers take a few days each month to meet with and injuries in Europe that are caused by the motoring public, the news media, studrunk driving. A series of debates known as dents, transportation officials and governthe Safe & Sober Talks were held in selected ment leaders to demonstrate the trucking member states throughout Europe in 2012. industry’s commitment to safety and promote As part of the campaign, the Volvo Group and trucking as a sustainable and essential part ETSC also aim to identify and support good of the US economy. In addition, Road Team practices and carry out training programs and Captains appear at events ranging from driver educational activities. safety meetings to National Truck Driving Championships to reinforce the importance of safety and professionalism in our industry. The Volvo Group has supported the America’s Road Team for more than a decade. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 45 SOCIE T Y E NGAGE ME NT Commuting The Volvo Group works to develop solutions that enhance mobility while reducing the impact on the environment. Commute Greener is a mobile-based application that calculates and keeps track of carbon dioxide emissions. The application transforms a cell phone into a tool to measure carbon dioxide emissions generated during every day commuting, including traveling by bus, car, train, bicycle or other means of transport. The application not only calculates carbon involve 200,000 government employees The initiative’s success was not only due to dioxide emissions, but also financial savings and use the results as part of their Environthe greater awareness it created among parand gives proactive suggestions on how to mental Management System. So far, the ticipants but also changes in their lifestyle. commute greener. The program challenges ­project has obtained encouraging results users to reduce carbon dioxide emissions with dedicated groups showing a potential and traffic congestion while contributing to carbon dioxide emission reduction of up better health and quality of life. to 40 percent. The Commute Greener application has been developed by the Volvo Group. Users Reduced emissions in India include corporations, cities, organizations Volvo India started using Commute Greener and individuals. In addition to the application in 2012 and after 10 weeks, it is estimated itself, Commute Greener provides a commuthat 2,300 employees and business partners nity website where commuters can chalreduced their carbon dioxide emissions by lenge each other to reduce their individual 12 percent, an equivalent of 6,000 kg of carbon dioxide footprint. carbon dioxide. Additionally there were The free and public large time and financial savings, since more version of Commute Successful commuting in Mexico than 16,000 car trips which used to cause Greener can be downloaded from the Mexico City has been using Commute congestion in traffic were replaced by the App Store and Greener since 2010 with the objective to use of buses. www.commutegreener.com 46 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 SOCIE T Y E NGAGE ME NT Photo: Jane Beesley Global partnerships The Volvo Group cooperates with many different stakeholders, including non-governmental organizations. The Group has participated in WWF’s Climate Savers Program since 2010, and in 2012 the Group entered a partnership with the global charity organization Oxfam. WWF Climate Savers The Volvo Group became the world’s first The objective for the Volvo Group is to WWF is one of the world’s largest and most manufacturer in the automotive industry to be reduce the total amount of carbon dioxide respected environmental organizations, whose approved by WWF to participate in the Climate emitted by trucks, construction equipment vision is to stop the degradation of the planSavers Program in 2010, in an agreement and buses manufactured by the Group by et’s natural environment and build a future in whereby the Group’s truck brands committed more than 30 million tons by 2014, compared which humans live in harmony with nature. to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide emiswith vehicles manufactured in 2008. WWF’s Climate Savers Program involves sions from production facilities and trucks As part of the commitment, Volvo multinational companies in the effort to manufactured from 2009 to 2014. Construction Equipment will prepare a new reduce carbon dioxide emissions. These In 2012 Volvo Construction Equipment and prototype with considerably improved fuel companies pledge to reduce their carbon Volvo Bus Cooperation also joined the Cliefficiency, compared with existing models dioxide emissions pursuant to an agreement mate Savers program, and Volvo Group’s and Volvo Buses will expand the number of between WWF and the company. The results joint-venture company, SDLG, which manufield tests with plug-in hybrid buses. The are reviewed by independent technical factures construction equipment in China, plug-in technology has excellent fuel-savings experts. The agreed target must be more became the first Chinese company to be potential for city buses. ambitious than the company would have set approved as a partner of the program. on its own, and must also signify that the company is leading its sector in the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 47 SOCIE T Y E NGAGE ME NT The agreement between the Volvo Group Oxfam With the support of the Volvo Group, Oxfam and WWF also states that: Access to clean water and sanitation is vital initiated a project in Haiti that will help 1,750 •T  he Volvo Group will develop a new truck for people’s survival, particularly children, and families relocate to safe neighborhoods following the devastating earthquake of January prototype with 20 percent lower fuel conreduces their risk of suffering from life2010. sumption than a corresponding truck manuthreatening diseases. factured in 2008. 1/2 2/32012 the Volvo Group In December 1/2 2/3 1/2 2/3 •P  rior to 2014, the Volvo Group will offer entered a partnership with the global charity commercial trucks that operate on renewaorganization Oxfam by making a donation to ble gas. three projects designed to improve access to •T  he Volvo Group will reduce carbon dioxide2008 clean water2060 2008 in and sanitation for communities 2060 2008 2060 ­emissions from its production plants by Haiti, Indonesia and Ethiopia who are In 2010 the Volvo Group became the world’s 0.2 million tons (12 percent) before 2014, impacted by natural disasters. first manufacturer in the automotive industry compared with 2008. 1/2 confederation of Oxfam is an international 2/3 to be approved by the WWF to participate in Independent technical experts will verify that the Climate Savers Program. 17 organizations networked together in more the Volvo Group is complying with its committhan 90 countries. For over 70 years, Oxfam 1/2 2/3 1/2 2/3 ments. has led the way in responding to disasters 2008 on emerCLIMATE SAVERS 2060 and has become a world authority Half-time results gency water and sanitation. DEFENSORES DO CLIMA The Volvo Group communicated its half-time With the support of the Volvo Group, 2008 2060 2008 2060 results for the period of 2009–2011 and is Oxfam initiated a project in Haiti that will help A WWF GLOBAL INITIATIVE WITH BUSINESS ahead of target. 1,750 families relocate to safe neighborThe carbon dioxide emissions from the hoods following the devastating earthquake 1. 1/2 2/ Group’s facilities in 2011 were 16 percent of January 2010. In Indonesia, the Volvo lower than in 2008. They were reduced by 12 Group’s support contributes % to the implemen0.3 million tons between 2009 and 2011, tation of communityless CO2 disaster risk manbased 30 M tons which already exceeds the goal for the whole agement in targeted villages, empowering less CO2 2008 period from 2009–2014. The total lifetime local communities through capacity building emissions of the Group’s products were and advocacy. Finally, in Ethiopia Oxfam will reduced by 18 million tons, with a goal of 30 use the Volvo Group’s contribution to manage million tons by 2014. water and sanitation infrastructure and ser2009-2014 2009-2014 vices for 31,000 people. Volvo Ocean Race seminars 2. During 2012 the Volvo Group organized seminars together with WWF to talk about the 12% less CO2 Climate Savers Program and the Volvo Group’s commitment with the purpose to inspire others. The seminars took place in Abu Dhabi (UAE), Sanya (China), Miami (US) and Lisbon (Portugal) during the Volvo Ocean Race event and were attended by customers, business partners and government repre2009-2014 Nitrogen 90% Decrease oxides and sentatives. 1. T  he objective particle is to reduce the total amount matter of carbon dioxide emitted by trucks, construction equipment and buses manufactured by the Group through 2014 by more than 30 million tons, compared 1990’swith vehiToday cles manufactured in 2008. 2. T he Volvo Group will also reduce carbon dioxide emissions from its production plants by 0.2 million tons (12 percent) before 40 years ago Today 2014, compared with 2008. One truck 40 years ago emitted as much particulate matter and nitrogen oxides as 33 trucks today. 48 40 years agoVOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Today Y RE PORT 2012 One truck 40 years ago emitted as much particulate matter Pages 49–81 Taking responsibility for what we produce, how we produce it and how we act is at the core of the Volvo Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility and sustainability commitment. We look at the entire value chain and manage sustainability issues at every stage of the lifecycle of our products – from the product development to recycling. Value chain Investments Income for the year SEK11. 258 million Product Purchasing Production Distribution Product in use Re-use development and service Shareholders Content Product development 50 Distribution and service 71 Product development process 50 Product range 72 Fuel consumption and exhaust emissions 51 Dealers 74 Noise 55 Supporting the customers 75 Hazardous substances 56 Transparent communication 75 Sustainability Safety 56 Anti-corruption 75 Purchasing 58 Fair competition 76 Creating value Sourcing process 58 Product in use 77 Requirements on suppliers 59 Fuel consumption 77 Assessments 59 Safety 79 Trustworthiness Production 60 Re-use 80 Global industrial structure 61 Remanufacturing 80 Employees 62 Recycling 80 Environmental management 67 Transports and logistics 69 VALUE CHAIN PRODUCT DE VE LOPME NT Product development The Volvo Group has a long history of developing pioneering products and services for the transport and the c­ onstruction industries. Its research has resulted in cutting-edge technologies in the areas of safety, energy efficiency and emission reductions. Approximately 60 percent of the people in 2011. A large part of the investments were take up to four years, sometimes longer if a working in research and development (R&D) related to reducing exhaust emissions, lowernew powertrain is included. Customers are are located in Sweden, with the rest in ing fuel consumption and developing hybrid actively involved in the project providing input Europe, the US, Asia and South America. technologies. through surveys, clinics and field tests. For In 2012 investments in R&D amounted to In 2012 government grants amounting to each new vehicle developed the Volvo Group SEK 14.8 billion, compared with SEK 13.3 bilSEK 675 M (783) were received, of which keeps track of the project experience in a lion in 2011, which corresponds to 5.0 perSEK 525 M (775) was reported in the income white book so that the learnings can serve as cent of net sales compared with 4.4 percent statement. Tax credits are included at a basis for future projects. SEK 348 M (545), related to product develDuring the development of the products opment in France and India. Other grants were mainly from the European Research and development costs Three areas of focus Commission and the Swedish Government. Research and development Energy-efficient costs, SEK bn Product development process There are six stages to the Volvo Group proddrivelines Hybrid and Research and development uct development cycle. Each stage has differcosts,% of ent environmental, quality and safety objecIndustrial Operations' net sales tives that are followed up at each project gate electric drivelines 08 09 10 11 12 and need to be met before proceeding to the Renewable 14.3 4.9 13.2 6.3 13.0 5.0 13.3 4.4 14.8 5.0 next stage. Developing a completely new vehicle can fuels 50 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 VALUE CHAIN 1 2 3 4 5 6 PRODUCT DE VE LOPME NT Detailed Final Industrialization Pre-study Concept study and commer­ Follow-up ­development ­development cialization Product development cycle 1. Definition of the project scope 2. Choice of the concept 3. Technical feasibility study 4. D  evelopment phase including building, verifying and validating the product solution 5. Industrialization and commercialization phase to enable production 6. L aunch of the product and aftermarket products the ergonomics for the driver and the accesFuel consumption and exhaust Program. Read more about this commitment sibility of the parts for the technician are emissions under the ‘Society Engagement’ section of taken into account, as well as the ergonomic Climate change is very much a global issue this report. aspects for employees working on the which requires global action. According to the assembly line. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Greenhouse gas-related regulations (IPCC), greenhouse gas emissions must be The Volvo Group is closely monitoring and Life cycle assessment reduced by 50–80 percent between 2000 participating in the development of forthcomIn the 1990s the Volvo Group was one of the and 2050 if we are to avoid the most serious ing greenhouse gas-related regulations for first companies in the automotive industry to consequences of climate change. heavy-duty vehicles. Fuel consumption has use Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). It maps a Research shows that transport is responsialready been regulated in China, and Japan product’s environmental impact in order to ble for approximately 13 percent of the total will follow in 2015. Taiwan and South Korea make informed decisions in the development greenhouse gas emissions caused by are also considering regulations. process. humans. Goods movement on roads accounts The US will introduce a greenhouse gasAccording to these LCAs approximately 90 for about four percent globally. emission regulation in 2014, and a correpercent of the environmental impact of a For this reason the Volvo Group puts sigsponding fuel consumption regulation in Volvo truck results from its use. Each new nificant effort into developing products run2016. Volvo and Mack trucks have already product from the Volvo Group should have less ning on alternative fuels, or with significantly received certifications for meeting the 2014 environmental impact than the product it reduced fuel consumption. The target for greenhouse gas regulation. replaces. Thus the focus of the Volvo Group’s 2014 is to reduce the total lifetime emissions The Group is also monitoring and particiefforts is on reducing the environmental of the Group’s products by 30 million tons pating in the EU debate regarding greenimpact of its products during their use. (with 2008 as a baseline). Between 2009 house gas and fuel consumption certification and 2011, the reduction amounts to 18 milof heavy-duty vehicles. There is no legislation lion tons. This is part of the Volvo Group’s for buses and trucks yet, but there are targets commitment within the WWF Climate Savers for the transport sector as a whole. Environmental impact of a Volvo truck Fuel consumption of a Volvo truck 5% Maintenance 50 30% Exhaust emissions including CO2 from -5% Recycling 45 fuel use 12% Producing 40 Liter / 100 km the truck 40% 35 30 25 15% 20 93% 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025 Driving the truck Life Cycle Assessment Each new product from the Volvo Group should have less environmental 58% Fuel impact than the product it replaces. Findings from analyses indicate approxiResource use of crude oil mately 90% of the environmental impact results from the use of the truck. and fuel production VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 51 VALUE CHAIN 20082008 The European Union targets a reduction of Regulated exhaust emissions As for trucks and buses, the latest regulaPRODUCT DE VE LOPME NT greenhouse gases of 20 percent by 2030, Authorities around the world are imposing tion in the EU is Euro V, which was introduced based on 2008 levels, and at least 60 percent by 2050, with 1990 as the baseline. In stringent requirements on emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) and particulate matter (PM) 1212 in October 2009. The most recent regulation 2010, in the US, EPAless less2became CO %% CO2 effective in urban transport, the target is to achieve from on and off-road vehicles because of their 2010. The Euro VI regulation which comes essentially carbon dioxide-neutral city logisnegative impact on local air quality and health. into effect on January 1, 2013 for new type tics in major urban centers by 2030. These regulations affect the Volvo Group’s approvals and January 1, 2014 for all regisThe European Union has stated that new trucks, buses, machines and Volvo Penta’s tration of new vehicles in the EU, reduces technologies for vehicles including engines, products. nitrogen oxides and particulate matter material and design, and traffic management Volvo Construction Equipment and Volvo ­emissions by 97 percent from the level of the features as well as cleaner energy use Penta were among the first to offer products early 1990s, 2009-2014 thereby setting very low levels. 2009-2014 through new fuels and drivelines are necescompliant with the Tier 4 Interim emission sary to reduce transportation related emisregulation in the US and Stage IIIB in Europe. Diesel engine sions. These are all prioritized research areas Particulate matter emissions are reduced by The diesel engine represents the focus of the within the Volvo Group with significant 90 percent in these products compared with Volvo Group as it is currently the most effiresources dedicated to them. the previous emission regulations. cient energy converter for commercial vehiSignificantly reduced emissions Emission regulations for trucks and buses 120 Carbon monoxide (CO) Particles, g/kWh NO X, g/kWh Nitrogen oxides (NO X) 100 Solvents (VOCs) 0,16 8 120 Carbon monoxide (CO) 80 Benzene 0,14 Europe USA 7 Nitrogen oxides (NO X) 100 Particulate matter (PM) 0,12 6 60 Solvents (VOCs) from diesel Benzene 0,10 5 80 Carbon dioxide (CO2 ) 40 Particulate matter (PM) 0,08 4 60 Sulphur from dieseldioxide (SO2) 20 0,06 3 40 Carbon dioxide (CO2 ) 0,04 2 0 Sulphur dioxide (SO2) 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 0,02 1 20 0 0 0 1996 2002 2006 2009 2014 2002 2007 2010 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 Euro II Euro III Euro IV Euro V Euro VI EPA 2002 EPA 2007 EPA 2010 Within the EU all road transport emissions except for CO 2 are expected Source: to decrease ACEA – European in the Automobile is the future. This Association. Manufacturers' Particulate matter, g/kWh Nitrogen oxides, g/kWh result of stringent emission regulations. 40 years 40 years ago ago TodayToday Source: ACEA – European Automobile Manufacturers' Association. 40 years ago one truck emitted as much particulate matter One One trucktruck 40 oxides years 40 years and nitrogen ago emitted ago emitted as 33 trucksas as muchmuch particulate particulate today. matter matter and nitrogen and nitrogen oxides as 33astrucks oxides today.today. 33 trucks Emission regulations for trucks and buses Emission regulations Emission for construction regulations for non-roadequipment >225 machinery 1 kW and <560kW Particles, g/kWh NO X, g/kWh 0,55 11 Emission regulations for trucks and buses 0,50 Europe USA 10 0,45 9 Particles, g/kWh NO X, g/kWh 0,16 8 0,40 8 0,35 7 0,14 Europe USA 7 * 0,12 6 0,30 6 0,10 5 0,25 5 0,08 4 0,20 * * 4 0,06 3 0,15 3 0,04 2 0,10 2 0,02 1 0,05 1 0 0 0 0 1999 2002 2006 2011 2014 1996 2001 2006 2011 2014 1996 2002 2006 2009 2014 2002 2007 2010 Stage I Stage II Stage Stage Stage IV Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Tier 4 Tier 4 Euro II Euro III Euro IV Euro V Euro VI EPA 2002 EPA 2007 EPA 2010 final IIIA IIIB interim Particulate matter, g/kWh Nitrogen oxides, g/kWh Particulate matter, g/kWh Nitrogen oxides, g/kWh *Including also hydrocarbones (g/kWh) 1  hese regulations affects both Volvo Penta’s industrial engines and Volvo Construction T Equipment’s products. Emission regulations for Volvo Penta engines 130−560kW Emission regulations for construction equipment >225 kW and <560kW Particles, g/kWh NO X, g/kWh 52 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 0,55 11 Particles, g/kWh NO X, g/kWh 0,55 0,50 11 Europe USA 10 VALUE CHAIN 2008 2060 2008 2060 2008 2060 1/2 2/3 Carbon dioxide-neutral fuels PRODUCT DE VE LOPME NT Switching to renewable fuels is one of the 2008 2060 keys to reducing the climate impact of the transportation industry. Renewable fuels are produced from a renewable source, such as biomass, hydro, wind or solar energy, and production processes that add no excess carbon dioxide to the atmosphere. Facts about Euro VI 12 The Volvo Group %demonstrated its ability to less CO In 2007 the Volvo Group presented seven trucks that can all be operated on a different produce carbon dioxide-neutral 2 vehicles 30 M tons renewable •O  ne-fifth the nitrogen oxide emissions less COfuel. 2 already in 2007 when it produced seven of a Euro V engine. •H  alf the particulate emissions of a demonstration trucks each running on a difEuro V engine. ferent renewable fuel. The technology for • It will be compulsory to meet emissions Volvo Trucks and Mack Trucks were the first achieving carbon dioxide-neutral transport is manufacturers to have their engines certified ­legislation down to an ambient temperature of at least –7° C. already available, leaving the main challenge by the US Environmental 2009-2014 Protection Agency 2009-2014 •E  missions legislation encompasses nitrogen in the availability of the fuels. and the California Air Resour­ces Board as oxides (NO X ), particulates (mass), particumeeting the EPA 2010 emissions regulation, In the foreseeable future there will not be a which is currently the most stringent standard lates (quantity), ammonia (NH3), carbon monoxide (CO) and hydrocarbons (HC). single successor to fossil fuel but a range of in the world. alternative and renewable fuels, with different fuels being used in different parts of the world. The new Volvo FH truck introduced on the Since the early 1990s, emissions of ­nitrogen market in 2012 already complies with the Methane diesel truck oxides and particulate matter from a Volvo Euro VI legislation when fitted with the truck have been cut by more than 90%. In February 2012 the Volvo Group began D13 460 hp engine. series production of the Volvo FM Methane Diesel truck. Nitrogen 90% Decrease The Volvo Group is the first manufacturer oxides and With the introduction of the Euro VI emisson particle regulation, NOX will decrease by 77% and PM to have an efficient diesel engine fuelled by a matter will be halved compared to Euro V. mixture of methane and diesel, and the first manufacturer in Europe to start selling gas1990’s Today cles. Volvo Trucks and Mack Trucks were the powered trucks for long-haul operations. first manufacturers to have their engines cerIt can use up to 75 percent methane and tified by the US Environmental Protection considerably reduce carbon dioxide emisAgency and the California Air Resources sions from heavy and long-distance transport The snow sweeper consists of a Volvo A25 Board as meeting the EPA 2010 emissions 40 years ago operations. Compared with traditional diesel Today articulated hauler front unit with a snow plow regulation, which is currently the most strinoperations, carbon dioxide emissions can be and a rear machine with a brush and blower One truck 40 years ago emitted as much particulate matter gent standard in the world. cut by and nitrogen oxides as up to 70today. 33 trucks percent when powered with driven by a Volvo Penta engine. The methane The vehicles that meet the demanding biomethane. diesel technology has been transferred from requirements of EPA 2010 are equipped with The first markets to receive this new techthe Volvo truck business and combines the both Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) and nology truck were Sweden, the Netherlands high energy efficiency of a regular diesel Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR). and the UK – where the infrastructure and engine and the use of renewable biogas as EGR lowers the amount of oxygen in the distribution for methane is established. Sales the primary fuel. combustion chamber, which reduces comin other parts of the world will follow. There By the end of 2012 Volvo Construction bustion peak temperature and, in doing so, are very ambitious targets set for the methEquipment had delivered close to 50 articulowers the formation of nitrogen oxides. ane distribution in several countries including lated hauler front units for snow sweepers. With SCR technology, diesel exhaust fluid, a the US and some parts of Europe. water solution of urea, is injected into the Fuel-saving potential exhaust stream to convert nitrogen oxides Methane diesel snow sweepers Operating costs for customers include driver into harmless nitrogen and water vapor. It is Volvo Construction Equipment has, together salaries, fuel costs, vehicle capital costs necessary to use both techniques to with ABEI Schmidt, developed an airport snow (depreciation and interest), service and insurachieve low emissions as well as high fuel sweeper powered by a Volvo engine using ance. Fuel accounts for one of the highest efficiency in vehicles. methane diesel technology. It is the first snow costs for all customers and any measure that This unique technology has proven fuel sweeper that uses biogas as the primary fuel can reduce fuel consumption will help to savings of up to 5 percent compared with source in an energy-efficient way. improve profitability while reducing environthe previous engine model. mental impact. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 53 VALUE CHAIN The estimated fuel savings for a standard speed compared to conventional technologies. cles, while exploring plug-in technology. The PRODUCT DE VE LOPME NT Volvo truck will be 15 percent greater in In total over 14,000 IPS units have been delivproducts already on the market are described 2025 compared with fuel consumption in ered worldwide, mainly in leisure applications, in this section and the products under testing 2010. This can be achieved by further improvbut is now also becoming an important proand development are described in the ing the driveline, design, weight and tires. pulsion alternative in commercial applications ‘Future transports’ section of this report. New technology can be used to achieve more to save fuel and reduce environmental impact significant savings. For instance, the use of a with regard to exhaust emissions and noise. Hybrid vehicles hybrid driveline in a truck has a fuel saving The IPS propulsion system selected by the The Volvo Group is a leading player in hybrid potential of 15–20 percent in distribution Swedish Coast Guard in 2012 to equip five technology for buses and trucks. Various applications. For certain city bus operations new vessels already meets the EPA marine types of hybrid solutions have been tested the fuel saving potential is up to 39 percent. Tier 3 emission regulation which will come into within the Group since the 1980s, and the effect in 2014. first commercially viable hybrid solution for IPS propulsion system for boats bus and truck was unveiled in 2006. The Volvo Penta’s Inboard Performance System Electromobility solution is based on a unique Volvo Group (IPS) is a propulsion system that reduces fuel The Volvo Group is expanding its range of concept known as I-SAM (Integrated Starter consumption by up to 30 percent at cruising hybrid vehicles as well as fully electric vehiAlternator Motor). Fuel-saving potential The estimated fuel savings for a standard Volvo truck will be 15 percent greater in 2025 compared with fuel consumption in 2010. This can be achieved by further improving the driveline, design, weight and tires and adding new technology. Below are different examples of activities and features with significant fuel-saving potential. It is not possible however to add all the figures together. –5% Design –5% Intelligent –5% Fuel efficient driving Improving the cab and trailer design can reduce air resistcruise control As an alternative to intelligent ance and contribute to a fuel cruise control, a driver trained in saving of 5 to 10%. I-See is a new feature where fuel-efficient driving can lower the the truck learns the topografuel consumption by 5% to 10%. phy of the road and memorizes the curves and slopes. The next time it drives along the same road it adapts automatically the brakes and –15% 25.25 meters With a vehicle length of 25.25 meters gears in the most optimal instead of the current 18 meters in way. This new technology the EU, three truck-trailer sets can be can save up to 5% fuel. replaced by two. EU-level legislation ­permits longer vehicles, but the legis­ lation has not yet been implemented in all EU countries. –5% Low weight Thanks to a weight-optimized design, each vehicle can carry higher loads. –4% Efficient engines –5% Side spoilers Euro VI engine combined with Adding side spoilers can the I-Torque technology has a fuel ­saving potential by up to 4%. –5% Tires contribute to reducing air resistance. Low rolling resistance tires can affect the fuel consumption by up to 5%. 54 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 VALUE CHAIN I-SAM and electricity generator engines saves up to In 2006, the Volvo Group was the first PRODUCT DE VE LOPME NT 30 percent in fuel consumption. ­manufacturer to present commercially viable The Volvo Group’s I-SAM concept consists of hybrid trucks and buses, which enable highly an electric motor and a diesel engine working energy efficient transports. in parallel, whereby each of them can be used Fully electric vehicles where they are most effective. Fully electric buses The solution can be used for different In China there is a huge interest for alternaVolvo Group products and applications, thus tive drivelines and fuels. Sunwin Bus, the ChiThe Renault Maxity truck emits no particulate nese joint venture of Volvo Bus, is the world matter, nitrogen oxides or carbon dioxide reducing production costs and facilitating when operating on electricity. Its low noise large-scale manufacturing. The most approleading supplier of fully electric buses longer ­levels make it suitable for operations at night priate vehicles for hybrid drivelines are those than 10 meters. A total of more than 800 and in restricted low-emission zones. operating in continuous stop-go conditions, buses have been sold by the end of 2012. such as city buses, refuse trucks and distriThe fully electric buses emit no particulate bution trucks. matter, nitrogen oxides or carbon dioxide ­during use, and have very low noise levels. Hybrid buses Serial production of the Volvo Hybrid city bus Fully electric trucks and the Volvo Hybrid double-decker started Renault Trucks has developed a fully electric in 2010. Significant fuel savings of up to 4.5-ton truck, Renault Maxity Electric, in part39 percent make this bus a commercially vianership with electric commercial vehicle manble option compared with many other hybrid ufacturer PVI. This vehicle, like the fully electechnologies. tric buses, emits no particulate matter, A total of approximately 1,000 hybrid city The technology functions equally well nitrogen oxides or carbon dioxide. It also buses with Volvo in-house technology have emits very low noise levels, which makes it been sold to customers by the end of 2012. when there is greater distance between bus stops, not only in highly congested traffic sitsuitable for operations at night and in uations. The diesel engine does not start until restricted low-emission zones. the bus reaches 15–20 km/hour, which The Renault Maxity Electric is available for ensures a quiet and exhaust-free environlong-term rental on the French market. ment at bus stops. Twenty units are being operated and the very A total of approximately 1,000 hybrid city first one, delivered in 2010, has registered a buses with Volvo in-house technology have total of 100,000 km. been sold to customers by the end of 2012. Lower weight Hybrid trucks Lighter vehicles can contribute to reducing The Volvo Group has offered two models of fuel consumption and carbon dioxide emishybrid trucks in selected European markets sions. In 2011, Volvo Buses launched a new Noise since 2011 – the Volvo FE Hybrid and the low-floor bus, the Volvo 7900. The bus is Noise is a growing problem in urban areas. Renault Premium Hybrys-Tech. The Volvo FE lighter than its predecessor Volvo 7700, which The European Union estimates that some 20 Hybrid has a fuel saving potential of 15–20 is made of steel. With the body structure and percent of its population suffers from noise percent in distribution applications. roof made of aluminum, the weight has been levels that scientists and health experts conIn 2012 the Renault Premium Hybrys significantly reduced by 550 kg resulting in sider unacceptable. entered the Spanish market in a refuse truck 1.5 percent lower fuel consumption. There are different regulations around the configuration. The Volvo Group also joined world for noise for the transport sector. The forces with French partners to develop the current noise emission limit for heavy trucks first hybrid vehicle in the world featuring cryoin most parts of the world including the EU, genic refrigeration and the Piek label – the India and South Korea is 80 decibels (dB). world’s most stringent noise certification. Sound engineering Semi-hybrid tanker The Volvo Group is continuously working to The world’s first semi-hybrid for inland watermeasure noise and vibration characteristics way tanker was presented in 2012. This ship in engine and driveline components. Sound was built by Shipyard Trico B.V. and is engineers use both insulation and alternative equipped with two different types of Volvo design solutions to make everything from Penta diesel engines. The combination of engines and transmissions to axles, fans and reduced size standard propulsion engines air intakes quieter. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 55 VALUE CHAIN Next step: trailer and body Safety Road Traffic Safety Management System PRODUCT DE VE LOPME NT At speeds from 50 km/h, it is the vehicle’s Safety has been a guiding star for the Volvo The Volvo Group has been active in the tires rather than the driveline that make the Group since 1927. The ultimate goal is zero development of an international Road Traffic most noise. This means that the entire vehiaccidents with the Group’s products. To work Safety Management System (ISO 39001). cle, including tractor, superstructure, trailer towards this goal, systems that prevent acciThis is a voluntary tool, complementary to and tires, must be worked on in order to effidents from happening in the first place and legislation, and can be used by all organizaciently eliminate noise at all speeds. In an EU reducing the consequences if an accident tions that directly or indirectly use roads. The project called FIDEUS, a Renault Midlum disdoes occur, are continuously developed. ultimate goal is the elimination of deaths and tribution truck underwent trials in the cities of The Volvo Group’s future product developserious injuries in the road transport system. Lyon and Barcelona, with a particular focus ment focuses on active safety features and on night deliveries in the latter. passive safety features, such as vehicle staTraffic accident research team bility, visibility support, lane keeping support Volvo Truck’s Accident Research Team has Hazardous substances and body protection in the cab. investigated trucks accidents onsite for 40 To restrict the use of chemicals and hazardNinety percent of all traffic accidents are years in Sweden – building up a unique bank ous substances the Volvo Group closely moncaused by human factors. One of the most of knowledge and experience from more than itors all parts and components used in the common causes of accidents is the lack of 1,500 accidents. The team focuses its work vehicles produced. driver attention to the road. Finding ways of on understanding causes and consequences In 2009 the Global Automotive Declarable reducing the risk of accidents caused by of traffic accidents. These experiences comSubstance List (GADSL) was introduced as a fatigue or inattention can have a large impact. bined with the Group’s own research and test basic requirement for the reduction of hazToday’s Advanced Driver Assistance Systems programs have given solid insight into the ardous substances in product components, (ADAS) include, for example, warning syscauses of accidents and injuries – and what besides the Volvo Black and Grey lists. The tems and driver awareness support. In most can be done to prevent them. GADSL list includes substances designated cases the driver is simply warned when as prohibited and/or declarable within the something is wrong. Pioneering technologies industry and was originally drawn up in colA number of traffic safety issues can probSeveral solutions that assist the driver of the laboration between global automotive manuably never be solved by product development. vehicles are developed and used by the Volvo facturers and subcontractors. Working actively with information, driver eduGroup. Substances present in parts and compocation and other ways of changing behaviors nents are controlled through a system called will therefore be a vital part in the ongoing Enhanced braking systems Substrack, under which Volvo Group suppliers work to improve traffic safety. The collision warning with emergency brake can report the material composition through and the stretch brake are two safety features the International Material Data System A Decade of Action for Road Safety developed by the Volvo Group in 2012. (IMDS). Using the Substrack system, the The Volvo Group strongly supports the deciThe first one is a cutting edge emergency Volvo Group can secure compliance with sion of the United Nations General Assembly braking system that is equipped with an early global material and chemical regulations. For to proclaim 2011–2020 a Decade of Action collision warning. It automatically assists the instance, the European REACH regulation for Road Safety, which aims to save five driver in emergency braking if an impact is includes special control measures for sub­million lives over a ten-year period. imminent, thus reducing the risk of severe stances in articles. injuries. Emergency braking systems will become mandatory by 2015 in heavy-duty trucks, however the Volvo Group’s new sysNoise emission requirements for heavy-duty vehicles tem already meet those requirements. Most systems only have one sensor, but this sysdB (A) China tem has two, a radar and a camera, which 88 USA (different test method) provides much greater ability to accurately Australia (>320 kW: +3dB) Brazil identify vehicles. The display, which flashes 86 Japan (different test method) red lights on the windshield when a potential India collision is identified, is another unique feature, 84 Korea EU/ECE which is designed to alert the driver before emergency braking is necessary. 82 The technology used in the stretch brake feature is also a first in the industry. In certain 80 situations, such as turning or driving downhill on a slippery road, the trailer risks catching 78 2000 up with the truck, creating a hazardous jack2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 56 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 VALUE CHAIN Research and development by the Volvo PRODUCT DE VE LOPME NT Group has resulted in many innovative safety solutions, such as Driver Alert Support (DAS), Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC), collision warning with emergency brake and Front Underrun Protection System (FUPS). In the EU the number of fatalities in ­traffic has declined by approximately by 50% since 1990 and safer vehicles have been a major contributing factor. knife effect. The stretch brake is a feature safety. It currently includes all the 27 Member designed to stop that from happening. By States of the EU as well as Israel, Norway, pulse braking the trailer, the vehicle combinaRepublic of Serbia and Switzerland. tion is stretched and the danger reduced. The Cross-country comparisons are published system can be automatically activated in risky three times a year in the series of Road situations at speeds up to 50 km/h. Safety PIN Flashes. Once a year, a PIN Both safety features are available for the Report summarizing the findings in key areas new Volvo FH truck. The collision warning studied during that year is launched at an with emergency brake is optional, while the annual PIN Event. During that event the Eurostretch brake is standard on rigid trucks. pean Transport Safety Council publicizes the results of the annual report and awards the Safe and simple vessel control PIN Award to a high level policymaker Accessories based on the Volvo Penta elecresponsible for the best performing country’s tronic vessel control system offer a number of road safety policy. features to assist the driver of a boat. One example is the Dynamic Positioning System that lets you hold and keep your boat’s position and heading within a very limited area. This assists the driver when preparing for docking, waiting for refueling or firefighting from a fixed position. European Transport Safety Council Since 2011 the Volvo Group has supported the European Transport Safety Council’s panEuropean project called PIN (Performance Index in road safety). The PIN program was launched in 2006 and is intended to compare and benchmark country performance in road VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 57 VALUE CHAIN PURCHA SING Purchasing In 2012 the Group purchased goods and services for SEK 211 billion, including direct material for SEK 101 billion. Since 1996 the Volvo Group has gradually increased requirements on suppliers regarding environmental issues, business ethics and social responsibility aspects. The Volvo Group responsible sourcing prodents that may damage the Group brand or cent of a supplier’s turnover to decrease a gram aims to manage risk, promoting responinterrupt the supply flow. supplier’s exposure when delivering to a cyclisible behaviour and building long-term relacal industry. tionships with suppliers to improve social, Supplier base In 2012 more than 36,000 suppliers delivenvironmental and business ethics in the The Volvo Group’s suppliers can be divided ered products and services to the Volvo supply chain. The CSR requirements on supinto two groups: Group and approximately 6,000 of them suppliers are based on the principles contained • suppliers of automotive products plied automotive products. This number is in the Group’s Code of Conduct and interna• suppliers of indirect products and services. based on site level data, meaning that one tional norms of behavior such as the United Automotive products are materials used in company delivering to the Volvo Group can Nations Global Compact. products such as trucks, buses and construcdeliver from several sites, and therefore be tion equipment. Indirect products and sercounted more than once. Sourcing process vices include any products or services that The Volvo Group generally sources close Applying good standards in the supply chain are not used in the automotive products. This to its production sites to ensure efficient flow is important to the Volvo Group to ensure that encompasses everything from cleaning serof supplies. This means that most suppliers unethical values are not built into the Group’s vices to office furniture, travel, education or are located in Europe and North America. At products. training, communication services and corpothe same time, the Group’s expansion in Asia Responsible supply chain management rate merchandise. has led to an increased number of new supenables the Volvo Group to meet growing As a rule of thumb, sales to the Volvo pliers located in Asia. customer expectations, reduce risk of inciGroup should account for less than 30 per58 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 VALUE CHAIN Risk evalutation In order to support implementation, purSuppliers of indirect products PURCHA SING Approximately eight percent of the automochasers have been provided with information and services tive products suppliers are located in counand training material, including e-learning on Because of the large number of suppliers tries assessed as ‘high risk’. Risk assessgeneral CSR issues. in this category, more than 30,000, the focus ments are based on analyses conducted by is on suppliers in high and medium-risk internationally recognized institutions and Assessments ­countries, but also on high-risk segments, include factors such as human rights, labor The Volvo Group uses a self-assessment according to the Volvo Group’s risk model. standards and perceived corruption. For indiapproach to evaluate supplier performance Approximately 1,200 requests to fill in the rect products and services, the Volvo Group and compliance with the Group’s requirements. self-assessment have been sent out from the also takes into account the risk level of each The supplier assessment poses approxiVolvo Group to prioritized suppliers, suppliers product or service segment. For instance, mately 40 questions on such issues as: in high risk countries or suppliers operating merchandise, personal safety equipment, • Social performance in high risk segments. All of these suppliers construction work and waste management • Work environment and conditions completed the assessment, 66 percent of are associated with high risks. • Workforce rights including freedom of which passed. ­association and non-discrimination Requirements on suppliers • Child and forced labor Continued work The Volvo Group imposes requirements on • Environmental care In 2013 the Volvo Group will continue with suppliers regarding environmental standards, • Business ethics. suppliers self-assessments in identified high business ethics and social performance. and medium risk countries and work with the These requirements are based on the princiThe assessment includes minimum standards non-approved suppliers to ensure that the ples in the Volvo Group’s Code of Conduct. of performance and a requirement for an Group’s requirements are met. All suppliers are requested to appoint a action plan if the supplier does not achieve More training will be given to employees senior executive in their organization, who is the critical aspects. working in purchasing to further increase the the contact person for the Volvo Group. They Potential suppliers of automotive products awareness on how to integrate CSR requireare also responsible for deploying the same are evaluated by a quality engineer using the ments in the sourcing process. requirements on their own suppliers. Group’s Supplier Evaluation Model. Since The requirements and information about 2009 most new suppliers must be approved the evaluation process and the Volvo Group’s by the Global Sourcing Committee. Code of Conduct are available on the Volvo Supplier Portal website. Results from the assessments Regarding environmental standards, in Suppliers of automotive products most cases the Volvo Group requires suppliSome 66 percent of the Volvo Group purers to be certified by a third-party environchasing spend derives from suppliers that mental management system (ISO 14001) and completed the self-assessment during 2010– be compliant with the Volvo Group’s position 2012. Eighty percent of the suppliers that on hazardous substances and continuous completed the assessment passed. The main improvement. reason for not passing the requirements is During 2011 the Volvo Group’s environlack of adequate systems at the supplier to mental requirements were reviewed and enforce the requirements on to their sub-­ updated to comply with the European Union’s suppliers. The rest failed due to lack of other new legislation on chemicals, REACH. processes to comply with the requirements. Sixty-four percent of the suppliers from counCSR supply chain network tries considered to be ‘high risk’ from a CSR Each purchasing organization within the perspective completed the self-assessment. Group is represented in the CSR Supply In terms of volume this corresponds to a Chain Network. The representatives are share of 84 percent. Of the suppliers in highresponsible for implementing the procedures risk countries that completed the assesment and ensuring the requirements are applied in 74 passed. their organization. More than 90 percent of spending on The network is coordinated by a purchasautomotive products comes from suppliers ing representative who reports to the Volvo that are certified in accordance with ISO Group CSR and Sustainability Committee as 14001 or equivalent. well as to a decision-making forum with the purchasing organization. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 59 VALUE CHAIN PRODUCTION Production For more than 85 years the Volvo Group has produced trucks, buses, machines, engines and drivelines. The Group has 61 wholly owned production sites in 18 countries around the world, and 98,717 permanent employees and 16,548 temporary employees at the end of 2012. Of these, 48,152 permanent employees and 7,548 temporary employees and consultants work within ­production. In 2012 the Volvo Group produced 224,000 Seventeen production sites also have cerCapital expenditures, industrial operations trucks, 10,700 buses, 78,500 units of contified management systems for occupational struction equipment, 17,200 marine engines health and safety, OHSAS 18001. Property, plant and equipment, SEK bn and 17,600 engines for industrial applicaDuring 2012, investments in property, plant Capitalized development costs, SEK bn tions. and equipment amounted to SEK 9.5 billion, Capital expenditures, All wholly owned production facilites are compared with SEK 8.5 billion in 2011. Major % of net sales certified by a third-party auditor in accordinvestments related to new product programs, ance with the ISO 9001 quality management development costs and adapting production 08 09 10 11 12 system and 97 percent of them are certified facilities. 10.5 7.7 7.1 8.5 9.5 2.1 2.6 3.2 4.1 5.1 in accordance with the ISO 14001 environ4.3 5.0 4.0 4.1 4.9 mental management system. 60 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 VALUE CHAIN Global industrial structure PRODUCTION The Volvo Group has a strong position in and buses with India-based Eicher Motors facturing as well as sales and distribution Europe, North America and South America. the position has been strengthened in many channels on all continents. Through the acquisitions of UD Trucks and markets in Asia. The Volvo Group has estabLingong and the cooperation within trucks lished a global industrial structure with manuEurope 54% 53,434 employees Asia 20% North America 20,222 employees 17% 16,569 employees South America 6% 5,977 employees Other markets Share of employees 3% 2,515 employees Major production facilities North America South America Europe Asia Rest of the world Eicher* Pithampur* (IN) Mack Macungie (US) Las Tejerias (VE) Brisbane (AU) Renault Trucks Blainville, Bourgen-Bresse, Limoges, Group Trucks Operations Vénissieux (FR), Kaluga (RU) UD Trucks Ageo (JP), Hangzhou* Johannesburg* (ZA) (CN) Volvo New River Valley (US) Curitiba (BR) Göteborg, Umeå (SE), Bangalore (IN), Bangkok Durban (ZA), Brisbane Gent (BE), Kaluga (TH) (AU) (RU) E  ngines and Hagerstown (US) Curitiba (BR) Köping, Skövde (SE), Ageo, Kounosu, transmissions Vénissieux (FR) Hanyu (JP)  onstruction EquipC Mexico City (MX), Pederneiras (BR) Arvika, Braås, EskilsChangwon (KR), Shangment Shippensburg (US) tuna, Hallsberg (SE), hai, Linyi* (CN), Konz-Könen, Bangalore (IN) Hameln (DE), Belley (FR), Wroclaw (PL) Buses St Claire, St Eustache Curitiba (BR) Borås, Säffle, UddeBangalore (IN), (CA), valla (SE), Wroclaw Shanghai* (CN) Mexico City (MX), (PL) Plattsburgh (US) Volvo Penta Lexington (US) Göteborg, Vara (SE) Shanghai (CN) * Ownership ≥ 50% VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 61 VALUE CHAIN Employees facilitate dialogue between individuals and leaders and interested in taking their first PRODUCTION Investing in employees is a fundamental part their managers and to ensure that employees leadership position. The Foundation program of staying competitive, sustainable and profitclearly understand their role in the team and is for newly appointed managers. The Lookable. The Volvo Group’s employees are key to what is expected of them. It includes busiing Glass Experience looks at one level above the Group’s success. The goal is to offer ness-related and competence development – leaders with higher responsibility who maninteresting opportunities and a unique corpotargets, and provides essential feedback for age other leaders. The last level, the Edge, is rate culture that attract and retain the best both short and long-term career paths, as for key talents who are in a position to lead individuals. well as individual competence development. the business. In order to be an attractive and responsible During 2012 the personal business plan In 2012 the Leadership Pipeline programs employer of choice for both current and has also been extended to blue collar were successfully launched in all major counfuture employees, efforts are being made in employees, and at the end of the year the tries of operation, with around 650 employees a variety of areas such as competence develplan had been implemented for all of Volvo participating. opment, talent planning, health, wellbeing Group’s employees. Based on the business needs a similar and work environment. number of training sessions are planned for At the end of 2012, the Volvo Group had Talent Review in 2013. 98,717 employees and 16,548 temporary The Talent Review is an established manageemployees and consultants. This can be comment process to systematically and transparProject managers pared with 98,162 employees and 19,675 ently identify, assess and develop talent During 2012 the Volvo Group Institute for temporary employees and consultants at the throughout the company. The process covers Project Management (VGIPM) was estabend of 2011. leaders and key positions at all levels, aimed lished as a permanent function. The objective A new organizational structure for the at ensuring a sufficient supply of talent and of the institute is to establish a clear career Volvo Group, effective as of January 1, 2012, skills, based on the Leadership Pipeline path for project managers at all levels and has been implemented during 2012. model. ensure that all future project managers are The talent review meetings start from a equipped with the necessary skills. Human rights in operations unit level, meaning a market company, a plant, The institute provides a standard training The Volvo Group’s position on Human rights a site or a function and moves up level by set, assessments and a forum to share best is reflected in the Code of Conduct. Human level in the organization. All managers in a practices and experiences. In 2012 some rights principles relevant to the Volvo Group’s management team participate and the Volvo 1,250 employees attended VGIPM trainings operations are covered in the Code of ConGroup Executive management team conand by the end of the year 330 employees duct trainings and include: cludes and reviews top key talent and sucwere certified project management profes• Non-discrimination cession planning. sionals by the PMI, one of the world’s leading • Non-tolerance of forced labor professional associations for project manage• Non-tolerance of compulsory or child labor Career opportunities and development ment. • Freedom of association programs VGIPM also developed a knowledge data• The right to collective bargaining The Volvo Group offers various career opporbase and an assessment center that will be •T he right of all employees to a healthy and tunities and career paths across the comrolled out in 2013. The database will support safe work environment pany. There are training programs at all levels knowledge sharing across the Volvo Group, • Working hours and compensation. for employees, in specific professional areas while the assessment center will support and to promote personal growth. The activirecruitments and personal development. Competence development ties range from traditional and e-based trainCareer development programs, self-managed ing to individual coaching and mentoring. Specialists learning methods and performance reviews The aim of the Specialist Recognition Program are essential elements for the competence Leaders is to give visibility and offer career perspecdevelopment of the Volvo Group employees. The Leadership Pipeline develops and pretives to engineers with extensive experience Approximately 500,000 training days are pares the Volvo Group’s present leaders as and expertise in their field. The appointed conducted every year. well as potential leaders for future roles. The strategic specialists will develop their field of Leadership Pipeline has been set up jointly expertise to support Volvo Group strategies Performance and career development with research institutes. and to transform discoveries into increased reviews The Pipeline is divided into four leadership business value for and throughout the Group. All white collar employees have a personal levels and each of them has a specific developAll specialists are appointed for three business plan that is reviewed annually with ment program: the Exploration, the Foundation, years. The appointed specialists will advance their manager. The plan translates the corpothe Looking Glass Experience and the Edge. knowledge progress and development of the rate strategic objectives into individual objecThe Exploration program targets employfield in order to secure the implementation of tives and contributions. The purpose is to ees identified by their managers as emerging cutting-edge technology. The specialist has a 62 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 VALUE CHAIN lead role as internal and external technology Self-managed learning method PRODUCTION consultant, counterpart and mentor. NetworkThe Volvo Group’s learning strategy emphasizes ing, both internally and externally, is a basic that most learning takes place while working. tool for the specialist to retrieve and drive forAccordingly, a number of manuals have been ward progress and development. The specialcreated, to support managers and employees to ist can also be made available for lectures, find ways of learning in addition to classical seminars and training courses in his/her field training courses. The self-managed learning of expertise. method is also a tool supporting employees and managers in their development. Globetrotters Health coaches 83 health coaches are spread all over The most effective development comes from Safety, health and wellbeing ­Sweden. They are Volvo Group employees different forms of work assignments, such as The Volvo Group applies a holistic approach to who occupy this role on top of their regular international projects. Motivated employees workplace safety, health and wellbeing. job. They are properly trained, have regular phone meetings and meet on a yearly basis. are encouraged to move between roles and Increased employee wellbeing leads to raised companies within the Volvo Group. In 2011 productivity, reduced costs and increased comSince 2005 they have organized activities in a program was launched for global mobility, petitiveness. the areas of diet, movement/exercise, recovery/ relax/sleep, joy and mind set. One example of aimed at making mobility between countries, 2012 was the training for the half marathon in functions and companies a productive and Systematic approach to health and safety Gothenburg. enriching experience for employees, their A safe workplace creates the foundation for families and the Volvo Group. stimulating and efficient work. In accordance with the principles of the Volvo Group’s Code cautions, but workplace safety is also subject New graduates of Conduct, all employees have the right to a to national requirements and regulations; In 2011 the Volvo Group International Gradusafe and healthy working environment and hence the adaption of policies, guidelines ate Program recommenced after a break durthe conditions required shall be made availaand training material to national laws and reguing the recession. Nearly 3,000 university ble to all. All employees should also be prolations. graduates applied to the 12-month training vided access to information, support and The Volvo Group’s global health and wellprogram that started in September 2011. The other tools to reduce or eradicate health risks being work may include, for example, medical next program begins in January 2013 with 21 associated with work, lifestyle or emotional examinations, rehabilitation support, ergoselected graduates from Sweden, France, stress. nomics, different health promotion programs Germany, China, Japan, the UK and the US. The Volvo Group strives not only to eradiand activities and various employee assiscate workplace risks and refine a safety cultance programs such as support to quit Mentors-mentees ture – but also to establish health promotion smoking. Sometimes such programs and Mentorship is strongly encouraged at the as a core component of the company culture. activities also include the family of the Volvo Group and is considered to be one of The health coaches in Sweden are an inspiremployee, in addition to what is provided by the most crucial development tools for leading example of this. Health coaches are the social security system of respective couners. employees who allocate part of their time to tries. The Group defines mentoring as a learning support and stimulate their colleagues to partnership between two individuals, a mentor adopt healthy behaviors. All health coaches in Global policy for workplace safety, health and a mentee. The mentor is, in general, senSweden (83 in 2012) are offered basic trainand wellbeing ior in the organization and helps the mentee ing and an annual update on knowledge, The policy for workplace safety, health and by sharing his/her professional and personal skills and experience. wellbeing provides guidance on how to skills and experiences. This partnership, howIn the US the Volvo Group has collaborated ensure and continuously develop a safe and ever, is outside of the normal line managewith Staywell on the Health for Life program healthy workplace. It encourages employees ment organization, meaning that managers since 2004. The award-winning program proto voice concern about physical, behavioral or would not act as mentors for their subordimotes health and wellness through weight emotional risks to be addressed. nates. management and nutrition programs, stress In 2012 aligned reporting and analysis of Mentoring is used specifically as a longmanagement campaigns with clinicians and safety related data was advanced further to term, tailored development for the individual, experts, preventive health screenings, cusestablish discussions on real working life which also benefits the organization. It builds tomized health coaching and healthy meal facts and figures. a visible talent pool, increases loyalty and days. commitment and supports organizational Managers at all levels share the responsiNew Group function development. bility of guaranteeing the high level of safety In December 2012 the Group Executive Team A guide is available online to support menexpected by employees, suppliers and visiapproved the establishment of a Group function tees and mentors in their learning partnership. tors. Managers are responsible for safety prefor workplace safety, health and wellbeing. The VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 63 VALUE CHAIN Safety advisors, occupational doctors, a detailed analysis of the incident may conPRODUCTION ergonomists, managers and human resources clude in specific long-term measures. In 2012 representatives work closely together to zero fatalities were reported. improve and adapt the working environment Data relating to absences due to illness is of employees with specific medical needs. collected on a country level based on national Most solutions are found on a case by case legislation, and followed, but not aggregated, basis. on a Group level. The difference in definitions In 2012 the logistics center in Lyon identiand national requirements when reporting fied a number of jobs that can be adapted makes it currently difficult to aggregate the Since 2012, all Volvo Construction Equipment sites are OHSAS 18001-certified under one and dedicated, in the long term, to various information on a corporate level. global certificate. types of medical restrictions and do not negatively affect the job of co-workers. Under Labor relations this initiative 26 adapted jobs were created The Volvo Group respects the right of all human resources department at corporate and ten are in progress. employees to join an association to represent level will have the responsibility for the stratetheir interests as employees, to organize and gic direction while the Group function for Management systems to bargain collectively or individually. We workplace safety, health and wellbeing will The Volvo Production System provides tools respect the recognized unions and maintain a focus on the tactical level. including occupational risk assessment, close relationship with a number of unions The new function will drive development ­indicators to measure safety and health, and that represent employees. An employee’s activities and support all units in the Group methodology for ergonomic workplace right to refrain from joining a union is equally with tools and methods. The units will particiassessment. respected. pate in development activities and be responSince 2012 all Volvo Construction EquipAs stated in the Code of Conduct the Volvo sible for the execution and implementation. ment sites have been OHSAS 18001-certiGroup shall notify employees’ representatives fied under a single global certificate. It repreand relevant government authorities of major Examples of recent achievements sents 25 sites that are both production and changes in our operations as required by law. First-aid training in Poland administrative sites. Two production sites In 2012 the Volvo Group rescue team in from Volvo Penta are also certified. OHSAS International forums Poland obtained the best results in the 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety The Volvo European Dialogue was formed in nation-wide Safe Company competition. It is Assessment Scheme) is an international Europe in 1996 as a forum for employerthe third time, since first participating in standard for processes that control and employee dialogue. The forum meets once a 2006, that the Volvo team won first place in improve company workplace safety and year and the chairman is the CEO of the the first-aid competition. health performance. Volvo Group. Representatives from outside A one-hour theoretical first-aid training is The Environmental Data Reporting Tool Europe are invited every second year to the mandatory for all new Volvo Group employ(ERT) has been extended to include occupaforum, and as of 2013 they will meet every ees in Poland and since 2010 an intensive tional health and safety issues, making it the year and the forum will be renamed the Volvo training program is offered to any employee Sustainability Data Reporting Tool (SDRT). Global Dialogue to mirror the expansion and who is interested in first aid. So far 134 peoThe system will initially be used to report globalization of the Volvo Group. ple have taken the 24-hour intensive training workplace safety data including numbers of In addition to this forum, European and an additional 32 employees have particiwork-related accidents (a reactive measure) employee representatives have two meetings pated in a professional training certified by and near misses (a proactive measure). This each year in the European Works Council. an external agency to become qualified meddata is transformed to key performance indiA Global Works Council meeting was held ical rescuers. In a situation where somecators (KPIs), to be followed per site and per in Poland in November 2012 and The Code body’s health or life is in danger at the workcountry as a means of keeping track of develof Conduct was part of the agenda. place or elsewhere, the trained employees opment. The aim is to reduce risks and acciare able to provide help before an ambulance dents to a minimum. During 2012 the system Freedom of association and collective arrives. has been tested and fine-tuned, and there­bargaining fore no figures are yet reported. Collective bargaining agreements are used in Employees with medical restrictions in France many places, including the ten countries where In France the Volvo Group has developed a Reporting and remedial action the Volvo Group has its largest operations. structured approach to keep employees with Employees are responsible for reporting all In several countries the automotive industry medical restrictions in their jobs. Medical work related accidents and incidents to enahas a long tradition of union cooperation. Based restrictions can be the result of an accident, ble the investigation and identification of root on a study on seven countries where the Group musculoskeletal disorders or chronic health causes so that immediate corrective action has its largest operations, corresponding to 58 issues. can be taken. Depending on the conditions, percent of the employees, 81 percent of perma64 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 VALUE CHAIN nent employees are covered by collective Working with diversity is about increasing Employee Diversity Networks to help empower PRODUCTION ­bargaining agreements and 62 percent are awareness of the advantages diversity brings minorities and provide feedback to management members in an independent trade union. and the often subtle reasons why human syson how to best increase inclusiveness and tems can consciously or unconsciously remove roadblocks. Since 2011 the number of Board representation exclude people who are different from the groups increased from 8 to 10, working either There are three employee representatives accepted norm. It is about working with attilocally or globally covering women employees, on the Volvo Group Board of Directors and two tudes, which can require different women managers, women in technical fields, deputies are appointed by the labor organizations. approaches in different cultural contexts. multi-cultural issues and LGBT (lesbian, gay, The Volvo Group has a three-pronged bisexual and transgender) employees, and the Remuneration and benefits approach; targets are set, training resources door is open for other groups addressing addiThe Volvo Group aims to be a competitive are developed and the work with diversity is tional aspects of diversity. and attractive employer. Remuneration and coordinated on a global scale. Because diverbenefits are important drivers, as are career sity is a key factor in business performance, Examples of recent initiatives opportunities, personal development, culture the diversity targets are set as a part of the Battle of the Numbers and values, leadership, company performance corporate strategic objective process and The Volvo Group is one of ten large compaand reputation. Equal pay for work of equal broken down by division. Finally, the country nies headquartered in Sweden which are parvalue is the guiding principle. Individual salaorganizations develop additional plans to proticipating in the Battle of the Numbers prories are based on position, the market and mote diversity and inclusion which are taigram – a unique project aiming to get more the employee’s performance, and comply with lored to the specific local context and which women into operative management positions. the salary practice in each country. support corporate and division goals. The project started at the end of 2012 and As stated in the Code of Conduct, the runs over a period of one year. Volvo Group shall comply with applicable Diversity and inclusion policy Instead of the management analyzing how laws, agreements and industry standards on As a matter of policy, discrimination with the company should work to attract, recruit, working hours and compensation. regard to gender, gender identity, race, develop and retain more female talent to operatIn addition to fixed salaries and variable ­religion, age, sexual orientation, nationality, ing and decision making roles, the participating remuneration, other customary benefits are political opinion, union affiliation, disabilities companies use the best consultants within this usually offered such as pension plans, health and social or ethnic origin is not tolerated. area – the women themselves. plans, company cars or car allowances, recreDiversity and inclusion are promoted in the For the Battle of the Numbers, each company ation facilities, insurance and so forth. The Code of Conduct and in the Diversity and Incluhas selected ten soon-to-be or existing female benefits programs are country-specific. The sion Policy which underlines the managerial managers. These 100 women will identify purpose of the benefits programs is to: responsibility of working to increase diversity obstacles and opportunities when it comes to •O  ffer total remuneration packages relevant and create an inclusive environment. getting women into operative management to the specific country and employee category positions. They will examine how the manage• Offer basic protection through insurance Training for managers ment roles are designed, what career paths look arrangements for areas such as sickness One of the key initiatives to ensure a culture of like, how women are recognized and treated benefit and pensions. diversity and inclusiveness is to train managers. within the organizations, as well as other issues In 2012 the Volvo Group continued to conduct that are relevant for creating an environment Diversity Diversity and Inclusive Leadership (DIL) training conducive to getting more women into manageThe Volvo Group is a large, multinational courses for managers. The interactive DIL trainment positions. company and as such diversity and inclusion ing program focuses on the importance of incluConclusions and experiences from the are fundamental to long-term success. sion, which is mandatory in order to take advan­project will be made public at the end of the The Volvo Group seeks to recruit and tage of the benefits of diversity. The training is ­project in 2013. retain a broad spectrum of employees with run by in-house trainers, meaning employees different backgrounds, experiences and perwho have completed a certification process. By Sign language courses in Brazil spectives. The long-term target is that the the end of 2012, the Volvo Group had 120 certiSince 2007 sign language courses have been Group’s employee and management pool at fied facilitators located across the globe. offered to all Volvo Group employees in Brazil all levels and in all operations should reflect who are interested in learning this language the diversity of the world in which the Volvo Employee diversity networks and becoming more familiar with the culture Group does business. For nearly 10 years the Volvo Group has used and dynamics of hearing-impaired individuals. Gender diversity 2012 2011 Share of women, % 17 18 Share of women, presidents and other senior executives; % 19 17 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 65 VALUE CHAIN The Group currently has 82 hearing-impaired measure diversity: the Balanced Team Indicavalue individual initiatives and capture PRODUCTION employees in Brazil, which represent 47 pertor and the Inclusiveness index. employees’ ideas. In time of a crisis, OD helps cent of the employees with physical disabilities. The Balanced Team Indicator is a quantitathe teams react quickly and can shift the The course is offered during normal working tive measure for diversity covering nationality, focus and activities of an entire organization. hours and has three levels – basic, intermediate gender, age and experience from different The OD community comprises approximately and advanced. So far 160 employees have parVolvo Group companies. 19,000 leaders and employees worldwide. ticipated in the courses. The attendance for the The Inclusiveness index is designed to folVolvo Production System (VPS) was inimedical staff is mandatory. low up qualitative aspects, meaning the tially a system to improve the production flow One recent project is the production of trainextent to which employees judge their work of the assembly line, but is also now used for ing materials for hearing-impaired employees. place to be inclusive. many business processes throughout the Thanks to the collaboration between technical The results of the indicators, as well as organization, such as product development, training experts, hearing-impaired employees improvement action plans are followed up in business services and logistics. VPS is a way and two deaf students, the Volvo Group was the management forums. The results for 2012 of working with just the resources needed. It first company in the State of Paraná and one of show mixed results with improvements in is also about making sure everyone underthe first in Brazil to create special material to ­certain areas and remaining challenges in stands his/her role and how he/she can train employees with special learning needs. others. affect the quality of the products and services delivered to the end customer. TransGender balance Company culture parency and clear communication to employIt is a challenge for the automotive industry to Volvo Way ees working cross-functionally is essential. attract women. One way of overcoming this The Volvo Way is a fundamental Volvo Group challenge is to focus on diversity at the recruitpolicy that defines the company culture. Employee survey ment stage. The values and principles contained in The The Volvo Group has conducted an annual The Volvo Group requires at least one woman Volvo Way guide the daily efforts to effectively employee survey, the Volvo Group Attitude and one man on each recruitment panel and realize the Group’s business strategies. The purSurvey (VGAS), every year since 1999 with that all white collar positions should be openly pose is to set a standard of excellence in buildthe exception of 2010. In 2012 a new index posted for at least ten business days. This transing a high commitment and high performance – the Performance Excellence Index (PEI) – parency helps prevent recruitment through organization. The Volvo Way addresses business was added to the Employee Engagement exclusive networks. critical issues such as putting customers first, Index (EEI). Over the last five years the percentage of enhancing the alignment of culture with the The PEI measures customer satisfaction, female employees has remained mostly conbusiness strategy, creating people alignment speed and quality of results while the EEI measstant. In 2012 17 percent of the Group’s global and developing global leadership qualities. The ures pride, satisfaction, commitment and referral workforce were women, compared with 18 percore principle is about enabling people. level of employees. The combination of the two cent in 2011. Every manager within the Volvo Group is indexes ensures that we are evaluating the perDuring the 2011 reorganization, the number responsible for informing their team and disformance of the business and the organization’s of women in the Group Executive Team was cussing how the values and principles affect the capacity to change, learn and grow. increased to 20 percent or 3 out of 15, where it team’s daily work. Employee engagement and performance stands today. Concerning women in senior excellence are compared against an internaexecutive positions, they represented 19 perOperational Development and Volvo tional database of approximately 14 million cent in 2012, up from 17 percent in 2011. ­Production System employees, representing over 80 countries. In The Volvo Group has a long-term ambition to Operational Development (OD) and Volvo 2012 the Volvo Group was in the top quartile of increase the number of women in executive Production System (VPS) are complementary companies surveyed for the employee engageteams, while also striving to take into account and reinforce each other. ment index. The EEI reached 76 percent which other important parameters in terms of diversity, Operational Development (OD) is a prois above the global norm of 70 percent and on such as educational background, professional cess with clear steps that is used by the manthe same level as the High Performing Comexperience, age and nationality. agement and employees to change or pany norm. The Performance Excellence result improve a situation. It provides tools to formuwas 74 percent, between the global norm of 71 Measurements late objectives, set targets and define an percent and the High Performing Company Two key performance indicators are used to action plan. One of the basic principles is to norm of 77 percent. High performing Employee survey 2012 Volvo Group Global norm ­company norm The results from the 2012 employee s­ urvey show that 75% of the employees believe their EEI (Employee Engagement Index), % 76 70 76 “immediate supervisor is actively working to PEI (Performance Excellence Index), % 74 71 77 promote diversity”, compared to 70% in 2011. Compared to 2011, this question had the most improved score of all the survey questions. 66 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 VALUE CHAIN Managers are responsible for analyzing the which has affected the Group’s emissions, PRODUCTION results of their team and, together with the energy consumption and use of resources. team, establishing and following through on action plans to further improve employee Carbon dioxide-neutral production engagement and performance excellence. In 2012 emissions of carbon dioxide from The response frequency in 2012 year’s VGAS Volvo Group’s production facilities decreased was 92 percent. from 255,000 tons to 234,800 tons. The Group’s long-term ambition is to make In 2007 Volvo Trucks presented the world’s first carbon dioxide-neutral automotive plant in Environmental management all production facilities carbon dioxide-neuGhent, Belgium, where the electricity derives Environmental care is one of the Volvo tral, which means only having facilities using from wind power. The long-term objective is to Group’s core values. The Group was one of energy produced from renewable sources, for make all facilities carbon dioxide-neutral. the first companies in the world to have an example solar, hydro, wind and biomass. environmental management system certified Volvo Trucks presented the automotive according to ISO 14001 and today all but two industry’s first carbon dioxide-neutral plant in The Volvo Group’s assembly plant in New River Valley Virginia, is the first US facility to production facilities are certified. Ghent, Belgium in 2007. The plant invested in be certified according to the ISO 50001 In 1972 during the United Nations Conferwind power and a biofuel plant to produce standard. This achievement has been done ence on the Human Environment in Stockelectricity and heat, which resulted in an under a pilot program ­supported by the US Department of Energy (DOE). ISO 50001 is a holm, Sweden, the Volvo Group launched its annual reduction in carbon dioxide emissions voluntary international ­standard on energy first environmental position on Mobility and of 10,000 tons. management system which outlines the framethe environment. Since then, training of Since May 2011 Volvo Penta’s engine plant work for energy ­management. employees and managers on environmental in Vara, Sweden has been powered without responsibility issues have been conducted using any fossil fuel and is considered to be continuously. Today environmental issues are carbon dioxide-neutral. Volvo Trucks’ plant in The Shippensburg manufacturing expansion received Silver LEED certification from the an integral part of the Volvo Group’s vision, Tuve, Sweden also became carbon dioxideUS Green Building Council. business strategy and daily work. The work of neutral in 2011. implementing environmental management The focus for the coming year on identifysystems covers the Volvo Group’s processes, ing more energy savings outside production including product development, purchasing, hours will continue. This includes for example both reduced costs and lower emissions. distribution and service. optimizing ventilation and lighting, to avoid Between 2004 and 2012, energy conThe Volvo Group has production sites in 18 unnecessary use. sumption has decreased by 36 percent and countries. Regardless of size and location, all of the carbon dioxide emissions by 47 perthe production units must comply with the Energy consumption cent per unit produced. Energy efficiency Group’s minimum requirements for environmenThe Volvo Group’s energy consumption was initiatives, such as controlled lighting and tal performance and have an improvement pro2,518 GWh in 2012, an increase of 47 GWh ventilation, turning off equipment from idle gram. The requirements include monitoring of compared with 2,471 GWh in 2011. The use running and replacing old machinery have energy consumption, waste levels and emissions of energy was less efficient last year and the contributed to the result. to air and water, as well as specifying maximum energy efficiency index is 8.5 MWh/SEK M, The environmental requirements for the emission levels to air and water. compared with 8.1 MWh/SEK M in 2011. But plants include a mapping of all energy In accordance with Volvo Group’s global envithe 2012 efficiency index is still lower com­c onsuming processes, implementation of ronmental standard for production plants, all pared to the previous years, following the efficiency utilization on a continuous basis production facilities shall define environmental reduction trend over a longer period. The and a focus on energy usage in new projects. goals and follow up on these, implement envienergy efficiency index in 2011 was excepronmental management system assessing the tionally low mainly due to very high producOther emissions to air environmental impact of new projects and tion volumes. Most of the recorded energy The Volvo Group has a minimum standard for examine ways of reducing such impact, and usage is for heating and production proemissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides apply the Group’s environmental requirements cesses, and approximately 20 percent of and solvents stating that no oil and coal shall to suppliers and contractors. energy usage is used at the engine and be used for heating purposes. Today 97 percent of the production is certidriveline production facilities. The amount of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen fied in accordance with ISO 14001. Emissions of carbon dioxide, nitrogen oxides emissions are largely affected by the As part of its commitment under the WWF oxides and sulphur oxides are dependent use of energy for heating. Emissions of sulphur Climate Savers Program, the Volvo Group has on the fuel used. The decrease of carbon dioxide decreased from 34 tons in 2011 to pledged to reduce carbon dioxide emissions dioxide emissions despite increasing approximately 26 tons in 2012. The availability from its production plants by 0.2 million tons (12 energy use is a result of change in energy of low sulphur fuels determines the emissions. percent) before 2014, compared with 2008. sources. Nitrogen oxides decreased from 474 tons to In 2012 net sales declined by 2 percent and Reducing energy usage per manufac413 tons. Relative to net sales, emissions of the number of delivered products declined tured unit is a priority target which means both nitrogen oxides and sulphur dioxide emisVOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 67 VALUE CHAIN sions decreased. The strategy to decrease Chemicals Between 2004 and 2012, the Volvo Group PRODUCTION emissions of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen To restrict the use of chemicals, the Volvo has decreased energy consumption in its own production processes by 36% and the oxides involves using low-sulphur fuels and/or Group has maintained a ‘Black list’ of prohibcarbon dioxide emissions by 47% per purification equipment. Nitrogen oxides are ited chemicals and a ‘Grey list’ of products ­produced unit.­ very much dependent on the use of energy whose use must be limited since 1996. and amount of product testing. The lists serve as a tool for substituting hazEmissions of organic solvents stem mainly ardous substances from the production proThe energy saving challenges for from painting and surface treatment processes. A database (called MOTIV) is main2010–2012 were: • To reduce idling losses, i.e. energy cesses, and is a high priority issue that is subtained to make it easier to choose chemicals use outside production, by 50% ject to regulatory control in most countries. that are going to be handled. The database con• To reduce energy consumption by 15% per Solvent emissions totaled 2,358 tons in 2012, tains detailed information on more than 6,000 produced unit in 2012 compared with 2008 • To continue to investigate the possibility of representing a slight decrease of 196 tons. chemical products. making the Group’s facilities carbon neutral. Emissions of solvents also decreased in relaProjects for ensuring compliance with the The total energy use on Volvo Group level has tion to net sales. The minimum standard is that European REACH (Registration, Evaluation, only slightly decreased measured in MWh per MSEK between 2010 and 2012. However the all plants shall work continuously to reduce Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals) legemission of carbon dioxide decreased with solvent emissions. islation have been conducted and Volvo Group about 20% measured in ton per MSEK. Individhas a process in place to fulfill the REACH legi­ ual plants have been able to considerably reduce energy use during no production (idling Water slation. REACH aims to evaluate and limit risks losses), for example, the Renault Truck producSince 2010 each plant establishes targets of chemicals to health and to the environment tion plant in France and the Penta engine plant related to water use, which will eventually through the implementation of control measures in Vara, Sweden. lead to aggregated targets at a Group level. such as registration, restrictions, prohibitions The main issues in relation to water include and communication requirements. The Volvo inefficient water use and industrial wastewater Group is continuing its work to streamline the The Volvo Penta factory in Vara, Sweden reduced its level of energy consumption at nights treatment systems. Water consumption and internal processes for REACH compliance and and weekends by approximately 70% since emissions to water have been measured since adapt existing tools to reflect the content of 2008 by carefully tracking and shutting down all 1990. Water is also included in the Group’s miniREACH. unnecessary energy c ­ onsuming equipment. mum environmental requirements for producThe global environmental standard for protion, with regard to substances in process water duction plants determines that there shall be nitions have resulted in an increase in the and that process water with organic content processes for health and environmental assessamount of hazardous waste in recent years. The must be treated chemically or by an equivalent ments of all chemicals, including efforts to the total amount of hazardous waste in 2012 was method. The standard also requires that all Black list and replace the chemicals on the Grey 32,547 tons, compared with 25,943 tons in plants shall address sustainable usage of water list. 2011. A significant part (56 percent) of this resources. increase is due to off-site treatment of hazardWater consumption compared with net sales Waste ous industrial water emulsions at the refurbishhas decreased every year, with the exception of In an effort to improve material efficiency, ment of the internal treatment plant for industrial 2009, which was due to very low production volresource usage and accounting for waste waste water at the Skövde engine plant and due umes. Water consumption decreased from related to specific raw materials, a system for to new legal definitions of hazardous waste. 7,970,000 m3 in 2011 to 7,372,200 m3 in 2012. assessing key material usage was impleThe Volvo Group’s minimum requirements on All of Volvo Group’s majority-owned plants mented in 2009. production plants includes sorting and quantifyhave either installed their own water treatment Waste is usually classified as either hazarding all waste at the source and implementation facilities or discharge their effluents to external ous or non-hazardous, although definitions vary of measures to reduce the quantity of waste, treatment plants. An increasing number of from country to country and change over time. increase reuse, material recycling and energy plants are also installing closed process water Although the Volvo Group’s total amount of recovery as well as reduce the quantity of waste systems. waste has decreased over time, changes in deficonsigned to landfill. Environmental performance of Volvo Group production plants, Industrial operations1 Absolute values related to net sales 2012 2011 2010 2009 Energy consumption (GWh; MWh/SEK M) 2,518; 8.5 2,471; 8.1 2,315; 9.0 1,888; 9.1 CO2 emissions (1,000 ton; ton/SEK M) 235; 0.8 255; 0.8 279; 1.1 213; 1.0 Water consumption (1,000 m3; m3/SEK M) 7,372; 24.9 7,970; 26.2 7,519; 29.2 6,637; 31.8 NO x emissions (ton; kg/SEK M) 413; 1.4 474; 1.6 719; 2.8 322; 1.5 Solvent emissions (ton; kg/SEK M) 2,358; 8.0 2,554; 8.4 2,294; 8.9 1,435; 6.9 Sulphur dioxide ­emissions (ton; kg/SEK M) 26; 0.1 34; 0.1 33; 0.1 38; 0.2 Hazardous waste (ton; kg/SEK M) 32,547; 109.9 25,943; 85.5 22,730; 88 17,558; 84 Net sales, SEK bn 296.0 303.6 257.4 208.5 1 Based on data from 67 majority owned production plants in relation to net sales in industrial operations. 68 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 VALUE CHAIN The full Volvo Group Environmental Data Audits included in supplier requirements specificaPRODUCT DE PRODUCTION VE LOPME NT Report includes about 40 indicators and The Volvo Group has conducted internal envitions, in accordance with the Group’s requirewill be available on www.volvogroup.com/ responsibility from mid April, 2013. ronmental audits since 1989 to ensure ments. adherence to the environmental policy. The audits monitor the environmental activities Calculating the environmental impact of Noise and examine the data. Priority is given to transports Noise levels from most of the Volvo Group’s auditing newly acquired operations, or operaVolvo Group Logistics Services is responsible plants are generally very low. The target is to tions where the improvements in environmenfor the material logistics flows from suppliers ensure that the external noise level from plant tal performance has ceased. to Volvo Group’s plants and the distribution of operations, measured at the nearest residennew vehicles from plants to dealers. tial property, does not exceed 60 dB(A). Data collection The EnvCalc tool is used to calculate emisThe Volvo Group had 67 majority-owned sions to air for new or changed transport Incidents in Sweden production plants around the world at the end routes. The calculation is based on the volIn 2012 there were 15 licensable facilities in of 2012 for which detailed environmental ume of goods, the distance and the mode of Sweden. During 2012 there was one major data will be disclosed in a separate environtransport. The result is presented to the cusenvironmental incident which occurred in mental data report from mid April on tomer as Environmental Load Units (ELU) or Eskilstuna, Sweden. A spillage of oil was diswww.volvogroup.com/responsibility. broken down into the amounts of carbon covered, in time for it to be stopped before it The Volvo Group has reported detailed dioxide, nitrogen oxides, sulphur oxide and reached a nearby stream. No environmental environmental data since 1991 and has conparticle matter emissions. disputes are in progress. tinually developed indicators and tools since Volvo Group Logistics Service also offers that time. The indicators can be found in the customers a Logistics Emission Report for a Environmental risk management following areas: specified transport scope, such as all mateThe consideration of environmental risk rep• Use of chemicals rial supply transports and distribution transresents a component of the Volvo Group’s • Energy consumption ports for finished vehicles, for a specific plant risk process. When assessing potential • Water consumption over one year. acquisitions of companies and real estate, • Emissions to air and water In 2012 Logistics Emission Reports were audits consider environmental and social fac• Waste supplied to seven of the Volvo Construction tors in addition to financial, legal and other • Noise. Equipment plants in North America, South aspects. The information provides the basis America and Asia. These reports include a for action plans, if required. Transports and logistics one-year compilation of all emissions from The Volvo Group aims at reducing the emismaterial transports to the production plants, Remediation programs sions of carbon dioxide from the transportaas well as an analysis and recommendations Audits may reveal a need for remedial work tion of the goods to and from the Volvo Group of changes to reduce the emissions. at contaminated properties used for former plants, as well as from business travel. or current operations. Through an ongoing Between 2009 and 2011, emissions of Road program of remedial measures, contaminacarbon dioxide from road, rail and sea transThe Volvo Group requires suppliers of road tion discovered in refurbishment or rebuilding portation of goods to and from the Volvo transportation to comply with engine class projects are dealt with immediately. InstallaGroup’s plants were reduced by 18 percent. requirements and have their drivers trained in tions that pose the greatest risk of causing In 2011 88 percent of the major transport fuel efficient driving. These requirements are soil and groundwater contamination, such as suppliers were certified in accordance with followed up by an annual supplier survey. underground storage tanks and underground the environmental standard ISO 14001 or The data from the 2011 survey shows that piping systems, have been targeted for equivalent. Data for 2012 will be presented 57 percent of the trucks used in Europe are rebuilding work under an internal directive during the second quarter of 2013. compliant with Euro V, 21 percent with Euro focusing on such installations. Social and ethical requirements are also IV and 22 percent with Euro III. In North 2008 20072 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2,530; 8.6 2,426; 9.6 2,612; 10.5 2,683; 11.6 2,695; 13.3 2,607; 14.9 2,564; 14.5 291; 1.0 242; 1.0 282; 11.4 292; 1.3 293; 1.5 298; 1.7 307; 1.7 8,205; 27.8 7,067; 27.9 7,596; 30.6 7,419; 32.1 8,495; 42.2 8,687; 49.1 9,202; 52.0 800; 2.7 542; 2.1 606; 2.4 672; 2.9 645; 3.2 570; 3.3 726; 4.1 1,945; 6.6 1,979; 7.8 2,048; 8.3 1,960; 8.5 2,085; 10.3 1,965; 11.2 1,896; 10.7 64; 0.2 58; 0.2 69; 0.3 209; 0.9 184; 0.9 200; 1.1 173; 1.0 27,675; 94 27,120; 107 26,987; 108.8 23,590; 102 24,675; 122.1 21,613; 124 20,531, 116 294.9 253.2 248.1 231.2 202.1 174.8 177.1 2 Excluding UD Trucks and Ingersoll Rand Road Development. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 69 VALUE CHAIN America, 22 percent are US07, 9 percent world for collecting and cleaning packaging PRODUCTION US04 and 68 percent US98 engine classimaterials, which are reused until they no fied. In South America, 3 percent of the longer meet quality standards. All packaging trucks are Euro IV, 86 percent Euro III and 10 is ultimately scrapped, with most parts being percent Euro II engine classified. And in Asia recycled into new materials or energy. Pacific (China, India, Japan, Korea and Aus­Environmental impact is a vital aspect in tralia), 32 percent of the trucks are Euro IV, the development of new packaging. The Volvo 54 percent Euro III and 14 percent Euro II Group uses a Life Cycle Assessment tool to engine classified. compare the environmental impact of different packaging materials. Sea A significant portion of the Volvo Group’s Business travel transports is conveyed by sea. Since 2010 all The environmental impact of business trips contracted sea carriers are required to report should not be underestimated. It might actuthe environmental impact of each of their ally account for a substantial percentage of a vessels. global company’s carbon dioxide emissions. The Volvo Group is a member of the Clean In 2011 the Volvo Group initiated a project to Shipping Index – a network of large export reduce the carbon dioxide emissions from and import companies in Scandinavia, Gerbusiness travel. many and the Netherlands. The Volvo Group approaches the issue from The aim for the Clean Shipping Index is to different angles and looks at the flights, hotels, enhance environmental development in the rental cars, trains and virtual meetings. maritime industry by providing buyers of sea Since 2012 employees can see the cartransport with a tool to evaluate the environbon dioxide emissions for all the flights promental performance of ships and shipping posed when they book a flight online, and companies. agreements have been made with some of the major rental car suppliers to increase Train their fleet of environmentally enhanced cars The Volvo Group’s objective is to maintain the and encourage employees to rent these cars. same level of emissions per tonkilometer for The number of video conferencing facilities goods transported on rail overtime. 2011 also increased. showed a small increase in emissions from The Volvo Group is at an early stage of the rail. project and is still gathering data before setting targets. Packaging system The figures already available show positive The Volvo Group uses a reusable packaging trends, for instance in the number of environsystem to transport goods from material supmentally enhanced cars in the rental car compapliers to the plants, and all the way to the pronies’ fleet and the use of these cars by Volvo duction line. When empty, the packaging can Group employees. be stacked, taking minimal space when Despite an increase in the number of flights freighted. The system comprises over 100 booked in 2012, the carbon dioxide emissions types of packaging in different materials such level resulting from those flights is proportionally as wood, plastics, cardboard and metal. lower than in 2011. The amount of rail travel The Volvo Group has terminals around the compared to air travel also increased. 70 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 VALUE CHAIN Distribution and service Distribution and service The Volvo Group is present in more than 190 markets and sells over 300,000 trucks, buses, construction ­equipment machines and engines every year through both wholly-owned and independent dealerships. Net sales amounted to SEK 303.6 billion in 2012 and selling expenses amounted to SEK 7.5 billion. The Volvo Group products are sold under diftions, primarily in Asia, and by the expansion 24/7 support if something happens. To supferent brands, and each brand focuses on difof the distribution and service networks in for port the Group’s customers, an extensive netferent industries and market segments. Some instance Eastern Europe and South America. work of dealerships and workshops are availabrands are sold globally, while others are In 2000, the markets outside of Western ble along the main roads. These are both marketed in specific regions of the world. Europe and North America accounted for 12 Group owned and independent dealers. Over the last decade the Volvo Group has percent of Group sales. In 2012 that share significantly strengthened its position outside had grown to 47 percent. the traditionally large markets of Western The Volvo Group’s customers are profesEurope and North America through acquisisionals dependent on reliable products and VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 71 VALUE CHAIN Product range Distribution and service All of the Volvo Group’s products have been developed to contribute to efficient transport and infrastructure solutions in all parts of society. Long-haul Regional distribution City ­distribution Construction Eicher Trucks All brands in the Volvo Group’s truck operations have a unique and distinct brand-specific character that attracts customers in their market segments. Mack The trucks are sold and marketed under the brands Eicher, Mack, Renault Trucks, UD Trucks and Volvo, which all offer customers a broad range of products and services for efficient and economic Renault Trucks transports. UD Trucks Volvo Special-purpose ­vehicles The Volvo Group manufactures special-purpose vehicles for use by for instance government, defense, peace-keeping and relief organizations. Volvo Buses Nova Bus Prevost Buses Volvo Buses’ product range includes complete buses and bus chassis for city, intercity and coach traffic. The company has a total offering that, in addition to buses, includes a global service network, efficient spare parts handling, service and repair contracts, financial services and traffic information systems. This information is extracted from the Volvo Group Annual Report 2012. 72 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 VALUE CHAIN Distribution and service Compact Heavy Road machinery construction equipment construction equipment Construction equipment Volvo Construction Equipment develops, manufactures and markets equipment for construction and related industries under the brands Volvo and SDLG. Its products are leaders in Wheel loaders Crawler excavators Articulated haulers Motor graders many world markets, and include a comprehensive range of wheel loaders, hydraulic wheeled and crawler excavators, articulated haulers, road machinery and a wide range of compact equipment. Backhoe loaders Wheeled excavators Wheel loaders Compaction equipment Crawler excavators SDLG crawler excavators SDLG wheel loaders Pavers Skidsteer loaders Asphalt milling machines Marine engines Industrial engines Engines for boats and industrial applications Financial services Volvo Penta manufactures Financial solutions such as customer financing and leasengines and drive systems ing, dealer financing, and other fee-based products such for both leisure boats and as insurance, contribute to the Volvo Group total solution commercial craft, with an offering by creating customer value such as convenience, engine range of 10 to 900 speed and peace of mind. Providing attractive hp and has a global service financial solutions and other support sernetwork of approximately vices is essential to meeting 4,000 dealers. Volvo Penta today’s high customer also supplies industrial demands, and to attractengines ranging from ing and retaining Volvo 75 kW to 640 kW for conGroup customers. tainer hand­ling, mining equipment and other industrial applications. This information is extracted from the Volvo Group Annual Report 2012. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 73 VALUE CHAIN Soft product share of net sales 2012 The objective for VISTA is to encourage To reach this ambition the Group looks at Distribution and service teamwork and build team spirit and pride. two different dimensions. The first one is to Sales of hard Since the start it has also served as a great reduce the energy consumption of the dealproducts, 73% (74) way for aftermarket personnel to increase erships and the second one is to increase the their knowledge and the quality of their work. use of renewable energy. Sales of soft products Through VISTA thousands of people across Since 2008 two comprehensive energy (services and aftermarket the world train themselves to become better mappings were done for Volvo Trucks dealers products), 27% (26) at what they do every day. in the UK and Sweden to evaluate the energy saving potential. The mapping is a detailed Volvo Construction Equipment Masters study conducted on site by in-house energy Dealers Volvo Construction Equipment also organizes experts that review the heating and electricity A strong dealer network is essential to proa global competition every second year for use (lighting, compressed air, office equipvide the Volvo Group’s customers with the aftermarket personnel – the Volvo CE Masters. ment, ventilation and cooling) for a period of best parts availability and service. Significant The Volvo CE Masters 2011 final was the one year. The survey results suggested an investments in this area have been made over culmination of a two-year odyssey to find the average energy saving potential of 30 percent. the years. most skilled construction equipment techniIn 2012 the Volvo Group established a cians in the world. Six teams from different reporting system to gather environmental Global competitions for a­ fter­market countries competed in the final in Eskilstuna, data from approximately 300 owned Volvo personnel Sweden after having advanced through a Trucks dealerships in Europe. The system The Volvo Group organizes local, regional and series of local, national, sub-regional and reports two types of figures: the energy conglobal competitions to encourage and showregional finals; this process pared down the sumption in MWh and energy cost in Euro. case best practices among the aftermarket competition from more than 2,000 entrants The aim is to analyze the data in order to find personnel. to eighteen technicians. ways to reduce the energy consumption by The teams of four consist of a team leader using the experience of the Group’s producVolvo International Service Training and three technicians – two service technition facilities and to extend the reporting to Award (VISTA) cians and a spare parts technician. dealers outside of Europe as well as indeVISTA, a Volvo Trucks competition for afterpendent dealers. market personnel, started in 1957 and has Carbon dioxide-neutral dealerships In addition to reducing energy consumptaken place every second year for over 50 With solar power and other green energy tion, the Volvo Group also aims to increase years. Today it is the biggest competition for alternatives, the Volvo Group is working on the usage of energy from renewable sources aftermarket personnel in the world and making its dealerships carbon dioxide-­ in the dealership network. The Verona dealer attracts authorized Volvo dealers from all over neutral. The first carbon dioxide-neutral was the first example using solar panels for the world. ­dealership was presented in Verona, Italy in generating electricity. This has been followed In 2011, 3,740 teams – a total of 13,700 2008. Solar panels on the roof of the building by dealers using wood pellets for heating in contestants – from 75 different countries produce energy for the entire Volvo Trucks Switzerland and solar panels for warm water joined the competition and this was the first facility, and since more energy is produced in Slovakia. time an all-female team participated. The than needed, the surplus is sold as green All the Volvo Group owned dealers work VISTA 2012-2013 world final will be held the energy. The ambition is for more dealers to according to the Volvo Group environmental last week of June 2013. follow this initiative. requirements for dealers and towards fulfillStrong Distribution of net sales by geography 2012 Distribution of Group's net sales 2012 ­positions Europe, 37% Trucks, 63% Construction Equipment, 21% • One of the world’s largest Buses, 7% North America, 23% ­manufacturers of trucks South America, 10% Volvo Penta, 2% • One of the world’s largest within construction equipment Asia, 23% Volvo Aero, 2%* • One of the world’s largest Customer Finance, 3% Rest of the world, 7% ­manufacturers of heavy-duty ­diesel engines Other, 2% • Good market presence globally * Volvo Aero was divested on October 1, 2012. The Volvo Group sold defense material, as defined in the Swedish Military Equipment Ordinance (1992:1303) section A, amounting to 0.66 percent (0.41) of net sales in 2012. 74 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 VALUE CHAIN ing the ISO 14001 standard. This means that not back on the road in less than 12 hours the following principles contained in the Code Distribution and service they receive, for example, detailed instrucafter the breakdown. of Conduct, which applies to all employees tions on how used oils and other fluids are to and Boards of Directors: be handled. Customer satisfaction • The Volvo Group shall not participate in or The Volvo Group aims to be number one in endorse any corrupt practices. Supporting the customers customer satisfaction and to be the custom• Representatives of the Volvo Group shall The Volvo Group’s customers play an imporers’ closest business partner. All companies not offer customers, potential customers, tant role in everyday life in society. Buses in the Group measure customer satisfaction. suppliers, consultants, governments, agentake children to school, trucks distribute food The success of our business partnerships cies of governments, or any representative to stores, gensets provide electricity to rural with customers is based on being best at of such entities, any rewards or benefits in hospitals, machines build roads and garbage solving the customers’ problems and violation of applicable laws or established trucks collect the waste. strengthening their operational performance. business practices stricter than applicable The competition in the transport sector is This is a key factor to building customer loylaws, in order to obtain or retain business or very tough and the margins are small. This is alty. The Volvo Group will achieve this by to gain any other improper advantage. why the Volvo Group places a lot of effort into focusing on high product availability, which • Volvo Group employees shall not accept supporting the customers to be successful in requires high product quality, measures to payments, gifts or other kinds of reimbursetheir business. In addition to vehicles and avoid unplanned stops, rapid product repair, ment from a third party that could affect or machines, the Volvo Group’s offering includes and optimized preventive maintenance to appear to affect their objectivity in their various types of financing solutions, insurreduce downturn. business decisions. ance, rental services, spare parts, preventive The Volvo Group shall also take reasonable maintenance, service agreements, assistance Transparent communication steps to prevent its business partners from services and IT services. The range and flexiAnti-greenwashing taking part in practices that violate the princibility of the offering means that the solutions The Volvo Group has developed a directive on ples in the Code of Conduct. can be customized for each customer. how to communicate about environmentally The responsibility for compliance with the enhanced products such as hybrid solutions anti-corruption policy rests with line manageFinancial services and vehicles that can operate on renewable ment. The Volvo Group understands the specifics of fuels. The purpose is to ensure that the comthe transport and infrastructure business betmunication about the environmental perforPolicy and program ter than a standard finance company. For this mance of the Group’s products is accurate, The Volvo Group has an Anti-Corruption reason many customers choose to finance substantiated and does not mislead customCompliance Policy that has been adopted by their truck, bus or machine purchase through ers and other stakeholders. the Audit Committee. In addition to the policy, the Volvo Group’s finance company. Apart the Group’s Anti-Corruption Compliance Profrom financing, the financial solution can also Environmental product declaration gram is based on a number of steering docuinclude service and maintenance agreeFor many products the customers receive an ments and a handbook. ments, leasing agreements and insurance. Environmental Product Declaration (EPD), The Anti-Corruption Compliance Program based on the results from the Life Cycle consists of a number of actions aimed at pre24/7 assistance Assessment. The purpose is to help customventing the Volvo Group or any of its business If something happens on the road, such as a ers better understand the environmental partners from participating in corrupt activiflat tire or a broken windshield, Volvo Action impact of the product and help them to make ties. The program fundamentally consists of Service, the road assistance service for Volvo more informed choices when choosing vehithree parts: trucks customers, is available 24 hours a day, cles. The EPD is divided into three sections: • Preventing corruption seven days a week. The customer will get • ‘Production’ provides information about • Detecting corruption support via a case manager that speaks the energy consumption, emissions and waste • Responding to corruption. customer’s language and supports the cusduring the production of the products tomer until the issue has been solved. This • ‘Use’ presents fuel consumption, emissions Implementation service does not just include problems with and spare parts utilization during the use All white collar employees (approximately the vehicle; it can also involve financial assisphase of the products 50,000 employees) are expected to particitance, translation assistance, trailer repair, • ‘End of Life’ deals with the scrapping and pate in an e-learning course related to antidriver repatriation or legal assistance. recycling of the products. corruption every three years. On site training Renault Trucks also offers 24/7 assistance for selected groups is conducted every year. to its customers in case of a breakdown anyAnti-corruption Face-to-face meetings and discussions are where in Europe. With the GO24 agreement, The Volvo Group does not accept corruption important for creating awareness. In the past Renault Trucks compensates its long-disin any part of its business. year and in years to come, thousands of tance customers if the vehicle in question is The work on anti-corruption is guided by employees have received and will receive VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 75 VALUE CHAIN on-site training through the Chief Compliance Policy and program Distribution and service Officer or other members of the compliance The Competition Law Compliance Policy outnetwork. In 2012, 3,601 employees were lines the principles of behavior in relation to trained in anti-corruption both via e-learning competitors, distributors, customers and supand face-to-face training. Since 2010, when pliers, both regarding the Volvo Group’s the e-learning course was launched, 31,952 employees and the company. All employees have completed the training online. who are in contact with the Volvo Group’s An updated e-learning course on anti-­ competitors are expected to be familiar with corruption will be rolled out during the spring the policy and to apply it. of 2013. The Group’s Competition Law Compliance Program includes detailed guidance, handReport on non-compliance books and related tools which aim at supportThe Audit Committee monitors compliance ing all employees and at preventing the Volvo with the anti-corruption policy. Group from participating in activities that are The Chief Compliance Officer is responsicontrary to competition law. The purpose is to ble for overseeing the implementation of the provide the employees with an overall underprogram, leading and participating in training standing of what is acceptable and what is and audits and leading investigations into not, which has the added advantage of proalleged non-compliance. The Chief Complimoting free and open competition in the marance Officer reports to the Audit Committee kets where the Group is present. on current incidents and investigations three The Chief Compliance Officer, under the times a year. In addition, annual reports are supervision of the General Counsel of AB Volvo, submitted to the Audit Committee on activisupports the Volvo Group management on ties in the Anti-Corruption Program. Regular competition law compliance issues as well reports are also made to the Group manageas other compliance related matters. The diviment. The General Counsel of each division sions and business areas are responsible for or business area is responsible for the activitheir compliance with competition law as well ties in his/her respective business aimed at as with the program. The respective division ensuring compliance to the policy. or business area General Counsels are responsible for counseling on competition law issues Fair competition and for the program activities within their The Volvo Group’s work with regard to ensurrespective division or business area. ing fair competition is guided by the following principles contained in the Code of Conduct, Implementation which apply to all employees and members of In order to increase awareness among Boards of Directors: employees about the policy, all white collar •T  he Volvo Group shall comply with the laws employees are expected to participate in an and regulations of each country in which it e-learning course on the subject. In addition, operates and compete in a fair manner and all employees working in sales and marketwith integrity. ing, as well as managers within purchasing, •T  he Volvo Group shall not exchange inforresearch and development and product mation or enter into agreements or underdevelopment have been requested to particistandings with competitors, customers or pate in a mandatory face-to-face training. suppliers in a way that improperly influences In 2012, 31,025 employees completed the the market place or the outcome of a bidcompetition law compliance e-learning ding process. course and 5,685 employees were trained • The Volvo Group shall use legitimate methods face-to-face. to gather information about its competitors. The responsibility for compliance rests with line management. 76 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 VALUE CHAIN Product in use Product in use Developing engines with innovative technologies to reduce fuel consumption is not enough. Driver and ­operator behavior also has a direct impact on the fuel consumption of vehicles, and plays a key role when it comes to preventing accidents from happening. More than 2 million trucks and 100,000 to optimize the skills of drivers and operators from 16 countries participating in the final in buses, which the Group manufactured in the around the world, to improve vehicle knowlSeville, Spain. past ten years, operates on roads worldwide. edge and reduce fuel consumption. On averThe Optifuel Challenge 2012 included a At construction sites, there are more than age, drivers can save 5 to 10 percent in fuel ­theoretical test of 35 questions and a 40-minute half a million units of construction equipment consumption after participating in a course ride on board the 430 hp Premium Optifuel that we manufactured the past ten years. on fuel efficient driving. truck. All participants competed under the same This reduces costs and environmental conditions and were assessed on fuel consumpFuel consumption impact. In addition to this, the risk of accition and average speed, both measured by OptiFuel costs represent between 25 percent and dents is also reduced through the better fuel Infomax, the Renault Trucks’ fuel consump35 percent of total haulage firm costs. At the planning of routes. tion measurement and analysis software. same time, the hauliers’ profit margins are often The 2012 contest was won by a driver from very small, which means that all savings make Fuel challenges Spain, followed by drivers from Finland and an important difference. In order to succeed in The Volvo Group organizes fuel challenges France. cutting the haulage firm’s overall fuel consumpworldwide to stimulate fuel efficient driving and tion, the part played by the drivers is vital. reward especially skilled drivers and operators. Eco driving Optifuel Challenge 2012 The Volvo Group has launched several initiaIn 2012 Renault Trucks hosted its first Eurotives and offers a variety of training programs pean eco driving competition with 33 drivers VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 77 VALUE CHAIN The Drivers Fuel Challenge Product in use Volvo Trucks’ global fuel challenge competition, held in 2011, was also about driving as economically as possible on a specified route. More than 3,600 drivers from all over the world competed to see who could drive in the most fuel efficient manner and clearly demonstrated just how important driving skills are when it comes to using minimum amounts of fuel. At the end of 2011, the best drivers from 17 countries travelled to the Volvo Group’s hometown of Gothenburg to compete for the world title. After fierce competition, a driver from South Korea won the first global Volvo Trucks’ Drivers’ Fuel Challenge. Fuel efficiency challenge for operators in China After the success of the first contest to find China’s most fuel efficient excavator operator in 2011, Volvo Construction Equipment organized its second nationwide Operator Idol competition in 2012. Run in conjunction with the China Construction Machinery Association (CCMA), the Operator Idol competition includes a series of training in fuel efficient operator techniques that optimizes driving and reduces the fuel consumption. More than 6,800 people have directly participated in 34 city contests nationwide; nearly 10,000 people have participated in fuel efficient operating skills training both online and at competition sites; and over 100,000 people have participated in the festivities via the Operator Idol Club and other online platforms. The contest raises awareness of the impact that fuel efficient operating can have on the environment, as well as on a company’s profits. At the end of the six-month contest, twentyfour operators competed for the top three titles in the Operator Idol final in Shanghai, and the grand prize winner received one year’s free use Dynafleet and Trip Manager upgrades, transport information systems and of a Volvo excavator. Transport information systems, like Dynafleet, driver training. Volvo Link and Volvo Trip manager, give the Trip Manager is a fleet management softSoftware and telematics customer better control of the fleet in order ware for downloading, tracking and reporting Today information is a means of competitiveto improve utilization, and consequently lower of vehicle performance. Trip Manager allows ness in the transportation and construction operating expenses, through fuel control and fleets or other trucking companies to monitor business. Keeping track of a fleet is necesoptimized administration. The systems help and manage key vehicle data such as fuel consary to maintain a clear overview of the operthe fleet manager to connect to the fleet and sumption, idle time, top gear usage, cruise ations, and exact information makes it easier keep track of deliveries, vehicles and drivers. control usage, vehicle overspeed and engine for everybody involved in the transport chain Dynafleet was introduced in 1994 and is overspeed. to make the right decisions. Software and an umbrella of a number of services that enatelematics are also used to monitor fuel conble reduced fuel consumption, by means of sumption and find ways to reduce it. truck optimization, fuel saving maintenance, 78 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 VALUE CHAIN According to the World Health Organization, Vehicle Management and Fleet Safety Product in use more than 1.2 million people are killed and 50 ­Management The human factor is decisive in more than million are injured in traffic every year. Road traffic accidents are the most common cause In 2011 Volvo Buses launched new solutions 90 percent of all traffic accidents. Tired or of death among young people in many parts of for reducing fuel consumption based on teledistracted drivers represent a major part of the world. matics. The new technology makes it easier the problem. The most advanced safety techto monitor fuel consumption and track when nology cannot fully compensate for human Optifuel Infomax and Nav’Truck the vehicle needs service. The Volvo Bus errors and therefore it can also work to In 1997 Renault Trucks was the first truck Telematics together with a course in efficient improve drivers’ awareness, attitudes and manufacturer to offer software for measuring driving can deliver fuel savings of about behavior. The Volvo Group cooperates with and analyzing fuel consumption. In 2012 10 percent. different stakeholders on safety awareness Optifuel Infomax, Renault truck’s software for issues like alertness, use of alcohol, speed measuring and analyzing fuel consumption, Package solutions and the use of seat belts. added new functionalities to help its users The Volvo Group offers package solutions One example is driver training. In India at even further. It offers the option of defining that help customers use products in the most least two customer drivers are trained for individual targets, comparing results and carefficient way possible. Research shows that every Volvo truck sold. Drivers need to pass a rying out analyses over a specific period of fuel savings of between 5 and 15 percent are test to qualify for the training program. More time. The software helps all users improve possible, which reduces both costs and envithan 23,000 Indian drivers have been trained whether they are instructors, fleet managers ronmental impact. to date. Training segments include driver or drivers. responsibility, fuel efficient driving and traffic Thanks to the accuracy of the data it proFuelwatch safety. vides, Optifuel Infomax can explain differFuelwatch is a concept for fuel saving manRead more about Volvo Group’s activities ences in fuel consumption between two idenagement for Volvo Trucks’ customers. With related to traffic safety under the ‘Society tical trucks driven by two different drivers. It the Fuel Advice service, a personal coach Engagement’ section of this report. can also reveal key elements which increase helps the customer cut fuel consumption by consumption. Once these have been identiup to five percent. Regular follow-up and profied, drivers can change their driving style to fessional guidance helps maintain the fuel consume less fuel. If the drivers are working savings over time. for a fleet, they can also talk about the data with their managers, who will be able to take Optifuel Solutions into account the route followed and the diffiRenault Trucks offers Optifuel Solutions – a culties it entailed. set of products and services providing up to Nav’Truck, the first GPS application for 15 percent of additional fuel savings. The smartphones dedicated to heavy-duty offer makes it possible to optimally configure vehicles, was launched in 2011 by Renault and equip vehicles, instruct drivers in ecoTrucks. Its 2.0 version keeps drivers condriving, and measure and analyze truck constantly updated with advice on economic drivsumption over a long period via specialized ing and information on the road profile ahead software. All this allows customers to as well as offering the option of adjusting the upgrade performance over the course of the truck’s maximum speed. All of this is designed vehicle operational life. to guide the driver and reduce journey times, In 2009 the Renault Premium Optifuel while at the same time providing real-time model was introduced on the market. The soluassistance in reducing fuel consumption. tion consists of a long distance truck fitted with all the options for reducing fuel together with CareTrack eco driving instructions and specialized softCareTrack is a telematics system used to ware. Comparative trials under actual operating manage the productivity and work availability conditions, in which the fuel consumption of a of heavy machines. The operation and utilizastandard vehicle driven by untrained drivers was tion of the machine can be optimized by moncompared with a Renault Premium Optifuel itoring fuel consumption, location, hours, truck driven by eco driving certified drivers, speed and upcoming service intervals by revealed a drop in consumption of 6.4 percent. using GPRS (cellular) or satellite technology The result was confirmed by the German TüV to transmit information that is secure and ­certifying organization. instantly available wherever there is an online connection. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 79 VALUE CHAIN Reuse Re-use Recycling of material and remanufacturing of spare parts is a growing part of the Volvo Group’s activities. It minimizes the need for raw material and limits the depletion of earth’s mineral resources. Remanufacturing Good for the customer used. It minimizes the need for raw material. Giving a second life to used engines and comEngines, gearboxes, filters and rear axle transThe need for foundry activities is also ponents is the mission of the Volvo Group’s missions are some examples of components reduced significantly. Compared with the proremanufacturing centers. The Group has more that are remanufactured. The remanufacturing duction of a new engine, the remanufactured than 50 years’ experience and has six centers program is offered to all our customers worldengine saves up to 80 percent of the energy spread all over the world. They handle the used wide and the range of remanufactured prodneeded to build a new engine and dramaticomponents from the whole range of Volvo ucts continues to increase over the years. cally cuts the emissions of nitrogen oxides Group’s products and are located in Sweden, Remanufactured components are renoand carbon dioxide to the atmosphere. France, Japan, Brazil and the US. In the comvated to the same condition as new ones and ing months two more centers will be inauguthe customers are able to buy components Recycling rated in Asia: one in China and one in India. with the same quality standard as new ones A truck produced by the Volvo Group is and with full warranty, for a considerably largely recyclable, since almost 85 percent Good for the business lower price. of its weight it consists of metal – mostly The first remanufacturing center was opened iron, steel and aluminum. The additional in 1960 in Flen, Sweden and the business Good for the environment materials are mainly plastic, rubber and has grown steadily ever since. In 2012 the At the early stage of the design phase of material from electronics components. sales increased by eight percent compared components their level of recyclability and reToday approximately 30 percent of a with the previous year and the growth potenuse is already taken into account. For examtruck is produced from recycled material. tial is considerable. ple, up to 80 percent of an engine can be reDespite the large recyclability of the prod80 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 VALUE CHAIN At the early stage of the design phase sent to local recycling centers. Some of the Reuse of components their level of recyclability steel and iron is sent directly to one of the and r­ e-use is taken into account. An engine, for instance, can be r­ e-used by 80%. Volvo Group’s foundry in Skövde, Sweden. Oil spill and chemical solid waste are gathered to be used as an energy resource. Old packaging material, plastic, carbon boxes The total weight of a truck, such as a Volvo and paper are gathered and either sold to FH tractor, is approximately 7,000 kg, of which recycling centers or used as an energy approximately one third is made of recycled material. resource. Untreatable wastes are sent to an external contractor, and then handled in accordance with legally valid regulations. ucts, virgin material is needed to ensure In some of the centers the recycling proquality and solidity. Disassembly facilities cess has been further developed. Smoke are available where trucks and buses can emitted from engine test cells, burning be disassembled for recycling and where operations, paint booths, suction tables for reusable product parts can be harvested. brushing and battery charging zones are filDismantling manuals to support this are tered through a gas washer. Water from available. washing machines is cleaned by using an At the remanufacturing centers, material evaporator or ultra-filtration. The water is that is damaged and does not meet the then reused in washers again and is clean quality standard to be reused is sorted, enough to be distributed to the public sanirecycled or destroyed. Metallic materials are tary network if needed. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 81 Pages 82–92 The aim of the Volvo Group ­Sustainability Report 2012 is to present our work in a transparent way. The report is based on the GRI framework for sustainability reporting and is our Communication On Progress report to the United Nations Global Compact. We also present a selection of awards received for 2012 in the area of sustainability. Additional information Content About this report 83 Standards 86 Memberships 87 Independent recognition 88 Contact 91 82 Additional information About this report The Volvo Group’s Sustainability Report 2012 describes how we address economic, environmental and social challenges and opportunities to contribute to sustainable development. This report is structured in accordance with our CSR and sustainability approach. Based on the ten principles in United Nations The main purpose of this report is to answer Dialogue with stakeholders and Global Compact initiative, other internationally the most frequent questions we have received issues in focus recognized norms of behavior, and on interfrom our stakeholders and to make the inforThe Volvo Group is a global company and we views with internal and external stakeholders, mation publicly available. This report is based are committed to include all our majority the Volvo Group has developed a model that on the voluntary framework provided by Global owned companies in our CSR and sustainadescribes how we approach Corporate Social Reporting Initiative (GRI). The full GRI Index bility work and have a dialogue with those Responsibility and sustainability. The Sustainacan be found on the web based Sustainability who are impacted by our operations. We have bility Report 2012 is based on this model visuReport (www.volvogroup.com/ various processes in place to map stakeholdalized as a pyramid. The strategic approach is sustainabilityreport) and includes referers’ expectations and address these issues in described in the ‘Strategic Approach’ secences to where the information may be found. our business. Based on our business model, tion of this report. Our aim is to present our work in a straightbusiness environment and our operational The Volvo Group is a member of the Interforward, transparent and informative way for a context we have identified the issues of signational Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) wide audience. nificant impact to address in this report by pilot program on integrated reporting and the This report is a platform for internal and conducting interviews with internal and exterAnnual Report 2012 has been influenced by external dialogues with investors, customers, nal stakeholders and analyses on global the Integrated Reporting framework which is suppliers, employees, the general public and trends and challenges. under development. The Sustainability Report other stakeholders. gives deepened and additional information related to CSR and sustainability issues to the Annual Report. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 83 Additional information We believe that our Sustainability Report Environmental data Hazardous waste is an efficient channel for providing informaAt the end of 2012 the Volvo Group had 67 The national regulations are used to divide tion about our practices, and we seek to majority-owned production plants around the the generated waste into hazardous and noncover the most frequently asked questions world that are included in the environmental hazardous. The consumption is based on from investors and other stakeholders in this data reporting. In addition, data from all Parts invoices. report. and Logistics facilities are included. The environmental performance for industrial operation Emissions of solvents (VOCs) Accounting principles is reported in absolute values related to new The emission of solvents mainly comes from For the financial statement of the Volvo sales. painting and surface treatment processes. Group, find the accounting principles in note The implementation of environmental manThe consumption is based on invoices. 1 in the Annual Report 2012. agement systems helps to assure the quality In this section we give further guidance on of the reported data. Internal monitoring and Scope and boundary of the report some of the data which are also described in control are important elements of this activity. Unless otherwise stated, the Sustainability the Annual Report. Environmental audits are also carried out Report encompasses companies fully consolunder the direction of the Group’s environidated in the Volvo Group. Our financial Financial data mental auditor as a means of monitoring performance and information regarding the The financial data is based on the accounting environmental activities. In addition, the audiVolvo Group’s Corporate Governance is principles described in the Annual Report. tor is responsible for the examination of available in the Annual Report 2012 and environmental data. This is carried out as at www.volvogroup.com/investors. Employees data part of the normal plant audits and when The HR data is based on principles described reporting environmental data for the Group’s Data collection and verification in the Annual report. Annual Report. This report was not audited by a third party. Although we acknowledge the value of an Number of employees completing e-learning Energy consumption audit, we have opted to give priority to develThe Volvo Group has an IT-based system for Energy consumption (direct and indirect) is oping our in-house process in an effort to distributing and following up of electronic measured in both direct supply of energy and further improve our work. A lot of data in this trainings for our employees. Several mandaindirect supply of energy (energy produced by report is also presented in our Annual tory Group-wide training programs are other than the Volvo Group). All energy used at Report 2012, see the section ‘Audit offered, like the e-learning programs on antithe plant, except internally recovered, are Report for AB Volvo’. In addition the procorruption, Code of Conduct and Competiincluded. cess for collecting environmental data is tion law. The results from those trainings, The consumption is based on meter readaudited by a third party and certified in which are presented in this report, are coling and invoices. accordance with ISO 14001. Due to the reorlected from our internal IT-system which ganization of the Volvo Group, some data on reaches only approximately 50 percent of our Carbon dioxide emissions an aggregated level for the Group is not availemployees. Additional employees have been The total amount of energy, including energy able. trained by their managers in other manner and used for heating and cooling, processes, those results are not included in the statisproduct testing and internal transportation is tics. used to calculate the energy index. Carbon dioxide emissions from inbound and outbound Supplier assessments data transports as well as business travel are not The performance data from supplier assessincluded. The consumption is based on meter ment has been calculated based on data reading and invoices. reported to IT-support system VSIB (Volvo Supplier Information Base). The assessment Water consumption is done on a plant level, i.e. on the actual The water consumption includes drinking location where the supplier deliver from. The water, industrial water and steam. The convolume performance is calculated based on sumption is based on meter reading and the purchased value of goods used in the invoices. products if nothing else is stated. The Volvo Group’s risk assessment is Emissions of sulphur dioxide and based on index and data from international nitrogen oxides recognized institutions and is used to identify These emissions are based on the use of and prioritize our efforts on suppliers energy and the amount of product testing in considered to be facing higher risk due to test rigs. The consumption is based on meter their location. reading and invoices. 84 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 Additional information References Disclaimer Annual sustainability reports ­ Any links to external or third party web sites available on website in the Volvo Group Sustainability Report 2012 The Volvo Group publishes annual Sustainaare included solely for the reader’s convenibility reports since 2007. The Sustainability ence. You make use of any links, and rely on Report 2012 was published end of March the information contained on such external 2013 on www.volvogroup.com/ web sites at your own risk. The Volvo Group sustainability­report. More information on does not give any representation regarding, sustainability and previous reports are availanor accepts any liability for the quality, safety, ble on the Volvo Group’s website: suitability or reliability of any external web ­w ww.volvogroup.com/responsibility. sites or any of the content or materials contained therein. Environmental Data report This report contains forward looking The Volvo Group has published Environ­ statements. Such statements reflect manmental Reports since 1991. These reports agement’s current expectations. Although are available on www.volvogroup.com/ management believe such statements to be responsibility and contain the environmenreasonable, no assurance can be given that tal performance of our industrial operations. such expectations will prove correct. Such The 2012 report will be available in April statements are subject to risks and uncer2013. tainties and such future events could differ materially from those set out in the forward Annual Report looking statements as a result of, among The Annual Report 2012 was published on other factors (i) changes in economic, marMarch 13, 2013 and includes the Corporate ket and competitive conditions, (ii) success Governance Report. The report is available of business and operating initiatives, includon www.volvogroup.com/investors. ing research projects, (iii) changes in the regulatory environment and other government actions and (iv) business risk management. This report does not imply that the company will revise the forward looking statements. Audrey Grandjean was the project leader for the Sustainability Report 2012. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 85 Additional information Standards The Volvo Group’s Sustainability Report for 2012 adheres to the following internationally recognized voluntary standards and principles: Global Reporting Initiative, the United Nations Global Compacts principles for Communication On Progress and ISO 26000 Self-declaration for the implementation and reporting of the Group’s sustainability work. The GRI index and the self-declaration according to ISO 26000 can both be found on www.volvogroup.com/sustainabilityreport. GRI is the most widely used sustainability Communication On Progress reference is made to content in the Volvo reporting framework which seeks to promote The Volvo Group is a signatory to United Group Annual Report or the Corporate greater transparency. Nations Global Compact since 2001 and Governance Report for 2012. The Volvo ISO 26000 is a standard that provides annually submits its Communication On ProGroup has chosen to self-declare the report as guidance on how businesses and organizagress report. This Sustainability Report meeting the GRI Application Level B. tions can operate in a socially responsible way. describes our work to advance the Global The Volvo Group uses both of these standCompact’s ten principles in our daily operaISO 26000 Self-declaration ards to implement and report the Group’s work tions as well as in our strategies. The Volvo Group applies the ISO 26000 within sustainability. The report addresses guidance document for social responsibility. issues that have been identified as important GRI index There is no official certification for this standboth internally and through stakeholder diaThe Volvo Group applies the GRI (Global ard, but SIS, the Swedish Standards Institute, logues. Reporting Initiative) guideline for sustainability issued in November 2012 a guideline for selfreporting. This framework (G3) sets out princideclaration of the fulfillment of the standard. ples and indicators for measuring and reportThe Volvo Group has completed this selfing economic, environmental and social perfordeclaration with the contents of this report, mance. The table provides references to where and the references for where information can the indicated GRI-information can be found in be found are outlined in the table ISO 26000 the Sustainability Report 2012. In some cases, Self-declaration. 86 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 Additional information Memberships The Volvo Group places a great deal of effort into being aware of legislative trends and actively participating in society in relation to matters relevant to our industry. Knowledge of the surrounding world is essential to our ability to identify new business opportunities. In order to do this, the Group participates in • Japan Automobile Manufacturers AssociaGlobal Compact a number of industry forums. The Group is tion (JAMA) The Volvo Group became one of the first also a signatory of Global Compact and a • Association of Equipment Manufacturers in companies to sign the United Nations Global member of the WWF Climate Savers Prothe US Compact initiative in 2001. The Global Comgram. • American Trucking Associations pact aims to align business practices with • American Public Transportation Association internationally accepted principles on human Industry forums • National Marine Manufacturers Association rights, labor practice, the environment and The Volvo Group participates in different • American Bus Association anti-corruption. trade organizations and forums such as: • International Council of Marine Industry • European Automobile Manufacturers’ Associations – ICOMIA ­Association (ACEA) • European Association of Internal Combus•C  ommittee for European Construction tion Engine Manufacturers (Euromot) Equipment (CECE) • Engine Manufacturers Association (EMA) The Global Compact and Truck Manufacturers Association (TMA) In 2001, the Volvo in the US Group signed Global Compact, UN’s initiative on socially responsible business practices. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 87 Additional information Independent recognition The Volvo Group has received external recognition in the area of sustainability during 2012. The awards and recognition have been at both global and local level. An increasing number of long-term investors The DJSI World includes approximately 300 the STOXX Global ESG Governance Leaders ­prioritize companies that are aligned with of the highest ranked companies, one of which indices. trends and capture the opportunities in susis the Volvo Group. The annual assessment tainability. We are very proud of the external includes areas such as corporate governance, Storebrand Tripple Smart and SPP recognition that has been awarded to the risk management, climate change manageGlobal Topp 100 Volvo Group in 2012. ment, sourcing and work environment. The The Storebrand Tripple Smart/SPP Global Volvo Group received special recognition for Topp 100 fund is a global equity fund which Dow Jones Sustainability World its handling of environmental issues. invests in the 100 most sustainable companies Index 2012 in the world according to the company’s analyThe Volvo Group has qualified for inclusion in STOXX® Global ESG Leaders sis methodology. Storebrand has included the the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index The Volvo Group is included in the STOXX Volvo Group in this fund. Storebrand is the (DJSI World) as well as DJSI Euro Stoxx and Global ESG Leaders index, which offers a Nordic region’s leading provider of life insurNordic. DJSI assesses the world’s 2,500 largrepresentation of the leading global compaance and pensions with a strong engagement est companies on the basis of economic, nies in terms of environmental, social and within sustainability since many years. The ­environmental and social criteria, focusing on governance criteria, based on ESG indicators companies in the fund are selected from the long-term shareholder value. provided by Sustainalytics. The index is made MSCI All Countries Index. The fund is sector of the following three ESG sub-indices: the neutral and some adjustments are made STOXX Global ESG Environmental Leaders, regarding region representation to ensure that the STOXX Global ESG Social Leaders and emerging markets companies are also included. 88 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 Additional information Sustainable Value Creation Carbon Equity Index is an investable index Diversity award The Volvo Group has gained top ranking in that selects the companies best equipped to The Volvo Group in France was presented the survey on responsible business practices tackle a world of rising carbon emissions and an award for its diversity initiatives regarding conducted by Sweden’s largest institutional tougher climate legislation from carbon intengender equality. More than 200 company investors. The survey studied the 100 largest sive sectors such as utilities, basic materials, representatives attended the event where corporations listed on the NASDAQ OMX industrial and energy. the Minister of Women’s Rights recognized Nordic Exchange in Sweden. The investors five companies for their achievements. manage a total capital of SEK 5,000 billion. Generali Investment Europe In France the Volvo Group has taken a The Volvo Group was ranked as one of the In the 2012 Socially Responsible Investments number of concrete actions towards gender top companies in both 2009 and 2011. (SRI) benchmark for the Electrical Equipment, equality including the launch of Women Machinery and Industrial Conglomerates secInclusive Network (WIN), training in Diversity OMX GES Sustainability Index tor the companies were assessed by a bestand Inclusion, and the promotion of equal series in-class risk management and positioning on opportunities and salaries. The Volvo Group is included in the OMX GES sustainable opportunities. The companies that Sustainability Index series and the OMX GES fulfilled more than 50 percent of the criteria, Sustainability L ­ eadership Award Ethical Index series for the Nordic region. The including the Volvo Group, are qualified for the Volvo India received the Parivartan SustainaOMX GES Sustainability indexes comprise authorized buy-list of SRI funds. bility Leadership Award for 2012 under the the leading companies in the region in terms Generali Investments Europe is wholly category ‘Sustainability Innovation Award for of sustainability. The analyses cover criteria owned by Generali Group, a leading player in Energy Management Tools’ for implementing for environmental, social and governance the global insurance and financial markets and its global initiative ‘Commute Greener’ in (ESG) issues, and are based on international one of Europe’s largest insurance providers. India, which guides individuals and companies guidelines for ESG issues. towards greener commuting. Other awards for 2012 Oekom rating Quality Award Oekom research assessed the Volvo Group’s Environmental Excellence Award Volvo do Brasil won its second PNQ (National performance to be “Prime” and therefore qualThe Volvo Trucks’ plant in New River Valley, Quality Award), the highest recognition for ifies the Group’s tradable bonds and shares to Virginia, received the Virginia Governor’s excellence in management of organizations qualify for ecologically and socially based Environmental Excellence Award in recognition in Brazil. The Volvo Group is the only automoinvestment. The assessment of the social and of the efforts to reduce its energy use. It is the tive manufacturer to receive this prize more environmental performance of a company as third time the plant has earned this honor. than once. part of the Corporate Rating is carried out with Imprensa Magazine, a major Brazilian news the aid of over 100 social and environmental Liberty Mutual Silver Safety Award magazine, has also selected the Volvo Group criteria, selected specifically for each industry. Mack’s factory in Macungie, Pennsylvania, as the most sustainable company in the received the Liberty Mutual Silver Safety Brazilian commercial transport sector. The Folksam Award for its outstanding workplace safety acknowledgement was given in recognition Folksam, a major Swedish insurance company record. In 2011 Macungie achieved a DART of Volvo do Brasil’s emission reduction prowith 4 million customers, uses a company’s (Days Away, Restricted and Transferred) rate grams and the continued technological performance in environmental issues and of less than 1.5, which is 53 per cent lower advancement of its vehicles. human rights as criteria for their investments. than the US heavy duty truck manufacturing In the assessment for 2012 they evaluated industry average of 3.2. Green award the Volvo Group’s ability to handle environVolvo Bus, in partnership with Arriva, has mentally related risks. On a scale from 1 to 7, People Development Award been awarded the prestigious Green Award with 7 being the highest, the Volvo Group Every year Revista Você S/A, the most imporat the routeONE Operator Excellence Awards. received a rating of 7 for management of tant publication in Brazil in the area of career The award is in recognition of the joint Volvo environmentally related risks in accordance management and human resources, publishes a Bus-Arriva initiatives towards improving the with relevant policies and programs. list of the 150 best companies to work for. Volvo carbon footprint of public transport in London. do Brasil was ranked first in 2008 and 2011. In ECPI Indexes 2012 Volvo do Brasil came in 4th position over­ Innovation Award The Volvo Group is included in the EPCI Euro all, but first in the People Development category. Maskinentreprenören (a Swedish magazine) Ethical Equity and ECPI Global Ethical Equity. awarded Volvo Construction Equipment for The global index selects the 300 top capitalCarbon dioxide reduction award OptiShift – a system that delivers 15 percent ized companies in the global market with eliVolvo Trucks in Belgium received a carbon improved fuel efficiency and increased pergible investments according to ECPI Ethical dioxide reduction award for its effort to reduce formance in wheel loaders. screening Methodology and the Euro index the impact on the environment with its carbon selects the 150 top in European market. dioxide-neutral plant in Ghent. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 89 Additional information Quality ­I nnovation of the Year North American Customer Value The Swedish Institute for Quality has granted Enhancement Award Volvo Construction Equipment the 2012 Volvo Trucks’ Remote Diagnostics aftermarQuality Innovation of the Year award for the ket service received the 2012 North Ameribusiness model enabling new environmental can Customer Value Enhancement Award in technology to be transferred to third party Commercial Vehicle Repair and Maintenance products, such as the snow sweeper. The from global growth company Frost & Sullivan. business model allows Volvo Construction Volvo’s Remote Diagnostics, a standard Equipment to offer tailored solutions to Origifeature on every Volvo-powered VN model nal Equipment Manufacturers like ABEI highway truck, helps maximize vehicle uptime Schmidt that want partial machines for intethrough proactive diagnostic and repair plangration into their own product development. ning assistance with detailed analysis of critical diagnostic trouble codes. European Sustainable ­Development Transport award Large Goods Vehicle Manufacturer Renault Trucks’ Optifuel Solutions won the of the Year European Sustainable Development TransVolvo Trucks was named the ‘Large Goods port award for 2012 in Germany in the Vehicle Manufacturer of the Year’ by the ­‘Services’ category. The jury was particularly GreenFleet magazine for the 5th time in six impressed by their efficiency in reducing fuel years. The magazine is dedicated to promotconsumption and the impact of transport ing a cleaner environment and recognizes activities on the environment. every year pioneers in environmental transport and green fleet management. UIM Environmental Award The Union Internationale Motonautique (UIM) has since 2010 annually awarded engine manufacturers, boat builders and researchers with environmental awards to recognize unique innovations in the world´s boating industry. In 2012 Volvo Penta received a special mention for innovation for its IPS system. 90 VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 Additional information Contact If you have questions regarding this report or Volvo Group’s CSR and sustainability work, please contact: Malin Ripa, Director, Corporate Social Responsibility, Volvo Group Headquarters. E-mail: csr@volvo.com Contact details for Volvo Group Headquarters: AB Volvo (publ) SE-405 08 Gothenburg, Sweden Phone: + 46 31 66 00 00 www.volvogroup.com Responsible publisher for the S ­ ustainability Report 2012 is Jan-Eric Sundgren, Executive Vice President, Corporate Public and Environmental Affairs, Volvo Group Headquarters. VOLVO GROUP SUS TAINABILIT Y RE PORT 2012 91
