CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSABILITY STRATEGIC GUIDELINES, COMMITMENTS AND INDICATORS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 20 STRATEGIC GUIDELINES, COMMITMENTS AND INDICATORS 12 In addition to the Group’s 2012 Sustainable Development and Annual Report and website (www.annualreport.psapeugeot-citroen.com), this document covers the economic, environmental, social, societal and governance aspects of the corporate social responsibility performance of PSA Peugeot Citroën companies. It covers the Group’s automotive and banking businesses. It is designed to provide a deeper understanding of the Group’s sustainable development challenges and impacts and explain more about its policies, programmes and 2012 accomplishments. Together, these publications make up PSA Peugeot Citroën’s sustainable development reporting for 2012 and are available on the corporate website, www.psa-peugeot-citroen.com. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines For the tenth straight year, the Group’s sustainable development reporting follows the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines issued by the Global Reporting Initiative, using the G3 version for the sixth year. According to the criteria recommended in the “G3 Guidelines, Application Levels”, the Group’s own assessment of its 2012 sustainable development reporting results in an A+ application level (the GRI application level check statement is available at the end of this report). Audit The information in this report complies with French legislation, notably Articles L. 225-102-1 and R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code as amended by the Grenelle 2 Law, effective since 2012 and described in the Group’s Registration Document. The 42 topics addressed in the aforementioned Articles are indicated in this document with icons numbering G1 to G42, and a correspondence table at the end of this report indicates on what pages the information required by the Articles can be found. In its capacity as outside auditor, Grant Thornton has performed the necessary verifications to: O ensure that all required information is given in the Group’s Management Report and this CSR report, and that explanations are provided for any missing information as set forth in Article R. 225-105, Paragraph 3, of the French Commercial Code and in French Decree 2012-557 of 24 April 2012 (disclosure certification); O express moderate assurance that all material information is reported faithfully and in accordance with the selected guidelines (moderate assurance report). In the parts of the document where there is a «Grenelle» reference, the few indicators that were not audited by Grant Thornton in 2012 are indicated by the symbol: Y Grant Thornton’s full Auditor’s Report is available in Section 7 of this document. Contact For more information, particularly concerning the Group’s reporting processes, please write to Délégation au Développement Durable, PSA Peugeot Citroën, 75, avenue de la Grande-Armée, 75116 Paris, or send an e-mail to sustain.psa@mpsa.com. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 1 C 1 ONTENTS A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 1.1. MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE MANAGING BOARD 5 7 2.3. MOBILITY SOLUTIONS 2.3.1. Mobility services and onboard intelligence 2.3.2. Finance and insurance 2.3.3. Road safety G.41 57 57 59 60 2.4. PEUGEOT AND CITROËN: LISTENING 1.2. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN’S RESPONSE TO CUSTOMERS 64 TO THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY’S 2.4.1. Peugeot and Citroën customers 64 CSR CHALLENGES 8 2.4.2. Meeting customer expectations 69 1.2.1. The automobile industry’s major 2.4.3. compliance with health, safety sustainable development challenges 8 and customer privacy standards 72 1.2.2. Areas in which PSA Peugeot Citroën 2.4.4. Advertising, communication can have an impact 10 and consumer information 73 1.2.3. PSA Peugeot Citroën’s CSR policies 11 1.2.4. CSR commitments and objectives 15 1.2.5. Main indicators 20 1.3. CSR GOVERNANCE 1.3.1. Organisation 21 21 3 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3.1. MANAGING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 75 79 1.3.2. External standards and commitments 21 1.3.3. CSR reporting 22 3.1.1. Environmental challenges and corporate strategy 80 1.4. RELATIONS WITH STAKEHOLDERS 24 3.1.2. Combating climate change 83 1.4.1. Stakeholders and forums 24 3.1.3. Reducing the impact of resource use 89 1.4.2. Dialogue resources 25 3.1.4. Limiting pollution 91 1.4.3. Dialogue initiated in 2012 3.1.5. Reducing waste 96 by PSA Peugeot Citroën 26 3.2. PROTECTION OF NATURAL 1.5. PRESENCE IN INDICES, AWARDS HABITATS AND BIODIVERSITY 101 AND DISTINCTIONS RECEIVED 27 3.2.1. Facilities located near protected areas 101 Presence in Socially Responsible 3.2.2. Signiﬁcant initiatives Investment (SRI) indices 27 to promote biodiversity 102 Awards 28 2 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 31 4 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN: A FULL-FLEDGED PARTNER TO ITS HOST COMMUNITIES 103 2.1. THE INNOVATION PROCESS 32 4.1. EXCELLENCE IN SUPPLIER 2.1.1. City on the move institute 32 RELATIONS: A SUPPLY CHAIN 2.1.2 R&D and open innovation 33 COMMITMENT 104 2.1.3. Eco-design and life cycle analysis 39 4.1.1. The Group’s purchasing strategy 104 4.1.2. Locating purchasing teams close 2.2. LOW CARBON VEHICLES to manufacturing facilities to FOR ALL TYPES OF USE 40 ensure more effective integration into host regions 106 2.2.1. Greenhouse-friendly technologies and adaptations to the effects 4.1.3. Strengthening supplier of climate change 41 relationship management 107 2.2.2. Protecting air quality 52 2.2.3. “From cradle to cradle”: resource management and recycling 54 2 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 4.1.4. Supporting supplier development 108 5.5. COMPENSATION POLICY 151 4.1.5. Incorporating sustainable development 5.5.1. Fair and competitive compensation criteria into the supplier relations policy 109 that rewards performance 152 4.2. GLOBAL AND LOCAL CORPORATE 5.5.2. Employee beneﬁts 155 CITIZENSHIP 111 5.6. A DEEP COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL 4.2.1. The PSA Peugeot Citroën Foundation: RESPONSIBILITY 158 supporting mobility for all 112 5.6.1. Working together 158 4.2.2. Corporate Philanthropy 116 5.6.2. Continuing to increase the percentage 4.2.3. Local CSR Plans at Group sites 116 of women in the workforce 161 4.2.4. CSR initiatives supported by 5.6.3. Human rights 166 the Peugeot and Citroën brands and by Banque PSA Finance 118 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL 6 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL PRACTICES 6.1. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 169 170 RESPONSIBILITY 119 6.1.1. nature of ownership and legal form 170 5.1. MANAGING JOBS RESPONSIBLY TO 6.1.2. Governance principles 172 MEET NEW CHALLENGES 121 6.1.3. Governance structure 174 5.1.1. Workforce 121 6.1.4. Internal control procedures 179 5.1.2. Employment policy 126 6.2. DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED 181 5.2. DEVELOPING TALENT 132 6.2.1. Payments to capital providers 181 5.2.1. Attracting talent 132 6.2.2. Remuneration and beneﬁts 5.2.2. Managing talent 132 of corporate officers 183 5.2.3. PSA Peugeot Citroën University: Nurturing talent 134 6.3. ETHICAL PRACTICES 185 5.3. BUILDING TRUST THROUGH 6.3.1. The Code of Ethics 186 MEANINGFUL EMPLOYEE RELATIONS 136 6.3.2. Preventing fraud, corruption and anti-competitive behaviour 186 5.3.1. International social dialogue organisations 136 6.3.3. Transparency and integrity of inﬂuence strategies and practices 190 5.3.2. Strengthening social cohesion 136 5.4. WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY: A TOP PRIORITY 5.4.1. Workplace Health and Safety Management System 5.4.2. Long lasting progress 138 138 139 7 EXTERNAL AUDITOR’S REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S DISCLOSURE CERTIFICATION AND MODERATE ASSURANCE 193 5.4.3. Five priority commitments for REPORT ON THE COMPANY’S HUMAN preventing health and safety risks 141 RESOURCES, ENVIRONMENTAL, AND 5.4.4. An active commitment to health 143 SOCIETAL INFORMATION 194 5.4.5. Joint management-worker health and safety agreements and committees 145 5.4.6. Promoting employee well-being 146 5.4.7. Organisation of working hours 148 8 GRI STATEMENT AND CROSS REFERENCE TABLES 197 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 3 4 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 1 A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 1.1. MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 1.3. CSR GOVERNANCE 21 OF THE MANAGING BOARD 7 1.3.1. Organisation 21 2012 was a turbulent year 7 1.3.2. External standards and commitments 21 1.3.3. CSR reporting 22 1.2. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN’S RESPONSE TO THE AUTOMOBILE 1.4. RELATIONS WITH STAKEHOLDERS 24 INDUSTRY’S CSR CHALLENGES 8 1.4.1. Stakeholders and forums 24 1.2.1. The automobile industry’s major sustainable 1.4.2. Dialogue resources 25 development challenges 8 1.4.3. Dialogue initiated in 2012 by PSA Peugeot 1.2.2. Areas in which PSA Peugeot Citroën can have Citroën 26 an impact 10 1.2.3. PSA Peugeot Citroën’s CSR policies 11 1.2.4. CSR commitments and objectives 15 1.5. PRESENCE IN INDICES, AWARDS AND DISTINCTIONS RECEIVED 27 1.2.5. Main indicators 20 Presence in Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) indices 27 Awards 28 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 5 1 A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 6 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 1.1. Message from the Chairman of the Managing Board 1 1.1. MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE MANAGING BOARD 2012 WAS A TURBULENT YEAR With sales receding across the globe and a net loss for the year, the In early 2013 we wrote down the book value of our Automobile Group was again struck by the crisis scourging Europe, our historic Division to reflect the deteriorating economic climate in Europe. market. This accounting adjustment was entirely cash-flow neutral. Nevertheless we did make notable steps towards our turnaround, like We are now poised to face 2013 with prudence but also with the successful launch of the Peugeot 208 and the introduction of a confidence. range of popular hybrid vehicles that already gives us a 14% share of This year we intend to cut our operating cash burn rate in half the European market. compared to 2012. We believe the market will remain sluggish, but We also finalised, on schedule, the agreements covering the three plan to reach our objectives by drawing on the clear, differentiated pillars of our Global Alliance with General Motors: logistics, positioning of each of our brands. Peugeot has built a reputation purchasing, and the development of common vehicles. for sleek designs and a remarkable driving experience. Citroën’s We announced a restructuring plan and the shutdown of production C line is focused on simplicity, while the DS line − including the at our Aulnay plant: painful, but necessary, decisions. We successfully latest addition, the widely popular DS3 Cabrio − embodies Citroën’s completed our cost-cutting programme − generating savings even distinctive look and feel. Both brands are endowed with a genuine beyond our initial goal of €1 billion −, finalised our asset disposals, technological breakthrough: the proof is in our revolutionary Hybrid and got a better handle on our inventory. We also secured financing Air system unveiled this January. for our Banque PSA Finance division for the coming years. To return to profitability in Europe − our top priority − we will make In terms of CSR, we retained our excellent rankings thanks largely targeted investments and rationalise our cost structure, mainly by to our industry-leading environmental performance and the worthy leveraging economies of scale. We will also draw on the new EMP2 efforts of our PSA Peugeot Citroën Foundation. modular platform that we introduced in January. We did not shirk from our commitment to corporate social In 2013 we will reap the gains of our investments in high-growth responsibility in 2012 despite the strong headwinds facing our Group. markets: first in China, then in Latin America and Russia. We are on Sustainable development remains a cornerstone of our strategy, and track to reach our target of having 50% of sales come from outside during the year we furthered our initiatives in each of the three pillars Europe by 2015. of our CSR policy: We will of course build on our Global Alliance, and reinforce our O sustainable mobility: PSA Peugeot Citroën boasts the lowest efficiency-, teamwork-, and customer promise-obsessed culture. average CO2 emissions per vehicle in Europe and has expanded its We are proud to start the new year with a cleansed balance sheet range of hybrid and electric vehicles; and a solid strategy based on two well-differentiated brands. Our O being a responsible employer: we hold true to our principles roadmap is clear. Our employees are hard at work getting us to where regardless of the business challenges we face. This means we want to be − and I thank them for their effort. maintaining constant, open dialogue with trade unions and employee representatives and providing support during difficult restructurings; Philippe Varin O being a responsible corporate citizen: our Foundation along with Chairman of the Managing Board every one of our sites supports numerous community initiatives, including those designed to provide mobility solutions to the disadvantaged. This policy is backed by a public commitment to CSR with clear objectives, and engrained in our corporate culture. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 7 1 A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 1.2. PSA Peugeot Citroën’s response to the automobile industry’s CSR challenges 1.2. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN’S RESPONSE TO THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY’S CSR CHALLENGES 1.2.1. THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY’S MAJOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES The automobile industry plays a major economic role in developed SOCIAL CHALLENGES countries. According to the Pocket Guide published by the European Automobile Manufacturers in September 2011, the automobile industry accounted for more than 3% of Europe’s GDP, 5% of its EMPLOYEE RELATIONS POLICIES exports and 12 million direct and indirect jobs. As a major employer in the manufacturing sector, the automobile By enabling individual mobility, automobiles are an intrinsic part of industry has to manage significant challenges in the area of employee economic and social development. relations. At the same time, they present important challenges throughout their With the rise of regional economies and the trend towards moving life cycle for the environment, from production to use to end-of-life production centres closer to end-markets, both carmakers and processing. automotive equipment manufacturers are restructuring in their home countries and setting up operations in emerging economies. On the The automobile industry’s social and environmental responsibilities one hand, they are faced with the problem of converting industrial are proportional to its economic impact. Everyone involved, including sites and finding jobs for former employees, while on the other, they business, needs to pull together and take meaningful action to address need to ensure compliance with human rights requirements and the complex challenges of sustainable development effectively. working conditions in countries that do not have a long tradition of That’s why, in devising long-term responses to these different providing a strong safety net for employees. challenges, PSA Peugeot Citroën maintains an on-going dialogue As a historically masculine profession, automobile manufacturing is with all of its stakeholders, from customers to suppliers to lawmakers. also faced with the challenge of gender equality. Ensuring respect for human rights, improving workplace safety, health and employee cohesion, and promoting equal opportunity are SOCIETAL CHALLENGES among the key features of PSA Peugeot Citroën’s employee relations policy in all of its host countries. SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY The number and size of megacities worldwide is constantly growing, notably in the emerging economies. Intensive and growing ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES road transport creates urban congestion that is both costly and harmful for the environment. For PSA Peugeot Citroën, mobility GREENHOUSE EFFECT is a fundamental right that provides access to healthcare, education and jobs. The emergence of more harmonious urban mobility will Climate change is the one of the main environmental challenges guarantee this right. The solution lies in more widespread use of facing the automobile industry. There is now a broad consensus in low-emission, networked or smart cars, as well as in more effective the scientific community that the level of greenhouse gas (GHG) policies for traffic management, land-use planning and easy emissions in the atmosphere from human activity has increased multimodal transport. and is affecting the global climate. In its Fourth Assessment Report issued in 2007, the International Panel on Climate Change estimated that, to keep the global temperature from rising by more ROAD SAFETY than 2°C, atmospheric concentrations of CO2 would have to be Thanks to extensive optimisation, vehicles now offer a very good limited to between 400 and 550 ppm(1). The increase in man-made level of passenger protection in the event of a crash (secondary or CO2 emissions has led many governments to implement control passive safety). But safety also means inventing effective ways to and regulatory measures to limit the effects of human-generated avoid accidents (primary safety) and to facilitate speedy response greenhouse gases. if an accident occurs (tertiary safety). Driver training and better Because the transport industry in general and the automobile industry infrastructure are also key factors in solving the equation of road safety. in particular account for around a quarter of the world’s greenhouse (1) ppm: part per million. 8 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 1.2. PSA Peugeot Citroën’s response to the automobile industry’s CSR challenges 1 gas emissions, they have a crucial role to play in combating climate ECONOMIC CHALLENGES IN OUR HOST REGIONS change. According to a 2005 World Resources Institute Report, cars are responsible for 10% of the world’s CO2 emissions generated by Innovating means devising an original solution to stake out a new human activities. CO2 emissions, as measured in g/km, are directly position in a market, with the goal of responding to increasingly swift proportional to fuel consumption in l/km and to the fuel’s chemical and complex changes in demand. To do this, an innovator needs composition. This means, for example, that a vehicle that consumes to improve the value chain by delivering a product and/or service five litres of diesel per 100 km emits 133 g/km of CO2. that offers more value to all the different stakeholders involved – from end-users and manufacturers to upstream suppliers and distributors – and that provides benefits for the environment as well AIR QUALITY as society as a whole. Contaminants like NOx, HC and particulates from tailpipe emissions Today, innovation is becoming a more cooperative endeavour, generated by automobiles and motorised two-wheel vehicles are through horizontal collaboration among suppliers in the same market another environmental concern. Vehicle emissions have decreased and vertical collaboration between customers and suppliers. It is in significantly in the past few years and future legislation in developed these sector or territory ecosystems that businesses must now learn countries will be even stricter. However, despite these advances, the to navigate. European Union puts the number of premature deaths in Europe from air pollution at around 100,000 a year. New studies also show that, in heavy traffic, air pollution levels inside of automobile SUPPLIER RELATIONS passenger compartments greatly exceed accepted health standards. Standard parts and components represent over 70% of a vehicle’s Air quality will continue to be a pressing issue in developing countries average production cost. Work done by suppliers to fulfil Group for several decades. orders represents a significant portion of the automobile industry’s overall social and environmental impact. For PSA Peugeot Citroën, RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AND RECYCLING solid, long-term supplier relations cannot be based solely on quality, costs and deadlines. Suppliers must also comply with social Automobiles have an environmental impact at the start of their life and environmental standards that are aligned with the Group’s cycle, in terms of raw materials, and at the end, with end-of-life and be committed to continuous improvement in this area. In an recovery and recycling. As numerous materials become scarcer and environment shaped by a changing industrial base, evolving skills sets more expensive, resource management and recycling has become a and faster innovation, the automobile industry’s consolidation is a crucial issue. Spectacular advances are paving the way to increased major challenge. use of materials derived from renewable sources or recycled products. THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF MANUFACTURING CUSTOMER RELATIONS OPERATIONS As a big-ticket item, automobiles must respond to growing consumer expectations for comfort, safety, environmental friendliness and Although automobile manufacturing in itself does not entail any other features while remaining affordable, with appropriate financing major environmental risks, series production requires large facilities solutions if necessary. PSA Peugeot Citroën firmly believes that whose size accentuate the environmental impact. This impact can be customers need to have access to all available information to make attenuated by using natural resources and energy responsibly and the right buying decision. by taking steps to lower contaminant and GHG emissions, reduce effluent, carefully manage waste and hazardous materials, eliminate the risk of accidental pollution, respect biodiversity, diminish noise PARTNERSHIPS IN HOST COUNTRIES and odours and blend facilities into the surrounding landscape. AND COMMUNITIES The automobile industry has a considerable impact on its host communities as a business partner and employer. PSA Peugeot Citroën is committed to forging deep ties in these communities by listening closely to employees, local officials and neighbours and by getting involved in infrastructure projects, Philanthropy campaigns, local sourcing, job training and welfare-to-work programmes and other local initiatives. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 9 1 A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 1.2. PSA Peugeot Citroën’s response to the automobile industry’s CSR challenges 1.2.2. AREAS IN WHICH PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN CAN HAVE AN IMPACT The automobile industry’s main challenges are highlighted in boldface type. Product-related Motorists’ habits Transport, supply chain Eco-design environmental impacts and behaviour and dealerships Use of natural resources Fleet age End-of-life vehicles Development of a low-carbon line-up Climate change and pollution caused by vehicles Sustainable mobility Access to mobility solutions Vehicle-related disamenities Offer of a full range of Behaviour mobility solutions Congestion Road safety Infrastructure Tertiary safety Primary safety Secondary safety Site-related Waste management Energy management environmental impacts Greenhouse gas emissions Atmospheric emissions Water use Human resources Employee beneﬁts Remuneration practices Health and safety Retirement beneﬁts Career management Responsible management and health insurance, and measures to promote of jobs and restructuring behaviour employability Working conditions, workstation ergonomics Human rights Freedom of association Upholding and promoting and employee human rights representation Equal opportunity Preventing discrimination Partnerships in host Economic and social Quality of life on countries and communities development around sites and around sites Market conduct Local content Customer relations Customer satisfaction Preventing corruption Supplier relations Supplier compliance and anti-competitive with CSR requirements practices Ethical practices Relations with Governance bodies’ Code of ethics and corporate governance stakeholders remuneration Investor relations Audit and internal control PSA Peugeot Citroën’s ability to impact these challenges 10 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 1.2. PSA Peugeot Citroën’s response to the automobile industry’s CSR challenges 1 1.2.3. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN’S CSR POLICIES CSR, A KEY PART OF THE GROUP’S STRATEGIC At the same, since the majority of customers will continue to favour VISION internal combustion engines, the Group is pursuing its initiatives to reduce fuel consumption and thus emissions: Faced with the challenges of sustainable development, companies O 2000: first diesel vehicle fitted with a particulate filter as standard; today are rethinking their business models in terms not only of O 2009 and 2010: market launch of a number of diesel-powered products and services, purchasing and human resources, but also of vehicles emitting less than 99 g/km of CO2; CSR. O 2010: wider use of micro-hybrid e-HDi technology, which They are committed to operating more responsibly, in spite of automatically shuts down the internal combustion engine when the tough economic climate and strong headwinds confronting the vehicle is at a standstill (at a red light, for example, or in a numerous sectors. traffic jam), thereby reducing fuel consumption as well as CO2 At PSA Peugeot Citroën, this commitment is stronger than emissions by up to 15% in city use; ever − despite being particularly hard hit by the downturn in the O 2011: launch, in a world first, of HYbrid4 technology, which automotive market − and remains a pillar of the Group’s strategy. combines a diesel internal combustion engine and an electric motor. This innovation is currently available on the Peugeot 3008 Its approach to CSR is based on three foundations that broaden and 508 sedan and RXH and the Citroën DS5. These models can its scope to include more than just cars. PSA Peugeot Citroën is operate in full electric mode from start-up and for the first three positioned as: to four kilometres, up to speeds of 60 km/h. Then the internal O a sustainable mobility specifier that in particular is committed to combustion engine takes over and recharges the battery, notably reducing its environmental impact; every time the vehicle decelerates; O a full-fledged partner to its host communities; O 2012: launch of new three-cylinder petrol engines that emit fewer O the initiator of an innovative, responsible human resources policy. than 95 g/km of CO2 and unveiling of the HYDOLE prototype Within the Group, the Sustainable Development Department reports car with a plug-in hybrid diesel engine that emits less than 50 g/ to a member of the Executive Committee. This cross-functional km of CO2; Department manages the CSR process, backed by a network O 2013: of correspondents in each of the Group’s major departments. It O unveiling of the Hybrid Air prototype car with a full hybrid recommends CSR initiatives to the Executive Committee, which powertrain that combines a petrol engine, compressed air and approves them in an annual review process and oversees their hydraulic power, implementation. O unveiling of the Efficient Modular Platform 2 (EMP2), the Group’s new, global platform that uses high-performance, next-generation technology for improved modularity and SETTING THE STANDARD IN SUSTAINABLE equipment efficiency, and lower CO2 emissions, MOBILITY O launch by the Group of the first diesel vehicle equipped with Blue HDi (SCR Selective Catalytic Reduction technology) The market leader in numerous technologies and the first volume resulting in a massive reduction in nitrogen oxide. carmaker to offer them across the model line-up, PSA Peugeot As cities install the necessary infrastructure, electric vehicles will Citroën has focused its R&D strategy for the next four years on three increasingly become a plausible alternative solution, especially for priority objectives: reducing its environmental impact, developing urban use. A pioneer in this sector, PSA Peugeot Citroën was the on-board intelligence and responding to the challenges of urban first European carmaker to bring to market electric utility vehicles mobility. with the Citroën Berlingo and Peugeot Partner. In 2010, the Group strengthened its position with the Peugeot iOn and Citroën C-Zero, LEVERAGING CLEAN TECHNOLOGY TO SHRINK THE two consumer EVs. In 2011, Peugeot rounded out its product line GROUP’S ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT with the fully electric e-Vivacity plug-in scooter. In 2012 the Group Every year, PSA Peugeot Citroën makes considerable investments was Europe’s leading EV manufacturer for the second year in a row. to reduce the CO2 emissions of the vehicles its sells. Improvements In 2013 its EV line-up will be enhanced with two new light utility in engine efficiency, combined with programmes to make vehicles vehicles. lighter and more aerodynamic, have enabled the Group to shrink average emissions per vehicle to 122.5 g/km of CO2 in 2012 in CAREFULLY SELECTING MATERIALS FOR CITROËN AND 22-country Europe. Nearly half the models sold in Europe during PEUGEOT VEHICLES, BEGINNING IN THE DESIGN STAGE the year emit less than 121 g/km of CO2. This puts the Group To pursue this path, the Group has been developing eco-design firmly on track to meet the EU target of 95 g/km of CO2 by 2020, processes. Its R&D is focused on incorporating renewable materials and makes it Europe’s best-performing car maker in terms of CO2 into its models, and especially into polymers, beginning in the emissions. design stage. As of 2012, 25% of the materials in the Peugeot 208 are bio-sourced or recycled. This eco-design approach will be applied to all Peugeot and Citroën models in the coming years so that they incorporate green materials. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 11 1 A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 1.2. PSA Peugeot Citroën’s response to the automobile industry’s CSR challenges At the same time, the Group is committed to optimising the use The Group is continuing to roll out these services internationally. of natural resources and to limiting the environmental impact of Mu by Peugeot is now available in seven European countries and its end-of-life products. It conducts life cycle analyses to measure over 90 dealerships. The target is to add over a hundred new sites a all of a vehicle’s environmental impacts from the drawing board year. The service has already received several innovation awards in to end-of-life recovery and recycling, with the goal of choosing Germany, Belgium, Spain and the United Kingdom. the most appropriate technologies and materials for use in new Citroën Multicity offers pioneering new services to meet today’s vehicle projects. mobility needs. These services include: O peer-to-peer carsharing, introduced in June 2012, whereby a car A MANUFACTURING COMPANY COMMITTED TO owner lends his vehicle to another person for a short period of REDUCING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS time. This lets the owner earn extra money from his car and the For PSA Peugeot Citroën, the production of low-carbon vehicles renter be sure to have a car available when he needs one; requires manufacturing facilities capable of effectively managing O carpooling, which lets people save money, reduce CO2 emissions their own impacts and addressing key environmental challenges by: and have company for long commutes; O helping to combat climate change; O Citroën Multicity Auto-partage Berlin, an EV carsharing service O limiting pollution including air and wastewater emissions; introduced in Germany’s capital on 30 September 2012. This service uses Citroën’s C-Zéro electric vehicles, and offers O protecting the natural environment and biodiversity, and limiting maximum flexibility since the cars do not have to be reserved the use of natural resources, most importantly water; ahead of time and can be used for one-way trips. O reducing and more effectively reusing waste. In addition, the Group has made road safety an essential component Today over 500 employees are directly involved in managing the of responsible mobility. Its advanced safety equipment is available environmental impact of the Group’s manufacturing processes. on all PSA Peugeot Citroën ranges and is largely affordable. This The Group has undertaken major modernisation projects at its equipment includes the eCall emergency call service, a distance alert Sochaux and Mulhouse plants to replace old boilers with new gassystem, and a smart cruise control system for use in moderate traffic fired ones using the latest technology, in order to cut the plants’ that adjusts the car’s speed to that of the car in front of it. The Group combustion emissions. These projects started in late 2011 and should is also pursuing its on-Board intelligence research projects to develop be completed in 2014. The Group’s plant in Vesoul, France finished tools that provide users with access to a wide range of customised phasing out the use of heavy fuel oils in 2012 with the installation services designed to make travelling easier. of new natural gas and biomass boilers − thereby allowing the plant to generate the heat it needs while shrinking its carbon footprint considerably. A FULL-FLEDGED PARTNER TO ITS HOST The Group is continuing to deploy energy-efficiency measures COMMUNITIES throughout the organisation, enhance its environmental management systems at all plants, and encourage its dealership network to pursue similar initiatives. The Group’s environmental measures also extend INTERACTING WITH CIVIL SOCIETY to its suppliers, through clauses in supply agreements that require In recent years, the Group has focused its community commitment compliance with specific CSR criteria. on mobility as a means of fostering social ties and helping to get people back into mainstream society. EFFECTIVE RESPONSES TO EMERGING URBAN O The PSA Peugeot Citroën Foundation, created on 18 June 2011, MOBILITY CHALLENGES supports social, educational, cultural and environmental projects A carmaker’s role is no longer restricted to designing, producing related to mobility − an area in which the Group has been and selling automobiles. Customers are looking for new, convenient active for more than 100 years. This mission is embodied in the mobility solutions that do not systematically involve owning a car. Foundation’s “A World on the Move” slogan. In the 18 months PSA Peugeot Citroën has responded proactively to new consumer since the Foundation has been active, it has provided support in the expectations by enhancing its existing services line-up and developing form of funding, equipment, and volunteer time to 138 projects, new customisable mobility solutions, including the following already drawing on a network of 20 regional delegates and over 80 PSA introduced in France and other European countries: Peugeot Citroën employee volunteers. The Foundation supports initiatives submitted by public interest O Mu by Peugeot, which lets consumers select the vehicle they need organisations around the world, with a preference for the Group’s for each type of use; growth regions; 79% of its projects are in France and 21% abroad. O Citroën Multicity, multimodality, which enables cars to be linked to a city’s other means of transport. 12 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 1.2. PSA Peugeot Citroën’s response to the automobile industry’s CSR challenges 1 To carry out its philanthropic mission, the Foundation is backed The Group is also pursuing its local integration strategy, choosing by a multi-year action plan with a five-year budget of €10 million. suppliers that operate near its production facilities. By increasing the By end-2012 the Foundation had donated a total of €3.1 million percentage of local purchases, PSA Peugeot Citroën is demonstrating to various charitable organisations, including €2 million in 2012 that its operations support the economic development of its host alone. These donations target five key areas: regions and countries. a. “mobility and welfare-to-work programmes” to help the unemployed find jobs (23% of 2012 donations). b. “mobility and emergency outreach programmes” to help the poor, PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN, DEPLOYING homeless, and those in need of humanitarian aid (25% of 2012 A RESPONSIBLE HUMAN RESOURCES POLICY donations). c. “mobility and educational and cultural programmes” to promote equal opportunity and give a second chance to at-risk youth HUMAN RESOURCES: A KEY PERFORMANCE DRIVER (26% of 2012 donations). Personalised Career Development Support d. “mobility and disability programmes” to give the disabled greater independence and an improved quality of life (14% of 2012 To support its talented employees and help them develop their donations). skills, the Group relies on PSA Peugeot Citroën University, opened e. “mobility and the environment initiatives” to build awareness in April 2010 to play an ever-greater role in driving the Group’s about sustainable mobility and the preservation of biodiversity transformation. The University’s mission is to transmit – around (12% of 2012 donations). the world – knowledge and attitudes that comply with PSA Peugeot Citroën’s values and strategic objectives. The Foundation also donates skills by sending volunteer managers to work with the charities it supports. These are typically long-term In 2011, two branches were opened outside France – one in Sao assignments to provide technical assistance. Paulo, Brazil and one in Shanghai, China – to share the Group’s O Through its Peugeot brand the Group joined forces with France’s corporate values and work methods with employees in other regions. National Forestry Service (ONF) in 1998 to initiate a carbon In early 2012 the Group rolled out the “Mobilité 2012” initiative, to sink project in the Amazon. The project involves reforesting a underscore its commitment to responsible development and better large plot of degraded land in Brazil, with the goal of sequestering manage its restructuring operations. This initiative offers employee carbon and supporting research work on the greenhouse effect mobility opportunities for those wishing to broaden their horizons and biodiversity. In 2012, the project partners set up PETRA, an and working in “sensitive” business. experimental platform for the management of Brazilian Amazon rural lands. PETRA will supplement the annual support provided The initiative provides continuing professional development and job to French and Brazilian PhD students for research in priority retraining through two programmes: areas for carbon sink technology (like forestry, biodiversity and O an internal programme, called “Top Compétences”, so employees carbon capture). can move into fields where the Group has large HR needs or where the Group needs to balance out its workforce; SUPPLIER RELATIONS: CREATING LASTING O an external programme for employees who want to leave the COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE Group to start their own business, acquire an existing business, take retraining leave, or take a job with another company. PSA Peugeot Citroën’s leverages its relations with suppliers with the goal of becoming more competitive in terms of cost-effectiveness, During the transition period, HR and career support staff will meet quality, innovation and the creation of shared value. with these employees in the Group’s Employee Mobility and Career Development Offices, to answer employees’ questions and give them Its Excellence in Supplier Relations initiative, launched in 2009, personalised advice. The Group’s number one priority is to make responds to supply chain challenges in all aspects of automobile sure that no employee is left to manage his career on his own. projects including technical support, and production. After designating 13 strategic suppliers in 2011 and 2012 – all multinational PSA Peugeot Citroën also celebrates the diversity of its people and companies with global operations – the Group is currently identifying their cultures and makes equality and respect for differences one of around 100 major suppliers that have the necessary financial solidity the founding principles of its responsible HR policy. The deployment and capacity for innovation to support the Group’s development, of the Worldwide Diversity Commitment has provided the Group especially in international markets. with a reference document. It contains seven founding principles designed to enable teams to take into consideration gender balance For PSA Peugeot Citroën, forging solid, lasting supplier relationships and diversity issues and the challenges they represent. Already the also requires these partners to comply with the Group’s social recipient of various French employee diversity and gender equality and environmental standards and continuously improve their awards in recent years, in 2011 the Group obtained the first performance in this area. certification granted under the Gender Equality European Standard. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 13 1 A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 1.2. PSA Peugeot Citroën’s response to the automobile industry’s CSR challenges A Commitment to Health and Safety with labour unions and government representatives to find mutuallyacceptable solutions that will limit the job losses stemming from its PSA Peugeot Citroën’s occupational safety and health policy restructuring plans. The talks should be concluded in the second is implemented through its Occupational Safety and Health quarter of 2013. Management System. All Group facilities are involved in this structured approach, which in four years has amply demonstrated its In 2003 the Group pledged to uphold and promote the 10 principles effectiveness. PSA Peugeot Citroën believes that the only acceptable of the United Nations Global Compact, an agreement inspired by the goal is an accident-free workplace, and that it cannot develop Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This public commitment is its business without first ensuring employee safety. The Group the basis for the Group’s Global Framework Agreement on Social focuses its efforts in this area on five key priorities: the prevention Responsibility. The Agreement was signed by more than 90 labour of musculoskeletal disorders, the elimination of chemical-related, unions around the world and applied by all Group subsidiaries in psychosocial and road safety risks, and the detection of situations all host countries in 2006. It was renewed in 2010 to include a new that put employees at risk. objective related to environmental protection. The improved occupational safety and health performance at the Behaviour Governed by the Group’s Ethical Standards Group’s operations and divisions clearly shows that it has embarked on a process of continuously improving its safety and health In line with its history and a corporate culture based on respect and indicators. The goal is to pursue this path, focusing efforts on both responsibility, PSA Peugeot Citroën asks all employees to comply individual and team behaviour to transform the Group’s safety with its standards of behaviour when meeting the Group’s economic, culture over the long term. Before 2014 the Group aims to reduce social and environmental responsibilities. Formally presented in its lost-time incident frequency rate (for employees and temporary a Group charter, the guidelines apply to all subsidiaries in which staff) by one point − a goal shared by everyone in the organisation. PSA Peugeot Citroën holds a majority stake (with the exception of Faurecia, which has its own Code of Ethics) and in all countries. In 2010, personal safety objectives were set up for all managers and safety was included in discretionary profit-sharing plans to give all This ethical commitment is backed by a system has been strengthened employees a stake in the Group’s safety results. since 2010 and gradually extended as follows: O 2010: creation of a corporate ethical governance structure, Development Supported by International Dialogue the Ethics Committee; deployment of a concrete, up-to-date PSA Peugeot Citroën’s commitment to social dialogue is being version of the Code of Ethics in eight languages; pledge by all pursued around the world through international forums for dialogue senior managers worldwide to support the Code of Ethics via an and discussion, such as the European Works Council and the Joint e-questionnaire; Union-Management Strategy Committee. This dialogue fosters O 2011: creation with 10 Chief Ethics Officers of a network to relay social cohesion within the Group based on powerful values such as the Ethics Committee in the main regions and deployment in solidarity, tolerance and commitment. It also reflects the Group’s 20 countries of the Code of Ethics translated into 15 languages. determination to extend best human resources practices throughout Overall 11,000 employees in 20 countries took part in an ethics-ethe organisation and to promote such strong principles as respect for learning module and signed the Code; human rights, equal opportunity, diversity and occupational safety O 2012-2013: pledge by all concerned employees to support the and health. Code (including in Russia and China), and the introduction of This effective dialogue is particularly important during periods of additional alert systems and tools to combat fraud. strained labour relations. The Group’s management works closely 14 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 1.2. PSA Peugeot Citroën’s response to the automobile industry’s CSR challenges 1 1.2.4. CSR COMMITMENTS AND OBJECTIVES PSA Peugeot Citroën’s CSR approach, which responds to a real O use green materials in Peugeot and Citroën vehicles, desire to understand and manage these issues, is fully aligned with O develop systems to recycle end-of-life vehicles, the Group’s ambition to ensure responsible development. In fulfilling O implement responsible sourcing methods, this ambition, PSA Peugeot Citroën intends to be: O adopt a Code of Ethics, O a specifier of sustainable mobility solutions with a firm commitment to environmental stewardship; O expand corporate donations through the PSA Peugeot Citroën Foundation, O a full-fledged partner to its host communities; O a forward-looking employer with a responsible human resources O roll out the Multicity mobility service, policy. O implement workplace safety measures and provide ergonomic workstations, The 14 commitments and 22 related objectives presented below are designed to support this ambition. They cover all areas of PSA O reduce VOC emissions at Group plants, Peugeot Citroën’s corporate social responsibility, including human O offer employee training programmes; resources, social dialogue, gender equality and diversity, ethics, O three objectives behind schedule due to the economic climate: governance, industrial environment, environmental impact of its O roll out the Mu by Peugeot service (slower than planned), products, purchasing policy and Philanthropy. O increase the number of women in senior management positions These commitments translate the Group’s values into concrete (slower than planned), actions, and constitute its CSR roadmap. O increase the number of vehicles with an emergency call feature The commitment concerning the reduction of vehicle weights, (2012 target pushed back to 2013); discussed in last year’s CSR report, has been eliminated this year O objectives that will be difficult to meet in the current economic because it is now an integral part of all vehicle design projects. All of climate: the other 14 commitments have been renewed this year. O reduce energy and water consumption per vehicle The 14 commitments are broken down into 22 measurable objectives manufactured: The Group was hurt by a drop in sales volumes tracked by the Executive Committee. Of the 22 objectives set (-14%) that was greater than the energy savings (6.5%) for 2012, 16 were met, exceeded, or well on track to be met according achieved during the year. And as sales volumes continue to to plan. Three objectives are behind schedule and will need particular decline, the Group prefers to focus on keeping production sites attention, and three will require a major effort given the current open than to implement temporary unemployment measures, economic climate. O roll out the Greenpact and Wanact initiatives in the dealership O objectives met: network (will now be done one topic at a time, with waste O develop low-carbon vehicles (like electric vehicles, hybrid treatment to be addressed in 2013). vehicles, PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 15 1 A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 1.2. PSA Peugeot Citroën’s response to the automobile industry’s CSR challenges Commitment Objective published last year 2012 results and remarks Setting the standard in sustainable mobility Low-carbon vehicles for all types of use COMMITMENT I. Increase the proportion of low-carbon vehicles in the sales mix 1 Sell one million vehicles emitting less than 120 g/km of CO2 in Europe, Objective exceeded in 2012 so that they account for 44% of passenger car and light commercial vehicle Vehicles emitting less than 120 g/km of CO2 accounted for 46.2% of sales, sales as from 2012. versus a target of 44%. The number of such vehicles sold was less than one million, but because of an overall decline in sales the percentage target was met. COMMITMENT II. Offer hybrid and electric vehicles 2 Equip a total of one million vehicles with Stop and Start diesel (e-HDi) Objective met in 2012 and petrol technology by end-2013. Sales volumes are on track to reach the one million target by end-2013: • 620,000 Stop and Start vehicles sold as of end-2012. • new Stop and Start petrol models will be introduced in 2013. 3 Sell 6,000 electric vehicles in Europe in 2012. Objective exceeded in 2012 6,700 electric vehicles were sold. 4 Launch four promising diesel hybrid models in 2012. Objective met in 2012 The Peugeot 3008 HYbrid4, 508 RXH and 508 HYbrid4 and the Citroën DS5 HYbrid4 were introduced during the year. COMMITMENT III. Sharply increase the proportion of green materials (recycled, natural or biosourced) in Peugeot and Citroën vehicles 5 Ensure that 27% of the non-metallic and non-mineral materials in vehicles Objective met in 2012 whose projects end in 2012-2013 are made from renewable or recyclable The most recent vehicles launched on the market are in line with materials. the objective. COMMITMENT IV. Ensure that end-of-life vehicles are recovered and recycled 6 Set up a system to ensure compliance with the EU’s end-of-life vehicle On track to meet target directive in all 27 EU countries by end-2013. PSA Peugeot Citroën already complies with the directive in 24 of the 27 EU member states. In France, the Group’s system already lets it achieve an 88.9% recovery rate (based on 2011 data). Only the 2011 data are available on Eurostat in January 2013. On-board mobility and intelligence COMMITMENT V. Extend safety systems across the vehicle line-up 7 Achieve a total of 1.5 million vehicles in Europe equipped with Objective not met in 2012 an emergency call system by the end of 2012. 1.267 million vehicles produced in Europe were equipped with an emergency call system at the end of the year. The target could not be met due to the slowdown in the European car market and ensuing tumble in sales volumes in 2012. COMMITMENT VI. Be the first carmaker to offer customised, multi-product mobility services 8 Deploy Mu by Peugeot in cities with a population of more than 300,000 Objective not met in 2012 as follows: The rollout of Mu by Peugeot in France had to be suspended in the second • 200 sites open in Europe by end-2012; half of 2012 because the Mu by Peugeot IT system is being upgraded. • 9 countries covered by end-2013: France, Germany, United Kingdom, Italy, Spain, Netherlands, Belgium, Switzerland and Austria. 9 Expand Citroën Multicity as follows: Objective met in 2012 2012: 19,000 transactions and Multicity launched in Germany 24,000 transactions were made and Multicity was launched in Germany. 2013: Multicity launched in three other countries Committed to protecting the environment COMMITMENT VII. Manage the environmental and societal impacts of the Peugeot and Citroën dealership networks more effectively 10 Deploy an environmental and social scorecard in the proprietary dealership Objective not met in 2012 network. The initiative continued to be implemented in France during the year 2012: Continue deployment at select pilot sites. despite tight budgets. Dealerships were informed of the importance of 2012-2013: Spread the initiative to six other European countries. waste management and encouraged to register on the waste collection traceability website AutoEco. Peugeot France: 60% of proprietary dealerships and 25% of other dealerships had registered on AutoEco by year-end. Citroën France: 100% of proprietary dealerships and 95% of other dealerships had registered on AutoEco by year-end, and 50% of proprietary dealerships had obtained the AutoEco Clean certification. COMMITMENT VIII. Continue to reduce the environmental footprint of manufacturing operations 11 Carefully manage energy consumption, with a target of 2.05 MWh Objective not met in 2012 per vehicle produced in 2012 (at PCA worldwide). 2.30 MWh per vehicle produced in 2012, compared with 2.14 MWh in 2011 and 2.42 MWh in 2010 (at PCA worldwide). The Group was hurt by a drop in sales volumes (-14%) that was greater than the energy savings (-6.5%) achieved during the year. 16 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 1.2. PSA Peugeot Citroën’s response to the automobile industry’s CSR challenges 1 2013 objective 2015/2020 vision 2013 objective: For 2015: Maintain the percentage of vehicles emitting less than 120 g/km of CO2 at over 65% of the Group’s passenger cars and light commercial vehicles sold in Europe 46% of sales, with at least 18% of sales coming from vehicles emitting less than emit less than 120 g/km of CO2. 100 g/km of CO2. 25% of the Group’s passenger cars and light commercial vehicles sold in Europe emit less than 100 g/km of CO2. These percentages are in line with the European CAFE target for 2020. 2013 objective: Objective for 2016-2020: Equip a total of one million vehicles with Stop and Start diesel (e-HDi) and petrol 50% of PSA Peugeot Citroën vehicles sold in Europe equipped with Stop and Start technology by end-2013. technology in 2016. By 2020: Wider deployment of Stop and Start technology. 2013 objective: 2015-2020: Expand the Group’s EV product line-up. Offer EVs in the catalogue for a mix aligned with the market. 2013 objective: For 2020: Sell 25,000 hybrid vehicles. Offer diesel an petrol hybrids in the catalogue for a mix aligned with the market. 2013 objective: By 2020, make at least 35% (by weight) of vehicles from natural or recycled Make at least 30% (by weight) of vehicles introduced in 2013 from natural or materials. recycled materials. 2013 objective: From 2015: Set up a system to ensure compliance with the EU’s end-of-life vehicle directive in Achieve a recovery rate for end-of-life vehicles in Europe of 95%, with a re-use/ all 27 EU countries by the end of the year. recycling rate of 85%. 2013 objective: 2015-2020: Achieve a total of 1.5 million vehicles made in Europe equipped with an Continue rolling out PSA Peugeot Citroën’s current line-up in Europe to prepare for emergency call system by the end of 2013. the upcoming EU eCall regulation (emergency number 112). 2013 objective: 2015-2020: Deploy Mu by Peugeot in cities with over 300,000 residents, with 200 new sites Develop a sustainable mobility solution for business customers (including open in Europe and eight countries covered (France, Germany, United Kingdom, carpooling, carsharing, and travel-related audits and carbon footprint analyses) Italy, Spain, Netherlands, Belgium and Switzerland) by the end of the year. in partnership with leading mobility operators. For individual customers, continue deploying and developing Mu by Peugeot, including with partners. 2013 objective: 2015-2020: Facilitate automobile travel through an array of customised services Offer new mobility services in France and Germany targeted to new usages like provided by the on-board Multicity Connect offering. carpooling and peer-to-peer carsharing. Target for year-end 2013: 26,000 transactions and 1,000 customers signed up for the new services. 2013 objective: 2015-2020: • Peugeot France: have 100% of proprietary dealerships and 60% of other Deploy the environmental and social scorecard across Europe. dealerships registered on AutoEco by the end of the year. • Citroën France: have 100% of proprietary dealerships and 200 other dealerships AutoEco Clean-certified by the end of the year. • Europe ex-France: map out subsidiaries’ and dealerships’ best practices in waste management. 2013 objective: For 2015: Reduce energy consumption to 2 MWh per vehicle produced Maintain energy consumption at 2.30 MWh per vehicle produced (at PCA (at PCA worldwide). worldwide). As sales volumes continue to decline, the Group prefers to focus on keeping production sites open than to implement temporary unemployment measures. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 17 1 A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 1.2. PSA Peugeot Citroën’s response to the automobile industry’s CSR challenges Commitment Objective published last year 2012 results and remarks 12 Reduce water consumption to less than 4.0 cu. m per vehicle produced Objective not met in 2012 in 2012 (at PCA worldwide). 4.86 cu. m per vehicle produced in 2012, compared with 4.52 cu. m in 2011 and 4.85 cu. m in 2010 (at PCA worldwide). The Group was hurt by a drop in sales volumes (-14%) that was greater than the energy savings (-6.5%) achieved during the year. 13 Reduce VOC emissions to 3.42 kg per vehicle produced in 2012 Objective met in 2012 (at PCA worldwide). 3.30 kg of VOC per vehicle produced, compared with 3.65 kg in 2011 and 3.75 kg in 2010 (at PCA worldwide). A full-fledged partner to its host communities: supplier relations COMMITMENT IX. Develop sustainable, mutually beneficial relationships that comply with the highest social responsibility and environmental responsibility requirements 14 Have over 90% of purchasing expenditure covered by a supplier Objective met in 2012 commitment in 2012. 91.4% of purchasing expenditure was covered by a supplier commitment. Guarantee supplier commitment through audits as follows: Suppliers’ commitment to CSR was ensured through audits (21 audits were 2012: performed in 2012 and follow-up inspections were conducted for all audits • 20 CSR audits of suppliers identified as “at risk”; that showed serious or critical non-compliance). • follow-up inspections for all audits that show serious or critical non-compliance. 15 Maintain purchasing volumes from sheltered workshops and other Objective met in 2012 organisations that employ the disabled at 2 to 2.5 points of the percentage Purchasing volumes from sheltered workshops and other organisations of handicapped employees at PCA France. that employ the disabled amounted to 2.23 points of the percentage PSA Peugeot Citroën is France’s leading buyer of standard parts from of handicapped employees at PCA France. sheltered workshops. COMMITMENT X. Provide an additional contribution to civil society in response to environmental and social issues: mobility, local development and community outreach 16 Secure the PSA Peugeot Citroën Foundation firmly within the Group Objective met in 2012 through the involvement of 1,000 employees. There were 86 mentors, 100 volunteers, 100 PR officers, 20 local delegates and 750 Facebook fans among Group employees in 2012, and 1,000 people/week read the Foundation’s news on the Group’s online portal. A concerned corporate citizen respect for human rights, gender balance and diversity COMMITMENT XI. Promote gender equality and diversity, ensure equal opportunity and prevent discrimination 17 Have at least 100 senior management and executive positions filled Objective not met in 2012 by women in 2012. There were 90 women senior managers and executives, making up 10% of these positions, in 2012. Well-being in the workplace and skills development COMMITMENT XII. Provide employees with a safe, healthy workplace in which their talent can flourish 18 Reduce the lost time injury frequency rate *, including temporary On track to meet target employees, to less than 1 point at end-2013. The lost time injury frequency rate, including temporary employees, was 1.99 points in 2012, down from 2.42 points in 2011. 19 Continue to improve plant workstation ergonomy, with the goal of reducing Objective met in 2012 the percentage of “heavy” workstations to 8% and increasing the 8% of workstations were designated as “heavy” and 56% as “light” during percentage of “light” workstations to 58%. the year. COMMITMENT XIII. Develop and recognise employee capabilities so that each team member can contribute more fully and autonomously to the Company’s performance 20 Have 100,000 employees take part in at least one training course Objective exceeded in 2012 or e-learning session in 2012. 102,391 employees, or 83% of the workforce, took part in at least one training course or e-learning session in 2012. Ethical practices and corporate governance COMMITMENT XIV. Strengthen the rules of ethical behaviour across the Group 21 Have 20,000 managers trained on the Code of Ethics during the year. Objective exceeded in 2012 20,720 managers in 22 countries were trained on the Code of Ethics, which is available in 16 languages. 22 Set up an ethics alert system available to all employees worldwide in 2013. On track to meet target A network of ethics correspondents has been created across the Group, on three levels: by region, with regional Chief Ethics Officers; by division, with fraud detection managers at each major division; and by site, with local security managers. * This rate includes temporary employees. 18 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 1.2. PSA Peugeot Citroën’s response to the automobile industry’s CSR challenges 1 2013 objective 2015/2020 vision 2013 objective: For 2015: Reduce water consumption to 3.6 cu. m per vehicle produced Same as in 2012: reduce water consumption to less than 4.0 cu. m per vehicle (at PCA worldwide). produced (at PCA worldwide). 2013 objective: For 2015: Reduce VOC emissions to 3.14 kg per vehicle produced. Maintain VOC emissions at 3.30 kg per vehicle produced (at PCA worldwide). Comply with EU Directives to be issued in 2018. 2013 objective: 2015-2020: All suppliers that submit bids for new vehicles will be given a CSR Deploy initiatives to raise awareness of CSR issues among suppliers in “at risk” self-assessment form to complete, and the results will be factored into regions as part of an auto industry programme. purchasing decisions (to be implemented in March 2013, when the tracking system will be set up). 2013 objective: 2015-2020: Maintain business volumes with the six leading associations of sheltered Remain among France’s leading purchasers from sheltered workshops and other workshops and other organisations that employ the disabled in France. organisations that employ the disabled and provide these suppliers with work plans that offer five-year visibility. 2013 objective: Ensure the Foundation’s long-term viability and enable it to play a Increase the number of employees involved in the Foundation’s activities key role in sustainable mobility and community mobility projects in to 1,500. the Group’s host regions. 2013 objective: Raise the percentage of women senior managers and executives to 15% by 2015. Maintain the number of senior management and executive positions filled by women at 90, given that the current climate favours company-to-company mobility. 2013 objective: From 2014, maintain the lost time injury frequency rate, including temporary Achieve a lost time injury frequency rate, including temporary employees, employees, at less than 1 point. of 1.5 points on average during the year. 2013 objective: Reduce the percentage of “heavy” workstations to 7% and increase the percentage Maintain rates of 8% “heavy” workstations and 56% “light” workstations of “light” workstations to 60% by 2020. at Group plants. 2013 objective: Pursue training initiatives with the goal of adapting skills to changes in auto Have at least 70% of employees take part in at least one training course industry professions. or e-learning session during the year. Due to the circumstances facing the Group, training efforts will be focused on employees directly affected by changes in the Group’s operations. 2013 objective: Annual audits of compliance with the Code of Ethics result in no major Roll out the Code of Ethics and related materials in every country in observations. which the Group operates (plants and sales branches), especially in China (except for joint venture employees) and Russia. 2013 objective: Maintain the alert system. Make sure that all employees know who their business ethics contacts are at each of the three levels (Chief Ethics Officer, fraud detection manager, and local security manager). PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 19 1 A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 1.2. PSA Peugeot Citroën’s response to the automobile industry’s CSR challenges 1.2.5. MAIN INDICATORS 3 Indicates data reviewed by Grant Thornton. 3 Indicates data reviewed by PricewaterhouseCoopers. MAIN ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS Units 2010 2011 2012 Direct energy consumption (MWh ncv) TOTAL 2,775,649 32,230,475 32,297,653 o/w PCA 3 2,507,405 2,004,560 32,088,608 Indirect energy consumption (MWh) TOTAL 3,002,814 2,902,795 32,763,336 o/w PCA 3 2,820,756 32,721,606 32,595,997 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (tonnes CO2 eq.) TOTAL 595,516 480,758 3492,992 o/w PCA 3 537,116 3432,305 3447,464 Indirect CO2 emissions (tonnes) TOTAL 356,693 294,150 3320,976 o/w PCA 300,186 250,821 3283,044 Direct CO2 emissions (tonnes) TOTAL 30.5 21.1 321.5 o/w PCA 3 15.6 313.0 314.0 Direct NO2 emissions (tonnes) TOTAL 585.6 463.0 3484.1 o/w PCA 3 522.0 3411.5 3435.9 VOC (tonnes) PCA 3 8,390 38,059 36,597 Paintshop VOC emissions Ratio (kg/vehicle) PCA 3 3.75 33.65 33.30 Annual water withdrawals (m3) TOTAL 11,553,434 10,702,925 310,471,436 o/w PCA 3 10,864,641 39,974,110 39,767,624 Weight of waste (excluding metal waste) (tonnes) TOTAL 348,244 339,348 3297,518 o/w PCA 325,909 319,968 3280,403 Scope: Total = PCA, AP/AC, PCI, PMTC PCI = Process Conception Ingenierie PCA = Automobile Division production sites, R&D facilities and offices PMTC = Peugeot Motocycle AP/AC = Peugeot and Citroën dealership network BPF = Banque PSA Finance 20 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 1.3. CSR governance 1 MAIN SOCIAL INDICATORS (At 31 December) Units 2010 2011 2012 Employees under permanent or fixed-term contracts* 124,650 126,736 3 123,462 Employees under fixed-term contracts* (average annual number) 7,735 7,395 3 6,002 Total payroll costs* (in thousands of euros) 5,987,801 6,164,574 3 6,003,279 Employees hired under permanent contracts* 6,665 9,189 3 6,272 Separation rate** (% of total workforce) 7.3% 5.7% 3 8.4% LTIFR 3 2.79 3 1.99 3 1.78 Disabled employees* 5,705 5,721 3 6,014 Hours of training** (in thousands of hours) 3,100 3,233 3 2,588 (average hours per employee) 24.6 23.6 3 21 Percentage of women employees** (% of Group workforce) 21.8% 22% 3 19.1% Scope: Definition: * Automobile and Banking Divisions and other operations LTIFR = Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate ** 2011 and 2012 data include GEFCO 1.3. CSR GOVERNANCE 1.3.1. ORGANISATION The Group’s sustainable development policy and management The correspondents who participate in the Sustainable Development system are an integral part of its corporate governance. Committee have a network of contributors within their own The Sustainable Development Department, which reports directly departments. The environmental network, for example, has nearly to the Vice-President, Corporate Communication – who in turn 500 members and is present in all host countries, facilities and reports to the Chairman of the Managing Board – has pursued a subsidiaries. structured approach since 2003. It works with a network of frontThe progress of the sustainable development commitments and line correspondents present in all the Group’s departments who are objectives is reviewed periodically and is approved and tracked by experts in the different areas of corporate responsibility (human the Executive Committee. resources, environmental management, purchasing, marketing, Philanthropy, etc.). A Sustainable Development Committee is convened at least every quarter to meet with the network’s members. 1.3.2. EXTERNAL STANDARDS AND COMMITMENTS In implementing its sustainable development approach, the Group O the third generation Sustainability Reporting Guidelines issued by refers to a structured set of international or industry standards and the Global Reporting Initiative (G3); benchmarks, including: O the Global Compact, which PSA Peugeot Citroën joined in 2003 O ISO 14001 for the environment; and GEFCO in 2009. In 2009 PSA Peugeot Citroën joined Caring O ISO 26000 for social responsibility (voluntary standard) – the for Climate, a voluntary and complementary action platform Group ensures that its sustainable development approach is for UN Global Compact participants who seek to demonstrate aligned to the standard’s guidelines as much as possible; leadership on the issue of climate change; PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 21 1 A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 1.3. CSR governance O the responsible advertising charter issued by the French Advertisers’ O marketing and advertising: PSA Peugeot Citroën’s Responsible Association (UDA). In addition, the Group has developed its own Communications Charter. benchmarks and guidelines in the following areas: The Group belongs to several organisations that promote sustainable O social responsibility: Global Framework Agreement on Social development, including Comité 21, the French Study Centre Responsibility signed with the International Metalworkers’ for Corporate Responsibility (ORSE), the French Advertisers’ Federation (IMF) and the European Metalworkers’ Federation Association (UDA), the French college of sustainable development (EMF) in March 2006 and renewed in 2010, managers (C3D) and the Businesses for the Environment association O ethics: the Group’s Code of Ethics; a new Code of Ethics was (EpE). PSA Peugeot Citroën participates in a variety of working issued in 2010 to update and expand on the Code of Ethics groups within these organisations. It also contributes to the CSR published in 2003, promotion efforts of the French employers’ federation (MEDEF) O purchasing: the Supplier Guidelines for PSA Peugeot Citroën’s and the French association of private-sector businesses (AFEP). Corporate Social Responsibility Standards, The Group became a member of the China Business Council for Sustainable Development (CBCSD) in March 2006. 1.3.3. CSR REPORTING 1.3.3.1. REPORTING SCOPE concerned. All of the information concerning Faurecia, a listed AND METHODOLOGY company owned 57.4% by Peugeot S.A., may be found in its Registration Document and are consequently not included in this The Group reports on its sustainable development performance report. annually on the basis of operating indicators. The audited results The scope of reporting does not include subsidiaries jointly owned are presented in this Corporate Social Responsibility – Strategic with other carmakers or joint ventures accounted for by the equity Guidelines, Commitments and 2012 Indicators Report, which method. PSA Peugeot Citroën owns a stake in six automobile supplements the Sustainable Development and Annual Report. manufacturing joint ventures: This report concerns the business, social and environmental O TPCA, located in Kolin in the Czech Republic, in cooperation performance of fully consolidated PSA Peugeot Citroën companies. with Toyota; For the tenth year in a row, the Group’s reporting follows the O DPCA, located in Wuhan and XiangFan, Hubei Province, China, sustainability reporting guidelines issued by the Global Reporting in cooperation with DongFeng Motor Corp; Initiative, with the goal of continuously improving transparency. The O CAPSA, located in Shenzhen, China, in cooperation with China third generation (G3) guidelines have been applied for the past six Changan Automobiles; years. O Sevelsud, located in Val di Sandro, Italy, in cooperation with Fiat; According to the criteria recommended in the “G3 Guidelines, O Française de Mécanique, located in Douvrin, France, in cooperation Application Levels”, the Group’s own assessment of its 2012 with Renault. sustainable development reporting results in an A+ application level O PCMA Automotiv RUS, located in Kaluga, Russia, a joint venture (the GRI application level check statement is available at the end of with Mitsubishi Motors Corp, is included in the social scope of this report). this report but not the environmental scope. The information in this report complies with French legislation, In these joint ventures, PSA Peugeot Citroën exercises its role as notably Article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code as shareholder and industrial partner in a commitment to supporting amended by the Grenelle 2 Law, effective since 2012 and described each venture’s long-term development. Therefore it takes its CSR in the Group’s Registration Document. A correspondence table responsibilities just as seriously in these joint ventures as it does in indicating on what pages the legally-required information can be its other operations. found as well as the independent auditor’s report by Grant Thornton are given at the end of this document. In 2006, the Group agreed to present its Global Framework Agreement on Social Responsibility to its industrial partners, thereby encouraging them to apply the international ILO conventions on SCOPE OF REPORTING which the Agreement is based. The social and environmental data in this report are for the The joint ventures report their CSR data at different levels, depending consolidated group, and concern the parent company as well as all on the management structure in place with the industrial partner. the entities it controls in its Automobile and Banking Divisions. In 2007, at PSA Peugeot Citroën’s initiative and with the agreement In 2012 the Group’s reporting scope has therefore changed to reflect of co-shareholder Dongfeng Motor Corp., DPCA published its the sale of 75% of its GEFCO logistics business. Data about GEFCO first Sustainable Development Report – the first such report ever are no longer included in the report, except possibly for certain prepared by a carmaker in China. indicators for information purposes only. Indicator scope and consolidation methods are described at the beginning of each section, or, as appropriate, with the indicator 22 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 1.3. CSR governance 1 PERIOD UNDER REVIEW 1.3.3.2. AUDIT The data and indicators presented in this document concern 2012 The process for generating the CSR data and indicators about and provide values as of 31 December. the Group’s plants, sales branches, brands, and banking business Most of the indicators are presented with comments explaining (Banque PSA Finance) published in this report complies with any changes in their scope of reporting or calculation method. French regulations, notably Articles L. 225-102-1 and R. 225-105 Comparative data is generally provided for three years, wherever of the French Commercial Code as amended by the Grenelle 2 Law. possible, or more to include information from a reference year in These data and indicators have been audited by independent auditor which a policy or action plan was implemented. Grant Thornton. Data required by the Grenelle 2 Law are indicated with icons numbered from G1 to G42. Indicators that have not been audited by Grant Thornton are indicated by the symbol: Y Grant Thornton’s full auditor’s report is available at the end of this document. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 23 1 A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 1.4. Relations with stakeholders 1.4. RELATIONS WITH STAKEHOLDERS G.36 PSA Peugeot Citroën − a major player in the local economies where it operates − has maintained solid relations with all of its stakeholders for many years. This dialogue helps it better identify its social, environmental and business risks and opportunities, as the on-going study of shifting expectations, needs and constraints fosters a better mutual understanding. The advantages of this system are that it makes it easier to prevent risks and conflicts and to adapt the Group’s strategic objectives to global sociological, technological and institutional changes. 1.4.1. STAKEHOLDERS AND FORUMS PSA Peugeot Citroën has identified its main stakeholder groups, which are presented in the diagram below by type and the importance of their relations with the Group. Stakeholders Customers Motorists and other road users Consumer Host Partners associations communities Partners in and regions Sub cooperation projects Neighbours contractors and joint ventures Private Retail and dealership corporate network customers Local associations Trade Suppliers Proprietary Local federations dealership network authorities PSA Peugeot Citroën Shareholders and other Employees investors SRI, ﬁnancial Certiﬁcation Research Employee and other analysts agencies partners representatives Public ofﬁcials Teachers and researchers Legislators Social Business Independent Media experts NGOs Institutions 24 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 1.4. Relations with stakeholders 1 1.4.2. DIALOGUE RESOURCES The expectations of customers, employees and shareholders are a core concern at PSA Peugeot Citroën. The Group is committed to including community representatives in its circle of dialogue alongside industrial and business partners. The resources are divided into three levels: unilateral, bilateral and contractual. Stakeholder Information – communication Dialogue – consultation Agreements – partnerships Employees • Internal communication through • Daily dialogue with management • Training newsletters, websites, events, etc. • Discussion among employees within • Awareness campaigns on sustainable Basic Work Units development, diversity, disabilities, • Suggestion boxes eco-driving, safe driving, etc. • Dialogue through employee representatives • Periodical satisfaction surveys Employee representatives • Social agenda • Global Framework Agreement • European Works Council expanded on Social Responsibility to a Global Council • Collective bargaining agreements and • Joint Union-Management Strategy employee relations agreements with Committee labour unions • Specific sessions on site Customers and consumer • Peugeot and Citroën websites • Dealership network and customer associations • Responsible communication charter services • Information on road safety features • Consultation with consumer panels when a vehicle is delivered • Consumer relations teams Dealership networks • Customer satisfaction and quality • Analysis of all types of risk (including feedback ethical) before a dealership contract is signed • Inclusion of sustainable development clauses in dealership contracts Shareholders and other • Letter to shareholders • Consultation Committee investors • Sustainable Development and Annual • Annual Shareholders’ Meeting Report and Registration Document • Investor meetings • Corporate website • Numerous conferences • Annual and interim financial results Suppliers • Monthly information meetings • Supplier trophies • Social and environmental guidelines • Innovation days for suppliers • Strategy meeting (CEO + 300 largest • Sustainable development clauses suppliers) and products/projects in contracts and general terms and meeting conditions of sale • Mission of four regional delegates • Involvement in France’s PFA – a • Supplier relations teams platform set up to foster on-going discussion and exchange among auto industry stakeholders Partners in cooperation • Member of French, European • Joint development and production projects and joint ventures and global trade associations for of vehicle components and bases, automobile manufacturers (like the notably for electric vehicles, hybrid CCFA in France and the ACEA for components and Euro 6-compliant Europe) engines Other carmakers • Member of the European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association (ACEA) • Member of national trade associations in all host counties Financial and SRI rating • Corporate Social Responsibility Report • Responses to questionnaires agencies and periodic requests NGOs and associations • Corporate Social Responsibility Report • Responses to requests • Participation in the local community • Meetings with NGOs (infrastructure, local associations, etc.) • Formalised discussions • Support from the Foundation for projects and charities Institutions • Regular contacts with European and international institutions, as well as with French authorities • Local contacts with consulates PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 25 1 A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 1.4. Relations with stakeholders Stakeholder Information – communication Dialogue – consultation Agreements – partnerships Host communities and site • Events on road safety, environmental • Discussions with local officials neighbours issues, sustainable mobility and other • Open houses and site visits topics Media • Press releases • Dedicated press relations teams • Website and media centre (corporate and brands) Teachers and researchers • Forum for France’s leading business • Intern and apprenticeship • Partnerships with national educational and engineering schools programmes, and laboratory space systems in each host country • Awareness campaigns with local for doctoral candidates under a CIFRE • Visits, vehicle donations and schools and events for France’s contract educational events held by Group Industry Week • Work on urban mobility within the City sites on the Move Institute (IVM) CSR experts and related • Discussion sessions groups The Group also communicates with other stakeholders through its banking business, Banque PSA Finance: Stakeholder Information – communication Dialogue – consultation Agreements – partnerships Supervisory bodies Annual report on internal controls • Inspections by the ACP French Prudential Controls Internal Controls Charter • Half-yearly results presentations Authority (ACP) • Regular communication of financial and accounting indicators • Inspections by local supervisory agencies Trade associations French Association of Financial • Working groups Companies (ASF) • Ad-hoc discussions as needed French Banking Federation (FBF) Equivalents in the countries where the Group operates Commercial partners HSBC and Société Générale • Operational cooperation • Joint ventures and other types • Banking of partnerships in some countries • Insurance Certification agencies Bureau Veritas • ISO 9001 version 2008 certification annual audit Consumer associations Through the French Association of • Involvement in ASF initiatives Financial Companies (ASF) on consumer credit Investors Banks and Institutional Investors • Through the Group’s Finance Division Dealership networks Dealerships, subsidiaries, and branches • Customers and advisors Rating agencies e.g., Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s • Road shows • Results presentations 1.4.3. DIALOGUE INITIATED IN 2012 BY PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN In response to the global economic crisis that recently hit the Group, More specifically, the Group is working with stakeholders to: its management has had to restructure the Group’s operations and O set up continuing professional development and job retraining scale back production capacity. Throughout this restructuring, the programmes to help employees find new jobs either elsewhere in Group has made a concerted effort to maintain open dialogue with the Group or with another company; all stakeholders involved, such as labour unions, local and national O work with local government leaders on initiatives to revitalise the governments and automotive industry representatives. Aulnay and Rennes sites, in order to save jobs and sustain local The goal is to work together to build a support system for employees economic development. whose jobs are threatened. 26 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 1.5. Presence in indices, awards and distinctions received 1 PSA Peugeot Citroën also plays an active role in a working and MEDEF’s CSR Committee) have also formed working groups group established to build awareness among French SMEs of the to foster dialogue with stakeholders such as French Tier 1 and Tier 2 opportunities and benefits of maintaining open stakeholder dialogue. suppliers, local and national governments, NGOs, labour unions, The working group is led by French employers’ association MEDEF environmental protection agencies, and organisations involved in and is comprised of around 10 large French corporations. It will mobility and multi-modal transportation solutions. issue a guide for French SMEs in the spring of 2013 outlining These initiatives help the Group better identify the environmental the principles, best practices and recommended tools for ensuring and societal challenges it faces, and better understand the needs of all productive stakeholder dialogue. stakeholders wishing to talk with the Group directly about their key Many of the other industry organisations and trade associations that priorities like mobility and clean energy. PSA Peugeot Citroën belongs to (like EPE, C3D, Comité 21, CCFA, 1.5. PRESENCE IN INDICES, AWARDS AND DISTINCTIONS RECEIVED PRESENCE IN SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT (SRI) INDICES A number of SRI indices, including FTSE4Good,Vigeo, and the Ethibel Excellence Index®, have included PSA Peugeot Citroën in recognition of its commitment to corporate social responsibility. PSA Peugeot Citroën has been granted Prime status in the sustainable rating carried out by Oekom Research. PSA Peugeot Citroën came in second in the Automobiles & Parts category of the FTSE4Good ESG Ratings issued in September 2012. The Vigeo indices, introduced in late 2012 and updated every six months, group together the listed companies with the best environmental, social, and governance (ESG) ratings. There are currently four Vigeo indices: Vigeo World 120 for the top 120 companies globally; Vigeo Europe 120 for the top 120 European companies; Vigeo France 20 for the top 20 French companies; and Vigeo UK 20 for the top 20 British companies. As of November 2012 PSA Peugeot Citroën was included in the World 120, Europe 120, and France 20 indices in 9th, 8th and 3rd place, respectively. Peugeot S.A. has been included in the Ethibel Sustainability Pioneer and Excellence indices since 12 May 2006. Its inclusion in these indices was renewed on 13 January 2012 thanks to the Group’s CSR performance. Oekom research, a German sustainable development rating agency, awards Prime status to those companies that, according to the oekom corporate rating, are among the leaders in their industry and that meet industry-specific minimum requirements. The STOXX Global ESG Leaders index offers a representation of the leading global companies in terms of environmental, social and governance criteria. The index is made of the following three ESG sub-indices: the STOXX Global ESG Environmental Leaders, the STOXX Global ESG Social Leaders and the STOXX Global ESG Governance Leaders indices. The Group has responded to the Carbon Disclosure Project Lastly, in accordance with its Global Compact commitments, the Questionnaires. The Carbon Disclosure Project rates companies’ Group reports on improvements made during the year in each of transparency concerning climate change issues, on the basis of a the 10 principles. publicly disclosed methodology that changes each year. PSA Peugeot Citroën maintained its B rating in 2012. The Group’s 2012 responses may be viewed on the Carbon Disclosure Project website. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 27 1 A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 1.5. Presence in indices, awards and distinctions received AWARDS AWARDS RECEIVED IN 2011 AND 2012 PRODUCT AWARDS IN 2012 O Following an audit by Afnor Certification, the Group’s Gender O PSA Peugeot Citroën won the Ecobest 2012 award on 4 February Equality label was renewed in 2011. In 2005, PSA Peugeot Citroën 2013 for marketing a wide range of technology designed to was the first French company to obtain the label, which recognises enhance its vehicles’ environmental performance. The Ecobest businesses that are actively taking measures to promote gender Award recognises a major achievement in green technology for the equality and can demonstrate significant progress in this area. automotive industry. It is given by Autobest, a trade association founded in 2000 to represent emerging automobile markets in Europe − markets that cover some 300 million residents. The selection committee was comprised of automotive journalists from 15 countries in Central and Eastern Europe. It commended the Group’s world premiere launch of HYbrid4 diesel technology as well as its marketing of micro-hybrid systems. HYbrid4 − the world’s first diesel hybrid technology − was introduced in 2012 and is now available on the Peugeot 508, 508 RXH, and 3008, and on the Citroën DS5. In less than a year after these market launches, the Group has become Europe’s second-leading maker of hybrid vehicles with a 14% market share. O In 2011, PSA Peugeot Citroën was also certified under the first PSA Peugeot Citroën is also Europe’s second-leading electric European gender equality label – the Gender Equality European vehicle manufacturer and the leader in France, with more than Standard (GEES) – for its operations in Spain, France, Italy and 6,500 Peugeot iOns and Citroën C-Zeros sold across Europe Belgium. GEES recognises PSA Peugeot Citroën’s commitment in 2012. Light commercial vehicles will be added to the EV line-up to promoting gender equality through a series of measures in 2013. PSA Peugeot Citroën again leads the way in Europe in implemented at all Group sites and encourages continued action terms of CO2 emission performances, as its vehicles average just and new measures in this area. 122.5 g/km of CO2. O PSA Peugeot Citroën is a founding member of French endowment O Peugeot and Citroën cars receive numerous awards around the fund Arborus, which aims to promote gender equality in the world every year, reflecting their proactive approach combining workplace in Europe. Arborus helps member companies share best-in-class quality with industry-leading design. best practices in this area and works to encourage the adoption of O Citroën cars won nearly 50 awards in 2012. The DS concept these practices on a European level. car and vehicle line-up alone won over 40 awards from O Since 2009, PSA Peugeot Citroën has been certified under automotive industry magazines, websites, and journalists France’s Diversity label, which recognises good human resources globally, reflecting the brand’s strong international reach. practices to promote diversity and equal opportunity and to Half of these awards were given in China. The awards praised prevent discrimination. This certification was renewed following DS models’ designs, innovation − especially in terms of an audit in February 2012. technological advancement − and effectiveness in meeting the needs of today’s drivers. In Spain the Citroën DS5 won two distinctions: one for innovation from Muy Interesante magazine; and one for its HYbrid4 technology from Actualidad Económica magazine, which named it one of the 100 best ideas of the year. In Portugal, the Citroën DS5 won both the 2012 Innovation Award and the 2012 Eco-solution of the Year Award given by automotive magazine Turbo, for the car’s HYbrid4 technology. O Peugeot also had a remarkable year, raking in nearly 20 awards. The HYbrid4 technology on three of its models (the 3008, 508 sedan, and 508 RXH) received much acclaim in markets that place a lot of importance on technological and environmental performance. The Peugeot 3008 HYbrid4 was named Switzerland’s Greenest Car and Italy’s Cleanest Car; in Germany the model won the Paul Pietsch award for its innovative hybrid diesel technology proven to cut CO2 emissions significantly. 28 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 1.5. Presence in indices, awards and distinctions received 1 These awards come on top of around a dozen other awards In Korea, the Peugeot 308 with eHDi second-generation that the model has won since 2011. In Spain, the Peugeot 508 Stop and Start system was named Eco Car of the Year by the RXH was named 2012 Renting Car of the Year in automotive local media. The Peugeot 208 received kudos in Italy, Spain, magazine Renting Automoción. The selection committee, Slovenia and Croatia for its compact design and aptitude for comprised of car rental companies, financial firms, and urban driving. In the minivan category, the Peugeot Partner automotive journalists, considered numerous criteria such as was named Best Light Utility Vehicle 2012 in Chile and fuel consumption, maintenance costs, and resale value. Minivan of the Year 2012 in Russia. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 29 1 A STRATEGICALLY INTEGRATED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 30 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 2 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.1. THE INNOVATION PROCESS 32 2.3. MOBILITY SOLUTIONS 57 2.1.1. City on the move institute 32 2.3.1. Mobility services and onboard intelligence 57 2.1.2 R&D and open innovation 33 2.3.2. Finance and insurance 59 2.1.3. Eco-design and life cycle analysis 39 2.3.3. Road safety 60 2.2. LOW CARBON VEHICLES 2.4. PEUGEOT AND CITROËN: FOR ALL TYPES OF USE 40 LISTENING TO CUSTOMERS 64 2.2.1. Greenhouse-friendly technologies 2.4.1. Peugeot and Citroën customers 64 and adaptations to the effects 2.4.2. Meeting customer expectations 69 of climate change 41 2.4.3. compliance with health, safety and customer 2.2.2. Protecting air quality 52 privacy standards 72 2.2.3. “From cradle to cradle”: 2.4.4. Advertising, communication and consumer resource management and recycling 54 information 73 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 31 2 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.1. The innovation process 2.1. THE INNOVATION PROCESS The Group’s Organisation Factors in Environmental of vehicle projects and measures their efficiency: usage of green Issues from the Design Stage of its Products and materials, CO2 emissions. A dedicated entity oversees the Group’s Services G.20 end-of-life vehicle policy. Within the Automobile Division (which includes PCA), the Research The Group’s banking arm, BPF, has two central teams dedicated and Development Department reports to the Executive Committee. to product design: the “Financing Products and Services” and With close to 16,000 employees worldwide, R&D does all the work Insurance Products marketing teams. Their respective ranges are on technological innovation for the Group, concentrating on three designed in close consultation with the marketing teams for the two main areas: brands. The result is a single BPF product plan, which integrates the brands’ input to support the marketing of low-emission vehicles O low-carbon vehicles: to meet the challenges of the environment, the through appropriate and innovative financing products and services. depletion of fossil fuels and changing lifestyles; Operational marketing teams in the BPF subsidiaries adapt the O design, concept and styling for flawless perceived quality; offerings to their local markets: laws, practices, language. O services, working with Peugeot and Citroën Marketing to think through the future of connectivity and mobility (multi-modal Finally, the “City on the Move Institute” (IVM(1)), created by PSA transport and onboard intelligence). Peugeot Citroën in 2000, initiates and promotes research and trials aimed at better understanding how urban mobility is changing. The Programmes Department continuously monitors implementation of the solutions chosen throughout the development 2.1.1. CITY ON THE MOVE INSTITUTE The City on the Move Institute, or IVM, was created in 2000 and has it that drives public action on urban mobility issues?” and centred become a key player in the field of research and innovation on urban around four events: mobility. Its activities in Europe, China and Latin America earned it O opinion-sharing between researchers starting from concrete plaudits during the year from leading international institutions, such studies in fifteen towns around the world; as UN-Habitat and the World Bank. Its work and demonstrators on O a survey of 700 students worldwide on their dreams for the city the inclusive and social aspect of transport systems, on the potential of tomorrow; for developing new services, particularly in the suburbs and newly O the Young Researcher Prize, jointly awarded for two studies: an expanding districts of Chinese cities, on the need for quality in analysis of the controversies surrounding the building of the transport spaces and inter-modal transport, are now recognised as commuter rail service in Brussels and an analysis of the failed benchmark studies by town and transport professionals alike. The launch of the Transantiago service in Santiago de Chile; IVM pursues an original approach, working with multi-disciplinary O positions put by experts, fresh-eyes reports on a number of surveys, academic fields, with major world cities open to innovation and with interviews with politicians, the implementation of a collaborative representatives of the community and NGOs. In 2012, the Institute web platform and public participation throughout the conference developed its investigation of the new socio-economic challenges via the online forum. posed by the development of home services and their implications for day-to-day transport needs and organisation (“City at Home”): All the outcomes of the conference were posted online, in various a number of social experiments are being studied in partnership multimedia formats including a 3D film, and a digest was with Mu by Peugeot in the Franche Comté region. The IVM is published. Jean-Pierre Orfeuil also published a work on greater also continuing its Europe-wide comparative study on potential Paris in 2012; innovations and improvements to taxis in suburbs and small towns. 2. Two specific demonstrators were set up on the theme of The most important events in 2012 were as follows: the “legible city”. The first was created in partnership with employment charities for the citizens of Greater Lyon as part 1. The making of movement, an international research and dialogue of the city’s mobility and insertion platform. It is an educational programme on representations of the city and the mechanisms tool teaching about mobility via a digital interface. The second was of public action in transport policy. A conference in Paris on a multi-mode information project designed and implemented on the 26-27 March welcomed more than 300 people from all around the City of Buenos Aires bus lines in partnership with the municipality and world, representing academia, the corporate world, municipalities design centre; and the professions. The conference went under the title “What is (1) IVM = Institut pour la Ville en Mouvement. 32 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.1. The innovation process 2 3. Joint sponsorship of a debate in the International cultural centre Some examples of partnerships: of Cerisy-La Salle about “the Genius of walking”: the theme of O in China, the World Bank was a partner in the “Better mobility, walking was investigated in all its aspects: philosophical, artistic, better life!” awards; design, robotic, cognitive, economic and in relation to the town O the IVM was a partner in the “World Urban Campaign: I am a and different modes of transport; City Changer”, run by UN-Habitat; 4. The third Better mobility, better life! awards, held in O the IVM was present at the Earth Summit, Rio+20, held in partnership with leading Chinese institutions and the World mid-June in Rio de Janeiro, presenting its activities at the Bank, recognised initiatives within Chinese civil society to invest Rio Pavilion and taking part in debate on the future of the in new mobility services (car-sharing, mutual management of city sponsored by UN-Habitat. The institute also went as a car parks, information, transport for children, participatory member of the French delegation to the Global Urban Forum organisation, etc.); and IVM Latin America was invited to present its work on the 5. A redesigned IVM website: the new site goes online in theme of The Street and public space in mobility; early 2013. As well as information on past and upcoming activities, it will now make available all the studies and work done (more O the IVM took part in the work of the Nicolas Hulot Foundation than 700 documents), classified by theme and key words in the on energy transition and energy insecurity; Institute’s various working languages; O the Making of Movement project was steered by IVM with 6. Renewal of the Science and Steering Committee its Chinese and Latin American university chairs. The Making Under the leadership of its new Chairman, Marcel Smets, the of the City project was run in partnership with the ParisCommittee has expanded its international dimension, appointed Est University and support from the Ile-de-France regional more women and emphasised eclecticism and diversity in its government, the Institut d’urbanisme et d’Aménagement d’Ile members’ specialities. Most of the members are now from outside de France, the Research Institute of the Caisse des Dépôts France and more than one third are women; et Consignations and with the participation of the French National Federation of Urbanism Agencies; 7. Enhanced institutional recognition for the IVM, particularly outside Europe, and diversification of partnerships O Veolia transport is a partner in the Taxis programme. PSA Peugeot Citroën allocated a budget of €1,050,000 to IVM in 2012. 2.1.2 R&D AND OPEN INNOVATION To enable PSA Peugeot Citroën to build the future, introduce exciting standards and legislation, rising environmental awareness, emerging new concepts and offer a comprehensive range of innovative models, mobility and networking needs, product appeal, etc.) and in research and development activities were backed by substantial order to develop a competitive advantage, PSA Peugeot Citroën budgets in 2012, totalling around €2 billion for the Automobile allocates in the region of €2 billion to research and development Division (including development costs on existing products). (R&D), that is 5.2% of its automotive revenue, in order to continue More generally, CAPEX and R&D expenditure of €3.750 billion actively preparing for the future. In 2012, the Group continued the for the Automobile Division in 2012 is slightly below the 2011 total transformation plan undertaken in 2011 aimed at organisational, of €4.035 billion. Nevertheless, it will enable the Group to continue economic and technological efficiency in R&D. developing strategic products, researching innovative technological Still with the aim of preparing for the future, PSA Peugeot Citroën has solutions and expanding to new geographic areas. put in place an Open Innovation initiative, an internal and external initiative to expand its field of opportunities: reduce development costs, identify new trends and speed up time to market. This initiative brings together a wide range of players: universities, laboratories, 2.1.2.1. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT suppliers, institutions, other manufacturers, customers, etc. in order to identify new trends, spot new items of technology and ensure the AUTOMOTIVE EXPERTISE TO DELIVER USEFUL Group’s international presence. TECHNOLOGIES G.22 The Group has six research and development centres worldwide In an industry where model line-ups have become much more – four in France (Vélizy, Sochaux-Belchamp, La Garenne-Colombes diversified, innovation is the only way to create the competitive and Carrières-sous-Poissy), one in Shanghai (China Tech Centre) advantages so critical to driving growth. and one in São Paulo, Brazil. The Automotive Design Network styling centre is home to the two brands’ styling studios, plus all of Innovation, research and development are, therefore, priorities for the innovation and vehicle architecture teams, comprising nearly PSA Peugeot Citroën. They are in effect a major source of leverage 1,000 people in all. Lastly, two vehicle test centres are located in to meet the great challenges of the automotive industry (changing Belchamp and La Ferté-Vidame, France. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 33 2 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.1. The innovation process Cars are the result of a unique development and design initiative The efforts made in R&D were illustrated during innovation day on within the Group: 15,910 PSA Peugeot Citroën employees are 22 January 2013, during which the Group presented several new involved in R&D every day, 14,250 of whom work in research and technologies, most notably: development, 1,110 in Latin America and 550 in Asia. O Hybrid Air technology, a full hybrid petrol and compressed air To create competitive advantage, we pay careful attention to the solution that is a key step towards the 2 l/100 km car; needs, whether expressed or implied, of its customers and the wider O its new global modular platform EMP2 (Efficient Modular community. At the same time, we make sure that every automobile Platform 2), which provides high-performance solutions in terms project assimilates and integrates the possibilities offered by new of modularity, equipment and reductions in CO2 emissions; technologies, which have grown exponentially in recent years. It is O SCR (Selective Catalytic Reduction), an innovative technology the combination of these two approaches that generates innovative to treat nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions from diesel cars, to be new ideas. launched in 2013. Innovation programmes are guided by five main research avenues: O clean technologies, with the objective of offering “a clean car for AN ACTIVE PATENT POLICY every use”; In March 2013, during the awards published by the National O safety, to globalise our European expertise; Institute for Industrial Property (NIIP), PSA Peugeot Citroën O product appeal, by offering car buyers innovative functionalities unveiled 1,348 patents filed in 2012 (compared to 1,237 in 2011). and design; The Group was once again France’s leading patent filer, for the sixth consecutive year. O competitiveness, so we can deliver affordable innovations; O disruptive process technologies (robotics, new surface treating Following on from the strong growth in previous years, this sustained processes, etc.), to provide high-performance productive systems. high number of patent filings in a lacklustre business environment, attests to the deep commitment of the Group to R&D and innovation, In 2012, R&D has been particularly focused on: which are core components of its strategic vision. O the reduction of CO2 emissions: with measures to lower vehicle The Group’s emphasis on environmental issues is clearly evident in weight, make more energy efficient powertrains with a smaller its patent filing policy: a significant number of the 1,348 patents filed carbon footprint and pave the way for alternative hybrid and in 2012 (compared to 1,237 in 2011 and 1,152 in 2010) related to electric powertrains; anti-pollution techniques. These included SCR (Selective Catalytic Europe’s second manufacturer, PSA Peugeot Citroën is reaffirming Reduction), an innovative technology for treating nitrous oxide its progress and technological and environmental advantage (NOx) from diesel vehicles, Particle Filtering, which, coupled with through a new family of three-cylinder petrol engines and also its SCR allows reductions in NOx emissions and fuel consumption, and hybrid diesel models, for which it is the pioneer and world leader. Stop & Start technology. 3008 HYbrid4, 508 HYbrid4, 508 RXH and DS5 HYbrid4 have already brought great success with nearly 22,000 sales in 2012; PSA Peugeot Citroën also focused its innovation drive on electric and hybrid vehicles, resulting in the patents for Hybrid Air, Hybride O the development of vehicles linked to the renewal of the Peugeot Eco, HYDOLE and VéLV: and Citroën ranges: thus the average age of the range will be maintained at 3.5 years, with 17 new launches in 2013. The pace O Hybrid Air is a new full-hybrid powertrain that combines petrol of renewals with significant innovations will be kept up; and compressed air, a major advance towards the 2 l/100 km O the development of a communicating car with improvements in vehicle; driving aids for ever better safety and comfort, and work on the O Hybride Eco is a hybridisation technology for petrol and diesel connection between the driver and their vehicle to integrate new segments B, C and D which will allow significant reductions in customer uses. CO2 emissions and fuel consumption; R&D continues to expand its field of activity internationally, most O HYDOLE (mostly electric Hybrid) is a rechargeable hybrid notably in China, Latin America and Russia. A large number of project developed as a demonstrator to test the potential uses of product launches were carried out in 2012: Peugeot 208, 301, 4008, the vehicle of the future and meet customer demands for range, 308 China, 3008 China, 408 Russia and Malaysia; Citroën C Elysée, comfort and accessibility; C4 Aircross, C3 Latin America, C4L China; as well as the EB and O the VéLV (light electric town vehicle) is a light electric vehicle EC5 engines. project (zero CO2 emissions) designed to meet the need for urban and suburban trips with very low power consumption. Work carried out in R&D lead to the launches in 2012 of the Peugeot 208 and 301, the Citroën C-Elysée and two SUVs as well Also, many of the patents filed in 2012 aim to protect the Group’s as the EB engine, and the division continues to expand its activity new modular platform: EMP2 (Efficient Modular Platform 2) offers internationally, most notably in China, Latin America and Russia. a high-performance solution to modularity, equipment and reducing This work also lead to the Group launching four hybrid models CO2 emissions. in 2012, enabling it to come second in Europe in terms of hybrids, with a market share of 14% acquired in one year. 34 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.1. The innovation process 2 Connectivity is another strategic area for the Group and multimedia PSA Peugeot Citroën announced in 2010 the creation of the equipment, networking, electronics and human-machine interfaces Science & Technologies Exploratory Lean Laboratory (StelLab) to also made up a considerable portion of the patents filed in 2012. lead its scientific partnerships. Its mission is to foster interdisciplinary Finally, the plan to move PSA Peugeot Citroën’s vehicle range discussion and dialogue, both in-house and with outside partners in upmarket was apparent in the many patents dealing with comfort, academia, by offering a forum where doctoral candidates, research both inside and outside the vehicle: retractable, supple or transparent engineers, scientists and Group experts can come together and roof architectures, internal storage space, seat comfort, backrests, network. It also hosts students and outside researchers participating headrests, lights, aircon and heating. in Group-initiated scientific research programmes. The pro-active policy on patent filing was started at the beginning To remain at the forefront in automotive products and services, of the 2000s with the setting up of various initiatives such as an in 2011 and 2012 StelLab organised partnerships with leading-edge incentive system of bonuses paid to inventors on filing requests for scientific laboratories in Europe and the rest of the world through patents, awards for inventors and the creation of a patent-organiser joint research facilities known as OpenLabs, which pool the partners’ network to efficiently relay patent information to the different Group research teams and testing resources. management teams. The six OpenLabs created in 2011 included: This policy underwent significant change in 2011 to provide even O Automotive Motion Lab, with the Institute of Science and Motion greater protection for technological developments considered (ISM) in Marseille; to be strategic or for innovations embedded in vehicle projects or O Electronics and Systems for Automotive with the Systems mechanisms, or implemented in plants. PSA Peugeot Citroën is thus Materials Integration Laboratory (IMS) in Bordeaux; consolidating a high value portfolio. O Energetics with the PRISME laboratory in Orléans; Current patents aim to protect “engine” developments such as the O the Materials and Processes competency centre in Metz with three reduction of CO2 emissions and pollution remediation. For example, academic partners, the Georgia Tech-CNRS Mixed International SCR technology, which is a solution being worked on by the Group to Unit (UMI), the École Nationale Supérieure d’Arts et Métiers de comply with the future Euro 6 standards. In the same way, protection Metz, and the Henri Tudor Public Research Centre (CRP) in of new alternative powertrains is still on the agenda to prepare for Luxembourg; post-HYbrid4 and notably to reduce the cost of hybrid technology O Fluidics in Poitiers with the Institut Pprime; and and reduce CO2 emissions. For vehicle body structure, research on O Computational Mechanics in the Paris region, with the École lightening the structure and improving the safety of both vehicle Polytechnique Solid Mechanics Laboratory (LMS) and the occupants and pedestrians are regularly the object of the patents filed, Materials Centre of the École des Mines. and these also cover the product and manufacturing process. In terms of equipment, whilst not abandoning the protection of future seating In 2012, four new OpenLabs were launched in France, Brazil and and interior fittings, efforts are particularly aimed at the protection China: of developments in the areas of electronic architecture adapted to O VAT@Lyon, in the field of vibrations, acoustics and tribology, new alternative powertrains, connectivity (Smartphone-Vehicle with the École Centrale de Lyon, INSA de Lyon and Claude Bernard connections) and Human Machine Interfaces (touch screens). Close University plus a Chinese connection via the École Centrale de attention is also paid to driving aids (to help keep in lane or change Pékin; lane, blind spot detection, VisioPark parking, panoramic vision O Competitive Intelligence, with the University of Bordeaux; parking, etc.), as these are in increasingly high demand by customers. O Biofuels, with the Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro Not forgetting back of vehicle signaling and selective road lighting, (PUC); MagicWash wipers and the comfort of passengers. O Multimodal Perception and Reasoning for intelligent vehicles, with The new patents strengthen a portfolio of innovations – the the PKU University, Beijing. guarantee of a potential for differentiation in a demanding and everThese partnerships, which already account for 10% of the Group’s changing market – therefore enabling the Group to stand out from scientific research, will explore major issues concerning the future of the competition. the automobile and closely track future scientific discoveries around the world. Nearly 20% of scientific research is now carried out by OpenLabs. 2.1.2.2. SCIENTIFIC PARTNERSHIPS The OpenLabs creation programme will continue in 2013. Projects An outward-facing strategy is the key to successful innovation at a include Open Lab Biology-Chemistry-Physics (ßxø) with the time when the automotive industry is facing many technological, Pierre & Marie Curie University, University of Versailles Saintenvironmental and social challenges and the ability to swiftly Quentin-en-Yvelines and the Collège de France, dedicated to high identify and develop technologies at less cost has become essential level research partnerships in the field of non-conventional materials to sustaining competitive advantage. It also plays a critical role in for future mobility systems. identifying the breakthrough technologies that will enable the design In November 2011, having inaugurated its hub – a website of the vehicle of the future. for managing partnerships and scientific projects and hosting demonstration and experimental labs – and an online collaborative PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 35 2 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.1. The innovation process platform, StelLab went fully operational in 2012 as a venue for Capitalising on these successful ventures, the global strategic suppliers meeting and exchanges by PhD students, researchers and experts, initiative was launched in 2009 with around 15 leading suppliers, with including the hosting of StelLab Scientific Meetings. At the start the goal of fostering trustworthy, transparent, long-term cooperation of 2013, the hub was working as a demonstration platform for a in every aspect of the supplier relationship, including Innovation. In selection of interesting technologies collected in 2012. this way, these strategic partnerships will help to drive the creation of shared values and competitive advantage for each partner. Upstream, collaboration begins by sharing a vision of market and technology trends, so as to build a common roadmap and determine the most 2.1.2.3. THE PARTNERS PLAN appropriate innovation projects to work on together. Another open innovation process is the Partners Plan, one of the O At the same time, to more effectively address the challenges priority action plans of the Research and Advanced Innovation the auto industry is facing with fast changing technologies and Department. It attests to the importance placed on building sharing, markets, the Research and Advanced Innovation Department is collaborative and mutually beneficial relationships with outside now broadening and deepening its outside partnerships. partners in a commitment to keeping the Group one step ahead. The O In the same way that strengthening the relationship with the Partners Plan is part of the Open Innovation process. scientific community led to the creation of StelLab and the The partners come from a variety of backgrounds, including OpenLabs network, in the field of innovation, the Group is universities, laboratories and other scientific organisations; expanding its existing partnerships, such as the one with EDF, and technological institutes or agencies, such as Institut Français du identifying potential new partners across the automotive supply Pétrole (IFP) and the French Alternative Energies and Atomic Energy chain as well as with non-automotive companies that share similar Commission (CEA); technology companies in the automotive and technological issues. other industries; and PSA Peugeot Citroën automotive equipment O To facilitate joint innovation projects, framework agreements with suppliers. wording already used in the innovation plans have been signed O the Group has long worked with certain partners like IFP, CEA with Aerospace, EADS and ST Microelectronics, while others and French national power utility EDF; are being discussed with other identified partners like DuPont de O as far back as 1999, a pioneering co-innovation process was Nemours and Bombardier. initiated with its tier 1 equipment-makers, based on framework O The scope of these partnerships is not only technical, from research agreements signed with around 10 of the leading suppliers (Bosch, to development, but also methodological and international, in a Continental, Delphi, Faurecia, Valeo, etc.) to streamline the commitment to identifying best practices to discover and select contractual interchange of information and projects and to define innovative solutions and to make them usable and accessible to supplier relationship governance and management procedures. In as many people as possible. The partnerships are also designed this way, each partner can identify common issues far upstream, to nurture these deeper relationships with leading players in the take appropriate action and track the project through each Group priority growth regions of Asia, Latin America and Russia. milestone to process engineering and production. 36 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.1. The innovation process 2 Today the Partners Plan comprises around 15 innovation plans, around 15 technological or research and advanced engineering organisations and 20 or so universities and laboratories. PSA Peugeot Citroën Innovation Network Technological Suppliers and industrial research MAGNETI MARELLI SAINT-GOBAIN PLASTIC OMNIUM MICHELIN CONTINENTAL HONEYWELL DELPHI FAURECIA VISTEAN BOSCH LEAR Technology Industrial Partners VALEO DUPONT Partners EADS EDF BOMBARDIER RHODIA AEROSPACE ST MICROELECTRONICS NEXTER HUTCHINSON CEA IFP MOV’EO IAV SYSTEMATIX Technology and FEV Local initiatives/ Research Technology platforms Organisations UNIVERSITÉ CENTRALE PARIS TONGJI-SHANGHAÏ CNRS EPFL LAUSANNE UNIVERSITÉ PIERRE ET MARIE CURIE UNIVERSITÉ ARTS ET MÉTIERS UNIVERSITÉ MINES PARIS DE BORDEAUX 1 PARIS TECH AIX-MARSEILLE TECH PUC-RIO (PONTIFÍCIA UNIVERSIDADE CATÓLICA DE RIO DE JANEIRO) Scientiﬁc and Universities/ technological Laboratories research PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 37 2 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.1. The innovation process 2.1.2.4. OPEN INNOVATION: AN INTEGRATED PROCESS Open Innovation at PSA Peugeot Citroën today Employees UT TAC, B i players Bring l ffully ll EuroNCAP... EuroN Put the individual & the user into the innovation at the heart of our process innovation process Customers, Individuals uals Cities, users countries, Public Europe,p etct authorities PSA Peugeot Citroën Companies Non-auto companies World of knowledge kn Laboratories Suppliers, Maintain the competitors Look beyond StelLab dynamic our traditional partners Universit sities By its very nature, the automotive industry has to constantly remain O Open Innovation enterprises (strategic suppliers, non-auto open to the outside world. The actions undertaken by PSA Peugeot partners such as EADS and Rhodia, suppliers of composite Citroën over the past three years, such as the creation of StelLab and components and innovative anti-pollution materials, etc.); the broader collaborations with strategic suppliers and partners are O Open Innovation individuals (experiments in participative two compelling examples of how this openness is gaining momentum. innovation, which puts the individual and customers at the heart The ambition of the Open Innovation project is to help the Group of the innovation process); address three factors essential to success: O Open Innovation institutions (UTAC, public authorities, etc.). O Accessing the best knowledge available (scientific, technological, The three main aims for the year were: behavioural, etc.); O To continue expanding the role of the individual, customers or O Helping with R&D funding, by spreading costs and risk with its future customers at the heart of the innovation process; partners or by exploiting expertise and technologies for outside O To work better with SMEs and startups to enhance the Group’s uses; agility and keep a step ahead; O Making the Group faster on its feet and cutting times to market. O To make the Group a partner of choice in the field of innovation. In 2012, PSA Peugeot Citroën bolstered its ability to innovate and The “Open Innovation individuals” eco-system takes in Group strengthened links between each of the four eco-systems that make employees, customers and transport users in the broadest sense. The up Open Innovation: aim is to bring together all these individuals in the innovation process. O Open Innovation academia (StelLab, OpenLabs, etc.); To achieve this, the Group has developed methods of collaboration 38 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.1. The innovation process 2 and participation that allow it to collect, analyse, exploit and O “Citroën Creative Awards” is an ideas challenge organised transform identified needs, new behaviours, new ideas and emerging externally to the Group. Between October 2011 and January 2012, trends in technologies or services. it generated 450 ideas for further analysis. The initiative was The Group’s actions to put the individual (employee or customer) relaunched for the third year running in December 2012. at the heart of the innovation process earned it the “2012 Trophy for O “Connected Users” is the first ideas challenge run internally on a Participative Innovation in Product Development Innovation” from Group-wide scale. Held in May 2012 on the theme of connectivity, Innov’Acteurs, an umbrella body for French companies engaged in it proved a great success: more than 7,000 unique visitors, more participative innovation projects. than 1,300 participants at 70 sites, more than 1,000 ideas, eventually whittled down to 85, which led to 18 invention proposals In 2012, several “idea challenges” were launched by the Group and four patents filed. internally and externally. These bring users together to consider All these actions helped to exploit the innovation and commitment a strategic issue in a way that feeds into the work being done by of customers from the conception phase. They also testify to the Research and Innovation and enhances their creativity: transformation that the Group is currently undergoing. 2.1.3. ECO-DESIGN AND LIFE CYCLE ANALYSIS G.28 Beginning in the design phase, PSA Peugeot Citroën teams strive and enhancing recyclability. In addition to ensuring that its vehicles to shrink a vehicle’s environmental footprint to a minimum at every comply with local environmental legislation, eco-design also stage in its life cycle, by improving fuel efficiency, reducing carbon guarantees that the Group will stay ahead of the competition in terms and other pollutant emissions, using natural resources reasonably of sustainable mobility and new materials. Life cycle stage Major challenges • Define new automobile products and services taking into account the mobility needs of consumers around the world, local legislation Product definition and people’s expectations with regard to the environment, safety, etc. • Design vehicles at an acceptable cost and attenuate their impact: Design and • on the environment, by reducing their CO2 and other local emissions, using resources responsibly and improving their recyclability; engineering • on society, by improving their safety performance, reducing noise pollution, easing traffic congestion, etc. • Reduce the environmental impact of automobile manufacturing. • Ensure workplace safety. Production • Participate in the economic and social life of local communities. • Integrate environmental concerns into supply chain and dealership network management. • Responsibly inform customers, in advertising and labelling, and ensure a satisfying ownership experience with effective sales and Transport and sale customer service processes. • Help to attenuate the impact of using an automobile by promoting safer, more environmentally responsible driving practices, improving Use vehicle fuel efficiency and developing ever-more effective exhaust emissions control systems. • Facilitate the collection and processing of end-of-life vehicles and components by specialised providers and optimise their recyclability End of life (decontamination, recycling and resource recovery services). Based on this principle, PSA Peugeot Citroën conducts life cycle validate its component and materials design. The entire product analyses of its vehicles and components that comply with the life cycle is taken into account from raw material extraction, to framework defined in the ISO 14040/044 standards. These studies manufacture, use and end-of-life recycling. analyse the multi-criteria environmental footprint of a vehicle and PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 39 2 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.2. Low carbon vehicles for all types of use Simplified Diagram of a Vehicle Life Cycle O primary energy consumption; O total CO2 emissions; Production Distribution O total CO emissions; O total NOx emissions; Maintenance O flows of non-recycled waste to landfill sites. The results of life cycle analyses help to: Raw O compare the environmental impact of one innovative solution to materials Use another; O identify possible pollution transfers from one phase of the life cycle to another; O identify major environmental impacts; Fuel consumption O choose more environmentally friendly technologies and materials. Resource recorvery With regard to this last point, PSA Peugeot Citroën has developed and reuse End-of-life processing a policy for integrating green materials that in some cases includes environmental assessments of the materials. For example, a life cycle analysis of a thermoplastic component Energy recovery Landﬁlling integrating hemp-fibre instead of fibreglass showed a 14% reduction in the component’s climate change impact. These analyses are carried using software linked to environmental Similarly, a life cycle analysis carried out with Valéo and Rhodia databases that makes it possible contact a product’s environmental showed that introducing recycled polyamid in the manufacture of impact. a cooling fan significantly reduced the seven chosen environmental impact indicators, and in particular reduced the use of primary PSA Peugeot Citroën tracks the following indicators, among others: resources by around 30% compared with components made with O climate change or the impact of CO2 and other greenhouse gas new polyamid. emissions; Generally carried out at the end of the product design phase, life O acidification of the air, caused in part by sulphur emissions; cycle analyses can also be conducted during the innovation phase in O eutrophication of water, caused by emissions of nitrous compounds; order to take environmental impact into account. Consequently, the O creation of photochemical ozone; Group is developing a special methodology so that these criteria can O depletion of primary resources; be integrated as from the product development phase. 2.2. LOW CARBON VEHICLES FOR ALL TYPES OF USE PSA Peugeot Citroën teams are proficient in the eco-design process, As part of its commitment to sustainable development, the Group which helps to shrink a vehicle’s environmental footprint to a dedicates a very substantial portion of its technological research minimum at every stage in its life cycle, by improving fuel efficiency, efforts to clean technologies that help to shrink its vehicles’ reducing emissions of carbon and other pollutants, using natural environmental footprint by: resources reasonably and enhancing recyclability. In addition to O improving fuel efficiency and reducing carbon emissions; ensuring that its vehicles comply with local environmental legislation, O making vehicles lighter, which in turn increases fuel efficiency and eco-design also ensures that the Group will stay ahead of the reduces raw materials content; competition in terms of sustainable mobility. O using green materials that are recycled or bio-sourced. 40 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.2. Low carbon vehicles for all types of use 2 2.2.1. GREENHOUSE-FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES AND ADAPTATIONS TO THE EFFECTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE G.22 G.32 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN’S CHALLENGES Launches of this type of vehicle will continue in the years ahead. AND STRATEGY As part of this approach, PSA Peugeot Citroën is planning to deploy a wide array of technological solutions structured around the Looking forward to 2020, the automobile industry will have to following main objectives: become more energy efficient and environmentally friendly. O optimising powertrains for petrol and diesel engines, including In Europe and Brazil emissions regulations focus mainly on more widespread use of Stop & Start systems; environmental protection, while in China the goal is also energy O improving the overall fuel efficiency of its vehicles, in particular independence. by optimising vehicle architecture (aerodynamics and mass) and At the same time, tax incentives, the trend toward urbanisation equipment (tyres, etc.); in all markets and the spread of limited-access downtown areas O deploying hybrid technologies with different size engines and and low-emission zones are speeding the development of more battery capacity to meet a wide range of types of use and budgets. environmentally responsible technologies. Bi-modal and hybrid plug-in technologies will account for a Against this backdrop, PSA Peugeot Citroën aims to consolidate significant portion of the market in the decade 2020-2030, both its position as an environmental pioneer. PSA Peugeot Citroën is for passenger cars and light utility vehicles; developing a range of increasingly fuel-efficient, low-carbon cars O developing electric vehicles for both fleets and individual that continue to meet the growing mobility needs of individuals, customers, as cities install the necessary infrastructure and battery giving them access to employment, education and healthcare, while costs decline. complying with regulatory standards. In Europe, more than 44% of vehicles sold in 2012 had emissions of The Group’s current strategy is based on a segmented approach by less than 120 g/Km of CO2. The Group has continued its efforts to major market and customer type (passenger car and utility vehicle, achieve the following targets for 2015: depending on type of use, expectations and budget) with a lowO 65% of vehicles sold emitting less than 120 g/Km of CO2; carbon vehicle for each segment. In 2012, the Group introduced in each European market segment high-volume vehicles that are well O 25% of vehicles sold emitting less than 100 g/Km of CO2. positioned in terms of carbon emissions. To consolidate its environmental leadership over the medium term and looking forward to 2020, PSA Peugeot Citroën aims to systematically offer: CO2 PERFORMANCE O vehicles with very low fuel consumption but that still deliver superior features and equipment; In 2012, the Group introduced in each European market segment O best-in-class carbon performance for high-volume vehicles in the high-volume vehicles that are well positioned in terms of carbon emissions. main market segments. HIGHLY FUEL-EFFICIENT VEHICLES LAUNCHED IN 2012 In China, where the regulatory environment will be as strict as Europe’s in 2020, a comparable effort will be deployed, in particular g/km of CO2 by activating the same technical levers. Peugeot 107 1.0 99 In Brazil, PSA Peugeot Citroën has confirmed its goal of reducing fuel consumption and carbon emissions by applying the same Peugeot 208 1.4 e-HDi 68 87 technological levers as in Europe. This will help to position the Peugeot 208 1.0 VTi 68 99 Group among the market leaders with highly fuel-efficient vehicles Peugeot 3008 HYbrid4 88 in the different segments. This ambition is compliant with the CAFE rules that come into force in 2017 and which became official policy Peugeot 508 HYbrid4 88 in Brazil in September 2012. Peugeot 508 RXH HYbrid4 107 Citroën C1 1.0i 99 Citroën C3 1.0i 99 Citroën C4 1.6 e-HDi 100 Citroën DS5 HYbrid4 88 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 41 2 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.2. Low carbon vehicles for all types of use Diesel 207 Nouveau 3008 HYbrid4, 208/C3 Diesel Mild Hybrid DS3 & C3 HDI Stop & Start ﬁrst diesel 87g CO2/km Hybrid Air 99g CO2/km EV iOn & C-Zero hybrid Petrol 208/C31L 3 cyl HYbrid plug-in marketed 99g CO2/km 508 HYbrid4 88g CO2/km 508 RXH PSA Average ﬂeet DS5 HYbrid4 88g CO2/km CO2/km 130g 135g 132g 128g 120g 122.5g European reglementation 95g CO2/km 110g in 2020 95g 2009 2010 2011 2012 2020 European sales ≤ 120g CO2/km: 811,000 in 2011, in line with the 2012 target of 1,000,000. REGULATION PSA Peugeot Citroën has fully integrated these requirements into its strategy, with the related constraints and opportunities on both In the period between 2010 and 2020, countries around the world the financial and consumer levels. CO2 regulations in Europe, for are adopting regulatory requirements that set CO2 emission or fuel example, set a fine of €95 per vehicle sold for each gram over the set consumption targets: target in 2020, and CO2 labelling programmes will change buying O these include either regulated emissions targets or fuel efficiency behaviour by encouraging consumers to buy low-carbon vehicles. labelling: PSA Peugeot Citroën has been actively reducing its vehicles’ fuel O CAFE Europe (Corporate Average Fuel Efficiency): consumption and carbon emissions for many years now and, as a • average fleet CO2 emissions of 130 g/km in 2015 and 95 g/ result, is the European leader in vehicles in the less than 100 g and less km in 2020, than 110 g/km of CO2 categories (corresponding to fuel consumption of around 4.1 l/100 and 4.5 l/100 km). The Group therefore has the • each carmaker’s target is set in relation to the average necessary strengths to adapt to these new requirements. weight of vehicles sold, using a calculation that encourages lighter-weight vehicles, As regulations and other constraints tighten, procedures for measuring carbon emissions and fuel consumption are being O CAFE China (based largely on CAFE Europe): reviewed at the global level, with the World Harmonised Light Vehicle • average fleet fuel efficiency of 6.9 l/100 km in 2015 and a Test Procedure (WLTP). PSA Peugeot Citroën supports this process target of 5 l/100 km in 2020, comparable to CAFE Europe with the goal of obtaining greater recognition for recent technical for 2020, given the specific market characteristics, advances (lighter vehicles, hybrid powertrains, etc.), a sign of reliable • as in Europe, the target is set to create an incentive for environmental information for customers. lighter-weight vehicles, O Japanese and Indian regulations (being drafted), O Brazilian regulations published in September 2012 and coming into force from 2017; O fuel efficiency labelling, as in Brazil, India and South Korea. 42 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.2. Low carbon vehicles for all types of use 2 2.2.1.1. SALES AND MARKET SHARE BY CO2 EMISSIONS LEVEL PSA Peugeot Citroën Registrations by CO2 Emissions Level (Passenger car 2011 registrations in the 22 country Europe, corresponding to the EU excluding Greece, Cyprus, Malta, Bulgaria and Romania) 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 5.7% 3.9% 4.3% 19.7% 40.1% 12.5% 16.8% Low CO2 emissions A ≤ 100 g/km 2011 2012 B 101 to 120 g/km C 121 to 140 g/km D 141 to 160 g/km E 161 to 200 g/km 31,9% F 201 to 250 g/km G ≥ 250 g/km 31.6% 33.4% Hight CO2 emissions In this chart, the CO2 emissions bands (in g/km) correspond to the ratings on French energy efficiency labels. In 22-country Europe (i.e. the EU except for Greece, Cyprus, Malta, in 2010. PSA Peugeot Citroën is positioned as leader in the 22-country Bulgaria and Romania), PSA Peugeot Citroën vehicles performed Europe market, where average emissions were 132.8 g/km of CO2 as follows: in 2012. O 20% of vehicles sold emitting less than 100 g/km of CO2 against In 14-country Europe (Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, 3.9% in 2011; Germany, Ireland, Italy, The Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and O 39% of vehicles sold emitting less than 110 g/km of CO2 against the United Kingdom) the Group has achieved below market average 29% in 2011 and 22% in 2010; emissions for more than 10 years: 122.1 g/km of CO2 in 2012 against O 51.5% of vehicles sold emitting less than 120 g/km of CO2 against a market average of 132.4 g/km of CO2, 131.6 g/km of CO2 in 2010 44% in 2011; against a market average of 140.9 g/km of CO2 and 140.1 g/km of CO2 O 83% of vehicles sold emitting less than 140 g/km of CO2 against in 2008 against a market average of 153.9 g/km of CO2. 77% in 2011. The results also reflect the Group’s decision to focus on affordable Average Group CO2 emissions in 22-country Europe stood at technological solutions applicable to mass-produced cars, which is 122.5 g/km at the end of 2012, versus 127.9 in 2011 and 132.0 g/km the only way to have a real impact on the environment. European Automobile Market by CO2 Emissions Level (Passenger car 2012 registrations in the 22-country Europe, corresponding to the EU excluding Greece, Cyprus, Malta, Bulgaria and Romania) % 35 o/w PSA 30 12% 13% Low CO2 emissions 25 A ≤ 100 g/km 20 101 to 120 g/km B 9% 15 C 121 to 140 g/km D 141 to 160 g/km 10 5% E 161 to 200 g/km 29% 5 F 201 to 250 g/km 0.2% 0% G ≥ 250 g/km 0 ≤ 100 101 to 120 121 to 140 141 to 160 161 to 200 201 to 250 ≥ 250 High CO2 emissions PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 43 2 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.2. Low carbon vehicles for all types of use A comparison of PSA Peugeot Citroën registrations and the total Europe. Moreover, the Group is the market leader both in the European market by range of CO2 emissions in 2012 highlights the segment of vehicles emitting less than 100 CO2 g/km, with a 28.7% Group’s contribution to reducing new vehicle emissions in Europe. share (279,000 PSA Peugeot Citroën passenger vehicles) and the In 2012, a total of 731,000 PSA Peugeot Citroën passenger cars less than 110 CO2 g/km segment, with a 22.4% share (556,000 emitting less than 120 g/km of CO2 were registered in 22-country PSA Peugeot Citroën passenger vehicles). More than half the Group’s new registered vehicles emit less than 120 g/Km of CO2. 2.2.1.2. VEHICULE CO2 EMISSIONS AND FUEL CONSUMPTION G.31 The models below were selected on the basis of two criteria: best sales in 22-country Europe and environmental performance. For each one, the table shows data for the petrol, hybrid and diesel versions offering the lowest CO2 emissions and fuel consumption. Models in boldface are the best-selling petrol or diesel version in 22-country Europe. In some cases, the best selling models are also the most fuel efficient. PEUGEOT (EUROPE 22) 2012 Fuel Displacement Power Fuel consumption (litres/100 km) CO2 Model cm3 kW City Highway Combined g/km Peugeot iOn Electric 47 0 0 0 0 Peugeot 107 1.0 68 hp Petrol 998 50 5.1 3.8 4.3 99 Peugeot 206+ 1.1 Petrol 1,124 44 7.8 4.6 5.8 133 1.4 75 Petrol 1,360 54 8.2 4.7 6.0 139 1.4 HDi 70 Diesel 1,398 50 4.9 3.5 4.0 104 Peugeot 207 1.4 VTi 95 Petrol 1,397 70 7.6 4.8 5.8 135 1.4 75 Petrol 1,360 54 8.6 4.9 6.3 145 1.6 HDi Diesel 1,560 66 4.6 3.3 3.8 98 1.6 HDi 92 Diesel 1,560 68 5.2 3.5 4.2 110 Peugeot 208 1.0 VTi 68 ch Petrol 999 50 5.2 3.7 4.3 99 1.2 80 hp Petrol 1,199 60 5.6 3.9 4.5 104 1.6 e-HDi 68 Diesel 1,398 50 3.6 3.2 3.4 87 1.6 e-HDi 70 Diesel 1,398 50 4.4 3.4 3.8 98 Peugeot 301 1.2 72 hp Petrol 1,199 53 6.9 4.2 5.2 119 1.6 115 hp Petrol 1,587 85 8.8 5.3 6.5 151 1.6 HDi 92 Diesel 1,560 68 4.8 3.7 4.1 108 Peugeot 308 1.4 VTi 98 Petrol 1,397 72 7.9 4.9 6.0 139 1.6 VTi 120 Petrol 1,598 88 9.1 4.9 6.4 147 1.6 e-HDi 112 Diesel 1,560 82 4.4 3.7 4.0 98 1.6 HDi 112 Diesel 1,560 82 4.9 3.8 4.2 110 Peugeot 3008 1.6 VTi 120 Petrol 1,598 88 9.2 5.3 6.7 155 1.6 VTi 120 Petrol 1,598 88 9.4 5.5 6.9 159 1.6 e-HDi 112 Diesel 1,560 82 5.0 4.2 4.5 117 1.6 HDi 112 Diesel 1,560 82 6.3 4.2 5.0 130 Diesel hybrid HYbrid4 Electric 1,997 120/147 3.1 3.6 3.4 88 Diesel hybrid HYbrid4 Electric 1,997 120/147 5.6 3.9 4.0 104 Peugeot 5008 1.6 VTi 120 Petrol 1,598 88 9.4 5.5 6.9 159 1.6 e-HDi 112 Diesel 1,560 82 4.9 4.1 4.4 114 1.6 HDi 112 Diesel 1,560 82 6.2 4.6 5.2 135 44 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.2. Low carbon vehicles for all types of use 2 Fuel Displacement Power Fuel consumption (litres/100 km) CO2 Model cm3 kW City Highway Combined g/km Peugeot 508 1.6 VTi 120 Petrol 1,598 88 9.0 4.7 6.2 144 1.6 THP 156 Petrol 1,598 115 9.1 4.8 7.3 145 2.0 e-HDi 140 Diesel 1,997 103 6.2 3.7 4.6 119 2.0 HDi 140 Diesel 1,997 103 6.4 3.9 4.8 125 Diesel hybrid HYbrid4 Electric 1,997 120/147 3.2 3.5 3.4 88 Diesel hybrid HYbrid4 Electric 1,997 120/147 3.2 3.6 3.5 91 Diesel Peugeot hybrid 508RXH HYbrid4 Electric 1,997 120/147 4.0 4.2 4.1 107 Peugeot 4008 1.6 HDi 115 Diesel 1,560 84 5.6 4.5 4.9 129 1.8 HDi 150 Diesel 1,798 110 6.8 4.9 5.6 147 Peugeot 807 2.0 HDi 136 Diesel 1,997 100 7.4 5.0 5.9 155 Peugeot Bipper Tepee 1.4 75 Petrol 1,360 54 8.2 5.6 6.6 152 1.3 HDi 75 Diesel 1,248 55 4.8 3.7 4.1 107 Peugeot Partner Tepee 1.6 VTi 98 Petrol 1,598 72 9.2 5.3 6.7 155 1.6 VTi 120 Petrol 1,598 88 9.6 6.0 7.3 169 1.6 e-HDi 92 Diesel 1,560 68 5.0 4.4 4.6 120 1.6 HDi 92 Diesel 1,560 68 6.2 4.8 5.3 139 Peugeot Expert Tepee 2.0 HDi 128 Diesel 1,997 94 7.6 6.0 6.6 172 Peugeot RCZ 1.6 THP 156 Petrol 1,598 115 8.9 5.1 6.4 149 2.0 HDi 163 Diesel 1,997 120 6.8 4.5 5.3 139 CITROËN (EUROPE 22) 2012 Fuel Displacement Power Fuel consumption (litres/100 km) CO2 Model cm3 kW City Highway Combined g/km Citroën C-Zero Electric 47 0 0 0 0 Citroën C1 1.0i Petrol 998 50 5.1 3.8 4.3 99 Citroën C3 VTi 68 Petrol 999 50 5.1 3.8 4.3 99 1.1i Petrol 1,124 44 7.9 4.9 5.9 137 e-HDi 70 Diesel 1,398 50 3.6 3.2 3.4 87 HDi 68 Diesel 1,398 50 4.5 3.4 3.8 99 Citroën DS3 VTi 82 Petrol 1,199 60 5.5 3.9 4.5 104 VTi 120 Petrol 1,598 88 7.9 4.8 5.9 136 e-HDi 70 Diesel 1,398 50 3.6 3.2 3.4 87 e-HDi 90 Diesel 1,560 68 4.4 3.3 3.7 98 Citroën C3 Picasso VTi 95 Petrol 1,397 70 8.4 5.1 6.3 145 e-HDi 90 Diesel 1,560 68 4.7 3.8 4.2 109 e-HDi 90 Diesel 1,560 68 5.5 4.0 4.6 119 Citroën C-Elysée 1,2i Petrol 1,199 53 6.9 4.2 5.2 119 1,6i 115 Petrol 1,587 85 10.0 5.5 7.1 164 HDi 90 Diesel 1,560 68 4.8 3.7 4.1 108 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 45 2 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.2. Low carbon vehicles for all types of use Fuel Displacement Power Fuel consumption (litres/100 km) CO2 Model cm3 kW City Highway Combined g/km Citroën NemoCombi 1.4i Petrol 1,360 54 8.2 5.6 6.6 152 HDi 75 Diesel 1,248 55 4.9 3.6 4.1 107 HDi 75 Diesel 1,248 55 5.0 3.8 4.2 112 Citroën Berlingo VTi 95 Petrol 1,598 72 9.2 5.3 6.7 155 VTi 95 Petrol 1,598 72 9.6 5.7 7.1 164 e-HDi 90 Diesel 1,560 68 5.0 4.4 4.6 120 HDi 90 Diesel 1,560 68 6.2 4.8 5.3 139 Citroën C4 VTi 95 Petrol 1,397 70 8.2 4.9 6.1 140 VTi 120 Petrol 1,598 70 8.8 4.7 6.2 143 e-HDi 110 Diesel 1,560 68 4.2 3.5 3.8 98 HDi 110 Diesel 1,560 68 5.2 3.6 4.2 110 Citroën DS4 VTi 120 Petrol 1,598 88 8.3 5.0 6.2 144 e-HDi 110 Diesel 1,560 82 4.6 4.0 4.2 110 e-HDi 110 Diesel 1,560 82 5.4 4.0 4.5 118 Citroën C4 Picasso THP 155 BVA Petrol 1,598 115 8.8 5.4 6.7 155 VTi 120 Petrol 1,598 88 9.3 5.4 6.9 159 e-HDi 110 Diesel 1,560 82 5.0 4.4 4.6 120 HDi 110 Diesel 1,560 82 6.1 4.5 5.1 132 Citroën C4 Aircross 1.6i BVM 4X2 Petrol 1,590 110 7.4 4.9 5.8 133 HDi 115 Diesel 1,560 84 5.3 4.2 4.6 119 Citroën C5 VTi 120 BMP6 Petrol 1,598 88 8.3 5.0 6.2 144 THP 155 BVA Petrol 1,598 110 10.5 5.6 7.3 169 e-HDi 115 Diesel 1,560 84 5.2 4.1 4.5 117 HDi 110 Diesel 1,560 82 6.0 4.4 5.0 129 Citroën DS5 THP 200 Petrol 1,598 147 8.9 5.5 6.7 155 e-HDi 110 Diesel 1,560 82 4.8 4.2 4.4 114 HDi 160 Diesel 1,997 120 6.4 4.4 5.1 133 Diesel hybrid HYbrid4 Electric 1,997 120/147 3.1 3.6 3.4 88 Diesel hybrid HYbrid4 Electric 1,997 120/147 4.2 4.0 4.1 107 V6 HDi 240 Citroën C6 FAP Diesel 2,992 176 10.0 5.8 7.3 190 Citroën C8 HDi 135 Diesel 1,997 88 7.4 5.0 5.9 155 Citroën C-Crosser HDi 160 Diesel 2,179 115 8.6 5.6 6.7 175 HDi 160 DCS Diesel 2,179 115 8.8 5.8 6.9 180 In tests by an independent organisation, CO2 emissions are measured for determining consumption by type of fuel. The resulting data with the vehicle on a chassis dynamometer running the European enable consumers to compare the performance of vehicles offered standard Motor Vehicle Emission Group (MVEG) test procedure, by different brands. The method used to measure noise levels is which covers both city and highway driving cycles. The measured described in UN-ECE Regulation no. emissions are then calculated per kilometre, providing a basis 46 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.2. Low carbon vehicles for all types of use 2 2.2.1.3. PETROL AND DIESEL ENGINES The Group installed new technologies in these engines to cut fuel G.22 G.29 G.32 consumption and CO2 emissions by around 6%: O a new variable speed oil pump, which allows demands on the PSA Peugeot Citroën is continuing to optimise diesel and petrol engine to be cut to the strict minimum necessary; internal combustion engines in all geographies – Europe, China and O new low viscosity engine and gearbox oils to reduce friction wear; Latin America – to improve their fuel efficiency and thus reduce their carbon emissions, by deploying highly innovative technological O new generation crankshaft seals, which reduce the clamping force solutions in engine architecture as well as in fuel intake, injection and required and hence friction; emissions-control systems. O redesigned alternator belt pulley to reduce tension on the belt; O low friction vacuum pump to avoid energy loss. The main levers for optimising efficiency include: Many Peugeot and Citroën models, such as the Citroën C4 Picasso, O downsizing (reducing engine size and the number of cylinders C3 and Peugeot 208, which use the 1.6 HDi engine have benefited combined with turbocharging) thereby reducing fuel consumption from these advances since mid-2012. while maintaining performance levels; O increasing torque while reducing maximum power, thereby Combined with HYbrid4 technology – a world first – PSA Peugeot lengthening the power and torque bands and increasing fuel Citroën’s 2.0-litre diesel engine has enabled the Peugeot 3008 efficiency; HYbrid4 and 508 HYbrid4 and the Citroën DS5 HYbrid4 to achieve O reducing mechanical friction (oil, piston rings, oil pump, actuators, breakthrough performance: 88 g/Km of CO2 emissions for combined accessories, permeability, etc.); power (internal combustion and electric powertrains) of 200 hp. Launched in late 2012. O optimising combustion technology. In a global market where internal combustion engines will still be High-performance technical solutions for internal combustion predominant in 2020, PSA Peugeot Citroën is continuing to develop engines are available on PSA Peugeot Citroën vehicles, particularly its HDi technology. At the same time it is more broadly deploying the 2012 new-generation petrol engines. The medium and long-term its e-HDi (Stop & Start) technology and beginning in 2013 will strategy is to reinforce this technological edge with new engines and offer new engines that are more fuel efficient and aligned with the gearboxes, in particular for the 2015-2020 period. forthcoming Euro 6 standard. The Group’s future utility vehicle ranges will integrate these new engines, thereby supporting efforts to improve the environmental performance of this type of vehicle. REDUCING DIESEL ENGINE FUEL CONSUMPTION In 2012, 96.4% of utility vehicles in 18-country Europe were AND EXHAUST EMISSIONS diesel-powered. PSA Peugeot Citroën is consolidating its expertise in fuel efficient, The emissions-control technology PSA Peugeot Citroën is developing high performance, low-carbon diesel engines. Developed in for the Euro 6 standard, which combines additive particulate filters cooperation with Ford, common-rail, direct-injection HDi diesel with Selective Catalytic Reduction technology to lower nitrous oxide engines deliver outstanding driving comfort and significantly lower emissions, will enable the Group’s diesel engines to comply with CO2 emissions. today’s most stringent control standards. These benefits have made the HDi one of the best selling engines in The medium-term strategy for the 2015-2020 period calls for further 18-country Europe (Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, technological advances in diesel powertrains, with new launches of Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, the engines and related gearboxes. Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the UK), where diesels represented nearly 59.5% of passenger car and utility vehicle unit sales in 2012. Equipped with particulate filters since 2000, REDUCING PETROL ENGINE HDi engines are constantly being optimised to deliver greater FUEL & CONSUMPTION AND EXHAUST driving comfort and enhanced emissions-control systems. In 2012, EMISSIONS PSA Peugeot Citroën produced a total of 1,435 million Hdi engines and has turned out 18.9 million since 1998. Of these, 6.5 million In less than 10 years, PSA Peugeot Citroën will have revitalised all are already equipped with additive particulate filters, invented by the of its petrol engine ranges, in line with its goal of reducing carbon Group and made mandatory by the Euro 5 standard which came emissions not only in Europe but also in other major markets, into force on 1 January 2011. The particulate filter is a mechanical including China and Brazil. system that captures particulates under all motoring conditions (hot Since 2006, PSA Peugeot Citroën has been offering the 1.4-litre and or cold engine, in town, on the highway, on the motorway, sitting in 1.6-litre, four-cylinder petrol engines developed jointly with BMW, traffic, etc.). The particulate filter developed by PSA Peugeot Citroën which deliver a 10 to 15% reduction in CO2 emissions compared with catches more than 99.9% of all particulates of any size (including their predecessors. By the end of 2012, 3,048,000 of these engines ultrafine, less than 100 nm). had already been produced. The engines have been voted Engine of Efforts in 2012 concentrated on the 1.6 HDi 92 and 115 hp diesel the Year in their category five times. engines, made on-site at the Trémery-en-Moselle factory in France. PSA Peugeot Citroën and BMW are pursuing their cooperative venture by developing a new generation of Euro 6-compliant fourcylinder petrol engines. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 47 2 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.2. Low carbon vehicles for all types of use The Group also launched a new family of 1-litre and 1.2-litre, threePSA Peugeot Citroën is committed to completely overhauling its cylinder petrol engines in 2012. petrol engine ranges with the goal of: This new family: O meeting the need to reduce carbon emissions throughout the line-up; O reduces carbon emissions by up to 25% compared with the O complying with future regulatory requirements in all regions; previous generation, making it possible to offer petrol-powered O integrating specific requirements for fast-growing non-European cars that emit less than 100 g/Km of CO2; markets and providing them with clean, high-tech engines that O covers a wide range of power – between 50 kW and 100 kW – appeal to consumers; depending on the version; O enabling a shift toward hybrid solutions. O is available in versions that meet the future Euro 6 standard from their launch. To support and strengthen its international development, especially GEARBOX DEVELOPMENTS in China, PSA Peugeot Citroën has begun deploying the new Petrol and diesel powertrains are continuously improved by focusing engines in its non-European markets and will step up deployment on two main areas: in the years ahead. O transmission efficiency, for both manual and automatic gearboxes; In emerging markets, where mainly petrol engines are being deployed, O adapting the power train (i.e., gear ratios, gear ratio change there are growing trends toward European-style regulations, strategies, compatibility with Stop & Start), to take maximum government incentives and consumer expectations. To support advantage of improvements to engines, and operate under its growth outside Europe, PSA Peugeot Citroën has decided to optimum conditions of fuel consumption, in the test cycle and in introduce clean, fuel-efficient, high-performance, high-tech engines customer use (with the help of the recommended gear indicator in these markets as quickly as possible. for manual gearboxes). These new developments take into account specific market The six-speed electronic manual gearbox, widely deployed by the expectations, such as flex fuel models for Brazil. The deployment of Group, combines these two areas for an extended very low fuel these new engines in China represents a significant step forward, in consumption offering at an affordable price. line with the strategy of reducing CO2 emissions from PSA Peugeot Citroën vehicles in the market by 2020. In automatic gearboxes, efforts in 2012 continued to focus on adapting a new generation of AT6 III and AM6 III transmissions Lastly, hybrid engines are also being introduced with a Stop & Start and on improving their efficiency to reduce powertrain consumption petrol offer scheduled for 2013 that will then be extended to all petrol by around 15%. engines and followed by a hybrid offer. SALES OF PETROL AND DIESEL VEHICLES BY REGION AND TYPE OF FUEL PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN CONSOLIDATED GLOBAL SALES, BY REGION AND TYPE OF FUEL Fuel Year Europe* Asia Latin America Other Total Petrol (and GPL) 2012 477,689 460,929 228,826 294,072 1,461,516 2011 575,681 421,461 245,599 589,729 1,832,470 2010 695,281 391,210 257,409 581,367 1,925,267 Diesel 2012 1,248,283 3,885 54,032 164,775 1,470,975 2011 1,481,758 3,290 80,174 145,782 1,711,004 2010 1,503,678 2,136 36,902 133,987 1,676,703 Hybride-diesel 2012 25,581 1 217 25,799 2011 1,081 1,081 2010 Electric 2012 6,620 6,620 2011 4,858 3 4,861 2010 193 193 * Europe includes Europe 30, the Balkans and vehicles in temporary transit 48 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.2. Low carbon vehicles for all types of use 2 2.2.1.4. ALTERNATIVE FUELS All of the Group’s diesel vehicles can run on B10 (with up to 10% G.22 G.29 G.32 biodiesel) and B30, provided that the fuel is of high quality and the vehicle is maintained accordingly with high-quality oil, no oil Another way to reduce a vehicle’s carbon footprint is to use maintenance and a specially serviced diesel fuel filter. This includes other fuels than petrol and diesel, such as natural gas, LPG and the vehicles equipped with the new e-HDi and HYbrid4 technologies. biofuels. PSA Peugeot Citroën has reaffirmed its commitment to The Group is participating in various research programmes in the responsible use of biofuels, while emphasising the need to take Europe, notably in France where it is a member of the Diester Partners sustainability criteria into account in developing products and the association. PSA Peugeot Citroën and the Fédération Nationale des related industry segments, including changes in how farmland is to Syndicats d’Exploitants Agricoles (FNSEA), France’s largest farmers’ be used. union, are committed to jointly developing ethanol and biodieselbased biofuels in line with the objectives of the European Union COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS (CNG) Directive on renewable energies, which sets a target of sourcing at Compressed natural gas (CNG), which is comprised mainly of least 10% of land transport fuel from renewables by 2020. methane (CH4), is also among the energies used by PSA Peugeot In a partnership with the Ladetel laboratory in Brazil, the Group Citroën in markets where the gas represents a plausible alternative is operating a fleet of modern diesel vehicles that run on local to petrol, such as Argentina and China. These are markets where fuels made from vegetable sources, to promote diesel engines for local conditions are favourable to its development (secure CNG individual motoring. supply, political commitment to set up a distribution network and PSA Peugeot Citroën is also helping to create an advanced laboratory tax incentives), such as in Argentina and the Middle East. Using with the Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro (PUC) and CNG also helps to reduce tank-to-wheel carbon emissions by 20% more recently launched a partnership with Petrobras, the energy compared with conventional petrol fuels. company, to reduce carbon emissions by optimising combustion of local biofuels. Finally, the Group has signed up to partner FAPESP, ETHANOL AND FLEX-FUEL VEHICLES a São Paulo government organisation, in creating a network for Ethanol and its derivative, ethyl tertiary butyl ether (ETBE), which research into engines and biofuels to run for 10 years. are made from cereals and sugar beets in Europe and sugar cane in The Group is actively involved in developing biofuel standards to Brazil, are biofuels that can be blended with petrol. ensure the minimal quality levels required to support efficient engine SP95-E10, a fuel introduced in France in 2009, is a blend of regular performance, proper vehicle operation and a satisfying driving unleaded petrol (SP95) and 10% plant-derived ethanol. All of the experience. It is also a member of the steering committee of the Group’s petrol-powered models produced since 1 January 2000 can European Biofuels Technology Platform. run on SP95-E10. PSA Peugeot Citroën has also developed flex-fuel engines that can ADVANCED BIOFUELS run on ethanol/petrol blends of up to 85% ethanol in Europe (E85) Extending the use of biofuels, without detracting from their positive and from 20 to 100% ethanol in Brazil. While the development of social and environmental impact, requires the development of soE85 is still marginal in France and elsewhere in Europe, Brazil is the called “advanced” biofuels, which can be made from biomass world’s largest market for ethanol and flex-fuel vehicles. feedstocks, such as crop residue, non-food crops, organic waste or In the years ahead, flex-fuel models will be brought to market equipped even microalgae. PSA Peugeot Citroën is contributing to this process with new families of petrol engines currently being developed. This by participating in research projects and real-world trials. For solution will help to improve the new engines’ energy efficiency by instance, the Shamash project, which aims to produce a lipid biofuel optimising consumption while also reducing CO2 emissions through from microalgae supplied by Alpha Biotech. the use of ethanol. A biofuel chair was created at the end of 2012 by IFP School (Institut The Group sold 102,000 flex-fuel vehicles in 2012 (150,000 Français du Pétrole), the Tuck Foundation and PSA Peugeot Citroën. in 2011) in Latin America. For a period of three years, this chair is structured around teaching and research activities aiming to expand knowledge on the impact of the use of biofuels in cars. BIODIESEL Biodiesels are a blend of diesel fuel and vegetable oil ethyl esters or methylesters (VOEEs or VOMEs), which are made from oilseeds 2.2.1.5. DEPLOYING MICRO-HYBRID, such as rapeseed. The biodiesels currently on retail sale (at the HYBRID AND ELECTRIC VEHICLES pump) in Europe contain up to 7% VOEE/VOMEs. G.22 G.29 G.32 Higher biofuel blends are more beneficial when used in captive fleets, where more rigorous fuel storage, refuelling and maintenance More than ever, the environmental challenges associated with processes are easier to implement. For example, the Group’s service automobile use are being met by technological solutions designed to fleet has been running on B30 fuel (a 30% biodiesel/70% diesel drive powerful breakthroughs in fuel efficiency and CO2 emissions. blend) for more than a decade and covers over 14 million kilometres PSA Peugeot Citroën’s introduction of Stop & Start solutions, a year with this fuel. hybrids and zero-emission vehicles, should consolidate its position in the European low-carbon vehicle segment and extend its expertise to other markets. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 49 2 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.2. Low carbon vehicles for all types of use STOP & START AND E-HDI TECHNOLOGIES PLUG-IN HYBRIDS Stop & Start technology allows the engine to shut down automatically PSA Peugeot Citroën is working on a plug-in hybrid, meaning a when the vehicle is standing still or in neutral – at a red light, for multi-functional vehicle that can be recharged on an ordinary electric example – and to start up again instantly and noiselessly when socket. An enhanced battery pack will enable the plug-in to run in allreactivated by the driver. As a result, it helps to reduce carbon electric mode for between 15 and 50 kilometres, which corresponds emissions by up to 15% in city driving. When combined with the to most motorists’ daily needs. It therefore offers all the benefits of an system’s cost-effectiveness, its features help to provide an efficient EV for day-to-day use, but can also handle longer distances thanks to solution to a number of traffic-related issues in cities, where 75% of its internal combustion engine. Europeans live. Through its subsidised research project, the HYDOLE – mostly First-generation Stop & Start technology was introduced on electric hybrid – builds on the success of HYbrid4 and adds a Lithe Citroën C2 and C3 in 2004. The second generation, known Ion battery developed by PSA Peugeot Citroën as well as a more as e-HDi, delivers superior driveability, faster restart and other powerful electric motor. premium features. Fitted on an HDi diesel engine, the new reversible With a range of 60 km under electric power, HYDOLE demonstrators starter-alternator is more efficient and improves power management. can handle most daily trips noiselessly and emission free. In hybrid Introduced in the second half of 2010 on the Citroën C5, the mode, they also meet the need for longer range travel. HYDOLE technology continued to be deployed throughout 2012 and will be combines a small internal combustion engine with a 50 kW electric progressively rolled out through the range in 2013. The objective is motor and a battery that allows a 60 km range without recharging. It to sell a total of one million vehicles equipped with Stop & Start and prioritises electrical power, which is emission-free and silent, as long e-HDi by the end of 2013. as the battery has charge. The internal combustion engine only kicks Beyond that date, PSA Peugeot Citroën is planning, for the 2015in if the vehicle needs to draw more than 50 kW. Once the battery is 2020 period, to extend deployment of Stop & Start and e-HDi empty, the vehicle becomes a classic full hybrid. There are plans for technologies in Europe, China and other regions by combining recent a ZEV (Zero Emission Vehicle) button. When pressed, HYDOLE advances in its diesel and petrol internal combustion engines with would behave completely like a full-electric vehicle, including innovative technologies for managing vehicle electrical consumption. running in tortoise mode when the battery is low. Unlike an electric vehicle, however, when the battery is empty the driver need only HYBRIDS switch out of ZEV mode to turn it back into a full hybrid. It is even possible to save the electrical charge for later by programming in a HYbrid4: PSA Peugeot Citroën’s HYbrid4 diesel hybrid reserve of 5 to 50 km. technology represents a major breakthrough in terms of fuel efficiency and CO2 emissions in the European market, offering The project, subsidised by ADEME under its funding of research gains of up to 30% compared with the equivalent HDi diesel model demonstrators for low-carbon energies, ended at the end of 2012. and emitting less than 100 g/km of CO2. The powertrain combines Lessons learned will feed back into R&D work on rechargeable the high fuel efficiency of the HDi diesel in highway driving with hybrids to optimise the size of motors and batteries. all the benefits of electric propulsion on city and suburban roads. Over the longer term, the Group is studying possible applications It also offers all-wheel drive capability, thanks to the electric motor of technologies that can significantly reduce CO2 emissions, such as mounted on the rear axle assembly, as well as e-HDi technology the development of very affordable hybrid solutions to make lowand a particulate filter. emission cars available to the great majority of customers. The first diesel hybrids on the market, the Peugeot 3008 HYbrid4, 508 RXH and 508 HYbrid4 and the Citroën DS5 HYbrid4 have ELECTRIC VEHICLES been equipped with this technology since early 2012. 2011 saw the market launch of the Peugeot iOn and Citroën C-Zero, As part of its strategy to reduce the carbon footprint of vehicles sold developed in conjunction with Mitsubishi Motors Corporation. In in China, the Group plans to bring hybrids to the Chinese market all, the Group sold 6,700 electric vehicles in Europe during 2012, by 2015. including 6,123 in the Europe 18 countries, making it the market HYbrid Eco: PSA Peugeot Citroën is also developing a hybridisation leader with a share of over 34%. solution for the mass market. This technology is designed for Car-sharing services involving a significant number of EVs were category B, C and D petrol and diesel vehicles and should permit introduced and favourably received. PSA Peugeot Citroën was savings of 15 g/Km of CO2 and up to 15% fuel efficiency. involved in launching these services in the French cities of Nice and Hybrid Air: The Group also unveiled in January 2013 a new type La Rochelle of full-hybrid powertrain: Hybrid Air. An innovative breakout At its Innovation Day in January 2013, PSA Peugeot Citroën technology that combines petrol and compressed air, it represents a presented its light city electric vehicle, the VéLV. Because 60% of big step towards the 2 l/100 km vehicle. city trips are made in an individual vehicle, leading to heavy CO2 emissions, the VéLV, a light electric vehicle project, seeks to meet the need for urban and suburban motoring with record low electricity consumption of just 85 Wh/km. 50 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.2. Low carbon vehicles for all types of use 2 FUEL CELL VEHICLES EQUIPMENT Over the longer term, the Group is exploring possible applications of Overall vehicle energy efficiency also involves optimising constituent hydrogen fuel cell technology. components and sub-assemblies. Having built seven demonstrators, the Group continues to monitor Reducing tyre rolling resistance by 1 kg/tonne lowers carbon emissions and partner fundamental research, including support for projects by 2 g/km. PSA Peugeot Citroën systematically looks for tyres that with the National Research Association and dissertations. achieve the best trade-off between grip (primary safety), comfort, At the moment, fuel cells can be used as a range extender, with the noise and low rolling resistance, while adapting to the requirements 20 kW module, or for propulsion, with several 80 kW stacks. of each country or region (Europe, China, Latin America, etc.). The Group prefers to use very low rolling resistance tyres equipped with However, fuel cell vehicles do not yet have the technical and pressure sensors. economic maturity needed to support mass-market production. As a result, process engineering and mass marketing would not seem It also systematically applies a strategy of reducing losses caused foreseeable until 2025. by friction on all mechanical parts of the vehicle, including brakes, bearings and bushings. Although considerable progress has been made, hydrogen fuel cell technology has yet to overcome a number of obstacles, including Improving the control and management of electrically-powered the cost of the fuel cell system, the lack of infrastructure for mass components (sensors, actuators, motors) by 10 amperes also market distribution of hydrogen, the well-to-wheel energy and CO2 provides a carbon reduction of about 3 g/km. The major levers for footprint, the fuel cell’s lifespan, and the size, mass and cost of the improvement are electrifying components, energy recovery (mainly hydrogen storage system. via regenerative braking) and storage, and using innovative electrical/ electronic control systems and architectures. Improvements in fuel efficiency also involve air-conditioning systems, by optimising fluids and components (evaporator, compressor) to 2.2.1.6. OPTIMISING VEHICLE ARCHITECTURE reduce the energy needed for their operation, and by developing heat AND EQUIPMENT G.22 G.29 G.32 exchangers that recover energy via thermal loops. In addition to its engine, fuel and hybrid technologies, PSA Peugeot Along with gear ratio change indicators, PSA Peugeot Citroën is Citroën is optimising vehicle features in order to position itself as developing a set of environmentally friendly driving systems, such as a leader in reducing fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. The the eco-driving interface. technical levers that will reduce carbon emissions are vehicle mass, aerodynamics and architecture, tyre rolling resistance and electrical MASS power management as well as comfort, safety and driver assistance systems. Vehicle mass has a direct influence on fuel consumption, and therefore on greenhouse gas emissions: a weight reduction of Taking into account how these levers interact, the Group’s technical 110 kg leads to an average 8 or 9 g/km reduction in CO2, taking and product development teams are striving to guarantee future into account the induced effects on the vehicle’s size and powertrain. vehicles that meet expectations in all host markets – whether in At a given power-to-weight ratio, a lighter vehicle will need a less Europe, Asia or Latin America – in terms of cost, consumer appeal powerful engine and smaller mechanical components (vehicle frame, and features. suspension systems, brakes, etc.). In terms of fuel consumption and CO2 emissions, the Group Already a leader in terms of the average weight of its vehicles, PSA has competitive advantage that it aims to develop, with targeted Peugeot Citroën is taking an active approach to further lightening its positioning – for all its car ranges, from premium to core models, vehicles, making this a major lever in reducing their environmental and for all its utility vehicles – in the low CO2 emissions bands. This footprint. The current technical deployment plans will enable objective will be met through major technological efforts as well as by reducing the weight of vehicles now under development by more than an on-going search for the right balance of sizes, optimised mass and 100 kg in relation to current models: for example, the Peugeot 208 highly attractive features in terms of spaciousness, comfort, roadintroduced in 2012 weighs 110 kg less than the Peugeot 207. holding and equipment. At the same time as the Group is optimising its vehicle architecture, In 2012, the Group deployed vehicles that were very well positioned it is also focusing on the choice of materials (high-strength steels, in terms of carbon emissions in each segment of the European aluminium, composites, plastics) and assembly techniques. In 2012, market. The strategy of extending and strengthening these levers has metals accounted for about 70% of the vehicle’s total weight. Highalso been planned for the medium and long term, combined with tensile steel is preferred because of its superior rigidity. Whenever “breakthrough” technological innovations, in all regions. technically feasible and cost effective, mass is being reduced by In January 2013, the Group presented its new global platform: choosing lower density materials, such as the aluminium, composite Efficient Modular Platform 2 or EMP2.This new generation platform materials and thermoplastics used instead of steel. Innovative provides effective solutions in terms of modularity, equipment and assembly techniques provide further gains. For example, hot carbon reduction (by reducing vehicle mass). stamping and laser welding help lighten the car body, while improving shock resistance. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 51 2 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.2. Low carbon vehicles for all types of use AERODYNAMICS O the wheel environment, by limiting the permeability of wheel rims, and avoiding whipstall; A vehicle’s drag (SCx) also has a direct influence on its greenhouse O ground clearance; gas emissions: improving SCx by 5 dm2 reduces CO2 emissions by 2 g/km. O airflow circuits (cooling, engine cooling, brake cooling), by optimising the capture of aerodynamic forces through a reduction However, to reduce drag, all parts of the vehicle must be taken into of the engine and cooling system thermal requirements, by consideration: installing airflow ducts and electronically controlled air inlet O the upper section of the body, by making the vehicle’s projected systems; frontal area more compact, by reducing the vehicle’s wake through O rear-view mirrors and hubcaps, by optimising their design to avoid adjustments to the rear section, and by limiting structures that aerodynamic turbulence. cause vortices; PSA Peugeot Citroën is committed to sharply reducing aerodynamic O the underbody, by smoothing the underfloor structure using drag on all its model lines. This work is being carried out in aerodynamic fairings, by limiting the impact of suspension conjunction with efforts to optimise vehicle architecture and design. components, and by controlling air intakes in the engine compartment; 2.2.2. PROTECTING AIR QUALITY G.22 G.24 G.41 2.2.2.1. REDUCING VEHICLE EXHAUST needing to do anything). It is based on iron which is wholly captured EMISSIONS by the filter and brings down the combustion temperature for soot by a hundred degrees, allowing faster regeneration under all conditions PSA Peugeot Citroën identified the need to deal with particulate of vehicle use (town or motorway driving, etc.) unlike catalytic filters. pollution from the late 1990s and introduced a new generation of The particulate filter removes particles in all driving conditions. It is a HDI engines onto the market, which have cut particulate emissions mechanical system which operates effectively in all phases of engine by 60% on the previous generation (to 100 mg/km from the new function – load/temperature, hot/cold, motorway/town driving – even HDI engines, 250 mg in earlier versions). when the filter is full. To solve the problem once and for all, the Group invented the The technology for the particulate filter with additive developed by particulate filter, available since 2000 and deployed significantly PSA Peugeot Citroën reduces the fraction of NO2 in the NOx, unlike since 2007. the catalytic filters used by the competition. The particulate filter filters particles of all sizes (fine and ultrafine) In France, almost 2.5 million diesel Peugeot and Citroën vehicles are extremely efficiently (>99.9% in number, >99% in mass). equipped with particulate filters of the 16,500,000 passenger cars The full Peugeot and Citroën diesel range has been equipped with on the road. particulate filters since 2010 – they have been mandatory for all Particle emissions have gone from more than 3,500,000 particles vehicles sold since the Euro 5 all types standard came into force in in number per cm3 on an unfiltered diesel engine to 3,500 particles January 2011. per cm3 on a diesel engine with a particulate filter. PSA Peugeot Citroën has adopted a particulate filter with additive This type of diesel engine therefore emits fewer particles than the solution, the best option for efficiency and regeneration. This solution cleanest petrol engine. includes an additive reservoir, a ceramic filter and sensors. The additive is introduced automatically in the fuel (without the driver 52 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.2. Low carbon vehicles for all types of use 2 MEETING EUROPEAN EMISSIONS STANDARDS WITH A FOCUS ON THE LAST THREE STAGES: EURO 4, EURO 5 AND EURO 6 These standards set maximum admissible levels of CO, HC, NOx and particulate matter (weight and number) emissions. The Euro 5 and Euro 6 stages aim to reduce the maximum admissible levels of particulate matter and NOx emissions of diesel-powered vehicles to very low levels. The Euro 5 and Euro 6 standards represent a more than 80% reduction in diesel particulate matter weight compared with Euro 4. To meet the standard for the number of particles, a high level of filtering efficiency is required (more than 99%). As for diesel nitrous oxide emissions, Euro 5 represents a 30% reduction and Euro 6 a 70% reduction compared with Euro 4. Petrol vehicle* – CNG – LPG (g/km) Diesel vehicle (g/km) Exhaust emissions at 20° C Euro 4 Euro 5 Euro 6 Euro 4 Euro 5 Euro 6 CO 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.50 0.50 0.50 Non-methane HC 0.068 0.068 THC 0.10 0.10 0.10 NOX 0.08 0.06 0.06 0.25 0.18 0.08 THC+NOX 0.30 0.23 0.17 Particle emissions (mass) 0.005/0.0045** 0.0045** 0.025 0.005/0.0045** 0.0045** 6X1012 part/km (1) Particle emissions (number) 6X1011 part/km (2) 6X1011 part/km (3) 6X1011 part/km Durability (km) 100,000 160,000 160,000 100,000 160,000 160,000 * Beginning with Euro 5, applies only to vehicles with direct-injection petrol engines. ** On the application dates – 1 September 2011 for new vehicle types and 1 January 2013 for all types – a changeover to a more precise measurement procedure will reduce the maximum admissible level to 0.0045 from 0.005 g/km. On the same dates, particle number (PN) emission limits will also be introduced, initially for diesels. (1) Extension of PN limits at the manufacturer’s request until 31 August 2017 for new vehicle types and 31 August 2018 for all types (one year later for certain categories). (2) Stricter PN limits beginning on 1 September 2017 for new vehicle types and 1 September 2018 for all types (one year later for certain categories). (3) Introduction of PN emission limits for diesels beginning on 1 September 2011 and for new vehicle types and on 1 January 2013 for all types. Petrol vehicle* – CNG – LPG (g/test cycle) Diesel vehicle (g/test cycle) Evaporation emissions Euro 4 Euro 5 Euro 6 Euro 4 Euro 5 Euro 6 HC 2.00 2.00 2.00 HC: Unburned hydrocarbons – NMHC: Unburned non-methane hydrocarbons (without CH 4) – CO: Carbon monoxide – NOx: Nitrous oxides. * A more stringent procedure for measuring evaporation losses is currently being prepared at European level and will be specified in 2013. It will impose stricter requirements beginning in September 2017 for new vehicle types and in September 2018 for all types. Current exhaust emissions limits at -7° C concern only vehicles with positive-ignition engines (petrol, natural gas, etc.) and involve only unburned hydrocarbons (THC) and carbon monoxide (CO): Exhaust emissions at -7°C Limits for carbon monoxide and tailpipe hydrocarbon emissions after a cold-start test* Vehicle category Class Carbon monoxide (CO) mass L1 (g/km) Hydrocarbon (HC) mass L2 (g/km) M 15 1.8 N1 I 15 1.8 II 24 2.7 III 30 3.2 N2 30 3.2 * Emissions are measured during the urban driving phase of the European homologation procedure to focus on limiting them in city driving, after start-up. This regulation was designed to meet a real need to improve air quality near population centres to protect human health. The limits have not been revised since Euro 3. Officials from the European Union and certain Nordic member states feel that it is time to review the situation for Euro 6-compliance and, more importantly, to regulate NOx emissions as well, with a priority on diesel engines. This would involve stricter measurement of emissions in these temperature conditions, ensuring that after-treatment systems are effective. The new NOx requirement could be applied to petrol applications, if warranted. Low temperature NO2 emissions could also be regulated. In Europe, the Group’s petrol and diesel-powered passenger cars The following stage, Euro 6, will come into effect on 1 September have complied with Euro 5 standards since September 2009 for new 2014 for new models and in September 2015 for all new car models brought to market and since January 2011 for all models registrations (one year later for certain categories). currently being sold. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 53 2 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.2. Low carbon vehicles for all types of use In the rest of the world, vehicles sold by PSA Peugeot Citroën meet or Picasso, C5, C6, C8, C-Crosser, Berlingo, Jumpy (Dispatch), Jumper exceed the applicable standards in each local market and are equipped (Relay) and Nemo. with the new technologies developed for the European market. PSA Peugeot Citroën adopted a particulate filter with additive solution, the best option for efficiency and regeneration. This solution ELIMINATING PARTICULATE EMISSIONS WITH includes an additive reservoir, a ceramic filter and sensors. The THE PARTICULATE FILTER additive is introduced automatically in the fuel (without the driver needing to do anything). It is based on iron which is wholly captured The diesel particulate filter (DPF) is an after-treatment system by the filter and brings down the combustion temperature for soot by that eliminates close to 100% of even the smallest particulate a hundred degrees, allowing faster regeneration under all conditions matter in exhaust gases. It has further enhanced the environmental of vehicle use (town or motorway driving, etc.) unlike catalytic filters. performance of diesel engines and is playing an important role in improving the quality of air in urban environments. Launched by The particulate filter removes particles in all driving conditions. It is a PSA Peugeot Citroën in 2000 in a world first for the Group, the mechanical system which operates effectively in all phases of engine FAP particulate filter has set the new standard for European diesels. function – load/temperature, hot/cold, motorway/town driving – even In its Euro 5 standards, the European Commission backed by its when the filter is full. member states stipulated that all diesel vehicles must be equipped In 2012, vehicles equipped with particulate filters accounted for more with particulate filters. DPF-equipped Peugeot and Citroën models than 78% of total Group diesel vehicle sales worldwide, compared already more than meet particulate emissions standards defined in with 65% in 2011, 47% in 2010 and 37% in 2009. the Euro 5 and Euro 6 stages. A pioneer in this field, the Group had sold more than 6.5 million REDUCING NOX EMISSIONS WITH SELECTIVE CATALYTIC DPF-equipped diesel vehicles by the end of 2012. The particulate REDUCTION (SCR) filter screens out all fine and ultrafine particles very effectively (more than 99.9% by particle number, more than 99% by mass). To prepare for Euro 6 standards, PSA Peugeot Citroën has decided to deploy Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) technology across the The full Peugeot and Citroën diesel range has been equipped with model line-up, identified by the “Blue Hdi” label. particulate filters since 2010 – it has been mandatory for all vehicles since the Euro 5 standard came into force for all vehicle types in This new after-treatment technology, which substantially reduces January 2011. nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions, is based on abating NOx production by injecting urea into the exhaust stream before it enters a special With the advent of the Euro 5 stage, the DPF with additive technology catalyst chamber. has been extended to all Peugeot and Citroën diesel models, including the Peugeot 207, 308, 3008, 5008, 407, 508, 807, 4007, 4008, RCZ, Integrated into a new emission control architecture including a Partner, Expert, Boxer and Bipper and the Citroën DS3, C3, C4, C4 particulate filter, SCR helps to optimise fuel efficiency and limits CO2 emissions. 2.2.3. “FROM CRADLE TO CRADLE”: RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AND RECYCLING 2.2.3.1. USE OF MATERIALS G.28 For the Group, green materials include three families of materials: recycled plastics, natural materials (wood, vegetable fibres, etc.) In its commitment to optimising the use of natural resources and and biomaterials (made from renewable feedstocks rather than the limiting its products’ environmental footprint, PSA Peugeot Citroën petrochemical industry production chain). Their use offers a number analyses and selects materials for new projects based on the findings of benefits, such as reducing the use of fossil plastics and fostering the of life cycle assessments, which review every stage in a material’s life development of plastics recycling processes by increasing demand. cycle, along with the related environmental impacts. Since 2008, the Group has deployed an ambitious plan which has increased the proportion of green materials, by weight, in the total AN ASSERTIVE COMMITMENT TO USING GREEN polymers of the 208 (excluding tyres) to 25% in 2012, from an MATERIALS average 6% in 2007. PSA Peugeot Citroën is focusing much of its research on polymers The wider application of green materials requires the development (non-metallic and non-mineral materials), which account for 20% of of robust supply chains and more research on new materials. To meet a vehicle’s total mass. Most of the other materials, such as metals and its targets, the Group is actively selecting and certifying materials that fluids, are already recyclable and extensively recycled. The steel used offer the best cost/technical trade-offs, to create a portfolio of solutions already contains a large amount of steel from recycled sources. for future vehicle projects. In 2012, this portfolio was expanded to include four new families of green materials, representing 36% of all certified families of green materials. 54 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.2. Low carbon vehicles for all types of use 2 To spur faster development of the biomaterials industry and expand They are present in nearly 30 components. the use of these materials in automobiles, PSA Peugeot Citroën is Examples include: involved in a large number of scientific partnerships. In particular, O the rear bumper impact absorption unit, composed entirely of it is leading the MATORIA project to develop new injection recycled materials, plastics made from renewable resources. It is also participating in O the engine protection shielding, which includes fibreglass felt the BIOCER project to develop thermoplastic composites from made from shredded used glass, natural fibres, which offer improved collision behaviour. The Group is also helping to financially support the Bioplastics university chair O the seat shells, which are made with recycled materials, at the Mines ParisTech engineering school, notably by funding five O the rear parcel shelf, which is made of natural materials doctoral dissertations on natural fibres, bio-sourced polymers and a (pressed wood) and recycled fibre; variety of other subjects. O the 270 kg of polymers used in the Citroën DS5 (excluding tyres) Finally, PSA Peugeot Citroën is partnering the new BIOMass/ include 19% green materials. The green component comprises Miscanthus project alongside Faurecia and the National Institute for 30% natural materials and 70% recycled materials. Agronomy Research (INRA). For example, the seat shells are made of polypropylene reinforced with flax fibre, while the headlight housing, instrument panel ducts USING GREEN MATERIALS IN VEHICLES and air filter housing are made with recycled polypropylene; O on the Peugeot 208, “green materials” (either recycled or of Each vehicle project has a contractual objective for the use of green natural origin) account for 25% of the car’s total polymer weight. materials, in line with the growth curve defined by the Group. In a world first, the rear bumper is made entirely of recycled material. According to a life cycle analysis currently being conducted in the % Group, a bumper made entirely of recycled polypropylene reduces fuel consumption by 1,600 tonnes (for production in Europe in 30 one year). Similarly a study conducted with Rhodia and Valeo shows that the use of recycled polyamide in the cooling fan system 208 25 reduces carbon emissions during manufacture by around 30%, compared with production using new polyamide. 20 Green materials are also used for many other parts and subDS5 assemblies, including wheel well inner liners, rear bumpers, C4 508 soundproofing, boot carpeting, steering wheels, seats, engine 15 covers and air filters; C3 Picasso O in Latin America, the Citroën Aircross comprises 20 kg of green 10 3008 C3 materials, in particular in the boot carpeting and door insets. 5 REDUCING HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES G.24 G.41 For many years, PSA Peugeot Citroën has been attentive to the 0 health and safety of its customers and employees. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Regulatory requirements are factored into all phases of vehicle life, from design and manufacture to use and end-of-life recycling, in Progress towards fulfilling the green materials plan may be seen in close collaboration with suppliers. They focus on two major issues: the latest Peugeot and Citroën cars brought to market: O the elimination of four heavy metals (lead, mercury, cadmium and O on the Citroën C3 Picasso, green materials make up around hexavalent chromium) that are regulated by Directive 2000/53/ 11% of the car’s 170 kg of polymers (excluding tyres). Examples EC on end-of-life vehicles. In 2002, PSA Peugeot Citroën first include natural fibres, used to make the rear parcel shelves, boot asked suppliers to provide a compliance certificate for each part carpeting and door insets, and recycled automotive plastics, used delivered. Since 2004, this information has been collected from as raw material for mudguards; suppliers using the material composition system information reporting form; O on the new Citroën C4, green materials represent 15% of the car’s 200 kg of polymers (excluding tyres). The green component O compliance with the REACH regulation. As the final link in the comprises 40% natural materials and 60% recycled materials. production chain, PSA Peugeot Citroën has set up an organisation They are found in around thirty parts or sub-assemblies, such as and a communication system to monitor its partners and suppliers the rear bumper, soundproofing, boot carpets, seats and air filters; and ensure that they comply with the REACH regulation.To ensure compliance, the Group uses the automotive industry guidelines on O the 230 kg of polymers used in the Peugeot 508 (excluding REACH (http://www.acea.be/news/news_detail/reach_guideline/), tyres) include 14.3% green materials. As with the Citroën C4, which it helped to draft as a member of the European Automobile the green component comprises 40% natural materials and 60% Manufacturers’ Association (ACEA). PSA Peugeot Citroën has recycled materials. set a goal of limiting as much as possible the use of substances on the REACH candidate list and anticipating the prohibitions in Appendix XIV by working as far upstream as it can in the new material research and innovation phase. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 55 2 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.2. Low carbon vehicles for all types of use In addition to monitoring regulatory requirements, PSA Peugeot B.V. The ABattReLife project aims to deepen the Group’s Citroën has voluntarily introduced technical solutions to ensure understanding of the high voltage battery life cycle. Practically the highest levels of customer health and safety. These include speaking, it will assemble and manage a database on the filters for air coming into the passenger compartment and limits behaviour and deterioration of high voltage batteries, and on volatile organic compounds in materials used. In addition, develop strategies and technologies for recycling and reusing chemical compounds known for their allergenic properties are lithium ion batteries, closely monitored. O for EV and hybrid vehicle batteries, PSA Peugeot Citroën has forged partnerships with specialised recyclers to ensure that these end-of-life products are processed using appropriate, 2.2.3.2. RECYCLING END-OF-LIFE VEHICLES effective recycling technologies; G.25 O designing-in vehicle emissions control requirements. Decontamination, or pre-treatment, is the first mandatory step in the processing of end-of-life vehicles. It involves draining all ECO-DESIGNING FOR DISASSEMBLY AND REUSE fluids from the vehicle, neutralising pyrotechnical components and Upstream, the impacts of recycling end-of-life vehicles (ELVs) are dismounting parts considered harmful to the environment. The taken into account in every new model and component. Vehicle objective of this step is to avoid transferring pollution to another materials are selected according to increasingly strict criteria that part of the environment when processing ELVs: are designed to foster the development of recovery and recycling O PSA Peugeot Citroën has developed an in-house tool for facilities. To ensure that its vehicles are highly recyclable, the Group determining how easily a vehicle can be pretreated for is committed to: recycling. This qualitative method evaluates the accessibility of O using easily recyclable materials; parts that must be decontaminated and the ease at which this can be done. The results of these evaluations have been used O reducing the variety of plastics in a car, to facilitate sorting after to define new design requirements, with the goal of making it shredding, optimise the related recovery processes and ensure easier to decontaminate ELVs. For any component that has their profitability; to be decontaminated, a datasheet describing the necessary O using a single family of plastics per major function, so that an entire procedure must be prepared during the design stage, sub-assembly can be recycled without prior dismantling; O for example, in addition to drain plugs, automatic gearbox O marking plastic parts with standardised codes, to ensure identification, casings now include a pre-weakened section that is punctured sorting and traceability; during decontamination, thereby allowing all the oil contained O introducing green materials, especially recycled materials, into within to be drained. Similarly, low points on fuel tanks are vehicle design to support the emergence or development of new now indicated so that the person in charge of decontamination markets for certain materials; knows where they should be punctured to allow complete O integrating recycling considerations very far upstream, starting with drainage; the innovation phases, with particular attention to new materials or O as a participant in the International Dismantling Information vehicle parts. As part of this commitment, PSA Peugeot Citroën is System (IDIS) project, the Group provides scrapyard facilities involved in research and development projects with partners from with disassembly instructions for Peugeot and Citroën vehicles. the automotive and recycling sectors: O along with equipment manufacturer Mecaplast, recycler French testing laboratory UTAC has certified that PSA Peugeot Galloo Plastics and compounder RTP, the Group is taking Citroën is able to implement the processes needed to ensure that part in the Recyclon project, which is supported by the French all Peugeot and Citroën vehicles are certifiably 95% recoverable by Environment and Energy Management Agency (ADEME). weight, of which 85% is actually reusable or recyclable. Today, all This four-year project is studying the industrial feasibility of Peugeot and Citroën vehicles have been certified compliant and on a programme for sorting and recycling ELV polyamides after 8 December 2011 UTAC certification was renewed for a three-year shredding. This method for extracting polyamides requires period. the use of special new polymer sorting procedures that will Downstream, the Group has for more than 20 years been involved in be developed by the recycler. A project will then be launched collecting and processing ELVs from its dealership networks through on compounding the materials and manufacturing automotive partnerships with vehicle demolition and shredding companies. parts with the recycled polyamide, Demolition companies are in charge of decontaminating and O PSA Peugeot Citroën is also leading the European partially or entirely dismantling end-of-life vehicles, while shredding ABattReLife project, launched in May 2012 with the companies extract then process scrap aluminium, copper and other following partners: Germany’s Bayerische Motoren Werke important materials for sale in the international marketplace. AG, Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft and Bayern Innovativ GmbH; Directive 2000/53/EC on end-of-life vehicles spells out three types of France’s Pôle Véhicule du Futur, Université de Technologie de recovery: reuse of parts, recycling of materials and energy recovery. Belfort-Montbéliard and Université de Technologie de Troyes and It requires vehicles to be 85% recoverable by weight, of which 80% is the Netherlands’ Nederlandse Organisatie voor Toegepast actually reusable or recyclable. Beginning in 2015, vehicles will have Natuurwetenschappelijk Onderzoek and KEMA Nederland to be 95% recoverable, of which 85% reusable or recyclable. 56 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.3. Mobility solutions 2 To meet these mandatory regulations for ELV processing and ensure This strategy also creates opportunities for developing new materials profitability, the Group prefers to use shredding technology then sort sourcing channels for the auto industry. These may include the shredded materials. Beyond this, the goal is to recover not just integrating recycled plastic in the new vehicles production process metals but a broader range of materials that can be used in two ways: through the green materials programmes or by recycling non-ferrous metals in engine manufacture. O recycled materials, which are then used as green materials; O recovered energy. The major challenge now is to meet the European Directive’s ambitious target of 95% recyclability of recovered ELVs by 2015 on A post-shredding sorting system now creates an economically viable favourable economic terms. business in a raw materials market increasingly shaped by price fluctuations. To achieve this goal, the Group has identified two areas for improvement: In France, to ensure full ELV traceability and guarantee that overall recovery and recycling targets are met, PSA Peugeot Citroën 1. the on-going integration of green materials in new vehicle design forges relationships with technically skilled, cost-efficient industrial programmes; partners. 2. identifying industrial partners that can help it meet its objectives: complying with regulations and with ELV pick-up and incentivising These partners work with networks of certified demolition companies payment schedules in dealership networks, achieving an overall (500 at year-end 2012) that collect end-of-life vehicles, deregister 95% end-of-life vehicle recycling and recovery rate, and investing and decontaminate them and then dismantle them to resell parts in R&D projects to find new outlets for recycling channels. for reuse. These encouraging results confirm the Group has made the right This strategy led to the collection between 2009 and 2012 of more strategic choices and this model may now be extended to the major than 680,000 vehicles sold through the Peugeot and Citroën networks. countries in Europe. PSA Peugeot Citroën’s performance in overall recovery of end-ofIn European markets the Group, via its subsidiaries, checks that local life vehicles through its network is better than the national average partners can meet the recycling demands of the European Directive. and compliant with European regulations: All contracts agreed by subsidiaries are continuously monitored O PSA Peugeot Citroën performance in 2011 = 88.9% of which 82% so that any shortcomings can be corrected immediately. Outside reused or recycled; Europe, the Group is leading the search for local partners who can O national average in 2011 = 81.9% of which 79% reused or recycled meet national regulations, as it did in Russia for instance in 2012. (ADEME figures). 2.3. MOBILITY SOLUTIONS G.32 In addition to such traditional services as maintenance, financing and insurance, PSA Peugeot Citroën is developing services that promote a new vision of mobility. 2.3.1. MOBILITY SERVICES AND ONBOARD INTELLIGENCE 2.3.1.1. MOBILITY SERVICES utility vehicle, replacement car or scooter, GPS device or a roof box. The offer also covers hire of an electric bicycle, the Peugeot e-vivacity electric scooter and a Peugeot iOn or Hybrid. MU BY PEUGEOT Currently available at more than 90 sites in seven European Mu by Peugeot is a new generation service allowing people to rent countries, Mu by Peugeot will continue to be rolled out at a rate of mobility, introduced in 2010. This innovative offering allows anyone over 100 new sites each year. to access an array of mobility services online or via a smartphone The programme has received several awards for its innovative app. They can rent the right Peugeot product or accessory to suit conception since it was introduced, including in Germany, Belgium, their immediate mobility needs, be it a bicycle, scooter, car, light Spain and the United Kingdom. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 57 2 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.3. Mobility solutions PEUGEOT FOR COMPANIES O innovative services to meet new mobility patterns: O rentals between individuals, available since June 2012. The Since 2011, Peugeot has been offering companies a four-strand vehicle-owner can make money by hiring out their vehicle on solution to best manage the work travel of their employees: the days they don’t need it and the hirer gets a flexible solution O Mobility audits to their occasional need for a vehicle, In 2011, Peugeot began offering mobility audits in nine European O car sharing, a sociable way to pass a trip while saving fuel and countries. After identifying the transportation solutions used by CO2 emissions, a company’s employees for business travel or commuting, the O 100% electric car-sharing in Berlin: “Citroën Multicity carauditors make recommendations to optimise selected solutions sharing Berlin”, launched on 30 September 2012 by Citroën by looking at the trade-offs between resources invested in travel, Multicity Germany, allows users to share rented C-Zero environmental impact and user comfort. electric vehicles in Berlin. This is a self-service, flexible (oneRecommended outcomes may include such things as promoting way), 100% electric service with no reservation required; car-pooling among employees with the same commute or the creation of a vehicle pool for different uses. All the measures are O a new mode of auto access: an innovative special offer where designed to help companies reduce their carbon footprint; users can have a long 23-month lease on a C-Zero electric vehicle and hire it out to others through the Citroën Multicity scheme, O Eco-consulting creating a hybrid combination of a private and public transport Eco-consulting means analysing a company’s carbon footprint by vehicle. Through this scheme, more than 1,000 people have assessing the CO2 emissions of its vehicle fleet; become ambassadors for the electric vehicle; O Eco-driving training O a new relationship with customers: a specific website for This is on-road training on driving behaviour, with data from Citroën Multicity: www.multicity.citroen.fr a specific website for vehicles fed through to an online platform for analysis. By Citroën owners that features an array of dedicated products and improving behaviour behind the wheel, this training helps reduce services to help them use their cars more effectively. They can for the environmental impact of vehicle journeys, lowering CO2 example, download GPS maps for an onboard navigation system, emissions and fuel consumption, as well as improving road safety; subscribe to a services contract or download information on O PEUGEOT Connect Fleet road hazards. This offering allows companies to track their fuel consumption It also supports Citroën customers, with the brand warranty, in and emissions over time via periodic data uploads from vehicles exploring new forms of mobility (rental between individuals, carequipped with a telematics box. pooling, etc.). CITROËN MULTICITY With the new Citroën Multicity mobility offering, launched in 2.3.1.2. ONBOARD INTELLIGENCE March 2011 in France and May 2012 in Germany, the brand has a solution – available to everyone without subscription – that PSA Peugeot Citroën’s new onboard intelligence services are designed has positioned auto maker Citroën as a travel facilitator. Citroën to make mobility safer, more efficient and more environmentally Multicity is an innovative service that saves time and makes travel friendly. easy, thanks to: Since 2002, Peugeot and Citroën have offered a range of assistance O a dedicated online journey planner. The itinerary engine services based on the shared RTx/NaviDrive telematics platform researches and compares all possible travel solutions based on the that combines, in a single unit, a radio, CD player, GSM hands-free criteria input. The resulting door-to-door multi-modal itineraries telephone, GPS navigation system and traffic information. offer customised responses showing cost, time and CO2 emissions Leveraging this experience, Peugeot and Citroën introduced a for each proposed trip. All modes of transport are considered, vehicle-integrated autonomous telematics box (ATB) equipped with whether individual (cars, taxis, etc.) or collective (buses, trams, an embedded SIM card in 2009. subways, planes, etc.). Citroën Multicity offers customers a range of itineraries, all modes of transport, all timetables, all prices and a direct transport reservation service from a single site; PEUGEOT CONNECT O a service for reserving plane tickets, car hire in some cities, Peugeot Connect offers a range of innovative services based on hotel rooms and foreign travel online or over the phone. With its information sent directly from the vehicle. These include: exclusive Call Car option, Citroën delivers a rental car in less than O Peugeot Connect SOS, for location-aware emergency calls; three hours to the location of the customer’s choice, for one hour O Peugeot Connect Assistance, for location-aware repair assistance; or for several days; 58 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.3. Mobility solutions 2 O Peugeot Connect Fleet, for easier fleet management. This service CITROËN ETOUCH provides remote access to all the data needed to support fleet use Citroën eTouch, a range of services for all types of customers, and maintenance, including odometre readings, the number of includes: kilometres before next inspection and diagnostics for mechanical components such as the gearbox and emissions control system. O a location-aware emergency call system and assistance service Fleet managers are alerted in real time by e-mail if the system thanks to an embedded SIM card; detects safety issues such as low oil, worn brake pads or underO a virtual log and an eco-driving service available via the inflated tyres. By promoting regular maintenance, the networked MyCITROËN web page and smartphone. service also helps reduce the fleet’s environmental impact; These services allow motorists to track their fuel consumption O Peugeot Connect Fleet also tracks fuel consumption and CO2 and CO2 emissions, as well as receive maintenance reminders emissions; and real-time vehicle alerts. They are available for free during the O Peugeot Connect Apps, evolving mobility services. The scheme warranty period. launched with nine applications available for the onboard touchscreen (10 in France) based around mobility services and in Lastly, Citroën’s Send-To-Car service allows users to forward the partnership with leading brands to make your trips easier, safer results of a Google Maps search from their computer to the onboard and more personalised. Peugeot 208s were including the offer in NaviDrive 3D platform, which then guides them to their destination three countries by the end of 2012. Easy to access, it is designed or connects them to a phone number. as a plug-n-play solution at no extra cost wherever the customer goes in the world. 2.3.2. FINANCE AND INSURANCE G.32 BPF PACKAGES CONSUMER PROTECTION G.41 Most BPF branches are now offering individual and corporate The distribution of consumer credits which makes up about 70% customers packages – designed in close coordination with the of total credits distributed by BPF and its subsidiaries are subject to Peugeot and Citroën marketing teams – that combine vehicle specific regulations that protect consumer rights. These regulations financing, maintenance and personal and vehicle insurance. The were strengthened in the EU by the adoption of Directive 2008/48/ packages provide continuous use of a vehicle for a fixed monthly EC on credit agreements for consumers, which each member state “subscription” whatever happens in the course of the contract: had to transpose into their own national laws before 12 May 2010. vehicle is off-road: breakdown, accident, unemployment, disability. BPF and/or its subsidiaries contributed to working and consultation BPF also offers solutions to extend the manufacturer’s warranty, groups set up by professional bodies in the different countries at the extending the maintenance and maintenance in good condition time the European Directive was being transposed. The directive beyond the normal brand warranty period so supporting its creates new obligations for advertising, pre-contractual information, customers’ mobility. solvency studies of borrowers and contractual information all of For companies, fleet financing offers allow, depending on the which were implemented by BPF and the subsidiaries affected. In customer’s profile, either a flexible budget tailored to changes in France, the directive was transposed in the Lagarde Law of 1 July vehicle use or a set budget for those with predictable needs. An 2010, reforming consumer credit, which came fully into force on “extranet” site is also available in some countries so corporate fleet 1 May 2011. managers can manage users’ travel in real-time and optimise and More generally, in the interests of quality and improving its customer manage costs (fuel consumption, etc.). processes, BPF has put in place a system for handling customer In 2012, BPF developed a specified financing deal for the Citroën complaints designed to quality assure their treatment (commitment C0, which allows customers to use the 100% electric vehicle at a on response times, requirement for a written response). This system promotional hire cost. This deal was part of the development of the is based on a framework instruction which requires all BPF’s local car-sharing and vehicle pooling scheme in partnership with Multicity. subsidiaries or branches to appoint a Head of Complaints to deal with A dedicated monthly fully comprehensive insurance product was complaints received in compliance with the instruction, to monitor also launched to accompany this offer. the types and volume of complaints, analyse this data and, where this shows up poor practice, take appropriate corrective measures. Crédipar, BPF’s French subsidiary, designed and marketed a specific mobility offering for the Peugeot electric scooter. Crédipar, BPF’s French subsidiary, joined an Ombudsman mediation system set up by the French association of Financial Companies More generally, BPF has a specific range of insurance for electric (ASF) and cites contact details for the Ombudsman in all its credit vehicles marketed by the PSA Peugeot Citroën Group. contracts alongside those for its own Consumer Department, which BPF is also introducing promotional financing offers in other is responsible for handling complaints. countries to support the sale of PSA Peugeot Citroën Group hybrids. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 59 2 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.3. Mobility solutions Crédipar also signed up to the “Agreement on amicable recovery Crédipar takes part in ASF working groups on the protection of of consumer credit” between the ASF and various consumer consumers (borrowers) and the struggle against overindebtedness. representative bodies. The Agreement seeks to guarantee customers Finally, BPF regularly measures the quality and performance of its that a number of good practice rules will be followed (progressive services, including through customer satisfaction surveys that allow a stages in the recovery process, respect for confidentiality and privacy, permanent improvement of customer relations. transparency in the relationship with the customer). In this way it seeks to promote amicable settlement of unpaid debts. 2.3.3. ROAD SAFETY G.41 PSA Peugeot Citroën has considered the safety of all road users to be These qualities are supported by driving assistance technologies that a top priority for many years, a position that has enabled it to develop come to the driver’s aid in emergency situations. some of the safest vehicles in the world. The Group is focusing on Anti-blocking systems (ABS, standard in all models), electronic technologies that have shown a proven ability to make automobiles brakeforce distribution (EBD), emergency braking assist (EBA), and fuel-efficient and safe, at an affordable cost for the largest number electronic stability programmes (ESP), which help drivers maintain of motorists. control even in a skid are now included as standard in all models in However, addressing road safety issues involves more than just Europe. installing increasingly sophisticated onboard safety systems, which The Grip Control system, which is integrated into the electronic make vehicles heavier and therefore less fuel-efficient. Roadway stability programme, is available on the Peugeot 3008 and Partner infrastructure must also be upgraded, while motorists and other and on the Citroën C4 Picasso, C5 and Berlingo. road users must be effectively educated in safe driving and road use practices. At PSA Peugeot Citroën, corporate social responsibility Tyre pressure monitoring systems help to detect under-inflated also means a daily focus on sponsoring and education. PSA Peugeot tyres that can reduce vehicle stability and threaten occupant safety. Citroën continued to work to improve road safety in 2012: By continuously checking tyre pressure, such systems also help to reduce tyre noise, improve fuel efficiency and increase tread life. O helping raise children’s awareness of road safety through its foundation; O supporting research programmes financed by the Road Safety VISIBILITY, SPEED AND SAFE FOLLOWING DISTANCES Foundation; See and be seen. PSA Peugeot Citroën has developed numerous O among its employees, by stipulating precise rules for professional innovations in this field that are available on several model ranges. travel and journeys to work. These include: These campaigns and other initiatives are presented in more detail O innovative lighting systems: static directional lighting, Xenon dualin section 4.2. function directional headlights in the executive segment, automatic activation of emergency flasher lights in the event of sudden deceleration, LED daytime running lights and automatic dipped beam/main beam switching; 2.3.2.1. PRIMARY SAFETY: O a blind spot information system that indicates the presence of a AVOIDING ACCIDENTS vehicle (particularly a motor bike) in a blind spot zone through a PSA Peugeot Citroën’s R&D continues to focus on making vehicles pictogram in the wing mirror; safer, with the goal of delivering cars and light commercial vehicles O a camera system to aid reversing; that contribute even more effectively to overall road safety. O a panoramic view system, currently under development, that provides a bird’s eye-view of the vehicle in real time to help drivers WHEELS, AXLES, SUSPENSION SYSTEMS manoeuvre more effectively. Using data from four cameras on the front and back bumpers and two others on the wing mirrors, a Capitalising on its recognised expertise in suspensions, steering, computer produces a single birds-eye view of the vehicle. This can braking and other chassis systems, PSA Peugeot Citroën designs cars help drivers position their vehicles correctly between two lines, for that are naturally safe to drive, with technology that compensates, example in perpendicular parking spaces; to the extent possible, for bad driving, faulty infrastructure and O a Distance Alert system that indicates on the head-up display the adverse weather conditions. They are designed to deliver handling time it would take to close with the vehicle in front at the current performance, precision steering and braking efficiency that rank speed. The alert time point can be set by the driver; among the best in the market. 60 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.3. Mobility solutions 2 O the AFIL lane departure warning system, which alerts drivers who 2.3.2.2. SECONDARY SAFETY: PROTECTING drift across a lane by vibrating the seat on the side the lane was PASSENGERS AND PEDESTRIANS crossed. This function is designed to deal with certain distracting situations while driving, one of the key causes of motorway DURING AN ACCIDENT accidents; O a speed limiter system that deactivates the accelerator pedal when BODY STRUCTURE the driver tries to exceed his or her pre-set speed limit. The driver Secondary safety is an absolute priority that is designed into every can programme five frequently used speed limits into the system’s Peugeot and Citroën vehicle, whose structural components resist memory; impact and absorb energy to provide the highest degree of occupant O intelligent cruise control, a system that makes it easier to use cruise protection regardless of the type of collision – frontal, side, rear or control in semi-dense traffic by aligning vehicle speed with that even rollovers. of the car in front, which is detected by a medium range radar sensor in the front-end. This eliminates the need to make frequent Vehicles are structurally engineered to gradually dissipate the kinetic changes in speed and to deactivate and reactivate the system. The energy from an impact, with effectively positioned impact absorption cruise control deactivates automatically if the distance between structures and deformable crash boxes transforming the passenger vehicles is too short. Torque, rather than the brakes, is used to compartment into a survival cell that can be equipped with highreduce the set speed when necessary; performance restraint systems. At the same time, these structures make the body components easier to repair. O automatic braking at low speed, currently being developed. When a car is travelling at less than 30 km/h, a short-range (10 m.) laser sensor embedded at the top of the windscreen detects objects that AIRBAGS AND OTHER PYROTECHNIC EQUIPMENT could cause a collision if the driver does not react. The system The body structure’s ability to absorb energy and protect the activates automatic braking to avoid hitting the car in front or, in passenger compartment has attenuated the consequences for certain cases, to slow the vehicle down so that a collision would be occupants in the event of a crash, thanks in particular to the use of less serious. The driver can retake control at all times. To optimise sophisticated restraint systems. Peugeot and Citroën vehicles are braking distance, the system anticipates by pre-filling the braking equipped with up to nine airbags: circuit with fluid; O two front airbags, whose pressure and volume when inflated adjust O automatic braking at high speed (faster than 20 km/h) mainly automatically to the severity of impact; for emergency braking on highways and motorways. The system functions similarly to the low-speed automatic braking (laser O two front side airbags, which protect the thorax, pelvic region and capture) and brakes automatically if it detects an obstacle or abdomen of the driver and front-seat passenger; intensifies the driver’s braking to avoid impact or reduce the O a steering column (or knee) airbag, which protects the lower limbs severity of a collision by reducing the impact speed. by cushioning the impact on the knees and shins; O two curtain airbags, which protect the side of the head of the front ERGONOMICS AND HUMAN-MACHINE INTERFACE (HMI) and rear passengers; The proliferation of driver assistance systems and spread of infoO two rear lateral airbags, which protect the thorax of the rear tainment technologies demand close attention when designing passengers in the event of a side impact. HMIs. PSA Peugeot Citroën carries out numerous upstream On certain models, an active bonnet rises automatically in the event research projects on distraction risk factors, to provide an in-vehicle of a pedestrian impact thanks to an impact sensor and pyrotechnic environment that is as comfortable and safe as possible, so the driver mechanism, thereby absorbing more energy and limiting the risk of can concentrate on driving. injury to the pedestrian’s head. These research projects cover a wide range of issues, from methods On cabriolet models, the roll-over protection system consists of of diagnosing driver alertness to exploration of new modes of active, pyrotechnically-charged roll-bars and windscreen pillar interaction to limit lapses in alertness during different driving phases. stiffener tubes. Through a collaborative project called SCOREF (French Experimental On-Road Cooperative System) investigating “car to x” RESTRAINT SYSTEMS applications of ICT, researchers are looking at ways to send drivers Restraint systems – which include Isofix attachment points for targeted information that may either warn them about risks of an easy and efficient installation of child seats, seatbelt load-limiting accident (suggested speed, weather alerts, traffic, obstacles such as retractors and, on some models, airbags with dual energy levels – a vehicle breakdown on the carriageway, etc.) or provide a service are all carefully calculated to maximise protection for everyone in (service stations, recommended route, etc.). All this information the vehicle, regardless of their age or where they are seated. Already must be delivered to drivers without distracting their attention or fitted on front seatbelts, load-limiting retractors are now gradually disturbing their driving. being installed for back seats as well. These systems adjust occupant PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 61 2 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.3. Mobility solutions restraints while limiting pressure on the chest, thereby reducing the As of end-2008, a total of 13 Group vehicles had obtained the frequency of thoracic and abdominal injuries. Buckle-up reminders maximum five-star rating for adult protection under the former sound a warning and light up when someone has not buckled their Euro-NCAP system. Under the new Euro-NCAP protocol belt in the passenger compartment. introduced in 2009, vehicles tested receive an overall rating based on the protection offered to adult and child occupants, as well as EURO NCAP AND CHINA NCAP SAFETY RATINGS pedestrians, and also considers the safety potential of advanced driver assistance technologies. Every Peugeot and Citroën model from the entry level on up ranks among the world’s best in secondary safety, as attested by the results 12 Group vehicles have obtained the maximum five-star overall of impact tests conducted by the European New Car Assessment rating under the stricter new 2009 protocol. Programme (Euro NCAP), an independent organisation that rates vehicle occupant protection. EURO NCAP Assessment protocol in effect until 2008 Test protocol in force from 2009 Adult Child Occupant Pedestrian Protection Model Year launched Year tested Rating* Test Rating* Rating Year tested Overall rating Peugeot 208 2012 2012 ***** Citroën DS5 2011 2011 ***** Citroën DS4 2011 2011 ***** Peugeot 508 2011 2011 ***** Citroën C-Zero Peugeot iOn** 2010 2011 **** Citroën C-Quatre 2010 2010 ***** Citroën Nemo 2010 2010 *** Citroën C3 2009 2009 **** Citroën DS3 2009 2009 ***** Peugeot 5008 2009 2009 ***** Peugeot 3008 2009 2009 ***** Citroën C3 Picasso 2009 2009 **** Peugeot 308 CC 2008 2008 ***** ** *** 2009 ***** Citroën Berlingo Peugeot Partner** 2008 2008 **** ** **** Citroën C5 2008 2008 ***** ** **** 2009 ***** Peugeot 308 2007 2007 ***** *** **** 2009 ***** Peugeot 207 CC 2007 2007 ***** ** The Citroën Grand C4 Picasso 2006 2006 ***** ** **** 2009 ***** Peugeot 207 2006 2006 ***** *** **** Citroën C6 2006 2005 ***** **** **** Peugeot 407 Coupé 2005 2005 ***** ** **** Citroën C1 Peugeot 107** 2005 2005 **** ** **** Peugeot 807 Citroën C8** 2002 2003 ***** * * Occupant protection rated out of five stars – Pedestrian protection rated out of four stars. ** Vehicles appearing on the same line have the same technical specifications. 62 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.3. Mobility solutions 2 CHINA NCAP Model Year launched Year tested Overall rating Peugeot 308 2012 2012 ***** Peugeot 508 2011 2011 ***** Peugeot 408 2010 2010 ***** Citroën C5 2010 2010 ***** Peugeot 307 Notchback 2009 2009 ***** Citroën C-Quatre 2008 2009 **** Citroën C-Triomphe 2006 2007 ***** LAB 2.3.2.3. TERTIARY SAFETY: POST-ACCIDENT The Laboratoire d’Accidentologie, de Biomécanique et d’Étude du EMERGENCY RESPONSE comportement humain (LAB) is a road safety association created jointly by PSA Peugeot Citroën and Renault. A unique organisation, EMERGENCY CALL SYSTEM LAB has conducted research projects for 40 years to enhance understanding of accident mechanisms and their related injury PSA Peugeot Citroën has played a pioneering role and remains the mechanisms. European leader in post-accident or tertiary safety, which helps to attenuate the effects of an accident by facilitating emergency Its areas of expertise are: rescue. It is the only volume carmaker to have deployed a wide-scale, O accidentology, meaning the analysis of road accidents. Its database location-aware emergency call system, without a subscription or any comprises some 15,000 accidents; cut-off date. O biomechanics, which helps to identify injury mechanisms. The new autonomous telematics box (ATB) developed by PSA For more than 40 years, LAB’s research projects have helped to Peugeot Citroën includes a SIM card and separates the telematics guide the Group’s technological choices and to assess their real-life function from the radio, navigation and telephone functions. performance on the road. LAB is behind a number of major advances In the event of an accident or medical emergency in an ATBin automobile safety, from seatbelts to load-limiting retractors, equipped vehicle, occupants can alert a dedicated assistance centre airbags, pre-tensioners and stronger structural components for simply by pressing the SOS button. In the case of a collision, the passenger compartments. same alert is sent automatically. Calls are routed to operators speaking the occupants’ language, as determined by the vehicle registration number, even if the call is made from abroad. If necessary, the assistance centre can call in local first responders. Thanks to the GPS system and onboard GSM mobile phone link, assistance personnel can pinpoint the car’s location, thereby enabling rescue services to respond more quickly and effectively. According to the European Commission, equipping every vehicle on the road with such a system would save more than 2,000 lives a year in Europe. The emergency call system is particularly useful when accidents occur in isolated areas with no eyewitnesses. Total as of end 2010 Total as of end 2011 Total as of end 2012 Peugeot and Citroën vehicles equipped with the PSA Peugeot Citroën emergency call system 717,447 (1) 1,016,676 1,278,048 Alerts sent to emergency services 3,968 (1) 5,212 7,207 Number of countries where the PSA Peugeot Citroën emergency call system is available. 10 10 13 France, Belgium, Luxembourg, the France, Germany, Italy, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg, Belgium, Luxembourg, Austria, Italy, Spain, Spain, the Netherlands, Spain, the Netherlands, Portugal, Switzerland, Portugal, Austria and Portugal, Austria and Denmark, Poland, and Countries in which the PSA Peugeot Citroën emergency call service is available Switzerland Switzerland the United Kingdom. (1) Updated figures revised following an accounting error detected in the “Total as of 2010” cited in the 2010 & 2011 CSR Reports. In countries where the location-aware assistance service is not available, number, directly without transmitting information on the vehicle’s the close to 153,000 Peugeots and Citroën’s equipped with Peugeot location. In all, around 1,431,058 Peugeot and Citroën vehicles Connect SOS or Citroën eTouch dial 112, the European emergency equipped with the emergency call system are on the road in Europe. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 63 2 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.4. Peugeot and Citroën: listening to customers At the 2010 Paris Motor Show, Euro NCAP awarded the first of ISO, which includes Germany, Japan and the USA among others. Euro NCAP Advanced award to carmakers that have deployed The standard is scheduled for release at the end of 2013 and will be technologies that have a meaningful impact on safety. Among the global in application. 10 innovations recognised, Peugeot and Citroën were singled out in the area of post-accident (or tertiary) safety for their emergency call system. In all, six vehicles won an award: the Peugeot 308, 3008 and 2.3.2.4. PEUGEOT MOTORCYCLES 5008 for Peugeot Connect SOS, and the Citroën DS3, C4 and C5 for the Citroën Localised Emergency Call service. SAFETY VICTIM REMOVAL INSTRUCTIONS Peugeot Motocycles is Europe’s fourth-largest builder of motorcycles To facilitate the job of rescue workers after an accident, PSA Peugeot and scooters. Safety is its priority through an approach to urban Citroën works with French rescue teams to prepare victim removal mobility that is both more safety conscious and socially aware. instructions for each of its models. Innovation is at the core of its strategy and has allowed Regular training sessions are held to update the teams’ knowledge Peugeot Motocycle to establish itself as a benchmark in passive and of the new vehicles and the new technologies that are about to go active protection. Successes include: on the market. The Group also provides educational materials to the O development of the SBC integral braking system (2001); emergency services. In 2012, the Group donated 142 vehicles or O first brand in the world to offer ABS on a 125 scooter (2002); vehicle bodies to the emergency services for use in training exercises. O marketing of an airbag vest (2011); Meanwhile, PSA Peugeot Citroën is working with the Public Safety O marketing of Metropolis three wheels, the first scooter on the Services of the French Interior Ministry and the zonal victim market with a day running light or DRL to make it more visible removal group on defining an international standard for victim during the daytime (2013). removal instructions. This project is being developed under the aegis 2.4. PEUGEOT AND CITROËN: LISTENING TO CUSTOMERS 2.4.1. PEUGEOT AND CITROËN CUSTOMERS 2.4.1.1. REVENUE CONSOLIDATED REVENUE BY BUSINESS Y Note: the activities of the GEFCO transportation and logistics subsidiary were removed from the scope of consolidation in 2012 on account of the sale of most of the shares held by PSA Peugeot Citroën in this subsidiary. In accordance with IFRS 5, GEFCO has been reclassified as “held for sale”. Automobile Automobile Equipment Finance Other Intersegment (in million euros) Division Division companies businesses eliminations Total 2012 net revenue • from sales to outside customers 38,295 15,460 1,586 105 55,446 • from intragroup sales 4 1,905 324 97 (2,330) TOTAL 2012 38,299 17,365 1,910 202 (2,330) 55,446 2011 net revenue • from sales to outside customers 42,706 14,092 1,583 128 58,509 • from intragroup sales 4 2,098 319 82 (2,503) TOTAL 2011 42,710 16,190 1,902 210 (2,503) 58,509 64 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.4. Peugeot and Citroën: listening to customers 2 GROUP CONSOLIDATED REVENUE BY REGION Y In the table below: O revenue is presented by destination of products sold; O capital expenditure and assets are presented by host region of the subsidiary concerned. (in million euros) Europe Russia Asia Latin America Rest of the World Total REVENUE 37,761 1,778 3,416 5,308 7,183 55,446 NON-CURRENT ASSETS EXCLUDING DEFERRED TAX 2012 ASSETS AND FINANCIAL ASSETS 14,201 480 280 1,508 466 16,935 Revenue 42,613 1,483 2,763 5,420 6,230 58,509 Non-current assets excluding deferred tax 2011 assets and financial assets 17,464 387 236 1,459 373 19,919 The Group’s operations are organised around four main segments: these two businesses is therefore presented down to the level of O the Automobile Division, covering the design, manufacture and net profit. For the other segments, as cash positions and taxes are sale of passenger cars and light commercial vehicles under the managed jointly in some countries, only operating income and Peugeot and Citroën brands; share in net earnings of companies at equity are presented by segment. All intersegment balance sheet items and transactions are O the Automobile Equipment Division, corresponding to the Faurecia eliminated and, for the purposes of reconciliation with the Group’s Group and comprising Interior Systems, Automotive Seating, financial statements, are shown under the heading “Eliminations and Automotive Exteriors and Emissions Control Technologies; reconciliations” together with unallocated amounts. O the Finance Division, corresponding to Banque PSA Finance, which provides retail financing to Peugeot and Citroën customers All intersegment commercial transactions are carried out on an arm’s and wholesale financing to the two brands’ dealer networks; length basis. Detailed information on the breakdown of PSA Peugeot O other Businesses, which include the operations of Peugeot S.A., Citroën revenue by business and by region is available in the Group’s the Group’s holding company, and Peugeot Motocycles. 2012 Registration Document in notes 3.1 and 3.2 of Chapter 20.3 of the Consolidated financial statements. Note that this report reflects Balances for each segment, as shown in the table below, are on a the corporate social responsibility policies, commitments and 2012 stand-alone basis. Faurecia and Banque PSA Finance publish outcomes of the Automobile, Finance and Motorcycle Divisions. consolidated financial statements and segment information for PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 65 2 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.4. Peugeot and Citroën: listening to customers 2.4.1.2. VEHICLE SALES CONSOLIDATED GLOBAL SALES BY REGION Y (Total assembled vehicles and completely knocked down units, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles) 2010 2011* 2012 Europe 30 Peugeot 1,172,100 1,101,300* 947,600 Citroën 1,023,200 962,100* 810,600 Total PSA Peugeot Citroën 2,195,300 2,063,400* 1,758,200 Russia Peugeot 39,600 50,700 49,900 Citroën 19,900 32,500 38,000 Total PSA Peugeot Citroën 59,500 83,200 87,900 Latin America Peugeot 173,800 190,100 172,900 Citroën 120,500 135,700 110,000 Total PSA Peugeot Citroën 294,300 325,800 282,900 Asia Peugeot 164,200 187,700 231,000 Citroën 227,600 234,500 230,500 Total PSA Peugeot Citroën 391,800 422,200 461,600 Rest of the World Peugeot 120,400 126,100* 153,600 Citroën 63,900 70,900* 75,800 Total PSA Peugeot Citroën 184,300 197,000* 229,400 Total assembled vehicles Peugeot 1,670,000 1,655,900 1,555,000 Citroën 1,455,100 1,435,700 1,264,900 Total PSA Peugeot Citroën 3,125,200 3,091,600 2,819,900 CKD units Peugeot 471,700 457,900 145,000 Citroën 5,300 Total PSA Peugeot Citroën 477,000 457,900 145,000 TOTAL ASSEMBLED VEHICLES AND CKD UNITS PEUGEOT 2,141,800 2,113,700 1,700,000 CITROËN 1,460,400 1,435,700 1,264,900 TOTAL PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 3,602,200 3,549,400 2,964,900 * Europe: EU + EFTA + Croatia + Bosnia + Kosovo + Macedonia + Montenegro + Serbia. Some adjustments have been made to figures published after the publication of the 2011 report Figures have been rounded to the nearest 100. 66 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.4. Peugeot and Citroën: listening to customers 2 REGISTRATIONS IN EUROPE Y (Passenger cars and light commercial vehicles) 2010 2011 2012 Market share Market share Market share Units (%) Units (%) Units (%) France 871,900 32.7% 840,800 31.9% 700,900 30.7% Germany 173,900 5.6% 172,600 5.1% 153,900 4.7% Austria 32,400 9.1% 33,100 8.5% 28,800 7.8% Belgium-Luxembourg 124,800 19.0% 118,100 17.1% 99,000 16.5% Denmark 29,100 17.1% 33,000 17.0% 31,800 16.3% Spain 203,000 18.5% 158,000 17.3% 133,200 17.2% Finland 8,200 6.9% 8,100 6.0% 6,700 5.7% Greece 11,800 7.7% 7,500 7.2% 7,100 11.4% Ireland 5,300 5.3% 5,200 5.1% 4,600 5.1% Iceland 0 1.0% 100 1.6% 300 3.1% Italy 238,900 11.1% 185,400 9.7% 155,500 10.2% Norway 16,300 10.3% 17,200 9.8% 15,000 8.8% Netherlands 70,700 13.2% 82,800 13.5% 74,800 13.4% Portugal 43,600 16.2% 32,400 17.2% 17,900 16.1% United Kingdom 217,400 9.6% 200,500 9.1% 213,200 9.3% Sweden 22,600 6.9% 22,300 6.3% 22,400 7.0% Switzerland 32,300 10.1% 32,200 9.3% 28,000 7.8% Total Western Europe 18 countries 2,102,300 14.5% 1,949,300 13.6% 1,693,200 12.9% Croatia 5,400 12.9% 7,000 15.6% 6,100 17.5% Hungary 3,900 7.4% 4,900 8.7% 4,600 7.2% Poland 35,800 9.5% 33,500 9.7% 29,300 9.4% Czech Republic 15,200 8.5% 15,500 8.3% 14,400 7.8% Slovakia 9,100 12.8% 8,700 11.7% 7,900 10.6% Slovenia 10,500 15.9% 10,800 16.3% 9,600 17.1% Total CEEC 79,800 10.1% 80,400 10.4% 71,900 9.9% Baltic States* 3,500 12.6% 5,800 12.2% 5,300 10.8% Bulgaria Romania 7,700 5.7% 7,700 6.1% 6,800 6.4% Cyprus 1,000 5.3% 800 7.6% 1,400 7.7% Malta 800 14.7% 1,000 TOTAL 30-COUNTRY EUROPE 2,195,200 14.2% 2,045,000 13.3% 1,778,700 12.7% * Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia Figures have been rounded to the nearest 100. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 67 2 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.4. Peugeot and Citroën: listening to customers GLOBAL SALES BY MODEL Y (PC + UV = Passenger cars + light Utility Vehicles, total assembled vehicles and completely knocked down units) 2011 2012 Peugeot ION 2,400 2,900 107 92,100 76,400 206 445,000 199,900 207 296,700 147,900 208 600 220,800 2008 0 100 301 0 4,800 307 71,500 103,000 308 204,000 184,300 3008 135,000 108,300 5008 72,300 52,500 405 270,600 110,600 407 2,600 100 408 74,600 80,000 508 124,200 121,700 607 100 0 807 6,300 4,500 4007 7,400 2,700 4008 0 9,300 RCZ 18,800 11,100 BIPPER 34,400 26,000 PARTNER 165,200 149,800 EXPERT 32,300 29,500 BOXER 57,700 53,900 T9 0 200 TOTAL PEUGEOT BRAND 2,113,700 1,700,000 o/w CP 1,888,200 1,497,100 o/w UV 225,600 203,000 o/w Diesel 912,600 802,900 o/w Electric 2,600 3,000 o/w Hybrid 800 19,400 Citroën C-ZERO 2,100 3,300 C1 87,700 66,700 C2 10,500 14,600 C3 255,300 215,800 C3 PICASSO 101,600 84,700 DS3 78,400 68,200 ZX 65,500 55,600 C-ELYSEE 0 5,600 XSARA 8,400 4,000 C4 286,200 263,800 C4 PICASSO 116,900 82,900 68 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.4. Peugeot and Citroën: listening to customers 2 2011 2012 Citroën (continued) DS4 29,500 33,200 C5 101,200 76,300 DS5 3,300 27,800 C6 900 1,600 C8 5,500 4,100 C-CROSSER 7,500 3,300 C4-AIRCROSS 0 17,000 NEMO 34,300 28,500 BERLINGO 165,800 139,800 JUMPY 29,000 24,900 JUMPER 46,100 43,100 TOTAL CITROËN BRAND 1,435,700 1,264,900 o/w CP 1,242,900 1,098,300 o/w UV 192,700 166,600 o/w Diesel 798,400 668,100 o/w Electric 2,300 3,600 o/w Hybrid 300 6,400 TOTAL PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 3,131,100 2,593,300 o/w UV 418,300 369,600 o/w Diesel 1,711,000 1,471,000 o/w Electric 4,900 6,600 o/w Hybrid 1,100 25,800 Figures have been rounded to the nearest 100. 2.4.2. MEETING CUSTOMER EXPECTATIONS Because quality is primarily perceived by customers, PSA Peugeot 2.4.2.1. THE GLOBAL CUSTOMER Citroën pays special attention to the customer experience. RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT Customers of both brands expect four quality fundamentals: PROCESS O reliable vehicles, without any defects; For many years, a process has been in place to enable the brands to O product features (performance, styling, comfort, driveability) and nurture customer intimacy and to respond as quickly as possible to mobility solutions aligned with their expectations; any issues or incidents. O excellent customer service both during the purchase process…; It is based on: O and afterwards, with frienvdly, timely reception, assistance and service. O group-led surveys and studies to measure, at the carbuyer level, progress and the effectiveness of the actions undertaken to The Group is therefore focusing on these four areas to delight improve: customers with two key objectives – maintaining commitments over O quality of service: time and delivering consistent outcomes. Every year, 1.3 million customers, or nearly one in five, are Both brands are focusing all their attention on the quality of every polled for their opinion of its customer service in 32 countries, interaction with each customer. including China, Russia, Brazil and in Europe. The surveys are conducted using a vast online system in place since 2008 to contact customers after they purchase a car or interact with a customer service representative. It leaves customers free PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 69 2 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.4. Peugeot and Citroën: listening to customers to answer the questions at their convenience, as well as the informed of the customer’s information and situation within possibility of freely expressing their opinions in open answers. 48 hours, so that the issue can be resolved. Other systems are When a customer requests a dealer call-back, the dealer is in place to track dealer management of customer requests. Rend in “Fully Satisfied” Responses in Group-Conducted Quality of Service Surveys for New Vehicle Purchases and After-Sales Service (% Fully Satisfied – Last 12 months – Base 100) Y 120 111.3 110 107.6 100 90 J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O 2011 2012 Purchase/delivery After sales O product reliability O automobile surveys, which precisely position each brand in relation Customer feedback to dealers or via product-focused surveys to the competition and help to target customer expectations more are reported in real-time, making it possible to identify effectively, depending on the market. complaints about vehicle quality (incidents, breakdowns, Conducted in most host countries, the surveys concern the vehicle dissatisfaction), analyse and prioritise claims and then resolve purchase and delivery and customer service provision. them through a highly responsive global response system; 70 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.4. Peugeot and Citroën: listening to customers 2 THE FREQUENCY OF WARRANTY CLAIMS MEASURES THE PERCENTAGE OF BREAKDOWNS AND INCIDENTS THREE MONTHS AFTER PURCHASE Frequency of Warranty Claims, First Three Months in Service – (Excl. New Vehicle Prep) Last 12 Months Y Base 100 120 100 80 58 60 53 38 40 20 0 J FMAM J J A SOND J FMAM J J A SOND J FMAM J J A SOND J FMAM J J A SOND J FMAM J J A SOND 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 China Latin America 8-country Europe This highly comprehensive system enables the collection of rich chain in every host country. These policies are delivered in every content concerning the quality of the customer experience at every aspect of the business by the Quality Management System, which interaction with the brand, as well as extremely precise figures that is based on: are presented every month to the Group’s Executive Committee O fundamental standards or principles; by the Vice-President, Quality; O quality processes and systems; O an efficient system for managing customer claims and requests for O operating standards. information. The system also includes quality self-assessments by the units The two brands’ Customer Relations Departments pay close concerned, controlled through audits from a customer’s viewpoint. attention to customer input and systematically respond to every request or claim. Around 135,000 such requests were received The brands’ Retail Quality and Development teams support the in 2011, of which some 100,000 directly by the brands. These dealerships in deploying their quality management system and requests and claims can be submitted online, via the brand website operating standards, with the goal of securing buy-in from customeror Facebook page, by phone via the brand call centre, or by post. facing employees across the retail process. This method has driven a The customer-relations teams are committed to enhancing or very clear improvement in customer quality survey scores. restoring brand confidence and loyalty by listening carefully to Peugeot and Citroën have also introduced structured upstream customer needs and responding with a personalised solution, programmes to prevent customers from experiencing any quality consistently delivered through the retail network. issues. For example, pre-series cars are driven at least two million In addition, they act as powerful advocates for customer interests kilometres to detect the slightest non-quality incident and correct by reporting customer comments and responses to all of the it before market introduction. These real-world tests and trials are departments concerned (retail, marketing, quality, etc.), which can conducted both by the design teams and by regular employees. then integrate them into their project management process. Peugeot and Citroën continuously track changing customer expectations and aspirations through studies and surveys, whose findings help to shape future products and services. In particular, 2.4.2.2. AN INTEGRATED QUALITY PROCESS studies have shown that carbuyers are increasingly aware of energy To enable the Group to respond as effectively as possible to customer issues, the importance of on-board security and the need to stay expectations, quality policies are applied at every link in the value constantly connected. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 71 2 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.4. Peugeot and Citroën: listening to customers 2.4.3. COMPLIANCE WITH HEALTH, SAFETY AND CUSTOMER PRIVACY STANDARDS G.41 COMPANY OMBUDSMAN The Mediation Correspondents undertake to respond to each demand by the Ombudsman within an agreed time limit, normally In 2013, the Group is introducing a Company Ombudsman system three weeks. The contributors who are contacted are under an to deal with issues of subcontracting (suppliers) and consumption obligation of transparency and due diligence in formulating their (final customer). It is appointing an in-house Ombudsman who will responses. The Ombudsman delivers a judgement that can be report to the Chairman. freely accepted by each party and, if it is accepted, follows up its The system introduces a structured mediation process in which the implementation. Ombudsman’s role is to facilitate the resolution of disputes between The Ombudsman writes a public annual report of activities two or more parties. The process is freely accepted by both parties, undertaken including the statistics for Mediation and the who must then participate in good faith while remaining free to pull recommendations whose implementation he/she has overseen. out at any time. He/she also publishes each quarter, for internal use by the Group, Mediation is sometimes the last resort before going to court and a report on the progress made with demands, mediation and is always invoked after normal operating procedures have failed to implementation of recommendations. satisfy both parties. A set of internal rules sets the framework for the Group’s Mediation service and describes the principles of commitment and internal NON-COMPLIANCE WITH CONSUMER HEALTH support for demands made by the Ombudsman. AND SAFETY LEGISLATION The Purchasing and Brands Departments are the most affected by Y (Scope covered: Peugeot subsidiaries excluding Algeria, Asia and the new system and will prioritise demands and recommendations Scandinavia and Citroën subsidiaries excluding Asia, Scandinavia, made by the Ombudsman. They will, where necessary, pass on Sweden and Ukraine – data unavailable at reporting date). demands to any operating contact who has the information sought, whatever department they report to. In 2012, the Citroën brand was not cited for non-compliance with consumer health and safety regulations in any case. This rule thus covers all PSA Peugeot Citroën employees who might be affected by a demand from the Ombudsman. The principles In 2012, Peugeot Spain was cited for breaches of noise limits. The governing the conduct of a mediation are described in the PSA penalty levied for this infraction was 450 euros. Peugeot Citroën Ombudsman’s Charter for each of the two areas of external interaction (subcontracting and consumption). Regarding subcontracting, the Purchasing Department appoints a Suppliers NON-COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS and Sub-contracting Mediation Correspondent. For consumption, the Brands Department appoints one Consumer Mediation CONCERNING CUSTOMER PRIVACY Y Correspondent each for Citroën and Peugeot. (Personal data protection legislation, scope covered: Peugeot subsidiaries The Ombudsman can be called in writing (by mail, email or on the excluding Algeria, Asia and Scandinavia and Citroën subsidiaries website) and will acknowledge receipt of the request to the parties excluding Asia, Scandinavia, Sweden and Ukraine – data unavailable with, where applicable, a request for the evidence that would allow at reporting date). him/her to judge its admissibility, in accordance with the terms of In 2012, Citroën and Peugeot were not cited for non-compliance the Charter. with customer privacy legislation in any case. The Ombudsman issues rulings on the admissibility of a case and all demands in writing, thereby mandating the Mediation Correspondents to deal with all the operational employees from all the departments involved. 72 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.4. Peugeot and Citroën: listening to customers 2 2.4.4. ADVERTISING, COMMUNICATION AND CONSUMER INFORMATION NON-COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS In other words, the Blue Lion label designates the IC vehicles that CONCERNING ADVERTISING, MARKETING, emit the least CO2. LABELLING AND CONSUMER INFORMATION Y Emissions data were obtained from trials conducted under strictly controlled temperature, mass, roller test bench characteristics and (Scope covered: Peugeot subsidiaries excluding Algeria, Asia and other test conditions. Actual fuel consumption may vary from the Scandinavia and Citroën subsidiaries excluding Asia, Scandinavia, certified values depending on driving conditions, weather, vehicle Sweden and Ukraine – data unavailable at reporting date). load, driving style, tyre pressure, the presence of a roof rack (even In 2012, Citroën was cited for non-compliance with regulations empty), heavy AC or heater use and vehicle condition. A full range concerning advertising, marketing, labelling and consumer of eco-driving tips to get the most out of each vehicle may be found information: on the brand’s website. O in Spain, for erroneous information on fuel consumption and CO2 Peugeot also encourages customers to regularly maintain certain subemissions (fine of 1,000 euros); assemblies to optimise their engine’s fuel consumption and carbon O in Russia for abusive advertising on the purchase terms of footprint. This information is supplied in brochures concerning the Citroën C4 due to the excessively small print used in the lubricants, the diesel particulate filter and exhaust systems, which are information documents on the bank and credit terms (fine of downloadable from the Peugeot Services portal or available in print 2,440 euros). form in the dealerships. In 2012, Peugeot was condemned for 10 cases of non-compliance with regulations concerning advertising, marketing, labelling and CITROËN’S “AIRDREAM” TRADENAME consumer information. To make Citroën’s environmentally sensitive cars easy to identify, O three in Argentina. The three fines totalled 2,700 euros; the Airdream tradename is affixed to the models equipped with the brand’s most effective environmental technologies: the e-HDi microO three in Brazil. In a first-instance judgement, which may yet be hybrid, the HYbrid4 full-hybrid and the full-electric powertrains. overturned, the total fine was set at 159,000 euros; O one in Spain for misleading advertising (6,000 euros), non-visible To reduce their carbon emissions, vehicles equipped with the e-HDi information on fuel consumption and CO2 emissions (3,000 euros) micro-hybrid technology include at least the following solutions: and non-compliance with rules on consumer rights (2,200 euros); O new generation Stop & Start system; O three cases linked to the marketing of the Peugeot 207 and O regenerative braking; Peugeot 308 models in Russia. The three fines totalled 7,562 euros; O optimised power steering management to reduce energy use; O one in Ukraine linked to poster adverts where information on O a more efficient air-conditioning system; credit terms was incomplete or hard to read (fine of 1,000 euros). O optimised vehicle aerodynamics. Altogether, Peugeot’s 10 fines totalled 173,262 euros. In all of the brand’s catalogues and websites, the Airdream signature displayed whenever a powertrain is designated as Airdream. LABELLING AND CUSTOMER INFORMATION Y To improve car buyer information, Peugeot and Citroën provided RESPONSIBLE COMMUNICATION CHARTER Y their dealers with fuel-efficiency labels in early 2006, ahead of the Prepared in 2007 by PSA Peugeot Citroën corporate teams in regulatory deadline. The labels display each model’s average fuel association with the Peugeot and Citroën Marketing Departments, consumption and carbon emissions. the responsible communications charter helps to ensure that Group Eco-labels to identify the most environmentally friendly cars were advertising reflects corporate social responsibility concerns, such as introduced by both brands in 2007 and revised in October 2010. respect for people, the environment and awareness of the economic issues involved in buying a car. PEUGEOT’S “BLUE LION” ECO-LABEL The PSA Peugeot Citroën responsible communications charter is Introduced in 2007 and expanded and revised in 2010, Peugeot’s available on the corporate website. Blue Lion eco-label now applies only to versions delivering the brand’s finest expertise in internal combustion engine carbon emissions (i.e. excluding hybrids and EVs). PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 73 2 SETTING THE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY STANDARD 2.4. Peugeot and Citroën: listening to customers The charter applies to all of the advertising produced by the Group, Commitment 3: Across all marketing initiatives, personal data the brands, regional offices and dealer networks, including TV, of consumers should be used with care. online and print advertising, events and POS displays and collaterals, O Advertising validation procedures: protection of personal data is regardless of target audience, media or country. verified and validated as part of the responsible advertising process. Available in French, English, Spanish and Chinese, the Charter has O Customer relations: to respect the customers, their testimonials are been distributed since 2008 to Group and brand teams involved in made anonymous before being used in advertising. Customer data communication, marketing, legal affairs, procurement and other are kept on the Company’s servers in France. processes, as well as to their vendors. Commitment 4: Engage in an internal process to validate ads Moreover, in November 2007, PSA Peugeot Citroën signed the before their external diffusion. Responsible Advertising Charter published by France’s Union des O Defined in 2004, the advertising validation procedures were Annonceurs (UDA). strengthened in 2008 with the worldwide deployment of the The Charter is built around five commitments to support responsible Responsible Communications Charter. All advertising campaigns advertising, which inform all of the initiatives deployed by the brands: in any countries where the brands market their vehicles have to Commitment 1: Ensure all external communications of comply with the charter. They are reviewed by the brand to make the Company conform to the internal codes of responsible sure they meet the charter rules. communication. Commitment 5: Integrate environmental considerations into O Since 2011, every employee has access to guidelines to assist him criteria of selection for communication media. or her when posting personal opinions and information on social O PEFC or FSC-certified paper is used for recurring documents, networks or online in general. such as the Annual Report, press kits and marketing collateral, with Commitment 2: Incite their audiences to adopt responsible optimised print runs. All marketing collateral is printed on PEFCbehaviours. certified paper using vegetable-based inks. In France, the Group is a founding member of the French government’s EcoFolio paperPSA Peugeot Citroën has participated in a wide variety of awarenessrecycling programme, to which it pays an eco-tax based on the building events: reported annual amount of printed paper issued by Automobiles O for consumers: Peugeot, Automobiles Citroën and their dealers. EcoFolio then O in 2012, the Group pursued its commitment to supporting remits these funds to local authorities to support their paper road safety by leading several global programmes and sorting and collection systems. The EcoFolio label, which may be participating in France’s Road Safety Foundation to build used only by participating companies, is displayed on the brands’ awareness of road safety issues among customers and local printed materials (such as catalogues) to demonstrate their communities. In addition, materials explaining the benefits of commitment. eco-driving practices were distributed to French employees. O Our Internet and intranet websites focus on hyperlinks and Product communications take account of LatinNcap test electronic file formats to reduce paper use. results (equivalent to EuroNcap for South America) and O Lastly information about trade fairs, press test drives and other ChinaNcap (Asia); events is increasing shifting to electronic media. During the O for Group employees: international press test drives, for example, press kits are provided O the French sites have held exhibitions highlighting the Group’s on a USB flash drive rather than in print. To reduce catalogue print work on road safety: innovations, actions by the PSA Peugeot runs, Citroën encourages users to download e-brochures from Citroën Foundation, awareness-raising exhibits on road the website. Since 2011, each model’s technical specifications are dangers before the big holiday rush, etc.), available only on the web. Since 2012, the Group’s CSR report has been digitised and only available as a download from the O a leaflet explaining the advantages of eco-driving was Group’s website. In 2013, a pilot project for a virtual POS display distributed to French employees, will be launched across the Peugeot French dealership network. O electric vehicles (thirty iOn and C-Zero vehicles) were This project seeks to gradually reduce the use of traditional media, included in the service vehicle pools for use on short trips particularly paper. between sites (in the Paris region and between Sochaux and Mulhouse). Around 50 charging points and 10 quick charging stations at the Group’s sites in France. 74 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 3 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3.1. MANAGING ENVIRONMENTAL 3.2. PROTECTION OF NATURAL IMPACT 79 HABITATS AND BIODIVERSITY 101 3.1.1. Environmental challenges and corporate strategy 80 3.2.1. Facilities located near protected areas 101 3.1.2. Combating climate change 83 3.2.2. Signiﬁcant initiatives to promote biodiversity 102 3.1.3. Reducing the impact of resource use 89 3.1.4. Limiting pollution 91 3.1.5. Reducing waste 96 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 75 3 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT REPORTING METHODOLOGY SCOPE OF REPORTING AND COVERAGE The following environmental indicators are presented in compliance Joint ventures: The scope of reporting does not include subsidiaries with Articles L. 225-102-1 and R. 225-105 of the French jointly owned with other carmakers or joint ventures accounted for Commercial Code (Grenelle 2) and with Global Reporting Initiative by the equity method. PSA Peugeot Citroën owns a stake in six recommendations. A cross-reference index with GRI indicators automobile manufacturing joint ventures: and a cross-reference index pursuant to the requirements of O TPCA, located in Kolin in the Czech Republic, in cooperation Articles L. 225-102-1 and R. 225-105 of the French Commercial with Toyota; Code (Grenelle 2 Act) are included at the end of this “Corporate O DPCA, located in Wuhan and XiangFan, Hubei Province, China, Social Responsibility – Strategic Guidelines, Commitments and in cooperation with DongFeng Motor Corp; 2012” Indicators Report. O CAPSA, located in Shenzhen, China, in cooperation with China The reported data concern the production plants (PCA, PCI and Changan Automobiles; Peugeot Motocycles), the research and development centres, the O Sevelsud, located in Val di Sandro, Italy, in cooperation with Fiat; main office sites, the Peugeot and Citroën Retail dealership networks O Française de Mécanique, located in Douvrin, France, in cooperation and the activities of Banque PSA Finance (BPF). GEFCO, in with Renault. which the Group sold 75% of its investment in December 2012, falls outside the scope. Also this year, information on Faurecia, PCMA Automotiv RUS, located in Kaluga, Russia, in cooperation previously included for indicative purposes, is now only reported in with Mitsubishi Motors Corp is included in the environmental and the Company’s Registration Document. social scopes of reporting, since PSA Peugeot Citroën holds 70% of its shares. Note that certain 2011 results have been restated to incorporate more detailed data obtained after the last CSR report was published. The In these joint ventures, PSA Peugeot Citroën exercises its role as restatements have been explained each time the difference exceeded 1%. shareholder and industrial partner in a commitment to supporting each venture’s long-term development. The Group therefore brings to its joint ventures the same spirit of corporate social responsibility on environmental and social issues as it does to its other businesses. The joint ventures report their CSR data at different levels, depending on the management structure in place with the industrial partner. In 2007, at PSA Peugeot Citroën’s initiative and with the agreement of co-shareholder Dongfeng Motor Corp., DPCA published its first Sustainable Development Report – the first such report ever prepared by a carmaker in China. 76 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3 SCOPE OF THE AUTOMOBILE DIVISION The scope of reporting covers the following plants and facilities operated by the Automobile Division (PCA), Process Conception Ingenierie (PCI) and PMTC (since renamed Peugeot Motocycles). PCA (35 sites) France Aulnay Metz Sevel-Nord Belchamp Meudon Sept-Fons Bessoncourt Mulhouse Sochaux Caen Paris (Grande-Armée) Trémery Carrières-sous-Poissy Paris 75017 Valenciennes Charleville Poissy Vélizy Hérimoncourt Poissy Pôle Tertiaire Vesoul La Ferté Vidame Rennes Citroën Racing La Garenne Saint-Ouen Peugeot Sport Spain Madrid Vigo Portugal Mangualde Slovakia Trnava Argentine Jeppener Buenos Aires Brazil Porto Real Russia Kaluga PCI (one site) France St Étienne PMTC (two sites) France Dannemarie Mandeure For the Automotive business (PCA), the scope of reporting comprises the production plants, technical and processing centres, replacement part warehouse and main office facilities. The PCA scope in 2012 includes data from two more assembly units than in 2011: the plants at Sevel Nord (taken over by the Group at year-end) and Kaluga (where production processes came fully on-stream during the year). Note, too, the closure and removal from the scope of reporting of the Melun-Sénart parts warehouse. In the case of the Peugeot and Citroën Retail dealership A subsidiary in one country can include one or several units (plants). networks (AP/AC), the scope of reporting includes: A total of 450 Peugeot or Citroën branded units are included in the O proprietary Peugeot and Citroën retail dealerships; scope of reporting. O head offices of the import subsidiaries; Note: For sites whose data are consolidated at the time of billing, results O PSA Peugeot Citroën replacement part warehouses; are consolidated with those of the main site. O regional training centres; Data for most training centres in France have been included in the regional O regional offices. offices (for Peugeot) and in the dealerships (for Citroën). Dealerships have also been consolidated together. This is in particular the case for many The list of country subsidiaries reporting data in 2012 is below. Peugeot sites in Spain. Brands: 60 country subsidiaries Peugeot Algeria France Czech Republic 20 country Germany Hungary United Kingdom subsidiaries Argentine Italy Switzerland Austria Japan Turkey Belgium Mexico Chile Netherlands Croatia Poland Spain Portugal Citroën Germany Ireland United Kingdom 22 country Argentine Italy Slovakia subsidiaries Austria Norway Slovenia Belgium Netherlands Sweden Denmark Poland Switzerland Spain Portugal France Czech Republic Hungary Romania PSA Peugeot Citroën South Africa Croatia Malaysia 18 country Germany Egypt Mexico subsidiaries Argentine Spain United Kingdom Austria France Russia Brazil Japan Slovenia China Italy Ukraine PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 77 3 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Coverage rates presented under the tables for the Peugeot and Citroën SCOPE OF THE BANKING DIVISION brands correspond to the percentage of total sites concerned by these Banque PSA Finance has 23 subsidiaries. BPF data included in the indicators that reported data for the year out of the total number environmental scope of reporting concern, first, head office functions of sites concerned by these indicators. Where data is unavailable it and the activities of the French and German subsidiaries (included may be because the plant failed to answer or could not calculate the in the BPF line in the tables below) and, second, data for the indicator, for example if metering systems are not installed. Unless subsidiaries in Italy, Portugal, Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, otherwise mentioned, data concern all sites. Croatia and Turkey (reported under AP/AC). The coverage rate for For the Peugeot and Citroën brands the reporting period runs from BPF data is more than 50% (ratio of headcount for cited entities to 1 November of year Y-1 to 31 October of year Y. total headcount). The data presented in the tables below have been audited by Grant Thornton, using the methods set out on the first page of this report. Scope: PCA: Peugeot Citroën Automobiles operations (production plants, R&D centres, office facilities). The PCA scope of reporting covered 35 sites. The PCA scope in 2012 includes data from two more assembly units than in 2011: the plants at Sevel Nord (taken over by the Group at year-end) and Kaluga (where production processes came fully on-stream over the year). These changes in scope complicate comparisons with previous years. Note, too, the closure and elimination from the scope of reporting of the Melun-Sénart parts warehouse. AP/AC: Operations of the Peugeot and Citroën proprietary networks (Peugeot Citroën Retail dealerships, import subsidiary headquarters, replacement parts warehouses, regional training centres and regional offices). The Automobiles Peugeot and Automobiles Citroën scope of reporting covered 192 Citroën sites, 236 Peugeot sites and 32 PSA Peugeot Citroën sites, for a total of 450 sites. PCI: Process Conception Ingénierie operations (one site). PMTC: Peugeot Motocycles operations (two sites). Banque PSA Finance: banking and insurance. Data reported in the BPF line includes head office functions and the French and German subsidiaries. Data for the subsidiaries in Italy, Portugal, Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Croatia and Turkey are reported under AP/AC. 78 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3.1. Managing environmental impact 3 3.1. MANAGING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT The Group’s manufacturing, sales and banking operations may have The commitment and expertise of all G.21 G.24 environmental impacts. Although the risks are not major, they must The expertise and commitment of environmental stakeholders are nonetheless be managed given the size of the Group’s production the keys to success in managing sites’ environmental impacts. facilities and the fact that foundries, mechanical component plants, paint shops and/or final assembly plants may exist side by side on To meet this target in the Automobile Division, the Group has the same site. identified an environment profession among the job families developed for all its main businesses. The environment profession, Aware of this responsibility, the Group has over many years developed recognised by the PSA Peugeot Citroën University, defines a systems to manage these impacts. These actions are integrated within career training path for everyone with a major involvement in the the PSA Excellence System, which seeks to develop performance at environment so that they can do their job to the full. In addition, the all the Group’s industrial sites, and co-ordinated with the product Group “Environment” Department supports these employees with and services strategy, which seeks to improve energy performance, permanent monitoring of regulations and best practice. eco-design, recyclability and the development of sustainable mobility services. These points are presented in Chapter 2 of this document. Besides the training given to those most involved in the manufacturing environment, each employee receives regular updates, at least once The environmental improvement process set out below is the a year, on the environmental situation of their unit. Finally, every contribution made by the dedicated industrial environment teams contractor employee is made aware of the environmental policy on to the industrial performance of Group plants. It is the concrete the site where they will be working through the Unit Prevention Plan. implementation of a medium-term strategy that seeks to: These various programmes delivered 13,730 hours of environmental O preserve natural resources, by limiting their use to the minimum training in 2012. necessary; O manage our impact on the surroundings and local communities; Environmental Management System G.21 G.24 O make industrial processes and products increasingly In automobile production facilities, the ISO 14001 standard is the environmentally friendly, “making low-emission vehicles in lowFoundation of the Group’s environmental policies. All the Group’s emission plants”. automotive production plants worldwide are ISO 14001 certified. The Group has defined targets for 2015 and laid out the path The new Kaluga plant in Russia, which opened in 2010 and whose toward 2020 and beyond. Setting quantitative targets on these time production process is now fully in place, introduced an environmental horizons however remains problematic because of the many external management system based on ISO 14001. Certification is expected factors involved (regulations, economic situation, etc.). in the near future. Progress along the path having been defined, the achievement of the Deployment of the Best Available Technology milestones on the way depend on four fundamental factors that are We Can Afford already well established in the Group: All industrial projects are reviewed by the Design Department, O commitment by all employees; the plant concerned, operational technical experts and Group O deployment of an ISO 14001-compliant environmental Environment Department specialists in order to identify the potential management system at all sites; risks and devise appropriate responses to keep their environmental O production resources that integrate the best available technology impact to a minimum. that is economically affordable from the design stage on; Sharing Best Practice G.22 G.24 O operation of these production resources according to shared best practice so as to minimise consumption and emissions. In the Automobile Division, including PCA, the new processes brought into plants with the new manufacturing processes have been This process applies across all Group units. It is well-established designed with the environment in mind so as to reduce potential in the plants, where it represents the environmental plank of the impacts. Continuous improvement of operating conditions to PSA Excellence System, a system that seeks to bring our units up reduce impacts is an integral part of the processes developed on-site. to the top standards in all fields of manufacturing endeavour. It is Identification of best practice and experience sharing is led by the well under way at research and development and office sites and is Group “Environment” Department. It also maintains a regulatory currently being deployed in the Peugeot and Citroën sales units. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 79 3 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3.1. Managing environmental impact watch to monitor likely future regulatory changes and share data with The Group carries out public consultations wherever regulations departments responsible for designing production resources so as to require. At unit level, it keeps the employee representatives (Health anticipate, as far as possible, future regulatory constraints. and Safety Committee, etc.) informed about significant planned Finally, the department has an annual investment budget to bring changes. plant operations into line with new regulations. An annual budget, As part of compliance with ISO 14001, each unit has a system in place which totalled approximately €1.3 million in 2012, was allocated for to analyse and respond to complaints made by local communities. reducing pollution and environmental risk, integrating regulatory changes and deploying the certification programme. 3.1.1. ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES AND CORPORATE STRATEGY The major impacts of the Group’s industrial activities concern: Initially launched at PCA, this policy has been progressively rolled out O consumption of natural resources (water, fossil fuels); through the Peugeot and Citroën Retail networks.The manufacturing strategy integrates environmental protection as part of a drive for O air emissions from combustion processes and painting; continuous improvement, based on a disciplined organisation, a O water effluent from production processes; method structured around ISO 14001 certification, the allocation of O waste; substantial funding and an effective reporting system known as the O soil pollution from manufacturing; Industrial Environment Observatory, whose database has contained O other potential impacts (noise, smells, visual pollution, etc.) which measurements of each facility’s environmental performance are also analysed and monitored. since 1989. This process efficiently manages the most significant environmental aspects of the Group’s operations. To help meet the environmental targets it has set for itself, the Group has developed the following approaches: Within Industrial Operations, the Environment Department leads and coordinates environmental activities on the sites and manages the Industrial Environment Observatory application as well as the annual investment budget. In addition, at each plant, an 3.1.1.1. A SOLID TIME-TESTED environmental compliance officer is backed by a dedicated service ORGANISATION G.20 and correspondents appointed in each workshop. The Research and For many years, the Group has been engaged in assertive Development Department also has environmental specialists who environmental stewardship at its production and research and provide technical support for the plants, particularly during capital development facilities, in a commitment to ensuring that their projects. In all, some 500 people are directly involved in managing operations comply not only with local regulations but also safeguard the Group’s industrial environment. the neighbouring environment and the quality of life in host communities, following a continuous improvement process. 80 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3.1. Managing environmental impact 3 Other Group PCA & manufacturing subsidiaries subsidiaries Brands Department, Industrial Operations, Purchasing Department, Research and Development Department, Sustainable Development Department, Latin America Division, etc… Russia, Ukraine and CIS Division Automobile Peugeot Manufacturing Delegation or research units Industrial Operations Environment Department Automobile Fonction: Citroën Regulatory watch, coordination of Group-wide issues, reporting; Head of unit Attend sites to address environmental issues case-by-case, including relations with governments; Faurecia Subdelegation Letter of instruction Lead the environmental management system and audit certiﬁed sites; Lead the network of environment managers; Unit maintenance Production Banque PSA Provide a source of expertise to other department units department Finance Group departments and Entities; Management and monitoring of the industrial investment budget for the environment. Environmental management system: PMTC Environmental handbook (ISO 14001); Procedures; Leadership. PCI Research and Development Department business departments have expertise in Environment Environment the different businesses and an manager Correspondent environmental engineering unit which supports plants through their investment At each site, a head of environment relies on an ad hoc structure and correspondents in each workshop to make sure environmental issues are projects. effectively incorporated into the everyday work of the unit. Reporting line Interaction EMS Leadership 3.1.1.2. THE GROUP’S STRATEGY FOR In addition, these risks are considerably attenuated through ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES construction techniques, such as building workshops over retention basins and using overhead pipe systems to carry polluting liquids. For other risks, regular audits of compliance with environmental ANALYSING ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS procedures are carried out during walk-through inspections by Environmental risks have been analysed in accordance with production line managers as part of the PSA Peugeot Citroën ISO 14001, leading to the identification at each facility of Significant Production System. Compliance with environmental procedures is Environmental Aspects of the facility’s operations and its integration also confirmed by ISO 14001 audits. in the host community. The analysis, which is regularly updated, Under the new EU regulatory framework for the Registration, serves to identify the major environmental challenges at each plant Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH), and to prepare Action Plans to address these challenges, which are which came into effect on 1 June 2007, PSA Peugeot Citroën is approved and monitored by Management. Regular audits by the certified as: Internal Auditors and accredited testing laboratories, such as UTAC O an Article Producer: as such, the Group is organised to answer and SGS, provide assurance that the environmental management questions from customers about substances of very high concern system is properly applied. in its products; Hazardous substances used on Group sites are recorded and managed O a Downstream User: as such, the Group has launched an initiative according to regulatory requirements, especially with regard to their for suppliers, in cooperation with other members of the European handling, storage, use and disposal. It is also relevant to point out that Automobile Manufacturers’ Association (ACEA). The initiative the Group does not have any SEVESO classified facilities. is designed to ensure that suppliers have fully integrated this In this respect, a procedure has been introduced for identifying all regulation so that they can guarantee uninterrupted delivery of chemical substances brought on production sites and certifying substances and blends needed in automobile production and their use at the workstation, taking into account health, safety and provide the Group with the necessary information with regarding environmental risks. the compliant use of these products. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 81 3 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3.1. Managing environmental impact AN ACTIVE CERTIFICATION POLICY G.20 impacts, incidents and damage and for effectively managing natural resource use and waste production. What’s more, certification acts At PCA, environmental management systems have been introduced as a guarantee of the Group’s environmental commitment to local at all production facilities worldwide, based on ISO 14001 authorities and the stakeholders. certification, the internationally recognised quality standard for environmental management and organisation. The standard enables As part of the ISO 14001 process, every employee, whether fixeda company to set out a formal environmental strategy, identify and term or permanent, as well as temporary workers and interns, reduce the Significant Environmental Aspects of each facility’s receives training in environmental skills or awareness tailored to his operations, draft the procedures used to deploy and manage the or her job and business. Contract workers employed at the plants strategy, guarantee compliance and drive continuous improvement, undergo similar training. which is the Foundation of environmental protection. Launched more than 10 years ago, the certification process is now The Group is pursuing its programmes to obtain ISO 14001 fully implemented in the production plants, which are all ISO 14001 environmental certification for its production and R&D facilities, with certified. The process is currently being deployed in the R&D and the goal of integrating an environmentally responsible development replacement parts facilities. ISO 14001 is one of the standards with and environmental awareness plan into its operations. This approach which all new production plants must comply. involves the deployment of a system for preventing environmental ISO 14001 CERTIFICATION TIMETABLE FOR THE MANUFACTURING PLANTS 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2007 2010 2012 Mulhouse Poissy Aulnay Caen Metz Saint-Ouen Hérimoncourt* La Garenne Belchamp Jeppener Sochaux Vigo Rennes Charleville Mangualde Vesoul Sevel Nord** Trémery Porto Real Sept-Fons Trnava Madrid Valenciennes Buenos Aires * Included in PCA data since 2005 (certified since 2001) ** Included in PCA data since 2012 (certified since 2000) following the process developed by PSA Peugeot Citroën While not included in the PCA scope of reporting, the four automobile manufacturing joint ventures have also been certified. They are TPCA in Kolín, Czech Republic; the DPCA plants in Wuhan and Xiangfan, Hubei province, China; Sevelsud in Val Di Sangro, Italy and Française de Mécanique in Douvrin, France. OTHER DIVISIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT Particular attention has been paid to new buildings, with the definition of new dealership construction guidelines covering energy Peugeot and Citroën: Environmental Policies Applied to efficiency, insulation, heating and ventilation, lighting, water and the Retail Networks waste management and recycling. Peugeot and Citroën brands are sold through the Group’s own In line with its commitment to continuously improving customer outlets run by Peugeot Citroën Retail (PCR) and by independent service, the Group has also involved its independent retail networks dealerships. in the sustainable development process by inviting them to launch At Peugeot Citroën Retail a dedicated environment team steers initiatives in three areas: environmental, social and managementthe environmental progress process at the Group’s own outlets. By related issues. working in close cooperation with the Environment Department Environmental processes in the dealership network are led by the at Industrial Operations the department can provide expertise environment correspondents appointed at each brand subsidiary. to the networks and coordinate the actions of the environment Their role is to pass on and roll out environmental procedures correspondents at the branches or in the regions on a range of defined by the Group and to monitor regulatory changes specific to environmental issues (monitoring regulatory compliance, overseeing each country. on-site analysis and investigations, even, if necessary, organising The Peugeot Wanact and Citroën’s Greenpact programmes illustrate decontamination actions). the Group’s determination to: In its dealership networks in France, Peugeot Citroën Retail directs O reduce the environmental impact of the two brand’s sales and the environmental and social processes on a self-monitoring basis. after-sales operations; The main themes are: environmental legislation, waste management and safety. O deploy best social and managerial practices. Since 2008, Peugeot and Citroën have had an intranet system for collecting, verifying and consolidating environmental data. 82 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3.1. Managing environmental impact 3 Peugeot Wanact and Greenpact serve as global benchmarks that: Tangible tools and resources make it easier for dealers to implement O present the Group’s recommendations, especially the principles of this approach. A new logo and a baseline – “The conscience of a “lean management”, particularly as it affects energy saving; network” – provide further proof of this commitment. O reflect a resolve to deploy best practices. The Group has been running these programmes since 2011. They are now deployed four pilot sites: Chalon-sur-Saône, Abbeville and the Nancy and Lyon regional offices. 3.1.2. COMBATING CLIMATE CHANGE G.22 G.32 3.1.2.1. DIRECT AND INDIRECT ENERGY which transposes European Commission decision 2007/589/EC, CONSUMPTION made within the framework of the European CO2 allowance trading scheme. The coefficients used in these two texts, like those in the Energy consumption data are expressed in MWh ncv, the most GHG Protocol framework referred to by the GRI, are taken from commonly used unit of measurement, which is very broadly applied the International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Consequently, by automobile manufacturers in their sustainable development the values expressed in MWh can be converted into terajoules (TJ) reports. Concerning the method, we use the calorific values by multiplying them by a factor of 3.6 (simply put, 1 Wh = 3.6 kJ). recommended by French authorities in the ruling of 31 March 2008, DIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION (Automobile and Banking scope) Unit: MWh ncv Heavy fuel oil HHO NG + LPG Coke and Coal Wood Total PCA 2012 4,556 4,987 1,988,699 87,181 3,185 2,088,608 2011 4,100 5,487 1,884,388 110,585 2,004,560 2010 3,709 11,830 2,386,220 105,646 2,507,405 AP/AC 2012 339 19,012 170,921 190,272 2011 367 20,369 180,874 201,610 2010 889 37,378 196,954 235,221 PCI 2012 152 152 2011 3,959 3,959 2010 5,123 5,123 PMTC 2012 21,703 21,703 2011 0 20,346 20,346 2010 10 27,890 27,900 Banque PSA Finance 2012 103 103 2011 2010 TOTAL 2012 4,895 23,999 2,181,578 87,181 3,185 2,300,838 2011 4,467 25,856 2,089,567 110,585 0 2,230,475 2010 4,598 49,218 2,616,187 105,646 0 2,775,649 HSFO = High-sulphur fuel oil – LSFO = Low-sulphur fuel oil – VLSFO = Very low-sulphur fuel oil – HHO = Home heating oil – NG = Natural gas – LPG = Liquefied petroleum gas – Heavy fuel oil = HFSO + LSFO + VLSFO PCA’s consumption of primary energy rose by 4% in 2012, despite Energy indicators are expressed in the same unit of measurement a fall in production of around 9%. This is largely because of the (MWh ncv) by applying officially recognised conversion coefficients. inclusion in the scope of reporting of Sevel Nord and Kaluga in Direct energy consumption data from the Peugeot and Citroën Russia, which produce few vehicles, and by plants running at less than brands were reported from an average 98% of their sites in 2012, full capacity in tough economic times. However, compared to 2010 versus 98% in 2011 and 92% in 2010. data there is a clear reduction in consumption, which confirms that energy management measures put in place at the sites have largely offset fluctuations in plant production levels , but also less favourable weather conditions in 2012. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 83 3 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3.1. Managing environmental impact INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION (Automobile and Banking scope) Unit: MWh Electricity Steam Total PCA 2012 2,358,596 237,381 2,595,977 2011 2,486,202 235,404 2,721,606 2010 2,546,206 274,550 2,820,756 AP/AC 2012 143,250 4,691 147,941 2011 157,083 9,403 166,486 2010 153,775 13,577 167,352 PCI 2012 2,099 2,274 4,373 2011 2,153 2,153 2010 1,837 1,837 PMTC 2012 11,702 11,702 2011 12,550 12,550 2010 12,869 12,869 Banque PSA Finance 2012 2,054 1,289 3,343 2011 2010 TOTAL 2012 2,517,701 245,635 2,763,336 2011 2,657,988 244,807 2,902,795 2010 2,714,687 288,127 3,002,814 Secondary energy consumption within the PCA scope fell by 5%. Data for the Peugeot and Citroën brands were reported from an This proves the effectiveness of the energy management process average 94% of their sites in 2012, versus 95% in 2011 and 88% put in place, which successfully brought down energy consumption in 2010, for indirect energy consumption. as production was scaled back, despite the unhelpful change in the scope of reporting. 84 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3.1. Managing environmental impact 3 illustrates well how the Group has progressed in terms of optimising CHANGE IN ENERGY CONSUMPTION Y energy consumption. (PCA) Despite the tough environment for the Group, programmes to Energy consumption Ratio renovate the thermal systems at the Sochaux and Mulhouse sites (in MWh ncv) (in MWh ncv/painted vehicle) and retool the Charleville foundry continue and should become operational in 2014. 3.5 In addition to these upgrades, the Group is today holding in-depth 3.08 6,000,000 discussions about ways to further improve its energy efficiency. Projects 3 are being carried out at all facilities to rationalise the space used for 5,000,000 2.38 2.33 2.5 production operations. These projects have in particular led to more 2.14 4,000,000 2.00 compact plants (with equal production capacity), which have resulted 2 in energy savings, especially in the areas of heating and air conditioning. 3,000,000 1.5 The Group has also made efforts to replace its most polluting energy 2,000,000 1 sources, for instance by replacing heavy fuel oil boilers at Vesoul with a wood burner. 1,000,000 0.5 In another aspect of its energy policy, the Group is continuing the 0 cogeneration contracts at its Sochaux, Rennes and Mulhouse plants. 0 1995 2010 2011 2012 2015 Objective Geographically, 92% of the Group’s energy was used in the EU and 8% in the rest of the world in 2012. Heavy fuel & HHO NG & LPG Coal & Coke Use of Renewable Energy G.29 Electricity Steam Ratio (MWh ncv/ The Group examines opportunities to use renewable energy on a painted vehicle) case by case basis. This led in 2010 to the installation of 9,300 sq.m. of photovoltaic panels at its Sochaux plant in partnership with Veolia The above chart includes energy consumption by PSA Peugeot Environnement. Citroën Group foundries. Similarly, in November 2012, the Vesoul site brought into service a In the Automobile Division, vehicle manufacture uses energy in a wood-burning boiler to replace its environmentally unfriendly fuelwide variety of industrial processes, including casting, machining, oil facility. paint curing and heat treatment, as well as lighting and heating. In the Peugeot and Citroën Retail networks, the environment Energy use has increased sharply since 1995, reflecting: unit of Peugeot Citroën Retail (PCR) is currently piloting two O the increase in PCA’s automobile output; complementary projects: a maintenance audit of its buildings and an O the production of engines for other carmakers; audit of water, electricity and gas consumption at all PCR branches O the increased use of water-based paints, which reduce VOC and subsidiaries. From March 2013, centralised databasing of emissions but require more electricity in the drying phase; information under these two projects will allow the Group: O the increase in the scope of reporting. O to measure current conditions at the sites; An energy policy deployed for many years has improved the Group’s O to track progress as sites change; energy profile and reduced the amount of energy consumed per O to quickly call up reliable and permanent information; vehicle by 24% since 1995. The policy includes measures to upgrade O to carry out regulatory updates; heating plants, notably by replacing oil-fired boilers with natural gas O to optimise maintenance costs; units, and energy saving programmes to build employee awareness, O to reduce energy consumption at outlets. install metering and automated systems and share best practices. The buildings audit will give the Group a picture, for each sales outlet, The plan has also made it possible to map the energy performance of the different elements in the buildings, their energy performance of the largest plants in order to identify the necessary interventions and the condition of fire-prevention equipment. to completely overhaul their energy programmes as well as related short-term investments to help reduce energy consumption. Control and analysis of water, electricity and gas consumption will be done by tele-metering: values uploaded automatically each hour Today, the Group’s commitment to managing energy consumption from meters installed in the outlets and programmed alerts sent to is producing results. The Sochaux site was the first manufacturing the site manager by mail or SMS if the system detects any anomaly. site in France to receive the new ISO 50001 certification, followed Sampling the main meters for the three utilities installed in each by Mulhouse in 2012. The Trnava site in Slovakia is currently in the unit will allow the Group to identify energy-hungry sites, detect process of certification and will apply for its certificate at the end of anomalies and identify their source, e.g. detecting invisible leaks or the first half of 2013. overconsumption due to poor use of facilities. The decline between 2011 and 2012 was for two reasons. The first As a result, the Group will be able to take corrective action to regulate was industrial: the inclusion within the scope of reporting of Kaluga, and reduce consumption of utilities and energy at its units. The Group which only came on-stream from July 2012, and Sevel Nord, plus will also encourage better management of consumption by publishing lower production at all plants. The second was the weather, related a guide to best practice in energy-saving and through a statistical to the location of the Group’s plants, in particular in France, where analysis of each site. Savings achieved by each investment can be the 2011 weather was classed as exceptionally hot by the French Met measured. Interventions at outlets will be by outside consultants in Office. It is therefore more relevant to compare 2012 results with 2010: cooperation with the utilities suppliers (as part of the project to control we see a slight increase in energy consumption per vehicle in spite consumption), PCR head office and local PCR representatives. of the change in scope and the lower production at the plants. This PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 85 3 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3.1. Managing environmental impact 3.1.2.2. DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS BY WEIGHT G.31 G.32 (Automobile and Banking scope) Total CO2 Unit: tonnes CO2 N2O CH4 equivalent PCA 2012 441,276 18.0 29.0 447,464 2011 426,459 17.0 27.1 432,305 2010 529,711 21.6 34.3 537,115 AP/AC 2012 40,384 1.6 2.6 40,946 2011 42,785 1.7 2.7 43,382 2010 50,833 2.0 3.0 51,511 PCI 2012 31 0.0 0.0 32 2011 814 0.0 0.1 828 2010 1,053 0.1 0.1 1,070 PMTC 2012 4,461 0.2 0.3 4,528 2011 4,182 0.2 0.3 4,244 2010 5,736 0.3 0.3 5,820 Banque PSA Finance 2012 21 0.0 0.0 22 2011 2010 TOTAL 2012 486,174 19.8 31.8 492,992 2011 474,240 19.0 30.2 480,758 2010 587,333 23.8 37.8 595,516 CO2 = Carbon dioxide – N2O = Nitrous oxide – CH4 = Methane These data include 1,078 tonnes of CO2 equivalent from the burning To be compared and consolidated with CO2 emissions, N2O and CH4 of biomass within the PCA scope of reporting. emissions have been expressed in terms of CO2 equivalent. This has Direct greenhouse gas emissions are calculated by taking been calculated using Global Warming Potential (GWP) coefficients consumption data for fossil fuels (fuel-oil, coal, coke, natural gas and of 310 for N2O and 21 for CH4, in line with recommendations issued LPG), plus biomass energy from 2012, and applying international by the Centre Interprofessionnel Technique d’Études de la Pollution emission factors recommended by the French authorities (ruling of Atmosphérique (CITEPA) and the 1995 IPCC Report. 31 March 2008 for CO2 and circular of 15 April 2002 for all other In the above table, data from the Peugeot and Citroën brands were gases). Renewable energy emissions factors (for wood in this case), reported from the same percentage of sites as those reporting direct are also derived from the 15 April 2002 circular. energy consumption. 86 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3.1. Managing environmental impact 3 3.1.2.3. INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS CHANGE IN GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS EMISSIONS BY WEIGHT G.31 G.32 (PCA) Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Ratio INDIRECT CO2 EMISSIONS (in tonnes of CO2 equivalent) (in kg CO2 eq/painted vehicle) (Automobile and Banking scope) 700,000 500 Unit: tonnes Indirect CO2 emissions 405 600,000 PCA 2012 283,044 400 2011 250,821 500,000 2010 300,186 240 400,000 223 300 AP/AC 2012 36,251 196 2011 42,810 300,000 134 141 200 2010 44,210 114 200,000 PCI 2012 590 100 2011 76 100,000 2010 83 0 0 PMTC 2012 452 1995 2010 2011 2012 2011 443 2010 579 Direct GHG Indirect GHG Ratio GES directs emissions emissions Banque PSA Finance 2012 638 Ratio of indirect GHG emissions 2011 2010 TOTAL 2012 320,976 Since 1990, programmes to upgrade installations, shift from oil and 2011 294,150 fuel to natural gas, develop combined heat and power (CHP) plants 2010 345,059 and scale back energy use have helped to improve energy efficiency and thus reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Note: Indirect emissions are calculated based on applying emissions factors, either obtained from suppliers or published by the International Energy Direct greenhouse gas emissions fell by 45% from 1995 levels to Agency (2010 data), to the purchased electricity and steam. 223 kg CO2 equivalent per vehicle. These emissions obviously followed the trend in fuel consumption at the sites. The change in 2012 versus 2011 is due in part to a change in the types of energy bought, with a slight increase in steam and a fall in In 2012, indirect greenhouse gas emissions increased on 2011. electricity, and in part to a change in the energy mix of our energy However, secondary energy consumption fell. This counterintuitive suppliers. There was a slight increase in the carbon content of the trend reflected a worsening of emissions factors at our energy energy supplied in this field. Longer term, indirect CO2 emissions, suppliers. already low because of the Group’s heavy presence in low-carbon In 2012, total greenhouse gas emissions within the Group’s overall France, continue to decline. manufacturing scope were 364 kg of CO2 equivalent per vehicle. In the above table, data from Peugeot and Citroën brands were Geographically, 90% of the Group’s direct greenhouse gases in 2012 reported from the same percentage of sites as those reporting indirect were emitted in the EU and 10% in the rest of the world. energy consumption. PARTICIPATION IN THE CARBON EMISSION ALLOWANCE SCHEME For the 2008-2012 period, seven plants (Sochaux, Mulhouse, Rennes, Poissy, Vesoul and Vélizy in France; and Vigo in Spain) that operate installations rated over 20 MW qualify for the carbon emission allowance scheme set up in application of European Union Directive 2003/87/EC, amended, on greenhouse gas emissions trading. For the seven plants, changes in the allocation rules have led to a 21% reduction in allowances compared with the 2005-2007 period. However, deployment of energy management policies based on the best available technologies have allowed the Group to cut its CO2 consumption by the units concerned so that the reduction in permit allocations had no negative impact and the Group remained “selfsufficient” throughout the 2008-2012 period. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 87 3 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3.1. Managing environmental impact PSA Peugeot Citroën is currently implementing the third phase of be limited from 2013 to 80% of a benchmark value (based on the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (2013-2020). The scheme will a European benchmark) and will then fall year by year to 30% of extend to four new facilities (three assembly plants and one foundry) benchmark by 2020. PSA Peugeot Citroën is therefore preparing to and to all operations (casting, foundry work, etc.) in the seven reduce its CO2 emissions. facilities already covered, for their combustion installations. As part of this, requests for free quota allocations were regularly FIRST GHG EMISSION AUDITS submitted, audited by third parties, validated by the national authorities, In accordance with the new Article L. 225-25 of the French and are currently under examination by the European authorities. Environmental Code, derived from the Grenelle 2 environmental Notification of allocations is expected in the first half of 2013. legislation, PCA and 10 of its subsidiaries (companies employing At the moment, the automotive sector is not assessed by European more than 500 persons) carried out an audit of greenhouse gas regulations as “at risk of carbon leakage”. As a result, free quota emissions (6 GHGs stipulated by the Kyoto protocol) from their allocations for PSA Peugeot Citroën and other automakers will French operations taking 2011 as the benchmark year. These audits covered the following sources of emissions, under the operational control of the companies concerned. Emission category No. Emission headings Example of sources of emissions Direct GHG emissions 1 Direct emissions from stationary combustion sources Energy combustion at stationary sources 2 Direct emissions from mobile sources Fuel combustion by mobile sources using internal combustion engines 3 Direct emissions from non-energy processes Industrial processes unrelated to combustion, such as decarbonisation, chemical reactions, etc. 4 Direct emissions from leakage Leaks of cooling fluid, livestock, nitrogen fertiliser, treatment of organic waste, etc 5 Biomass emissions (agriculture and forestry) Biomass related to activities on land, wetlands or forests Indirect emissions related 6 Indirect emissions from electricity consumption Electricity generation, transport and distribution to energy 7 Indirect emissions from consumption of steam, Production of steam, heating and cooling heating and cooling and their transport and distribution Each company concerned carried out its audit using the Group Each audit comes with an action plan for 2012-2014. Actions taken methodology and sent it to the prefect of the corresponding region derive either from the energy plan (e.g. cutting electricity or gas in December 2012. consumption), or from specific GHG emissions reduction projects The results of the GHG audits by PCA and its subsidiaries are (e.g. use of coolants with lower Global Warming Potential). shown in simplified form below: Overall, the action plan is expected to cut CO2 equivalent emissions by more than 60,000 tonnes over its three years. Item 7: Steam 43,844 Item 1: Combustion 7% 316,558 LOGISTICS OPERATIONS Y Item 6: Electricity 53% 126,735 GEFCO: Environmental Policies Applied to Logistics 21% Operations O Combating climate change by managing GEFCO Group’s carbon footprint. quid itm 5? In line with its environmental policy and aware of the impact Item 5: Biomass its activities have on climate change, the GEFCO Group drew 0 0% up a carbon inventory in 2012 to measure its CO2 emissions, accompanied by plans to analyse, manage and reduce energy consumption and hence emissions. The inventory was GroupItem 4: Refrigerants wide and covered all its activities (i.e. scopes 1, 2 and 3) and so 12,682 went well beyond its obligations under France’s “Grenelle 2” 2% law (Article 75). GEFCO also wanted to support its customers, Item 3: Processes including PSA Peugeot Citroën, in their carbon management excluding energy processes by reporting to them the emissions linked to the transport Item 2: Mobile sources 35,136 services they provide and by proposing alternative transport 64,382 6% schemes wherever possible, accompanied by the corresponding 11% 88 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3.1. Managing environmental impact 3 emissions data. In 2012, logistics activities for PSA Peugeot Citroën 2011 saw the creation of a rail route between France and Kaluga in (supplying plants and distributing parts) emitted 267,731 tonnes Russia. In July 2012, the SKD (semi-knocked-down) automotive of CO2, and the transport of vehicles emitted 265,793 tonnes. parts that had previously been shipped were replaced by CKD O Modernisation of fleet and management of road transport (completely knocked-down) parts allowing GEFCO to pursue its activities. policy of switching to rail. At end-2012, 89% of the car-carrier fleet met Euro 5 standard In 2012, GEFCO launched two projects to cut CO2 emissions by and 70% of goods lorries met Euro 4 or 5 standards. Since 2011, switching volumes from road to rail and sea transport: lorry speeds have been limited to 85 km/h, which has helped O a system of rail hubs was set up in cooperation with cut motorway consumption by 3-5%. This initiative continued alternative operators to extend rail use for vehicle transport in 2012, resulting in significant savings as fuel prices rose in Europe; between 2011 and 2012: 4.5% on-road and 3.5% at sea. GEFCO O new sea routes were opened linking southern Spain/Portugal has introduced transport optimisation software that runs through and the Ukraine/Russia through the Black Sea. dedicated equipment currently being installed on its lorries. This will allow it to cut the number of unladen journeys, optimise loads Rationalisation of Employee Travels Y and monitor fuel consumption. This European project involves The Group has also initiated a project to rationalise employee travel. 1,800 vehicles all of which will be equipped in 2013. It involves encouraging the use of conferencing and carpooling O A multimodal offering services, giving priority to rail travel and reducing average emissions by the vehicle fleet. 3.1.3. REDUCING THE IMPACT OF RESOURCE USE 3.1.3.1. TOTAL WATER USE G.27 TOTAL ANNUAL WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE AND BY BUSINESS (Automobile and Banking scope) Unit: m3 City water Surface water Underground water Total PCA 2012 1,967,158 3,929,592 3,870,874 9,767,624 2011 1,941,873 4,286,015 3,746,222 9,974,110 2010 2,084,888 4,035,499 4,744,254 10,864,641 AP/AC 2012 676,854 2 676,856 2011 706,343 5,000 711,343 2010 660,891 5,115 5,431 671,437 PCI 2012 3,243 3,243 2011 2,637 2,637 2010 2,379 2,379 PMTC 2012 13,512 13,512 2011 14,835 14,835 2010 14,977 14,977 Banque PSA Finance 2012 10,201 10,201 2011 2010 TOTAL 2012 2,670,968 3,929,592 3,870,876 10,471,436 2011 2,665,688 4,286,015 3,751,222 10,702,925 2010 2,763,135 4,040,614 4,749,685 11,553,434 Water use in the PCA scope of reporting fell 2% compared to 2011. Data for Peugeot and Citroën were reported from 86% of their sites Water withdrawal data is based either on water bills or meter readings. in 2012, versus 86% in 2011 and 83% in 2010. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 89 3 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3.1. Managing environmental impact Total Water Withdrawal by Source This is how the Trnava and Rennes plants produced very good results in 2012, with respectively 1.2 m3 and 1.6 m3 per painted vehicle. (PCA) Ratio (in cu.m/painted vehicle) Water used (in cu.m) 3.1.3.2. MATERIALS CONSUMED G.28 At a time when raw materials are and will continue to be scarce and 16 costly, supplier relations are a strategically important component of 14.16 25,000,000 the Group’s materials and product development programme. 14 12 A dedicated unit of the Purchasing Department is in charge of 20,000,000 tracking material costs, in cooperation with Operational Purchasing 10 teams and Technical teams from the Group Research and 15,000,000 Development Department. The goal is to more effectively anticipate 8 4.85 4.52 4.86 and manage price fluctuations and help diversify and control the 10,000,000 6 3.60 most strategically important supply sources. 4 5,000,000 The Purchasing and Research and Development Departments work 2 together to map materials risks, integrating for each raw material 0 0 such different factors as its importance in developing technologies 1995 2010 2011 2012 2015 for the vehicles of the future, the size and location of known or Objective estimated reserves, political or logistical constraints to access, its cost, and its place in the market. This map makes it possible to City water Surface water manage and secure long-term supplies for the Group and focus Underground water Ratio research and development programmes on replacement materials. (in cu.m/painted vehicle) Initially introduced for crude materials, the strategy has since been extended to included synthetic raw materials. This new materials research strategy goes hand in hand with the Group’s commitment to introducing more and more renewable materials, either recycled or Water used in manufacturing rose sharply in 2012 due to the bio-sourced, into its vehicles. extension of the scope of reporting and technical problems early in the year. The problems have been identified and corrective measures This process of analysing strategic material needs is shared with put in place and the Group expects to get quickly back on track to other French manufacturers through a national study group led by meet its 2013-2015 targets. the French Ministry of Industry that has enabled the deployment of analytical tools developed in line with this methodology for small and Total water withdrawals have remained at less than 10 million cubic mid-size businesses. meters thanks to the deployment of a dedicated plan that called for such measures as the widespread use of meters and the management and upgrading of recycling systems. CONSUMPTION OF RAW AND RECYCLED MATERIALS Geographically, 90% of water withdrawn was in the EU and 10% in (For PCA, standard parts) the rest of the world. The Group’s 2012 raw materials use was as follows: O directly: 880,000 tonnes of steel and 63,000 tonnes of non-ferrous ANNUAL WATER WITHDRAWALS G.22 G.24 metals (versus 1,125,000 tonnes of steel and 70,000 tonnes of Conserving water is a key objective at every plant. As with energy, non-ferrous metals in 2011); each plant has its own water consumption management plan based O indirectly: 1,575,000 tonnes of steel, 195,000 tonnes of nonon the widespread use of metering systems, the display of the least ferrous metals and 600,000 tonnes of synthetics, of which water-intensive operating parameters for each workstation and the 18,000 tonnes of recycled materials (versus 1,670,000 tonnes of deployment of recycling systems. The concept of available resources steel, 252,000 tonnes of non-ferrous metals and 800,000 tonnes is specific to each site. Impact studies include an analysis to determine of synthetics – of which 23,000 tonnes of recycled materials – the future facility’s water requirements, such as how much river water in 2011). will need to be withdrawn. Since 1995, these measures have led to a very sharp 66% reduction PAPER USE Y in water consumption per vehicle produced, thereby helping to The use of paper, for internal office printing or for outsourced conserve resources. brochures, marketing material, annual reports and other publications, At the same time, there has been a threefold decline in water is managed and measured at every level across the Group, including withdrawals per painted vehicle. PSA Peugeot Citroën set a target of production plants, office facilities and dealerships. 4 m3/vehicle in 2013 falling to 3.6 m3/vehicle in 2015. 90 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3.1. Managing environmental impact 3 Concerning office printer paper, awareness building campaigns and FSC-certified papers made exclusively with fibres from responsibly the shared-printer print management system installed at most of the managed forests. In addition, as a founding member of the French French sites have helped to keep consumption under control. Most government’s paper-recycling programme EcoFolio, PSA Peugeot waste printer paper is now largely sorted and collected by outside Citroën annually reports the tonnage of produced publications and service providers who deliver it to recycling plants. pays an eco-tax to local authorities to finance the collection, recycling In producing print publications, the Group pays careful attention and reuse of the paper. to the origin of the paper used, with a preference for PEFC and 3.1.4. LIMITING POLLUTION G.22 G.24 G.41 3.1.4.1. AIR QUALITY PSA Peugeot Citroën is committed to abating atmospheric emissions of sulphur oxides, nitrogen oxides and volatile organic compounds, not only because they are regulated, but also because they are a contributing factor in acidification (by forming acid rain), eutrophication (by increasing nitrogen availability and disrupting an ecosystem’s biological balance) and photochemical smog (by forming oxidising agents such as ozone). 3.1.4.1.1. NO2, SO2 AND VOC EMISSIONS Direct SO2 and NO2 Emissions by Business (Automobile and Banking scope) Unit: tonnes SO2 NO2 PCA 2012 14.0 435.9 2011 13.0 411.5 2010 15.6 522.0 AP/AC 2012 7.5 44.0 2011 8.0 46.6 2010 14.8 56.5 PCI 2012 0.0 0.0 2011 0.0 0.9 2010 0.0 1.1 PMTC 2012 0.0 4.2 2011 0.0 4.0 2010 0.1 6.0 Banque PSA Finance 2012 0.0 0.0 2011 2010 TOTAL 2012 21.5 484.1 2011 21.1 463.0 2010 30.5 585.6 SO2 = Sulphur dioxide – NO2 = Nitrogen dioxide Note: Direct emissions of SO2/NO2 are based on primary energy which should improve atmospheric pollution within the PCA scope consumption in 2012 and calculated in accordance with the regulations of reporting. in force. In the above table, data from Peugeot and Citroën brands were The Group is striving to cut PCA’s use of the most polluting reported from the same percentage of sites as those reporting direct energies. At 31 December 2012, no manufacturing plant within energy consumption. the PCA scope of reporting had any LSFO facilities in operation, PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 91 3 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3.1. Managing environmental impact Direct SO2 and NO2 Emissions substantially reduce worldwide sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions from the Group’s power plants. In 2011, the Group stopped using (PCA) high-sulphur fuel oils, thereby reducing SO2 emissions to less than Production 15 tonnes from 2011, a level maintained in 2012. SO2 and NO2 emissions (in tonnes/year) (in number of painted vehicle) At the same time, nitrous oxide (NOx) emissions have also declined sharply thanks to improvements in thermal power stations, and the choice of fuels (natural gas as a substitute for fuel oil). NO2 3,500 2,500,000 emissions, which result directly from the combustion of natural gas at the various facilities, have stabilised at less than 500 tonnes. 3,000 2,000,000 Two major projects to modernise the main heating facilities at the 2,500 Sochaux and Mulhouse plants, begun at the end of 2011 and due for 2,000 1,500,000 completion in 2014, will make it possible to install new gas boilers integrating the best available technology particularly as regards 1,500 1,000,000 efficiency, so helping reduce emissions of combustion pollutants. 1,000 Also, the overhaul of Vesoul’s heating system, which was begun three 500,000 years ago and will end the plant’s reliance on fuel oil, continues with 500 the installation of a wood-fuelled boiler for on-site heating with a far 0 0 lower CO2 footprint. 1995 2010 2011 2012 Taken together, these reductions help improve air quality around SO2 NO2 Production Group sites. The geographical breakdown of SO2 emissions in 2012 was as follows: 97% in the EU and 3% in the rest of the world. Since 1995, the gradual replacement of conventional high-sulphur The geographical breakdown of NO2 emissions in 2012 was as fuel oil with low-sulphur fuels and natural gas has helped to follows: 90% in the EU and 10% in the rest of the world. Paint Shop VOC Releases by Business Ratio (in kg/vehicle VOC (tonnes) produced) PCA 2012 6,597 3.30 2011 8,059 3.65 2010 8,390 3.75 PMTC 2012 4 2011 10 2010 4 TOTAL 2012 6,601 2011 8,069 2010 8,394 VOC = Volatile organic compounds Note: Data do not include VOC emissions by the Kaluga assembly plant in Russia which began manufacturing in 2012. However, the painting process in this plant is based on water-based paints with low VOC emissions. VOC emissions from PCA and PMTC paint shops are calculated using the materials balance method, in compliance with European directive 1999/13/EC on the limitation of emissions of volatile organic compounds due to the use of organic solvents in certain activities and installations. 92 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3.1. Managing environmental impact 3 Paint Shop VOC Releases Deployment of this action plan has more than halved per-vehicle VOC emissions from the Group’s paint shops in less than 15 years (PCA) (60% cut per painted vehicle between 1995 and 2012) and enabled each facility to meet the limits set in the European Union Directive VOC releases Ratio on reducing VOC emissions, which came into force in October 2007. (in tonnes) (in kg/painted vehicle) Continued systematic implementation of the best available 10 technologies that are economically affordable in the current shrinking 12,000 8.33 markets is enabling the Group to continue improving performance. 8 In 2012, VOC emissions were cut by 22%. This reduction will allow the Group to beat its target and achieve a ratio of 3.30 kg of VOC 9,000 6 per painted vehicle. The sharp improvement owes much to a plan to manage and cut consumption of solvents, which has managed to 6,000 3.75 3.65 significantly reduce emissions from the solvent-based paint shops 3.30 3.14 4 and improved performance at the already low-emitting water-based paint shops. 3,000 2 At the Sochaux site, a modernisation plan for the paint shop is currently under way and will transform the three existing production 0 0 lines. The impact of this modernisation should come in around 2015, 1995 2010 2011 2012 2015 helping meet the target of 3.14 kg of VOC per painted vehicle. Objective This process of managing VOC emissions (investment of resources, use of low-emitting products, etc.) also applies to surface treatments VOCs Ratio used by the mechanical component plants. The geographical breakdown of VOC emissions in 2011 was as Identified as ozone-producing pollutants by authorities in the late follows: 89% in the EU and 11% in the rest of the world. 1980s, emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOC) are closely monitored and an action plan to reduce them has been implemented. 3.1.4.1.2. USE AND EMISSIONS OF OZONEAt PCA, while volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions DEPLETING SUBSTANCES produced by PSA Peugeot Citroën’s paint shops in France represent a marginal amount – 799,000 tonnes in 2012 or less than 1% of Use and Emissions of Ozone-Depleting Substances G.24 total annual French VOC emissions produced by human activity Reducing emissions of ozone-depleting gases is a key concern in the according to CITEPA’s “Inventory of atmospheric pollutants and Group’s Environmental Management System. GHGs in France 2012” – they are the Group’s main emissionsrelated environmental challenge on a plant-by-plant basis. While the use of trichloroethane and halon was discontinued between 1999 and 2003, CFCs and HFCs are still present in some refrigerating The strategy for reducing these emissions is being deployed in four units used to cool production resources (such as machine tool cutting areas, using Best Available Technologies: fluids), or electrical control enclosures or facilities. O optimising paint shops by using processes with higher application Leak-tightness of installations containing ozone-depleting fluids is efficiency to reduce the use of conventional paints and related checked every year and corrective action is taken in the event leaks solvents, by selecting low-solvent paints and by recycling used are detected. Although refilling equipment with CFCs has been solvents; prohibited since 2001, refilling with recycled/reclaimed HCFCs is O introduction of clean technologies since 1998 (water-based paints) authorized through 2014. in new paint shops, including the new Kaluga plant in Russia which has been equipped with this high-performing technology; In 2012, leaks of cooling fluids in French manufacturing units O installing air treatment equipment that incinerates VOCs on site; belonging to the Group totalled 10.7 tonnes, 91% of them HFCs. A breakdown by site is given in the GHG audits for each unit. O encouraging the sharing of experience and best practices among Group plants. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 93 3 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3.1. Managing environmental impact 3.1.4.2. MATERIAL EFFLUENT DISCHARGE GROSS EFFLUENT DISCHARGE, EX-WORKS (Automobile and Banking scope) Unit: kg/year COD DBO5 SM PCA 2012 1,374,178 552,685 363,743 2011 2,152,278 831,021 491,814 2010 2,044,413 708,937 424,608 AP/AC 2012 n/a n/a n/a 2011 n/a n/a n/a 2010 n/a n/a n/a PCI 2012 n/a n/a n/a 2011 n/a n/a n/a 2010 n/a n/a n/a PMTC 2012 520 197 27 2011 347 208 36 2010 1,110 293 78 Banque PSA Finance 2012 n/a n/a n/a 2011 n/a n/a n/a 2010 n/a n/a n/a TOTAL 2012 1,374,698 552,882 363,770 2011 2,152,625 831,229 491,850 2010 2,045,523 709,230 424,686 COD = Chemical oxygen demand – BOD5 = Biochemical oxygen demand after 5 days – SM = Suspended matter – N/A = Not available Note: In 2012, the decline in these indicators of effluent discharges was largely due to a new calculation method which better assesses the real discharge rates at each site, replacing the previous method proposed by the French water authorities which relied on average flows and flows in peak months. Before release into the environment, 10% of these discharges are Whether connected to the public wastewater treatment network or treated in an integrated plant and 90% are further treated in a public equipped with their own integrated treatment plant, each facility wastewater plant. systematically tracks releases using a large number of indicators, defined in the operating permits. In particular these include chemical CHANGE IN GROSS EFFLUENT DISCHARGE, EX-WORKS oxygen demand (COD), biochemical oxygen demand after five days (BOD5) and suspended matter (SM). The results of the tracking (PCA) operations are reported to administrative authorities on a frequent Production basis. This organisation ensures that aqueous releases are not harmful Effluent disharge (in kg/year) (in number of painted vehicles) to the surroundings. To continuously improve the quality of its releases, the Group has developed a pragmatic approach to the various available solutions. New method 3,000,000 5,000,000 for calculating discharges For example, mechanical component plant cutting fluids and washing 2,500,000 machine effluent are increasingly treated by evaporation-based 4,000,000 2,000,000 concentration technologies that separate the oil phase from the water phase, so that the oil can be treated by specialty processes and the 3,000,000 1,500,000 water discharged into the sewage network. Most of the mechanical component plants now use this technology. 2,000,000 1,000,000 The geographical breakdown of effluent discharges in 2012 was as 1,000,000 500,000 follows: 97% in the EU and 3% in the rest of the world. 0 This indicator measures the gross annual discharge by sites that 0 carry out regular self-monitoring, which accounted for 98% of all the 1995 2010 2011 2012 water withdrawn by PCA facilities in 2012. COD DBO5 SM Production 94 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3.1. Managing environmental impact 3 DISCHARGES OF HEAVY METALS IN INDUSTRIAL AMOUNT OF PROVISIONS AND GUARANTEES TAKEN EFFLUENTS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS G.23 To meet the requirements of the EU Water Framework Directive The Group currently has no provisions or guarantees for (2000/60/EC), France has introduced research initiatives on environmental risks in its Automobile and BPF Divisions. However, hazardous substances in water. The goal is to prepare a list of regulations on financial guarantees apply to the Group’s French pollutants for surveillance for each industry, to study them and, manufacturing sites. The implementation of these new rules is being if necessary, to carry out targeted reductions or the elimination of coordinated by the Environment Department and will come into hazardous substances released into water from classified facilities effect in 2014. that are subject to authorisation. Following these operations to identify hazardous substances in industrial effluent, it was confirmed that, in terms of flows, the Group 3.1.4.4. MANAGING ODOURS AND NOISE is not significantly concerned by discharges of heavy metals such G.26 G.33 as mercury, cadmium, arsenic, lead, chromium and copper. With new generation facilities, there is no longer any lead or hexavalent chromium in the Group’s industrial effluent. Historically, these were RESPECTING THE BIOLOGICAL BALANCE AND both major hazardous substances in surface treatment discharges. MANAGING ODOURS AND NOISE Nickel is one of the metals found in the Group’s discharges that have Measures required to preserve natural habitats, flora and fauna, as been identified as coming from products used for surface treatment well as to ensure the tranquillity of neighbouring communities, are processes. To resolve the problem, the Group is committed to finding assessed and defined during initial or supplemental environmental replacements for surface treatment products that contain nickel by impact studies, in accordance with prevailing legislation. These using nickel-free green surface treatment technology. Although it has studies assess the sensitivity of the plant’s surrounding natural not yet met regulatory requirements regarding this replacement in all habitats, particularly their proximity to areas specially regulated for areas, the Group has rolled out the replacement initiative. Its plants the protection of flora and fauna. They are conducted when new at Mangualde, Madrid, Vigo, Rennes, Vesoul, Sevel Nord and Kaluga facilities are built and again at every important phase in a facility’s already use nickel-free green surface treatments. development, such as capacity extensions or the installation of new plant or equipment. In accordance with legislation, they are submitted Zinc is also one of the metals found in the discharges from certain to public hearings and to the approval of administrative authorities. Group plants. The Group is investigating the relatively dispersed origins of this substance and will establish a specific plan for Around 10 such impact studies are conducted on Group sites a reducing them. year. In addition, all of the ISO 14001-certified sites perform annual audits of the environmental impact of their operations as part of the In addition to this process of identifying hazardous substances in ISO 14001 environmental management system. These audits cover: water, the Group is tracking the discharge of zinc and nickel by monitoring wastewater on concerned sites. O environmental issues such as greenhouse gas emissions, biodiversity, energy use and health impacts; O a description of the site’s immediate environment (environmental 3.1.4.3. ACCIDENTAL SPILLS G.22 G.24 protection area, built-up urban area, etc.); O the possibility of ranking environmental aspects depending on their impact. ACCIDENTAL SPILLS IN 2012 Their findings support the management of these issues, by helping to An accident is said to have a material impact on the environment if it set targets and track results. is serious enough to be reported to the public authorities. In 2012, the Group had 11 significant incidents in its manufacturing facilities. 3.1.4.5. SOIL POLLUTION G.24 G.30 These included: PSA Peugeot Citroën is committed to identifying any soil O an 8 m3 leak of diesel from a service station at the Sevel Nord site; contamination pre-existing at its sites. O a fire in a testing facility at the Carrière-sous-Poissy research centre; Either at the instigation of public authorities or at the Group’s O a gas leak at a casting facility in Charleville; initiative, soil contamination has been assessed at a large number of O a 2 m3 spillage of transmission oil at Trnava in Slovakia; sites. After these assessments, the experts concluded that some of O leaks of cooling gases at various plants. the sites required only self-monitoring. Depending on the site, these surveys were supported by a small number of one-time remediation AMOUNT OF PENALTIES PAID FOLLOWING A LEGAL or prevention programmes. Assessments are also carried out when RULING CONCERNING THE ENVIRONMENT production or commercial facilities are acquired or sold, or when Y certain installed equipment is divested. The Group did not have to pay any penalties in this regard in 2012. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 95 3 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3.1. Managing environmental impact Upstream, the Group is also applying strict procedures to prevent Whenever the Peugeot and Citroën Retail networks dispose of soil contamination, in particular by: goodwill and property, the environmental unit of Peugeot and O installing retention basins for liquid storage facilities; Citroën Retail (PCR) commissions soil analyses and in-depth diagnostics at the work sites identified as potentially most polluting. O avoiding, to the extent possible, the use of underground pipelines Where pollution is found, the Group implements Action Plans to to carry liquid contaminants. deal with the pollutants in compliance with regulatory constraints, so as to make the land usable once sold. 3.1.5. REDUCING WASTE G.22 G.25 Within the Automobile Division, PCA included, the Group’s waste In addition, Group foundries purchased around 37,760 tonnes management policies are designed to reduce the amount of waste per of outside metal waste (scrap, cast iron and aluminium) for reuse vehicle produced and to promote the use of recovery and recycling in 2012. channels to reduce the amount of landfilled waste. The other process waste, totalling 280,404 tonnes, breaks down Introduced in 1995, the policies, which exclude metal waste, have very unevenly by facility as follows: 156,937 tonnes from foundries, demonstrated their effectiveness: 98,744 tonnes from assembly plants, 19,385 tonnes from mechanical O the weight of waste per vehicle produced has been reduced by 34%; component plants and 5,338 tonnes from engineering and design centres and offices. O analysis and characterisation of waste produced during the different stages of production (casting, foundry work, mechanical parts manufacture, stamping, paint and final assembly) have made it possible to identify processing channels that provide an WASTE PRODUCTION BY FACILITY Y (PCA in 2012, excluding metal waste) alternative to landfilling. The gradual deployment of new outlets, depending on locally available treatment solutions, is driving a Engineering & design centres steady increase in the waste recovery rate, which has now reached and offices 85% excluding metal waste. Mechanical 2% component plants In addition, nearly all scrap sheet metal, turnings and other metal 7% waste is recovered and reused in steelmaking or in the Group’s foundries. When metal waste is taken into account, Group plants recover or recycle around 93% of their process waste. The dealership network of Peugeot Citroën Retail France agreed a two-year national waste management contract with Véolia and Chimirec starting on 1 January 2012 and covering all hazardous and non-hazardous waste. Assembly plants The contract covers manufacturing and functional scopes and 35% covers waste sorting, processing, packaging, collection from sites, transport and awareness-raising and training of those working with Foundries waste produced in the dealership networks. 56% Due to the nature of their operations, the Charleville and Sept-Fons 3.1.5.1 TOTAL WASTE PRODUCED BY TYPE foundries alone accounted for more than half of total waste volumes, AND DESTINATION or 78 kg per vehicle. Most of this waste is spent foundry sand, much of which is recycled internally after on-site regeneration. TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY BUSINESS (PCA in 2012) In 2012, Group sites produced 784,570 tonnes of waste. Most of this (495,185 tonnes) was metal waste, which is not included in the charts and tables below because all of it is recovered as a byproduct and reused either in steel mills, or, for around 89,500 tonnes, directly in the Group’s foundries. 96 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3.1. Managing environmental impact 3 TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY TYPE (PCA, excluding foundry waste and metal waste, nearly 100% of which is recycled) (PCA, excluding metal waste, nearly 100% of which is recycled) Weight of waste Ratio Weight of waste Ratio (in tonnes) (in kg/painted vehicle) (in tonnes) (in kg/painted vehicle) 100 94 250 180,000 90 350,000 211 160,000 73 80 300,000 200 140,000 65 70 62 250,000 146 145 120,000 140 150 60 100,000 200,000 40 80,000 150,000 100 30 60,000 100,000 40,000 20 50 20,000 10 50,000 0 0 0 0 1995 2010 2011 2012 1995 2010 2011 2012 Non-hazardous Hazardous Ratio Foundry Non-hazardous Hazardous process waste process waste waste process waste process waste Ratio (kg/painted vehicle) The change in waste volumes was due mainly to the difference in The amount of waste generated per vehicle stands at 62 kg in 2012, business activity at the Group’s foundries. The quantity of waste excluding foundry waste. generated per painted vehicle came to 140 kg in 2012. The weight of Waste production data are based on European Union definitions of waste per vehicle produced has been reduced by 34%. waste types and disposal methods. Geographically, 87% of the Group’s waste in 2012 was produced in the EU and 13% in the rest of the world. PACKAGING WASTE Primarily composed of wood and cardboard, packaging waste accounted for 52,004 tonnes in 2012 (compared with 54,473 tonnes (PCA, in 2012) in 2011), a decline of 5% in total non-metal packaging waste. A full Plastic 98% is classified as non-hazardous process waste and more than 90% packaging 8% is recovered, reused or recycled (99% in 2011). The fall in recovery rate between 2011 and 2012 is linked to the inclusion in the scope of reporting of the Kaluga site in Russia where waste treatment channels are underdeveloped. Stripping out Kaluga, Cardboard more than 99% of packaging waste was recovered, reused or recycled. packaging 34% Wood Soiled packaging packaging 55% 2% Other mixed packaging 1% PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 97 3 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3.1. Managing environmental impact TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY DISPOSAL METHOD locally available treatment solutions, is driving a steady increase in the waste recovery rate, which has now reached 82% excluding metal (PCA, excluding metal waste, nearly 100% of which is recycled) waste. Several plants again met their target of “zero landfill”: the Trnava and Sevel Nord plants reached this target for the first time in Weight of waste Ratio (in kg sanitary landﬁll/ 2012, and the Poissy, Sochaux and Mulhouse plants no longer send (in tonnes) painted vehicle) any waste to landfill, except for the small amount imposed by law. Office and research facilities in and around Paris sent no waste to 80 landfill in 2012. 400,000 66 70 Taking into account metal waste, which has a natural outlet in the 350,000 60 steel industry or Group foundries, the overall recovery rate for PCA 300,000 50 manufacturing waste is 93%. 250,000 40 The decline in the waste channel indicators was largely due to the 200,000 inclusion of the Kaluga plant in Russia within the scope of reporting. 30 150,000 Russia has few alternatives to landfill. 12 20 100,000 10 12 Recovery and recycling, landfilling and other waste disposal methods 10 50,000 are defined as follows: 0 0 Recovery and recycling: 1995 2010 2011 2012 O resource recovery involves reclaiming resources for use in a different application (e.g. recovering foundry sand for use in road Sanitary landﬁll Other disposal methods Ratio building); Recovery and recycling On-site recycling O recycling involves reclaiming resources for use in the same application (e.g. repairing wooden pallets); O energy recovery involves burning the waste as fuel to generate steam or electricity. Improved on-site waste management systems have considerably increased the percentage of waste that is recovered or recycled, Landfill: landfilling involves storing or burying waste. Landfills are resulting in a 78% reduction in landfilled waste between 1995 classified according to the type of waste as hazardous, non-hazardous and 2012. Much of this progress has been driven by the on-site reuse or inert. of spent foundry sand, which has increased fivefold over the period. Other disposal methods: Careful analysis and characterisation of waste produced during the O incineration without energy recovery; different stages of production (casting, foundry work, mechanical O physical/chemical treatments, such as neutralisation, oxidationparts manufacture, stamping, paint and final assembly) have made reduction and metal precipitation; it possible to identify processing channels that provide an alternative O biological treatments, such as aerobic or anaerobic decomposition. to landfilling. The gradual deployment of new outlets, depending on TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD PCA Recovery Internal Other Unit: tonnes Landﬁll and recycling recycling treatments Total Foundry waste 2012 7,118 45,863 101,842 53 154,876 2011 9,235 65,810 101,377 60 176,482 2010 10,943 60,783 91,616 86 163,428 NHPW 2012 14,697 67,692 1,209 1,056 84,654 2011 11,350 81,000 1,141 1,272 94,762 2010 13,627 98,450 1,271 1,217 114,565 HPW 2012 1,821 21,341 17,711 40,873 2011 2,515 23,321 22,888 48,724 2010 2,935 20,761 24,221 47,917 TOTAL 2012 23,636 134,896 103,051 18,820 280,403 2011 23,100 170,131 102,517 24,220 319,968 2010 27,505 179,994 92,886 25,524 325,909 NHPW = Non-hazardous process waste – HPW = Hazardous process waste 98 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3.1. Managing environmental impact 3 The table above does not include the 495,185 tonnes of metal waste The amount of waste sent to landfill was unchanged between 2011 produced in 2012, nearly all of which was recycled. and 2012. However, this disguises a mixed performance. There The reduction in foundry waste from the previous year is related to was an increase in Russia where alternative disposal methods the scaling back of production by the Group’s two main foundries. are underdeveloped while European factories continued to reduce landfill volumes in line with the Group’s drive to cut its environmental impacts. Automobiles Peugeot and Automobiles Citroën Recovery and Other Unit: tonnes Landﬁll recycling treatment Total NHPW 2012 3,605 8,096 92 11,793 2011 4,333 8,974 70 13,378 2010 5,539 10,239 156 15,934 HPW 2012 554 3,526 187 4,267 2011 850 3,595 169 4,613 2010 1,543 3,149 292 4,984 TOTAL 2012 4,159 11,622 279 16,060 2011 5,183 12,568 240 17,991 2010 7,081 13,388 448 20,917 NHPW = Non-hazardous process waste – HPW = Hazardous process waste Data from the Citroën and Peugeot brands concern on average 83% of their sites in 2012, versus 87% in 2011 and 91% in 2010. When the disposal method is not known, the waste is considered to have been landfilled. The table above does not include the 2,171 tonnes of metal waste produced in 2012, of which 92% was recycled. PCI and PMTC Recovery Other Unit: tonnes Landﬁll and recycling treatment Total Foundry waste 2012 24 24 2011 124 124 2010 126 126 NHPW 2012 136 372 0 508 2011 124 485 0 609 2010 122 551 0 673 HPW 2012 9 173 313 495 2011 2 138 515 655 2010 6 130 482 618 TOTAL 2012 145 545 337 1,027 2011 127 622 639 1,389 2010 128 681 608 1,417 NHPW = Non-hazardous process waste – HPW = Hazardous process waste The table above does not include the 313 tonnes of metal waste produced in 2012, nearly all of which was recycled. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 99 3 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3.1. Managing environmental impact Banque PSA Finance Recovery and Other Unit: tonnes Landﬁll recycling treatment Total NHPW 2012 28 0 0 28 2011 2010 HPW 2012 0 0 0 0 2011 2010 TOTAL 2012 28 0 0 28 2011 2010 NHPW = Non-hazardous process waste – HPW = Hazardous process waste 3.1.5.2. CROSS-BORDER WASTE TRANSFERS CROSS-BORDER WASTE TRANSFERS IN 2012 Y In 2012, 626 tonnes or around 0.2% of total waste produced (excluding metal waste) was shipped from France to other EU member states (Belgium). Disposal involved resource recovery processes that were selected, in the same way as other recovery methods, following a positive assessment of their reliability. Plants and other facilities based outside France did not ship any waste except metal waste to other EU member states during the year. 100 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3.2. Protection of natural habitats and biodiversity 3 3.2. PROTECTION OF NATURAL HABITATS AND BIODIVERSITY G.26 G.33 PSA Peugeot Citroën’s carmaking operations do not intrinsically pose a high risk to the environment. The manufacturing facilities are quite large, however, due to the demands of mass-market production. 3.2.1. FACILITIES LOCATED NEAR PROTECTED AREAS PSA Peugeot Citroën’s global manufacturing base mainly comprises In addition, most of these facilities are located in suburban industrial 22 production plants and 13 engineering & design centres and offices. estates. None are located in wetlands (as defined under the Ramsar Together, these 35 facilities cover around 3,901 hectares, of which Convention) or in areas that are specially regulated for the protection 47% has been waterproofed. Waterproofing prevents water from of flora and fauna (natural parks, Natura 2000 areas, nature leaching into the ground, which can be a factor in flooding, depending reserves, areas covered by decrees on biotopes, etc.). While a few on the receiving stream. In response, the Group has deployed a facilities (Aulnay, Bessoncourt, Caen Charleville, La Ferté-Vidame, variety of systems to manage rainwater run-off, particularly during Mulhouse, Sept-Fons, Trnava, Valenciennes and Vesoul) are located extension projects with, for example, the installation of storm water near areas of this type, their presence has not yet had any identifiable detention basins. impact on the nearby natural habitats. Proximity to a regulated area Distance between Surface area Waterproofed the facility and the Facility Operations (sq. m) surface area area Type of area Automobile Aulnay production 1,685,814 72% Between 1 and 3 km Natura 2000 area Bessoncourt IT centre 57,400 53% Between 1 and 3 km Natura 2000 area Mechanical Caen component plant 585,000 47% More than 3 km Natura 2000 area Charleville Foundry 550,000 35% Between 1 and 3 km Nature reserve La Ferté Vidame Test centre 8,080,000 4% Between 1 and 3 km Natura 2000 area Automobile Mulhouse production 3,048,474 79% Less than 1 km Natura 2000 area Sept-Fons Foundry 202,262 48% Less than 1 km Natura 2000 area Automobile Trnava production 1,920,000 32% More than 3 km Natura 2000 area Between 1 and 3 km Regional natural park Valenciennes Gearbox production 890,000 35% Less than 1 km Natura 2000 area Prefectural biotope Less than 1 km decree Replacement parts Vesoul warehouse 1,277,815 84% More than 3 km Nature reserve PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 101 3 A COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 3.2. Protection of natural habitats and biodiversity 3.2.2. SIGNIFICANT INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE BIODIVERSITY G.26 G.33 RESPECTING THE BIOLOGICAL BALANCE, In its first decade, the Peugeot carbon sink absorbed an estimated PRESERVING BIODIVERSITY AND MANAGING 53,000 tonnes of CO2, or an average 5.1 tonnes per hectare per year. Depending on tree spacing and the species planted, sequestration ODOURS AND NOISE may vary from 2 to 12 tonnes per hectare per year from one plot Measures required to preserve natural habitats, flora and fauna, as to another. These calculations are based on the AR-ACM001 well as to ensure the tranquillity of neighbouring communities, are methodology prepared by the International Panel of Experts on assessed and defined during initial or supplemental environmental Climate Change. impact studies conducted before the installation of any new plant The sink’s long-term success hinges on its seamless integration into facilities or equipment. In accordance with legislation, these studies the region’s economic and social fabric. This has led to the creation are submitted to public hearings and to the approval of administrative of local jobs to help raise awareness about the future of forests and authorities. the importance of preserving them. Since Group facilities and the regions in which they are located have In 2009, Peugeot, the ONF and the Mato Grosso government very different characteristics, each facility is granted considerable signed an agreement designating the carbon sink as a Private independence in setting up its biodiversity management programme. Natural Heritage Reserve, which serves as a real-world laboratory Since facilities and the regions in which they are located have for the research needs of the Brazilian and international scientific very different characteristics, each facility is granted considerable community. Tree felling and logging are prohibited throughout the independence in setting up its biodiversity management programme. reserve, which comprises 1,800 hectares of natural forest. The plants in Rennes (France) and Madrid (Spain) have compiled The 12th meeting of the Scientific and Technical Committee of the flora inventories so that their open space management programmes Peugeot and the ONF (French National Forestry Service) carbon can be adjusted accordingly. The production facilities in Porto sink project was held in November 2011. At the meeting, which Real (Brazil) and Sochaux (France) have rehabilitated land on was attended by representatives of dozens of Brazilian and French which to plant indigenous species. Forests at the Belchamp and La political, scientific, and academic institutions, Peugeot and the ONF Ferté Vidame sites have earned Pan-European Forest Certification announced they had begun to sell carbon credits generated by the (PEFC) for their sustainable management practices. project. This operation should assure additional financing for the Sevel Nord has also compiled a biodiversity inventory of its site and project in an amount corresponding to the value of 110,000 tonnes launched an initiative to build 45 beehives. Aside from the symbolic of atmospheric carbon dioxide captured by the reforestation project significance of producing local honey, this is a good bellwether for the developed in the Cotriguaçu region of northwest Mato-Grosso State. state of the local environment in and around the facility. The carbon credits have been sold following the VCS (Verified Carbon Standard) protocol methodology in line with international rules and regulations. The carbon credits generated by the carbon “THE PEUGEOT CARBON SINK PROJECT sequestration project were certified through two audits, one by IN THE AMAZON”: AN ENVIRONMENTAL, Ernst & Young and the other by TUV-SUD. The award of this quality label by recognised, independent observers reflects the project’s SCIENTIFIC AND SOCIO-ECONOMIC COMMITMENT importance and the partners’ disciplined scientific approach. The Peugeot brand, in partnership with France’s National Forestry The Peugeot-ONF carbon sink project is the first reforestation Office (ONF), is pursuing the carbon sink project it has sponsored project in Brazil to generate certified carbon credits following the in the Amazon since 1998. Scheduled to run through 2038, it VCS protocol and the second in South America. involves reforesting vast areas of deteriorated land and restoring biodiversity in the Brazilian state of Mato Grosso, while studying In 2012, the Group, in partnership with all the Carbon Sink partners, the relationship between reforestation and the absorption of launched the PETRA (Experimental platform for the management of atmospheric carbon dioxide. the rural territories of the Brazilian Amazon) programme. The reforestation initiative promotes biodiversity, mainly by helping This will expand annual support for French and Brazilian sustain native plant species, with the aim of restoring balance to the researchers working in fields of priority interest to the project, ecosystem. More than two million trees representing some 50 species forestry, biodiversity, carbon capture, etc. The project will also have already been planted, over a total estimated surface area of support the work of local small producers in developing appropriate 2,000 hectares. agro-forestry systems. The Amazon rainforest is home to more than half of the world’s In Slovenia, the local BPF subsidiary has implemented an operation terrestrial biodiversity. in partnership with the “Slovenian Forests” association in which BPF sponsors the association’s work. All the POS displays for this operation are made from recycled paper. 102 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 4 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN: A FULL-FLEDGED PARTNER TO ITS HOST COMMUNITIES 4.1. EXCELLENCE IN SUPPLIER 4.2. GLOBAL AND LOCAL RELATIONS: A SUPPLY CHAIN CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 111 COMMITMENT 104 4.2.1. The PSA Peugeot Citroën Foundation: 4.1.1. The Group’s purchasing strategy 104 supporting mobility for all 112 4.1.2. Locating purchasing teams close to 4.2.2. Corporate Philanthropy 116 manufacturing facilities to ensure more 4.2.3. Local CSR Plans at Group sites 116 effective integration into host regions 106 4.2.4. CSR initiatives supported by the Peugeot and 4.1.3. Strengthening supplier relationship Citroën brands and by Banque PSA Finance 118 management 107 4.1.4. Supporting supplier development 108 4.1.5. Incorporating sustainable development criteria into the supplier relations policy 109 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 103 4 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN: A FULL-FLEDGED PARTNER TO ITS HOST COMMUNITIES 4.1. Excellence in supplier relations: a supply chain commitment 4.1. EXCELLENCE IN SUPPLIER RELATIONS: A SUPPLY CHAIN COMMITMENT Purchasing is central to the Group’s international development On 29 February 2012, PSA Peugeot Citroën announced a new global and to its integration in the industrial ecosystems of the countries strategic alliance with General Motors that will leverage the combined it operates in. strengths and capabilities of the two companies, contribute to the Supplier relations are managed by the Purchasing Department, profitability of both partners and improve their competitiveness in which is responsible for establishing and maintaining a long-term Europe. The alliance is structured around three main pillars: supplier base that offers the best possible technical, industrial and O the sharing of vehicle platforms, components and modules; financial performance. To guarantee the quality and security of the O the creation of a global purchasing joint venture for products Group’s supplies, it also ensures that suppliers comply with Group and services with a combined annual purchasing volume of standards, particularly in terms of quality, logistics and sustainable $125 billion; development. The Purchasing Department handles purchasing O a logistics agreement between GEFCO and General Motors. for Peugeot Citroën Automobiles (the Group’s manufacturing and support business), and for the central management functions The alliance will leverage the purchasing power of each partner via of Peugeot Automobiles and Citroën Automobiles. It also handles a global strategy for each product family, in order to maximise the major purchases for the Group’s banking business, Banque PSA potential synergies. Finance (BPF). 4.1.1. THE GROUP’S PURCHASING STRATEGY THE CRITICAL ROLE PLAYED BY PURCHASING non-standard parts and components and €19.2 billion for standard IN GROUP PERFORMANCE G.39 parts used in the production of vehicles and replacement parts. On average, standard parts make up nearly 80% of a vehicle’s In Europe and Latin America, PSA Peugeot Citroën’s purchasing production cost. expenditure totalled €23 billion in 2012, comprised of €3.8 billion for TOTAL WORLDWIDE PURCHASING EXPENDITURE (In billion euros, in Europe and Latin America) 2009 2010 2011 2012 TOTAL 22.5 25 26 23 o/w standard and replacement parts 17.2 20.5 22.5 19.2 €14 million of the non-standard parts and components purchases consulting and IT products and services, and do not pose any special can be attributed to BPF; this division’s total purchases amounted issues related to risk management in general or CSR in particular. to just over €20 million in 2012. BPF’s purchases consist mainly of They are treated the same as other similar purchases by the Group. 104 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN: A FULL-FLEDGED PARTNER TO ITS HOST COMMUNITIES 4.1. Excellence in supplier relations: a supply chain commitment 4 RISK ANALYSIS TO SUPPORT THE PURCHASING To prevent the occurrence of supplier risks, purchasing strategies by STRATEGY G.34 product family and supplier choices are submitted to the Purchasing Executive Committee for approval after careful consideration of the Two types of risk are taken into account when defining the Group’s following criteria: financial situation, growth strategy and prospects, purchasing strategy and policies: dependency on the Group and compliance with sustainable development standards. O raw materials risk: Thanks to the combination of purchasing and manufacturing skills in the supplier relationship management Suppliers and sectors identified as representing a higher-thanprocess, trends concerning such things as the depletion of normal risk for the Group’s manufacturing or finances are subject resources or the environmental performance of materials can be to specific monitoring. 83 suppliers were the subject of preventive identified and anticipated; and remedial Action Plans in 2012, accounting for around 7.6% O supplier risk: The Industrial Strategy and Supplier Risk unit of total purchases. This compares with 68 suppliers accounting for analyses the main suppliers’ financial results and consolidates 3% of total purchases in 2011. In terms of CSR, the Group uses information about their industrial strategies, helping managers information related to a supplier’s country, products and processes to to take key make-or-buy decisions. It works with Operational determine whether it should be classified as high-risk. Purchasing teams and job family management to produce analyses A cross-disciplinary unit comprising purchasing, finance, supply of the social, financial and technical impacts of the Group’s chain management, employee relations and CSR specialists and, industrial choices. It also tracks high-risk suppliers and carries when necessary, experts from other Group departments, monitors the out targeted monitoring to ensure, for example, that suppliers Group’s fulfilment of its commitment to pay suppliers more quickly. comply with PSA Peugeot Citroën’s corporate social responsibility It also ensures application of the French automotive industry’s Highstandards. Performance and Best Practices Code and coordinates the Group’s participation in France’s PFA – a platform set up to foster on-going RAW MATERIALS RISK discussion and exchange among auto industry stakeholders – and the At a time when raw materials are and will continue to be scarce and FMEA fund established to support automotive equipment suppliers. costly, supplier relations are a strategically important component of Lastly, the unit continues to closely monitor the global economic the Group’s materials policy and product development programme. situation and support the Group’s international growth projects, particularly in Russia and China, by deploying its own standards in Material costs are tracked in cooperation with Operational these countries. Purchasing teams and Technical teams from the Group Research and Development Department. The goal is to more effectively anticipate and manage price fluctuations and help diversify and control strategically important supply sources. A PURCHASING STRATEGY BUILT Materials risks are mapped, integrating for each type of raw material ON PARTNERSHIPS AND LOCAL such factors as relative presence in vehicles, the availability and INTEGRATION G.34 G.38 accessibility of reserves, and cost. This map makes it possible to In light of its financial impact in its host communities, PSA Peugeot manage and secure long-term supplies for the Group and focus Citroën is committed to making high-quality supplier relations an research and development programmes on replacement materials. integral part its strategy. This is achieved by narrowing its supplier Initially introduced for crude materials, the strategy has since base to a smaller number of more carefully selected companies and been extended to include synthetic raw materials. The policy of building relationships with those companies based on mutual respect searching for new, innovative materials goes hand in hand with and transparency. the Group’s commitment to increasing the share of renewable and environmentally-neutral materials in its vehicles. The Purchasing Department is pursuing this objective via four avenues: SUPPLIER RISK O locating purchasing teams as closely as possible to host communities; O strengthening supplier relationship management; Given that the parts and components purchased from suppliers represent some 80% of vehicle production cost, these companies’ O using supplier development techniques; technical and logistical performance and financial strength are critical O incorporating sustainable development criteria into its supplier to the Group’s efficient operation and future growth. Temporary or relations policy. permanent failure by suppliers to fulfil their commitments – the most It is also developing specific methods and resources to manage these serious risk being an interruption of parts deliveries – may lead to initiatives. production stoppages and delays in the execution of vehicle, subassembly or industrial projects. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 105 4 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN: A FULL-FLEDGED PARTNER TO ITS HOST COMMUNITIES 4.1. Excellence in supplier relations: a supply chain commitment 4.1.2. LOCATING PURCHASING TEAMS CLOSE TO MANUFACTURING FACILITIES TO ENSURE MORE EFFECTIVE INTEGRATION INTO HOST REGIONS G.34 LOCAL CONTENT IS A MAJOR FOCUS OF PSA The percentage of local content corresponds to the amount PEUGEOT CITROËN’S PURCHASING STRATEGY of local purchases divided by the plant’s total purchasing O In Latin America, an average of 75% of the parts used at the Porto expenditure, including intragroup deliveries (such as PSA Real plant in Brazil are sourced in the region, while at the Buenos Peugeot Citroën engines delivered to an assembly plant). For Aires, Argentina plant, local components comprise around 65%. example, the local region for the Trnava plant is Central and O 93% of the parts used in the Group’s plants in France are sourced Eastern Europe, which, as defined by PSA Peugeot Citroën, in Europe. comprises the following countries: Albania, Belarus, BosniaHerzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Estonia, O In Central and Eastern Europe, the percentage of locally-sourced Hungary, Kosovo, Latvia, Lithuania, Macedonia, Moldavia, parts at the Trnava, Slovakia plant rose from 5% in 2005 to 53% Montenegro, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, at end-2012. Slovenia and Ukraine. In line with PSA Peugeot Citroën’s strategy of international expansion and local integration, the Purchasing Department’s 1,345 employees are located in or near the Group’s target markets. Origin of Standard Parts by Location of Vehicle Production Plants 7% Europe 7% Non Europe 69% Europe not including 24% France 42% Europe France not including (incl. Russia) France (incl. Russia) European plants, French plants excluding France 51% France Region of production of the standart parts, as a percentage of 2012 standart/replacement parts purchasing expenditure. Europe: European Union TWO EXAMPLES OF THE GROUP’S COMMITMENT: assistance to these organisations. Half of the PFA’s funding for the THE FRENCH AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY AND THE next two years, which should amount to some €10 million, is slated to come from France’s main car manufacturers and parts suppliers. BRAZILIAN CLUSTER The PFA’s mission is spearheaded by four committees and rolled out Since the French government’s February 2009 Automotive Summit, in the regions by the ARIAS, and aims to: the government and car manufacturers have been working together O restructure strategic and particularly vulnerable areas of the to bolster the country’s automotive industry. PSA Peugeot Citroën has continued to step up its efforts in this regard, assigning four automotive industry; regional delegates to work hand-in-hand with government agencies O boost automotive companies’ skills by promoting industrial to support Tier 1 and Tier 2 key account suppliers. More than excellence and implementing CSR policies; 10 PSA Peugeot Citroën managers actively participate in the French O focus innovation on the industry’s main strategic and societal government’s automotive industry support platform (PFA), France’s challenges; 14 regional automotive industry associations (ARIAS), and the O develop skills in emerging automobileand mobility-related fields country’s competitive clusters. The Group also provides financial while making the industry once again attractive; 106 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN: A FULL-FLEDGED PARTNER TO ITS HOST COMMUNITIES 4.1. Excellence in supplier relations: a supply chain commitment 4 O work with regional economic development organisations to in 2012 to create another such cluster around its production plant in support local companies and create local jobs. Porto Real, Brazil. The cluster will aim to boost the local industry’s In mid-2012, two large car manufacturers and several Tier 1 competitiveness and foster local economic development through suppliers joined forces to create a working group on CSR in the partnerships with publicand private-sector organisations like local French automotive industry. This working group aims to identify parts suppliers, universities, and government agencies. the CSR best practices at each member company and standardise them across working group members, so that they can be more easily implemented across the industry. One of the working group’s key FRANCE’S LEADING BUYER FROM focus areas is responsible purchasing policies, including methods THE PROTECTED SECTOR (WORK ASSISTANCE for auditing and supporting suppliers along the entire supply chain, SERVICES AND ESTABLISHMENTS) G.37 in order to establish standardised practices and ultimately develop industry-wide guidelines. O 2012 budget in terms of value added purchased (calculated as budget cost of components and parts): €35 million. PSA Peugeot Citroën is also a major contributor to the French government’s Automotive Parts Suppliers’ Modernisation Fund O 4,520 industrial products. (FMEA), providing a third of the Fund’s capital. The FMEA plays O Six major associations including five near PSA Peugeot Citroën a key role in supporting the industry’s smalland medium-sized sites. businesses. O 2,005 people employed, of which 1,849 in manufacturing, corresponding to 2.23 points of the percentage of handicapped Building on its success in creating an automotive industry cluster in employees at Peugeot Citroën Automobile (PCA) France. Galicia, Spain (the CEAGA), PSA Peugeot Citroën – in association with other car manufacturers and parts suppliers – initiated a project 4.1.3. STRENGTHENING SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT A SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT Each business model corresponds to a specific supplier relationship (SRM) PROCESS GOVERNED BY CLEARLY management method, built around 13 avenues for value creation. These include: DEFINED PRINCIPLES Y O strengthening supplier relationship management; The principles governing supplier relations are defined in simple, O encouraging innovation; precise terms: O taking into account the potential for optimising the supplier’s O every item delivered to PSA Peugeot Citroën by a supplier must industrial capacity; comply with the standards; O optimising development processes and costs to avoid R&D O the respective responsibilities of PSA Peugeot Citroën and its expenditure overlap between PSA Peugeot Citroën and its suppliers must be clearly identified; suppliers; O the principles of transparency and duty to report must be O enhancing control over purchases from Tier 2 suppliers to gain respected; a better understanding of the risks associated with the entire O deadlines must be set for the fulfilment of contractual requirements; supply chain. O sustainable development standards must be met. The Purchasing Department analyses the supplier list using business models from which it draws efficiency criteria and governance rules. CERTIFYING SUPPLIERS TO ENSURE EFFECTIVE MANAGEMENT Y These business models are designed to segment the supplier base according to specific criteria, creating a snapshot of the market Half of the Group’s purchases in 2012 were from the following 20 position of a supplier and its products in relation to the Group’s needs. suppliers: Aisin Seiki Co. Ltd., Arcelor Mittal, Colis Lamiere Nastri s.p.a., Compagnie Générale des Établissements Michelin, Continental AG, Corporación Gestamp SL, DPH Holdings Corporation PSA’s dependency on supplier (Delphi), Faurecia, Financière SNOP Dunois, Johnson Controls [ A ] Indispensable [ B ] Mutually High Inc., JTEKT Corporation, Lear Corporation, Leoni AG, Magneti dependent Marelli s.p.a., Plastic Omnium, Robert Bosch GMBH, Total SA, TRW Automotive, Valeo, and Visteon Corporation. As of 1 January 2012, PSA Peugeot Citroën sourced standard and [ D ] Transactional [ C ] Dependent replacement parts in Europe from 1,029 supplier firms or groups, Low on PSA for a total of 1,691 companies. Only around 30 of PSA Peugeot Citroën’s main Latin American suppliers are represented only Low High through Mercosur or are just a minor part of a company working with Supplier’s dependency on PSA Europe (through a joint venture with a local business, for example). PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 107 4 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN: A FULL-FLEDGED PARTNER TO ITS HOST COMMUNITIES 4.1. Excellence in supplier relations: a supply chain commitment O Strategic suppliers: A mutual commitment is made at the highest O satisfy supplier relation standards in terms quality, general level to ensure effective supplier relationship management in key conditions for external supplies, company employees, areas for the Group. sustainable development, etc. A strategic supplier is one with which PSA Peugeot Citroën wants Relations with strategic suppliers are managed at the executive level. to develop an in-depth partnership. This may involve sharing strategies, innovating together, pooling R&D resources and At end-2012: 13 suppliers were designated as “strategic”. processes, expanding internationally, simplifying processes and optimising supply chain performance. At the very least, a strategic Target for 2015: 20 suppliers designated as “strategic”. supplier must: O display a long-term commitment to the automobile industry O Major suppliers: Technical know-how that is recognised (significant investment in resources and R&D) and a healthy and promoted by the Group. balance sheet (viability), Major suppliers play a role in the technical and purchasing O count PSA Peugeot Citroën among its top customers, strategy of PSA Peugeot Citroën and its partners, help the Group O be a global supplier capable of partnering PSA Peugeot to achieve its objectives, and contribute to the development of Citroën worldwide, the automobile industry in their region or country Europe, Latin America or China, for example. O have a significant market share in the families of strategic parts or components that it develops and produces for PSA Peugeot At end-2012: 49 suppliers were certified as “major” Citroën, Target for 2015: 100 suppliers certified as “major” O have top-quality expertise or know-how and use it to PSA Peugeot Citroën’s benefit, 4.1.4. SUPPORTING SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT A SIMPLIFIED SUPPLIER INTERFACE TO O enhance visibility of suppliers’ industrial performance; ENHANCE PRODUCTION EFFICIENCY O provide a simplified interface between PSA Peugeot Citroën and its suppliers for greater clarity and consistency. The Supplier Development Department is responsible for supporting suppliers and securing the Group’s sources of supply, particularly by focusing on quality, logistics and improving suppliers’ industrial AN ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE BASED performance. ON THREE MAIN PRINCIPLES O A centralised department involved in the development and series INCREASED VISIBILITY AND MORE EFFECTIVE production phases that liaises with all of the companies who supply the Group. COORDINATION O A single operating unit responsible for suppliers’ industrial The Supplier Development Department was set up to: performance. O leverage technical and industrial experience; O A structured system and management tool that operating managers can use to assess the maturity of suppliers’ sites and monitor their O represent all processes and teams; performance. O ensure continuity between the process engineering and series production phases; 108 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN: A FULL-FLEDGED PARTNER TO ITS HOST COMMUNITIES 4.1. Excellence in supplier relations: a supply chain commitment 4 4.1.5. INCORPORATING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT CRITERIA INTO THE SUPPLIER RELATIONS POLICY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CRITERIA O distributed to the Group’s largest suppliers and to suppliers EXTENDED TO SUPPLIERS G.39 G.42 associated with high-risk countries or product families. These suppliers are asked to formally pledge to comply with the PSA PSA Peugeot Citroën intends to make compliance with its corporate Peugeot Citroën guidelines or to demonstrate their compliance social responsibility requirements a core component of its purchasing with equivalent guidelines. Nearly 850 suppliers had made this policy, alongside quality, deadlines and cost. For example, one of commitment as of end-2012, accounting for 92% of the purchasing the key criteria in the supplier approval process is compliance with budget managed by the Purchasing Department; International Labour Organisation principles. Suppliers who fail O incorporated into the fundamental principles of supplier to respect human rights must respond immediately with corrective relationship management, in contractual documents such as Action Plans, while continued violations will lead to sanctions, supplier approval letters and purchasing terms and conditions, and including exclusion from the Group’s list of approved suppliers. in the Group’s purchasing processes. The Supplier Guidelines for PSA Peugeot Citroën’s Corporate Social Responsibility Standards are available via the Group’s A SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT POLICY BACKED B2B portal. BY TRAINING AND AWARENESS INITIATIVES AND ON-SITE AUDITS PSA Peugeot Citroën’s corporate social responsibility standards are: O Buyers are made aware of sustainable development issues O backed by a personal commitment from managers. Since 2010, during training sessions organised by the PSA Peugeot Citroën the Group’s Code of Ethics makes specific reference to the purchasing skills training centre. Since 2008, around 360 people integration of ethical and environmental criteria in supplier have been trained in Europe and just over one hundred in Latin relationship management. The Code has already been signed by all America. In addition, the Purchasing Department’s sustainable of the Group’s executives and senior managers and is now being development unit regularly holds meetings with managers from deployed for signature by other employees; over 20,000 employees operating Purchasing Departments to keep them informed of had signed as of end-2012; sustainable development issues. O defined in a set of dedicated guidelines for suppliers.The guidelines O Targeted awareness initiatives are carried out among suppliers in make specific reference to the United Nations’ Global Compact, the high-risk areas via self-assessment questionnaires. Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour O Social and environmental audits are conducted at selected Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights suppliers’ sites in accordance with the risk level associated with at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development their country, products or processes. Since 2010, around 40 social and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption; and environmental audits have been conducted among Tier 1, Tier 2 and Tier 3 suppliers and around 10 follow-up inspections. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 109 4 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN: A FULL-FLEDGED PARTNER TO ITS HOST COMMUNITIES 4.1. Excellence in supplier relations: a supply chain commitment Scope: All Tier 1 suppliers (standard, non-standard and replacement parts), worldwide (including local-only suppliers), approved suppliers and new suppliers Conducted by specialised external auditors Sustainable development audits For suppliers deemed potentially Assessment or high risk in accordance self-assessment of suppliers with the guidelines’ principles Low-cost countries Foundries Map of high-risk suppliers Advertising products, (high-risk countries, products or processes) harnesses, textiles Who? Buyers, quality auditors, Global purchasing correspondents, Awareness initiatives for those involved sales subsidiaries, etc. in purchasing and changes to purchasing processes What? Global purchasing, SSC and other processes Suppliers undertake to comply Supplier Guidelines for PSA Peugeot Citroën’s with the guidelines’ principles Corporate Social Responsibility Standards A SIGNIFICANT CONTRIBUTION TO THE GROUP’S ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVES The Group’s environmental objectives for its products are translated materials. These objectives are also a key focus of the innovation into contractual commitments via specifications and purchasing policy that is part of the Group’s supplier certification criteria. policies that set ambitious targets for the use of green and recyclable 110 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN: A FULL-FLEDGED PARTNER TO ITS HOST COMMUNITIES 4.2. Global and local corporate citizenship 4 4.2. GLOBAL AND LOCAL CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP G.35 G.37 PSA Peugeot Citroën is firmly convinced that mobility is a global CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP BUDGET BY societal challenge and a fundamental right. Mobility influences each DESTINATION (EXCLUDING THE CORPORATE individual’s life and goes hand in hand with economic development, as well as with discovery, autonomy, progress and innovation. After FOUNDATION AND THE PEUGEOT INDUSTRIAL more than 200 years in the automobile industry, PSA Peugeot Citroën HERITAGE ENDOWMENT FUND) can claim a certain legitimacy in discussing this issue. Backed by this (2012) seasoned expertise, the Group is focusing on projects that are useful to the community while seamlessly capitalising on its core carmaking Peugeot competencies. €246,267 This translates into ambitious societal initiatives, notably through a 6% global/local policy geared towards communities around the world. Citroën Corporate €538,670 €1,050,000 Created in 2000 and bringing together scientists, sociologists and 24% 13% urban planners, the City on the Move Institute (IVM) finances research projects and trials to explore the mobility of tomorrow. PSA Peugeot Citroën allocated €1,050,000 to IVM in 2012. In addition to IVM, the Group expresses its corporate citizenship and commitment to the community through four channels: O the World on the Move Foundation, created in 2011 to support social, educational, cultural and environmental projects in the field of mobility. The Foundation is active around the world, with a strong local presence in the Group’s host countries. It has a fiveyear budget of €10 million (€2.2 million was allocated in 2012); O Local CSR Plans at the Group’s production plants and office facilities. These Plans, first implemented in 2005 , support local Local CSR Plans €2,463,536 development initiatives (€2,464,000 was allocated to these Plans 57% in 2012); O corporate Philanthropy programmes, through which €1,050,000 have been allocated to IVM and the Peugeot Industrial Heritage Local CSR Citroën Peugeot Corporate Endowment Fund; Plans O CSR initiatives supported by the Citroën and Peugeot brands (€785,000 allocated to these initiatives in 2012). Local CSR Plans are implemented at a site level and demonstrate the Group’s commitment to playing an active role in its host communities. Excluding the Corporate Foundation, the Group spent €3,248,443 on corporate citizenship initiatives in 2012, broken down as follows: O donations or loans of equipment and vehicles: 44%; O employee time (euro equivalent): 22%; O cash donations and grants: 21%; O committed funding: 12%. Local CSR Plans allocated their resources to the following areas in 2012: O local development (39% of expenditures); O mobility-related projects, including road safety (23% of expenditures); O arts patronage (21% of expenditures); O youth and educational outreach (10% of expenditures); O environmental stewardship programmes (6% of expenditures); O social and charitable programmes, excluding humanitarian disasters and emergencies (1% of expenditures). PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 111 4 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN: A FULL-FLEDGED PARTNER TO ITS HOST COMMUNITIES 4.2. Global and local corporate citizenship 4.2.1. THE PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN FOUNDATION: SUPPORTING MOBILITY FOR ALL G.35 G.37 Created on 11 July 2011, the PSA Peugeot Citroën Foundation Budgets Allocated by the Foundation in 2012, supports social, educational, cultural and environmental projects by Project Category related to mobility, an area in which the Group has been active for more than 100 years. This mission is embodied in the Foundation’s Environment €235,570 “A World on the Move” slogan. 12% Welfare-to-work O The Foundation’s governance system, which was established on €472,233 11 July 2011, comprises the following: 23% O a Board of Directors, which has nine members (two Disabled founders, four representatives of Group units and three €276,500 14% outside representatives). Its Chairman is the Chairman of the Managing Board, while its Vice-Chairman is Marie-Hélène Roncoroni, member of the Supervisory Board, O a General Delegation, which is led by a General Delegate and is part of the Corporate Communications Department, O a selection committee comprising employees and other members, which chooses the projects after a preliminary review by the Foundation team. O The Foundation supports initiatives submitted by public interest Education & culture Emergency outreach €525,425 €514,808 organisations around the world, with a preference for the Group’s 25% 26% growth regions (79% of its projects are in France and 21% abroad). The initiatives come from associations, NGOs and employees, or grow out of projects supported by Group sites through their Local CSR Plans. Projects are submitted online via the Foundation’s MOBILITY AND WELFARE-TO-WORK trilingual website (French, English and Spanish). O Welfare-to-work schemes in France: The Foundation supports O To carry out its philanthropic mission, the Foundation is backed by community organisations in urban and rural areas that offer a multi-year action plan with a five-year budget of €10 million. The mobility services to people referred by social services. The goal Foundation provides support in the form of funding, equipment, is to remove the obstacles for the unemployed to receive training or personnel. or find a new job. The mobility services are provided for free or In the 18 months since the Foundation has been active, it has at a reduced rate, and include mobility platforms, driving schools, provided support in the form of funding, equipment, and volunteer services targeted to young people, and car repair, rental, and time to 138 projects, drawing on a network of 20 regional delegates purchasing services. and over 80 PSA Peugeot Citroën employee volunteers. O Mobility platforms: These platforms offer a range of different mobility services for a given region, such as mobility assessments, By end-2012 the Foundation had donated a total of €3.1 million reduced-rate car rentals, carpooling, door-to-door transportation to various charitable organisations, including €2.2 million in 2012 services, and assistance for obtaining a driver’s license. alone. These donations target five key areas: Mobilex: This not-for-profit organisation, based in Bischwiller a. mobility and welfare-to-work programmes to help the unemployed in eastern France, offers transport services to people who face find jobs (23% of 2012 donations); obstacles finding a job because they live in an area without good b. mobility and emergency outreach programmes to help the poor, public transport. Its services are available to job seekers, welfare homeless, and those in need of humanitarian aid (25% of 2012 recipients, and people under 26 years old, and are designed to donations); help them get to and from training classes, job interviews, and c. mobility and educational and cultural programmes to promote their workplace. Mobilex helps around 1,500 people each year equal opportunity and give a second chance to at-risk youth (26% through four types of services: counsellors who give personalised of 2012 donations); advice on finding the right mobility solution; car and motorcycle d. mobility and disability programmes to give the disabled greater rental services; assistance for obtaining a driver’s license; and independence and an improved quality of life (14% of 2012 door-to-door transportation services. As a French state-certified donations); welfare-to-work centre, Mobilex also employs 12 people who are being trained on car mechanics and personal transport. The e. mobility and the environment initiatives to build awareness about Foundation financed the purchase of eight new motorcycles and sustainable mobility and the preservation of biodiversity (12% three new scooters for Mobilex’s fleet, and supported the hiring of of 2012 donations). new counsellors in two rural areas. These counsellors work with assistance-seekers to perform mobility assessments, identify their mobility needs, and put the right solution in place. 112 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN: A FULL-FLEDGED PARTNER TO ITS HOST COMMUNITIES 4.2. Global and local corporate citizenship 4 O Mobility services: The Foundation supports community O Garages: The Foundation supports reduced-rate garages for organisations in urban and rural areas that offer mobility services welfare recipients, where they can have their car repaired or rent or to people in need; these services include transportation for the buy a car at special prices. These garages also hire the unemployed elderly, door-to-door transportation, carpooling, and car hire to help them return to the workforce. services. Roul’bien: Roul’bien, in Le Creusot, France, will begin offering Régie de Quartier de Bron: This not-for-profit organisation is welfare recipients three types of services: car repair, car purchase, based in Bron (near Lyon, France), where the number of people and the loan of a car while theirs is being worked on. To help over the age of 75 rose sharply between 1999 and 2006 – creating Roul’bien get started, the Foundation financed the purchase of special mobility needs. In response, the organisation launched the essential tools and equipment like a hydraulic ramp. The garage Mobi-seniors initiative to provide the elderly with a car service aims to hire eight employees (mechanics and office staff) from the manned by drivers enrolled in back-to-work programmes. The local unemployed. goal is to prevent the elderly from becoming isolated and to build intergenerational ties. Mobi-seniors is not only a useful shuttle service, it also provides personal support and an opportunity to create social bonds. Mobi-seniors has been running since MOBILITY AND EMERGENCY OUTREACH September 2012 and has already helped over 20 people. The The Foundation supports NGOs that send people out in the field Foundation donated the car used by the service. to help those in dire need of assistance, like impoverished families, O Driving schools: The Foundation supports reduced-rate driving the homeless, and the elderly and disabled living alone. Around schools for job seekers, welfare recipients, and at-risk youth. These 25% of the Foundation’s donations in 2012 went to these types of schools aim to break down a significant barrier to employment organisations. by giving disadvantaged people the opportunity to obtain an O Samusocial of Paris: PSA Peugeot Citroën began working otherwise-too-costly driver’s license. with this municipal humanitarian aid organisation in 1997 Jade: This driving school was founded 25 years ago by a group by providing utility vehicles for its first mobile aid unit. And of social outreach workers at a housing estate just outside Paris. since 2000 the Group has been paying the vehicle rental fees for The founders realised that young people in their neighbourhood the organisation’s night-time patrol unit. In 2012, the Foundation needed more concrete achievements to beef up their CVs to find further expanded its support by helping to finance the night-time jobs. Obtaining a driver’s license could certainly be considered an patrol operating costs. achievement and illustrates a sense of responsibility, but the teaching PSA Peugeot Citroën employees also occasionally volunteer methods used at conventional driving schools are not well-suited their time to support the organisation’s field staff and telephone for these young people and the schools are too expensive. Jade hotline. For instance, in 2011 they provided around 100 mantoday gives lessons to around a hundred people each year – local days of driving services provided by volunteers performing action youth as well as welfare recipients from the housing estate. Jade research on the health of the homeless. The research project was also acts as a welfare-to-work programme, helping people assess their education, family situation, and professional objectives, and carried out by the Samusocial Observatory and financed in part come up with a personalised action plan. Jade was one of the first by the Foundation. The Foundation has also taken over the search driving schools in France to teach ecodriving techniques, which for volunteers for Samusocial. Samusocial of Paris was founded it began doing a year ago. The Foundation, in association with in 1993 to provide emergency assistance to the city’s homeless. It Mobigreen, provides funding for ecodriving lessons with driving offers them shelter and provides essential medical, psychological, instructors. The goal is to teach students not only the basics of and social services. Some 11,200 people receive aid from the proper driving, but also how to operate a vehicle in a way that organisation each year. Samusocial of Paris also looks after some boosts energy efficiency and lowers fuel consumption. 19,000 families in emergency housing in 376 hotels; half of these families are single mothers and their children. O Mobility for at-risk youth: The Foundation supports community organisations that help at-risk youth get back on track and find jobs O Action Contre la Faim: This NGO provides food to hungry – objectives for which mobility plays a key role. The Foundation’s people around the world. It recently sent personnel to the Sahel support consists of financial assistance for obtaining a driver’s to support populations threatened with a hunger crisis. The license, transport subsidies, and reduced-rate motorcycle rentals. Foundation donated two vehicles that were vital for transporting food and medicine and carrying people to clinics in Burkina Faso, Frateli: This not-for-profit organisation helps young people from modest backgrounds who performed well in high school and who Mali, Mauritania, Niger, and Chad. are enrolled in a higher education programme on scholarship. The O Trnavaská ArciDiecézna CHarita: The Foundation financed organisation assigns a mentor to each student to accompany him or the purchase of a vehicle for this Slovakia-based NGO, so its her throughout his or her studies. The mentors have between one team of aid workers can go out and provide vital support to the and 10 years’ professional experience, and provide moral support, homeless, elderly, and impoverished in the city of Trnava. The help students manage their workloads, offer career orientation organisation works with a team of nurses who assess these people’s advice, and invite students into their professional networks. Today needs in terms of medical equipment and care and perform first Frateli boasts 900 students and 900 mentors, bringing in 250 new aid. Founded in 1995, the organisation now helps over 300 people students and mentors each academic year. It also provides financial each year. assistance to cover unexpected or higher-than-expected costs, O Italian Red Cross: The Foundation provided funding for a school and entrance exam registration fees, and moving costs – utility vehicle so Italian Red Cross staff can provide home care as well as commuting costs, for which the Foundation provides a for the poor. Thanks to this vehicle, staff can assess poor families’ “mobility grant”. This grant is intended to help students who live conditions on-site and give them basic food, personal hygiene in areas without good public transport and who would otherwise products, and clothing. The service has already assisted around have a long or difficult commute to school. In 2012 the Foundation a hundred families in Milan; the Italian Red Cross now plans to financed 28 driver’s licenses and the commutes of 64 students. expand it to Milan’s suburbs and surrounding towns. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 113 4 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN: A FULL-FLEDGED PARTNER TO ITS HOST COMMUNITIES 4.2. Global and local corporate citizenship O French Red Cross: The Foundation’s support to the Italian O Maison Des Ados de la Corrèze: This counselling centre for Red Cross illustrated the Red Cross’ growing need for mobility teenagers in Corrèze, France, had the clever idea to create a solutions. So, in 2012 the Foundation launched a new programme mobile unit that can go out and reach teens who cannot travel to with the French Red Cross, called “Red Cross on Wheels”. This the centre. The mobile unit gives these youngsters a confidential nation-wide initiative aims to reach out to isolated families and place to discuss their problems anonymously and free of charge. individuals in response to the country’s higher rates of poverty, The Foundation helped the centre purchase a minivan that can aging population, scaled-back public services, and difficultpark near local schools. In the 18 months since it was created, the to-access areas. The Foundation decided to join forces with the mobile unit has assisted some 400 teenagers, 60% of which were Red Cross in order to take long-term action to overcome these middle-school students. challenges. In 2012 the organisations mapped out a set of best O Enfance Partenariat Vietnam: This Vietnam-based NGO practices for mobile care units, which were then used to establish recently opened a workshop for repairing motorcycles at its operating procedures and identify the required equipment. In 2013 youth centre in Long Hai. The centre supports around a hundred the partnership’s three-year-long efforts will materialise in a set of disadvantaged youth; the workshop – for which the Foundation mobile care units funded by the Foundation. These units will go provided tools and an instructor – gives around 15 of them out to families to provide basic food and clothing, psychological vocational training so they get a head start in the job market. The support, and social outreach. The mobile care units will serve centre aims to eventually train 50 students a year. anyone in need, and are intended to provide a warm, welcoming O Culture: The Foundation supports initiatives related to mobility place to combat loneliness. They will be adapted to the specific and culture, in order to reach out to those who do not have access needs of each community they visit. This initiative is part of the to or cannot travel to cultural venues. The Foundation also backs French Red Cross’ strategy to develop new ways of providing care mobility-themed cultural events intended for the general public. while encouraging autonomy, to offer a large palette of services O MuMo, the mobile museum: MuMo is the world’s first mobile that can meet the specific needs of different families, and to reach museum created exclusively to take modern art to children. It out to people in need wherever they may be. With its Red Cross travels to where they are – like schools and recreational centres – so on Wheels initiative, the Foundation hopes to make it easier to they can discover the exciting world of modern art. The museum provide humanitarian assistance to anyone who needs it, including was born from a belief that art is an excellent way to open minds those living alone or in hard-to-reach areas. and foster the sharing of ideas. MuMo was designed by renowned architect Adam Kalkin and takes the form of a shipping container that can be installed on the back of a truck. The container opens MOBILITY AND EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL to reveal four distinct areas underneath a monumental sculpture ACTION by contemporary artist Paul McCarthy. The museum boasts a collection of works from world-famous artists like Daniel Buren, 26% of the Foundation’s donations in 2012 went to 18 initiatives in James Turell, and Huang Yong Ping. On its first tour, which ran the field of education and culture, mostly in France. from October to December 2011, MuMo stopped at around O Education: The Foundation believes that by using mobility 20 French cities, crossing the country from north to south, before to give at-risk youth greater access to educational and cultural heading on to Cameroon, Benin, and Senegal. The globetrotting programmes, it is also promoting equal opportunity and giving museum has already travelled some 18,000 km and delighted these youth a second chance. That’s why it works hand-in-hand over 20,000 children. This marks the second year in a row that with community organisations focusing on these issues, in both the Foundation is supporting MuMo; this year the museum will urban and rural areas. cross France from west to east with stops at the Group’s plants O Sport dans la Ville: This not-for-profit organisation aims to help in Metz and Mulhouse, where 150 children of employees will be young people from at-risk neighbourhoods in greater Lyon forge anxiously waiting. social ties and find gainful employment. It does so by building and O Pro Musicis: This not-for-profit organisation promotes the maintaining sports centres around France; it has already constructed careers of young world-class musicians and helps share their 21 in the Lyon region and one in the Paris region. These centres artistic inspiration with children and adults who do not have easy hold physical fitness classes every Wednesday and Saturday, with access to concerts. Every year it gives out the International Pro the goal of promoting solid values like respect, diligence, and hard Musicis award to the most promising young performers, and puts work. The centres serve some 3,000 young people each year, who on concerts featuring the winners for the general public. In return, remain involved with their centre for an average of eight years. The the winners also give two free “sharing concerts” with the same centres also offer job support programmes targeted to different age programme (one in the Paris region and one in another French groups. For 14to 20-year-olds, the “Job in the City” programme city). The Foundation supports Pro Musicis, which brings the matches them up with mentors to prepare for the world of work. For beauty of music to over 1,500 people every year. 7to 11-year-olds, the “Apprenti’Bus” programme – sponsored by O Cité de l’architecture et du patrimoine: This Museum of the Foundation – offers an original, fun way to develop reading, Architecture and Architectural Heritage – located in Paris, writing, and speaking skills. Every afternoon when children get France – recently put on an exhibition called “Circulate: How out of school an attractively-designed bus waits for them near the Movement Shapes our Cities”. The Foundation sponsored this centre. Special classes are given on the bus to help sharpen their exhibition, which traces the role that transportation has played in skills. In 2012 the hardest-working students were given a special the development of cities. It ran from April to August 2012 and reward; the Foundation, in association with the Peugeot brand, attracted some 45,000 visitors. The exhibition also included a fun treated them to a day at the French Open tennis tournament on its path that evokes all the senses to propel visitors into the city of “Children’s Day” in May. the future. 114 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN: A FULL-FLEDGED PARTNER TO ITS HOST COMMUNITIES 4.2. Global and local corporate citizenship 4 MOBILITY AND DISABILITY MOBILITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT The Foundation supports 16 initiatives in France and abroad that The Foundation supports numerous mobility-related environmental offer mobility solutions to the physically and mentally handicapped, initiatives targeting the general public; these initiatives include so that mobility is no longer an obstacle but a springboard to greater awareness campaigns for sustainable mobility and travelling independence and an improved quality of life. exhibitions on ecology and biodiversity. Around 12% of the O Avenir Dysphasie*: This charitable organisation provides Foundation’s donations to NGOs in 2012 went to these types of support to parents of children with specific language impairment initiatives. (SLI), helping them find suitable medical care and schooling. It O All China Women’s Federation: The Foundation has teamed also helps young adults with the disability enter the workforce. Not up with PSA Peugeot Citroën China to support this Federation, having a driver’s license can be a major obstacle to employment, founded in 1949, in a programme to build awareness about but most driver’s license testing centres are not equipped for sustainable mobility among Chinese children and their parents. people with SLI. That’s why Avenir Dysphasie recently set up preThe programme was launched in 2011 and is slated to last five driving-school training classes on the French Traffic Code; the years. The Foundation provided funding for educational brochures Foundation has financed four of these classes. These classes are and posters for schoolchildren in Beijing, Guangzhou, and tailored to individuals with SLI, so they can get a head start before Shanghai − an initiative that should be expanded to other Chinese joining a regular driving school. 40 people took the classes in 2012, cities as well. PSA Peugeot Citroën employees also take part in reflecting a growing demand for such services. Avenir Dysphasie the programme by volunteering their time to hold workshops plans to offer the classes in the Alsace region of France as well. and chaperone school outings, for example. 132 employees O Fundación Bobath: At the treatment centre run by this Spanish participated in the programme in 2012. The programme has foundation, 200 handicapped children receive daily physical reached 800,000 children and their families since it was launched, therapy to develop their motor skills. The PSA Peugeot Citroën and in 2012 won the China’s Best Corporate Citizenship Award Foundation helped finance the purchase of a vehicle with a given by Chinese newspaper 21st century Business Herald. wheelchair ramp that can take children with cerebral palsy to O Office pour les Insectes et leur Environnement: This not-fortheir physical therapy sessions. The goal is to enable them to do profit organisation, based in Guyancourt (21 km south-west of more things on their own – like feeding themselves and using a Paris), aims to teach children and their parents about the important computer – and help them be a part of mainstream society. role that insects play in our ecosystems. Since the organisation’s O Institut Médico-éducatif Marie-Jeanne Sirlin: This medical insect museum Maison des Insects was closed in July 2011, it rehabilitation institute in the Alsace region of France offers has been travelling to schools and communities to continue its athletic and psychomotor development activities to people with a awareness-building mission. The Foundation helped finance the mental disability. The Foundation financed the purchase of three purchase of a vehicle decorated like a yellow school bus and fitted therapeutic bicycles and three specially-adapted tricycles that to contain the organisation’s teaching materials. Thanks to this bus, families can also borrow, like for weekend outings, for example. the organisation can reach out to a broader audience and take part The institute consists of five centres each specialised in a different in conservation-related events across the country. It aims to reach age group, from preschoolers all the way to the elderly. The centres 15,000 children and adults each year. provide care to around 200 people. * Dysphasie is French for specific language impairment (SLI), a language disorder that delays the mastery of language skills in children who have no hearing loss or other developmental delays. It is often accompanied by a developmental reading disorder (dyslexia). Around a million people in France suffer from SLI. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 115 4 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN: A FULL-FLEDGED PARTNER TO ITS HOST COMMUNITIES 4.2. Global and local corporate citizenship 4.2.2. CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY As part of its general Philanthropy policy, the Group supports other The fourth project will focus on the following three key research initiatives alongside those that fall within the Foundation’s remit. topics in road safety, to either complement or reinforce research done by other organisations (bidding for this project will close in March 2013): THE CITY ON THE MOVE INSTITUTE (IVM) O the aetiology of accidents and their consequences; O better-performing computer systems for road safety; See Chapter 2 for information about the City on the Move Institute. O new approaches to move towards “zero victim” accidents (no deaths, serious injuries, or handicaps). FRENCH ROAD SAFETY FOUNDATION Reflecting a deep commitment to making roads safer in cooperation THE PEUGEOT INDUSTRIAL HERITAGE with other road-use stakeholders, PSA Peugeot Citroën was a coENDOWMENT FUND founder of the French Road Safety Foundation, created in 2004 at Inaugurated in September 2010 and financed by an endowment the initiative of the French Ministry of Research. The Foundation, fund heavily supported by PSA Peugeot Citroën, the Terre Blanche which was declared in the public interest in 2005, is financed both Archives Centre is the new home for archival materials from all by the government and by private companies such as PSA Peugeot of its manufacturing and business facilities. After a top-to-bottom Citroën, Renault and Plastic Omnium. Like all French research renovation to restore building features typical of 19th century foundations, it brings together public and private organisations, industrial architecture, the Centre now houses a rare collection of in this case to identify, promote and finance road-safety research historical records, photographs, technical drawings and unusual projects. It provides a unique forum for all types of road safety artefacts that have been brought together for safekeeping. The stakeholders, including government representatives, carmakers, Centre will also open its doors to historians, researchers and students public transit and road transport specialists, trade federations and interested in consulting its materials. The holdings are continuing public health professionals. to expand, thanks to gifts and contributions from automobile The Road Safety Foundation will sponsor three main projects, which enthusiasts, including many former employees, whose invaluable but have been open to bids. The topics for the first three projects are: often fragile documents can be digitised and preserved under optimal risks to people like pedestrians and motorcycle drivers; risk factors conditions. More broadly, the archives offer a compelling perspective like alcohol; and long-term issues like forgiving infrastructure and on the more than 200-year history of automobiles in Europe. new approaches to road safety and vehicle usage. 4.2.3. LOCAL CSR PLANS AT GROUP SITES PSA Peugeot Citroën is a key player in most of the local economies The sites’ Local CSR Plans focused on the following areas in 2012: where it operates, and as such strives to be a responsible corporate O the environment (biodiversity conservation, education, and citizen of its communities. All its major sites (both production plants awareness); and office facilities) have developed Local CSR Plans outlining the O local economic development (jobs, training, welfare-to-work actions they intend to take in line with the PSA Peugeot Citroën schemes, and the solidarity economy); Foundation’s focus areas. O mobility, including road safety and ecodriving; These Plans, first introduced several years ago, facilitate dialogue both O youth and educational programmes; within the Group and among other stakeholders in the community. O charitable aid for basic necessities like food, clothing, and They are implemented at most major sites in France and around the healthcare (excluding disaster relief); world, and complement the Foundation’s sponsorship efforts. O cultural and philanthropic programmes. In 2012 the majority of the initiatives involved mobility and local economic development. 116 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN: A FULL-FLEDGED PARTNER TO ITS HOST COMMUNITIES 4.2. Global and local corporate citizenship 4 LOCAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Before the summer travel season begins, the Group sets up car inspection points in the car parks of four of its French sites (Metz, Local economic development here refers to training, employment, Sept Fons, Kolin, and Valenciennes) so employees can check welfare-to-work schemes, and programmes for the disadvantaged. their lighting systems, windshield wipers, braking systems, and It accounted for nearly 39% of spending under Local CSR Plans tyre pressure. in 2012. For instance, several sites donate computer equipment The Group also donates car bodies to local fire fighters for passenger and mechanical parts (like gearboxes, engines, and transmissions) rescue exercises, and gives vehicles to the police in Mulhouse and to vocational training schools, and Group plants arrange numerous Vélizy, France. school visits so children can learn about the world of manufacturing. Some experts working at the plants also participate in exchange programmes with university professors and/or students to share their knowledge. CULTURAL AND EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMMES Among the long-term initiatives, the PSA Peugeot Citroën plant Cultural and educational programmes accounted for the thirdin Brazil sponsors the Formare training programme in association largest category of spending under Local CSR Plans in 2012. This with the Lochpe Foundation. Since 2008 the programme has been reflects PSA Peugeot Citroën’s commitment to its communities. The offering vocational training in automotive assembly to 20 students Metz and Trémery plants in France have pledged to support the from low-income families. The training is accredited by the Brazilian Centre Pompidou-Metz museum for three years starting in 2011, Ministry of Education and given at the PSA Peugeot Citroën plant, and are working with the Lorraine region, the city of Metz, and the which donates its facilities as well as its employees’ skills. greater Metz intermunicipal authority to facilitate access to modern In Europe, two sites – in Madrid, Spain, and La Garenne-Colombes, art. These plants also sponsored an exhibition featuring two French France – give out annual Solidarity Awards. These awards, first designers, Ronan and Erwan Bouroullec, that ran from October 2011 introduced in 2005, aim to encourage employees to spearhead to August 2012. charitable projects. Employees are invited to submit projects The Group’s Spanish site sponsors a radio programme called related to a cause they feel strongly about, like humanitarian aid or “View from the South” that covers environmental and gender environmental protection. The most promising projects are given an equality issues. Middle-school students from nearby schools and the award along with financial backing from the Group. Villaverde school district help put on the programme. The broadcast In France, many Group sites have been supporting programmes to has an estimated audience of more than one million listeners. raise awareness about people with disabilities, most notably during In Russia, PSA Peugeot Citroën sponsored festivities in 2012 to France’s Disabled Employment Week. The goal is to encourage the mark the “Kaluga plant’s anniversary”, highlighting the plant’s hiring of handicapped individuals and break down stereotypes. three cultures: Russian, French, and Japanese. The plant also took 11 sites also collect plastic bottle caps for charities that offer mobility part in Europe Day celebrations with a full slate of events including solutions for the handicapped. exhibitions, contests, festivals, seminars, and excursions. MOBILITY AND ROAD SAFETY VOLUNTEERISM AND SKILLS DONATION Mobility and road safety initiatives accounted for nearly 23% of In France, the Rennes site has been actively supporting the spending under Local CSR Plans in 2012. They include loans or Performance Bretagne association of Brittany-based SMEs for many donations of vehicles to charities that help people without cars or years. The association helps them more efficiently manage their driver’s licenses. manufacturing facilities. In 2012 the Group helped 31 of these SMEs develop their skills, and trained 13 manufacturing consultants. The Plans also allocate a significant amount of funding to road safety issues, mainly for campaigns to modify drivers’ behaviour. The Group’s Tremery, France, site provides the same type of support to local SMEs through the Partenaires Superforce Lorraine The Group holds various road safety exhibitions all year long, including association, by assigning a full-time manager to these bourgeoning a rollover crash simulator, driving simulators, and videos. It also gives businesses. out free breathalysers, and holds workshops on motorcycle safety. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 117 4 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN: A FULL-FLEDGED PARTNER TO ITS HOST COMMUNITIES 4.2. Global and local corporate citizenship 4.2.4. CSR INITIATIVES SUPPORTED BY THE PEUGEOT AND CITROËN BRANDS AND BY BANQUE PSA FINANCE The brands donated €785,000 to CSR initiatives in 2012. In Spain, Citroën donates funds and equipment (mainly vehicles) to numerous charities, training, and welfare-to-work programmes, primarily geared towards young people. INITIATIVES SUPPORTED BY THE PEUGEOT In China, the Company supports Red Crayon, a charity that helps BRAND improve learning conditions and stimulate the creativity of minority children in weste rn China. In the UK, Peugeot carried out a major fund-raising campaign Through its CAPSA joint venture, Citroën sponsored the Shanghai among employees and its network for the charity Children in Need. Biennial 2012 modern art fair as part of its long-standing tradition of the Company raised over £500,000, to which Peugeot UK added supporting the arts. More specifically, the Company sponsored the another £50,000. DS Inter-city Pavilion that aims to promote culture and modern art In Argentina, the Company introduced a programme called in today’s cities. Imagination by Peugeot to build awareness on four key issues: road safety, education, and the environment. It worked with experts on each of these issues to provide training and communicate important messages. A total of 885 hours of training were given under this INITIATIVES SUPPORTED BY BANQUE PSA programme to 6,400 students in 71 schools in 59 cities across the FINANCE (BPF) country. BPF encourages all its entities in France and around the world to sponsor worthy causes like: O mobility for the disadvantaged: BPF’s French subsidiary, Crédipar, INITIATIVES SUPPORTED BY THE CITROËN donated a motorised tricycle to the Maison de Marie home for the BRAND disabled in 2012, so people with mental or physical handicaps can get around more easily. This donation was made in partnership Citroën has been supporting French NGO Action Contre la Faim with the PSA Peugeot Citroën Foundation; (“Action Against Hunger”) since 2009, when the two formed a partnership to mark the anniversary year for both of them: the 90th O the disabled: in Poland, BPF donated used mobile phones to a for Citroën and the 30th for Action Contre la Faim. In 2012, 85 charity for the handicapped; Citroën employees – even more than in previous years – took part in O emergency outreach: BPF’s UK subsidiary supports the charity a fund-raising race held by Action Contre la Faim in Paris, clocking Children in Need, and carried out a major fund-raising campaign up a total 1,448 km to fight hunger. in 2012; O medical research: Employees at BPF’s subsidiary in the For the past four years Citroën has been giving Christmas gifts Netherlands took part in the Roparun relay race to raise money (mainly miniature cars and video games) to hospitalised children. for cancer victims; In 2012, the Company gave out 4,500 such gifts to children at hospitals in France, Germany, Czech Republic, Italy, Belgium, O cultural and educational programmes: BPF’s China subsidiary Spain, the Netherlands, and Austria. joined the «Red Crayon» initiative started by the Asia Division to generate private donations from employees to buy books, toys, clothes, and sporting equipment for poor children in Guishu. 118 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.1. MANAGING JOBS RESPONSIBLY 5.4. WORKPLACE HEALTH AND TO MEET NEW CHALLENGES 121 SAFETY: A TOP PRIORITY 138 5.1.1. Workforce 121 5.4.1. Workplace Health and 5.1.2. Employment policy 126 Safety Management System 138 5.4.2. Long lasting progress 139 5.2. DEVELOPING TALENT 132 5.4.3. Five priority commitments for preventing health and safety risks 141 5.2.1. Attracting talent 132 5.4.4. An active commitment to health 143 5.2.2. Managing talent 132 5.4.5. Joint management-worker health 5.2.3. PSA Peugeot Citroën University: and safety agreements and committees 145 Nurturing talent 134 5.4.6. Promoting employee well-being 146 5.4.7. Organisation of working hours 148 5.3. BUILDING TRUST THROUGH MEANINGFUL EMPLOYEE RELATIONS 136 5.5. COMPENSATION POLICY 151 5.5.1. Fair and competitive compensation 5.3.1. International social dialogue organisations 136 that rewards performance 152 5.3.2. Strengthening social cohesion 136 5.5.2. Employee beneﬁts 155 5.6. A DEEP COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 158 5.6.1. Working together 158 5.6.2. Continuing to increase the percentage of women in the workforce 161 5.6.3. Human rights 166 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 119 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY As a major player in the European and global automotive industry, The PSA Peugeot Citroën Group remains convinced that not only PSA Peugeot Citroën faces the challenge of extremely difficult does our strength lie in our people and in the quality of labour economic conditions in its major markets. Confronted with this relations, but that these form the basis of the Company’s rebound reality, the Group promptly took measures to mitigate the impacts and its sustainable and international development. The men and on employment, provide support for its employees, manage the women who work daily to ensure the Group’s success are at the heart changes required and to pave the way for its recovery. Our priorities of our commitment. in 2012 were twofold: guarantee social cohesion through very active Beyond labour relations, the Group also maintains constructive social dialogue to find responsible and innovative solutions, and dialogue on all aspects of its corporate social responsibility policy, motivate and support all company personnel to meet our collective sharing information through the bodies involved in our HR practices and individual challenges. (OSI, IMS, C3D, Arborus endowment fund, and others). 2012 KEY FIGURES Workforce Registered workforce 123,462 Percentage of women in the Group 19.1% Contractual agreements Number of agreements signed 78 Safety Management frequency rate* 1.99 Frequency rate** 1.78 Training 102,391 Number of employees who took part in at least one training course (i.e. 83%) The key figures above do not include Faurecia. * Management frequency rate = Lost-time injury frequency rate including Group employees and temporary employees. ** Frequency rate = Lost-time injury frequency rate for Group employees. REPORTING METHODOLOGY SCOPE OF REPORTING The indicators presented below have been prepared on the basis GLOBAL SOCIAL REPORTING of data from all the subsidiaries and companies controlled by PSA Understanding the people who make up the PSA Peugeot Citroën Peugeot Citroën, other than Faurecia, the Automotile Equipment corporate community is an essential prerequisite for choosing, Division: implementing and sustainably improving the employee relations O the “Automotive” scope includes both the Automobile Division process of a Group (excluding Faurecia) that counts more than and the SCEMM; 120,000 employees around the world. O the “Other Businesses” comprise the Peugeot S.A. holding The Group consolidates and publishes human resources management company, PMTC France, PMTC Germany and PMTC Italy. indicators with an emphasis on three aspects: transparency, The following changes to scope apply from 2012: completeness and quality of information. This reporting process O SEVELNORD is now consolidated within “Other Businesses”; involves over 400 contributors from all Group subsidiaries, using interactive applications to compile data, led by a central team O GEFCO is no longer consolidated in the Group’s social reporting dedicated to this process. indicators. PSA Peugeot Citroën is recognised as a benchmark in this area The scope of reporting does not include employees of the joint for the quality of its extra-financial reporting, which complies with ventures with Dongfeng (DPCA), Changan (CPSA), Toyota legal reporting requirements (Articles L.225-102-1 and R. 225-105 (TCPA), Fiat (SevelSud) or Renault (Française de Mécanique). of the French Commercial Code, Grenelle 2 Act), in line with the This report does not include Faurecia, a listed company in which recommendations of the international Global Reporting Initiative Peugeot S.A. holds 57.4% of the capital, which manages its business and requests from stakeholders, particularly employee representatives independently. and SRI rating agencies. The “manufacturing” base includes all of the automobile production For each indicator in this section, information is presented about plants, mechanical component plants and foundries. “Offices the results or the programmes under way. For reasons of space, and R&D facilities” refers to offices and automotive innovation however, information about calculation procedures and reference and research facilities. The “sales unit” comprises all of the sales agreements has been omitted. The definitions used are those found subsidiaries. in international standards. 120 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.1. Managing jobs responsibly to meet new challenges 5 DEFINITIONS TAM is the French acronym for technicians and supervisors. The abbreviations CDI and CDD stand for, respectively “permanent The manager category includes engineers and managers with a job employment contract” and “fixed-term employment contract.” description similar to managers in France. 5.1. MANAGING JOBS RESPONSIBLY TO MEET NEW CHALLENGES Automobile industry professions are changing to meet new economic, technological and environmental challenges. In addressing these shifts and at a time of growing globalisation and increased competitive pressures, people remain a constant concern for PSA Peugeot Citroën, reflecting its responsibility for the men and women who dedicate themselves to the Company on a daily basis. 5.1.1. WORKFORCE G.1a NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES UNDER PERMANENT OR FIXED-TERM CONTRACTS BY DIVISION, 2006-2012 (At 31 December) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Automobile Division 134,345 129,890 121,365 120,880 122,879 117,374 Banque PSA Finance 2,330 2,390 2,470 2,595 2,679 2,669 Other businesses 1,430 1,220 985 1,175 1,178 3,419 TOTAL 138,105 133,500 124,820 124,650 126,736 123,462 From 2011 to 2012, the number of Group employees under permanent or fixed-term contracts declined by 3,274. NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES UNDER PERMANENT OR FIXED-TERM CONTRACTS BY REGION AND DIVISION G.1d (At 31 December 2012) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world Total Automobile Division 76,136 28,596 12,642 117,374 Banque PSA Finance 829 1,719 121 2,669 Other businesses 3,378 41 0 3,419 TOTAL 80,343 30,356 12,763 123,462 At 31 December 2012, 123,462 employees worked in the Group: 117,819 had permanent contracts (95% of the workforce) and 5,643 were on fixed-term contracts. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 121 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.1. Managing jobs responsibly to meet new challenges NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES UNDER PERMANENT OR FIXED-TERM CONTRACTS BY REGION (At 31 December) 2010* 2011* 2012 France 101,330 98,845 80,343 Rest of Europe 59,790 64,105 30,356 • Western Europe 45,045 45,585 23,199 • Central and Eastern Europe 14,745 15,520 7,157 Rest of the world 25,100 35,270 12,763 • Africa 2,150 2,995 324 • South America 12,135 15,775 10,814 • North and Central America 7,165 11,035 85 • Asia and Middle East 3,650 5,465 1,540 TOTAL 186,220 198,220 123,462 * 2010 and 2011 data include GEFCO and Faurecia. Western Europe: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Central and Eastern Europe: Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Latvia, Poland, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia and Ukraine. Africa: Algeria, Morocco, South Africa and Tunisia. South America: Argentina, Brazil, Chile. North and Central America: Canada, Mexico, USA. Asia and Middle East: China, India, Iran, Japan, Malaysia, South Korea, Thailand and Turkey. Today, 35% of employees work outside France, of which 25% in other European countries and 10% in the rest of the world. SUPPORTING THE GROUP’S GLOBALISATION In international markets, PSA Peugeot Citroën deploys experts and managers with capabilities and profiles that match the global 43,119 employees work outside France, in 34 countries. PSA Peugeot diversity and local specificities of the countries in which the Group Citroën is committed to leveraging local skills, with nationals wants to expand. A dedicated International Management subsidiary accounting for 90.5% of managers based outside France. has been created to: In globalising the managerial population, particular attention is O motivate experts and managers representative of our global paid to the onboarding process for newly hired local managers, diversity; with programmes designed to improve their understanding of how O create career paths that help managers to understand the the Group works and their knowledge of our basic management international challenges stemming from the globalised economy; principles and practices. O give local employees the opportunity to take on more responsibility. 122 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.1. Managing jobs responsibly to meet new challenges 5 NUMBER OF SECONDED EMPLOYEES BY DIVISION (At 31 December) 2010 2011 2012 Automobile Division 610 728 726 Banque PSA Finance 35 33 45 Other businesses 0 0 0 TOTAL 645 761 771 In 2012, 771 employees were involved in foreign postings, with an average assignment of 36 months. 112 employees were seconded in France, 248 in the rest of Europe and 411 outside Europe. Employees under Permanent or Fixed-Term Contracts by Socioprofessional Category (At 31 December 2012) 19% Managers 55% Operators 26% ETAM PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 123 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.1. Managing jobs responsibly to meet new challenges EMPLOYEES UNDER FIXED TERM CONTRACTS (Average annual number of employees) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world Total W M W M W M W M Total Automobile Division 2012 689 1,934 760 1,721 61 448 1,510 4,103 5,613 2011 876 2,533 855 1,876 115 832 1,846 5,241 7,087 2010 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 7,485 Banque PSA Finance 2012 31 11 114 64 0 1 145 76 221 2011 33 11 114 64 4 26 151 101 252 2010 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 200 Other businesses 2012 50 118 0 0 0 0 50 118 168 2011 23 33 0 0 0 0 23 33 56 2010 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 50 TOTAL 2012 770 2,063 874 1,785 61 449 1,705 4,297 6,002 2011 932 2,577 969 1,940 119 858 2,020 5,375 7,395 2010 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 7,735 N/A = Not available – W: Women – M: Men In 2012, 827 employees (or 13.2% of new hires under permanent contracts) were hired under permanent contracts following a fixed-term assignment. The average annual number of employees under fixed-term contracts is calculated by dividing by 12 the total number of these employees at each month-end. 124 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.1. Managing jobs responsibly to meet new challenges 5 TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES PSA Peugeot Citroën is partnering with its temporary employment agencies to apply the charter governing working conditions for temporary workers in France. In particular, the charter stipulates that temporary employees cannot work for more than 15 consecutive months in the Group, so that they have an idea of when their assignment will end. It also guarantees temporary workers that they will enjoy the same working conditions as regular employees. (Average annual number) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world Total Automobile Division 2012 5,002 752 72 5,826 2011 7,989 862 309 9,160 2010 6,560 670 390 7,620 Banque PSA Finance 2012 0 36 0 36 2011 0 66 5 71 2010 0 95 10 105 Other businesses 2012 178 0 0 178 2011 55 0 0 55 2010 50 0 0 50 TOTAL 2012 5,180 788 72 6,040 2011 8,044 928 314 9,286 2010 6,610 765 400 7,775 The average annual number of temporary employees is calculated by dividing by 12 the total number of these employees at each month-end. NUMBER OF CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES WORKING ON GROUP SITES (At 31 December, full-time equivalents) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world Total Automobile Division 2012 3,631 1,057 193 4,881 2011 6,231 1,148 2,872 10,251 2010 7,310 2,360 2,955 12,625 Banque PSA Finance 2012 38 47 0 85 2011 42 47 36 125 2010 30 40 40 110 Other businesses 2012 30 0 0 30 2011 29 0 0 29 2010 10 0 0 10 TOTAL 2012 4,312 3,110 193 7,615 2011 6,302 1,195 2,908 10,405 2010 7,350 2,400 2,995 12,745 Includes white-collar contractors seconded from service providers to expenses, which is vital for performance and for reducing the time the Group under contracts signed by the Purchasing Department. taken by R&D processes. A limited panel of Major Engineering The policy for engineering subcontracting was reviewed at the Suppliers has been defined, favouring the setting up of Service end of 2011 and applied methodically in 2012. Its aim is to access Centres to which batches are sentfollowing better defined processes, specific or unavailable skills, enabling flexibility in changes to overall giving better medium-term visibility. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 125 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.1. Managing jobs responsibly to meet new challenges 5.1.2. EMPLOYMENT POLICY NET JOBS CREATED, 2010-2012 (At 31 December 2012) Net jobs added through acquisitions, Workforce at less disposals Net jobs created/ Workforce at 31/12/2010 2010-2012 (lost) 31/12/2012 Rest of Europe 31,200 (638) (206) 30,356 Africa 302 22 324 North and Central America 59 26 85 South America 10,334 480 10,814 Asia and Middle East 1,195 345 1,540 Worldwide except France 43,090 (638) 667 43,119 France 84,260 (598) (3,319) 80,343 WORLDWIDE TOTAL 127,350 (1,236) (2,652) 123,462 In the period 2010-2012, the multi-year net number of jobs created was negative. There was a reduction of 2,652 jobs over this period in line with the shrinking European automobile markets. The changes also reflect the Group’s international growth. TARGETED HIRING skills that were not yet available internally. 1,700 people were hired to ramp up output at the Kaluga plant in Russia, and more than 1,000 In 2012, PSA Peugeot Citroën hired 6,272 people under permanent were hired to beef up our sales teams in the Peugeot and Citroën contracts. Designed to support our strategic projects, growth in new retail networks, half of which are abroad. markets and international development, these targeted hirings added EMPLOYEES HIRED UNDER PERMANENT CONTRACTS G.2a (At 31 December) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world Total Automobile Division 2012 1,139 3,705 1,234 6,078 2011 4,739 2,050 2,087 8,876 2010 2,660 1,605 2,110 6,375 Banque PSA Finance 2012 48 104 21 173 2011 60 167 43 270 2010 60 180 20 260 Other businesses 2012 17 4 0 21 2011 38 5 0 43 2010 30 0 0 30 TOTAL 2012 1,204 3,813 1,255 6,272 2011 4,837 2,222 2,130 9,189 2010 2,750 1,785 2,130 6,665 In 2012, the Group hired a total of 6,272 people. 80% of these new employees were hired outside France. 126 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.1. Managing jobs responsibly to meet new challenges 5 EMPLOYEES HIRED UNDER PERMANENT CONTRACTS BY CATEGORY (At 31 December 2012) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world Total TechTechTechTechOperators nicians Operators nicians Operators nicians Operators nicians and admiand and admiand and admiand and admiand nistrative superMananistrative superMananistrative superMananistrative superManaemployees visors gers employees visors gers employees visors gers employees visors gers Automobile Division 564 344 231 2,950 591 162 774 308 154 4,288 1,243 547 Banque PSA Finance 0 40 8 0 84 19 0 7 15 0 131 42 Other businesses 0 4 13 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 8 13 TOTAL 564 388 252 2,950 679 181 774 315 169 4,288 1,382 602 Of the total people hired under permanent contracts, 68% were This ratio is calculated by dividing the total number of new employees operators and administrative employees, 22% were technicians and hired under permanent contracts during the year by the total number supervisors (TAM) and 10% were managers. of employees under permanent contracts at 31 December. New employees hired under permanent contracts represented 5.3% of the total workforce under permanent contracts in 2012. EMPLOYEES HIRED UNDER FIXED-TERM CONTRACTS (At 31 December 2012) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world Total Automobile Division 1,015 1,801 123 2,939 Banque PSA Finance 63 122 9 194 Other businesses 11 0 0 11 TOTAL 1,089 1,923 132 3,144 Women represented 35.6% of employees hired under fixed-term contracts in 2012. Of the total people hired under fixed-term contracts, 78.4% were operators and administrative employees, 20.1% were technicians and supervisors (TAM) and 1.5% were managers. SEPARATION RATES OF EMPLOYEES UNDER PERMANENT CONTRACTS (At 31 December) 2010* 2011* 2012 Separation rate 7.3% 5.7% 8.4% * 2010 and 2011 data include GEFCO. In 2012, the separation rate was 8.4% for the Group. The separation rate is calculated by dividing the total number of separations during the year involving employees under permanent contracts (through resignations, redundancies, dismissals, retirement, deaths and other attrition) by the total number of employees under permanent contracts at 31 December. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 127 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.1. Managing jobs responsibly to meet new challenges SEPARATION RATES OF EMPLOYEES UNDER PERMANENT CONTRACTS BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND REGION (At 31 December 2012) <30 30-39 40-49 ≥50 Total Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Total France 6.6% 11.6% 4.9% 4.6% 3% 2.4% 10.1% 10.6% 6.2% 6.2% 6.1% Rest of Europe 17.8% 30% 6.6% 8.8% 7.7% 8.6% 17.2% 19.2% 8.9% 12.6% 15% Rest of the world 17.3% 31% 13.4% 10.7% 8.5% 8.3% 14.6% 8.3% 12.4% 11.1% 12% TOTAL 12.1% 20.5% 6.5% 6.6% 4.6% 4.1% 11.3% 12.3% 7.5% 8.2% 8.4% SEPARATIONS OF EMPLOYEES UNDER PERMANENT CONTRACTS BY AGE GROUP AND GENDRE G.2b (At 31 December 2012) <20 20-29 30-39 40-49 ≥50 Total Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Resignations 6 32 213 717 268 957 110 406 90 387 687 2,499 Dismissals 0 18 65 438 115 478 64 282 84 359 328 1,575 Redundancies 1 3 23 98 90 248 68 267 260 1,228 442 1,844 Retirement, death or other 0 40 36 224 47 292 39 211 197 1,492 319 2,259 TOTAL 7 93 337 1,477 520 1,975 281 1,166 631 3,466 1,776 8,177 SEPARATIONS OF EMPLOYEES UNDER PERMANENT CONTRACTS BY REGION (At 31 December 2012) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world Total Resignations 1,396 1,211 579 3,186 Dismissals 585 539 779 1,903 Redundancies 1,824 462 0 2,286 Retirement, death or other 1,144 1,347 87 2,578 TOTAL 4,949 3,559 1,445 9,953 Separation rate 4.2% 3% 1.2% 8.4% 128 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.1. Managing jobs responsibly to meet new challenges 5 RESIGNATIONS OF EMPLOYEES UNDER PERMANENT CONTRACTS (At 31 December 2012) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world Total Automobile Division 2012 1,298 1,149 579 3,026 2011 1,104 876 544 2,524 2010 710 890 445 2,045 Banque PSA Finance 2012 17 56 0 73 2011 36 94 8 138 2010 25 70 0 95 Other businesses 2012 81 6 0 87 2011 12 2 1 15 2010 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 2012 1,396 1,211 579 3,186 2011 1,152 972 553 2,677 2010 735 960 445 2,140 The number of resignations amounted to 2.7% of total employees under permanent contracts in 2012, versus 2.3% in 2011 (like-for-like). A total of 182 employees under fixed-term contracts resigned during the year. DISMISSALS OF EMPLOYEES UNDER PERMANENT CONTRACTS (At 31 December 2012) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world Total Automobile Division 2012 549 528 777 1,854 2011 499 518 309 1,326 2010 660 590 370 1,620 Banque PSA Finance 2012 12 11 2 25 2011 3 15 3 21 2010 5 25 0 30 Other businesses 2012 24 0 0 24 2011 12 1 0 13 2010 5 0 0 5 TOTAL 2012 585 539 779 1,903 2011 514 534 312 1,360 2010 670 615 370 1,655 The above figures include all dismissals of employees under permanent contracts during the year, including premature termination of work contracts for incapacity, disability and dismissal for personal reasons. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 129 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.1. Managing jobs responsibly to meet new challenges OTHER SEPARATIONS OF EMPLOYEES UNDER PERMANENT CONTRACTS (At 31 December) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world Total Automobile Division 1,095 1,322 87 2,504 Banque PSA Finance 16 25 0 41 Other businesses 33 0 0 33 TOTAL 1,144 1,347 87 2,578 DISMISSALS OR REDUNDANCIES OF EMPLOYEES UNDER PERMANENT CONTRACTS (At 31 December) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world Total Automobile Division 2012 1,811 450 0 2,261 2011 52 147 74 273 2010 2,365 230 15 2,610 Banque PSA Finance 2012 0 12 0 12 2011 0 0 0 0 2010 0 0 0 0 Other businesses 2012 13 0 0 13 2011 0 0 0 0 2010 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 2012 1,824 462 0 2,286 2011 52 147 74 273 2010 2,365 230 15 2610 In 2010, dismissals and redundancies in the Group primarily This mapping is shared during jobs and skills observatories, Groupconcerned employees who took voluntary redundancy under the wide meetings of joint employee-employer bodies and in individual workforce and skills planningplan wound down in March 2010. entities. The approach has proved its mettle in orienting employees In 2012, they are attributable to voluntary redundancy measures in at-risk occupationstowards more balanced occupations or carried out between 1 February and 25 July of that year. occupations in high demand, offering them more opportunities. On 9 January 2012, a conference to launch the “Top Competences” initiative was attended by HR personnel with responsibility for WORKING WITH EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES implementing the Group’s internal mobility programme, as well as by TO PREPARE JOBS ANC CAPABILITIES FOR senior executives and managers, representatives of firms associated THE FUTURE with the programme and trade union representatives. The conference focused on sharing best practices and motivating HR professionals. A forward employee representatives and capabilities vision shared 1,200 managers attended training specifically designed to facilitate with employee representativesProactively responding to an evolving them in supporting employee mobility. “Mobility advantage” skills base, accurately predicting the capabilities needed in the future training was offered to employees who expressed a need for this type and improving employee visibility of over-the-horizon technologies of support to prepare them for job mobility and expand their career and manufacturing processes are all critical challenges for PSA horizons. Peugeot Citroën. A forward-looking view is needed to initiate effective policies for training, career development, job mobility, hiring, and 28 Mobility and Career Development units were set up locally, each jobs and skills redeployment. This approach is fully aligned with the staffed by representatives of site HR Departments, managers and Company’s CSR policies. external contractors (career and outplacement consultants). The units are tasked with advising employees on job changes, providing Forward-looking management involves analysing situations information on the measures on offer, as well as practical guidance to with employee representatives, discussing policies deployed and boost their career prospects. considering their foreseeable impact on jobs and skills, taking three job types into consideration: occupations in high demandoccupations in balanceandat-risk occupations. 130 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.1. Managing jobs responsibly to meet new challenges 5 SUPPORT MEASURES FOR TRANSFORMATION in close cooperation with Group divisions, the University examines PROJECTS training needs and coordinates the design, procurement and roll-out of courses across all entities. 1,039 people changed positions or were In a commitment to ensuring the smooth deployment of major redeployed in 2012, aided by “Top Competence” and a programme transformations and changes in both the manufacturing and dispensing a total of 60,000 training hours, equating to an average of technological sides of the business, measures are systematically 58 hours per person. undertaken by PSA Peugeot Citroën to support employees through the process. A structured programme is implemented for each transformation project to analyse the impacts and consequences and SUPPORTING JOB MOBILITY OUTSIDE prepare these support measures. THE GROUP Faced with the unprecedented decline in demand in the automotive industry, the Group presented new measures aimed at adapting its Some employees keen to move outside the Group will benefit skills resources to its needs to the Central Works Council Committee specifically from measures aimed at identifying job opportunities in December 2011, in accordance with its CSR responsibilities. It in France by coordinating regional networks and leveraging direct will provide individual redeployment support to each employee. contacts with local businesses. This approach focuses on the private The support package, in line with the 2010 agreement on the “New market and is supplemented by facilitated access to local authority Jobs and Capabilities Dynamic” included internal and external and public sector vacancies. These vacancies also take where measures and an innovative retraining component, known as “Top employees live into account. Competences”. Participation has been excellent and the main plan In addition, employment opportunities nationally are collated from objectives were achieved in 2012. partner companies who participate in the job forums organised by The industrial restructuring and headcount reduction plan for PCA the Group. These “job dating” events encourage direct contacts France was presented to the Central Works Council Committee on between employees and companies, whose personnel needs are 25 July 2012. These measures, designed to turn the Group’s fortunes aligned most closely with our employee profiles. At the same time, around, include shutting down production and revitalising the Aulnay employees are given the opportunity to gain insight into companies plant, and restructuring the Group’s manufacturing capability at they have partial knowledge of, and to discuss vacancies directly with Rennes, prior to future capital investment. The plan to reorganise the recruiters. In 2012 20 job dating events took place at Peugeot Citroën production base also includes 3,600 voluntary redundancies. Automobiles sites. The Company sought to engage in permanent dialogue with the trade The Mobility and Career Development units are tasked with giving union organisations during the phase of consultation with personnel practical support to individual employees to successfully carry representative bodies. Regular consultation group meetings were through their career moves, notably thanks to redeployment firms. held prior to entering negotiations on the issues identified by For example, practical assistance is given to start-ups or takeovers employee representatives, concerning support for different personnel (identification of assets, labour relations and tax implications of categories and appropriate measures. projects, business case development and preparation of operating conditions). 1,940 PCA France employees took voluntary At each stage of the restructuring plan, PSA Peugeot Citroën outplacement opportunities in 2012. has remained true to its commitments, reaffirming its sense of responsibility and its openness to dialogue. COMMITTED TO RE-INDUSTRIALISATION INTERNAL MOBILITY: “TOP COMPETENCES”, PSA Peugeot Citroën pays close attention to the regions in which its PRIORITY GIVEN TO EMPLOYABILITY sites are located. It has long nurtured contacts with local authorities and all the other components of the local economic, social and “Top Competences”, the internal mobility plan launched in 2012, educational fabric to focus on local resources and developing the aims to respond to the twin challenges of a competitive market and local economy. PSA Peugeot Citroën is especially committed to the skills redeployment. Given the diverse range of jobs within the Group automotive industry. To lead its contribution to the consolidation of in France, and the scarcity of applicants to fill certain positions, PSA the industry in France, the Group appointed four Regional Delegates Peugeot Citroën launched this programme to fill vacancies in-house in 2011 to specifically support this effort in the regions. by offering inplacement opportunities to its employees. At a number of its oldest sites the Company is particularly vigilant “Top Competences” is broader in scope than the usual redeployment about the impacts of the transformation of the industry that it is opportunities in the Group and offers additional retraining implementing. The Industrial Division hosts a structure to identify opportunities. In keeping with the voluntary and anonymous basis re-industrialisation projects. 2012 saw this unit actively examine new for the operation of the Mobility and Career Development units, options for under-used or empty facilities through the creation of employees are informed about internalvacancies and jobs and skills new industries, focusing on creating jobs that match the skills sets of trends through the intelligence gathered by the Employment and Skills the Group’s employees. At the end of 2012, the portfolio of activities Observatory. In addition, technical job search skills workshops are ready to locate to the Aulnay site represented 1,250 jobs, or 1,000 organised with the objective of honing employees’ skills in preparing net jobs created. job applications for inplacement and outplacement opportunities (emphasising career paths, interview preparation, etc.). More than The Group thus reaffirms its desire to ensure industrial continuity 50 job events and 170 technical workshops were held in 2012. at the sites it operates, as well as its commitment to safeguarding jobs and skills in the auto industry, and in general in the industries A dedicated team and budget in the corporate University are of the future. allocated to the training aspects of “Top Competences”. Working PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 131 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.2. Developing talent 5.2. DEVELOPING TALENT PSA Peugeot Citroën employee relations and human resources policies continually adapt to changing external factors and employee expectations. Actions have tangible meaning to foster confidence. Each initiative is a shared commitment between management and employees. 5.2.1. ATTRACTING TALENT Attracting and hiring people with the skills the Group needs is a GREATER PRESENCE ON SOCIAL NETWORKS true strategic challenge. The Employer Brand, which expresses the Group’s identity as an attractive employer, plays a decisive role. The In 2012, the Group continued to expand its presence on social Employer Brand reflects employee perceptions of their company networks to foster closer relations with targeted demographics, such and the way external players perceive PSA Peugeot Citroën as an as students and recent graduates. This process is heightening our employer. visibility, while enabling young people to discover the diversity of our professions and career opportunities. They can also see how they can gain initial experience through internships, apprenticeships or (for French nationals), the government-sponsored VIE international volunteers programme. 5.2.2. MANAGING TALENT HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT POLICY O career paths are defined by job family, through each family’s profession; The Group’s very clear HR vision is to “place the human dimension O training represents a major investment both for the Company and at the core of the Group’s performance”. for employees; HR policy seeks to develop the four values widely embraced O job mobility allows interested employees to expand their career throughout the corporate community: horizons and develop their skills; O respect; O PSA Peugeot Citroën manages jobs responsibly. O responsibility; O boldness; O continuous improvement. THE PERFORMANCE REVIEW, FOCUS ON PEOPLE G.11 The Group’s HR professionals are motivated by four key priorities: The annual performance review is an important management O develop our human capital; process and key to HR management. O manage and motivate employees; O responsible development and social cohesion; Since 2011, the annual performance review at PSA Peugeot Citroën is broken down into three strands: O operational excellence by our employees. 1. a holistic job appraisal, based on proficiency in two aspects, Policies are defined in the areas of HR development, employee technical and behavioural, and annual performance objectives relations and health and safety. aligned with the entities’ contract objectives; In June 2010, the Group adopted a revised global human resources 2. objectives for the year ahead, including performance goals and policy, based on seven principles: improvement actions; O each employee is an active participant in his or her career 3. personal development prospects in the medium term, set out in an development; individual Personal Development Plan. O each manager is responsible for the development of his or her In 2012, more than 95% of our 50,000 managers and staffworldwide team; benefited from an annual performance review. Individual O every employee is entitled to an annual performance review; Performance Reviews are organised globally through the Global HR career management system. 132 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.2. Developing talent 5 PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES HAVING A PERFORMANCE REVIEW (For 2012) Operators Technicians and supervisors Managers Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Total France 78% 81% 81% 95% 96% 96% 97% 98% 98% Rest of Europe 96% 96% 96% 98% 98% 99% Rest of the world 96% 97% 97% 98% 99% 99% TOTAL 52% 53% 53% 95% 96% 96% 97% 98% 98% THE NEW “GLOBAL HR CAREERS” CAREER MAPPING OUR PROFESSIONS: THE JOB FAMILY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Guaranteeing equal opportunity and career development through an The job families and professions approach developed by PSA Peugeot active and responsible internal jobs mobility strategy is a key driver Citroën is central to the Group’s human resources development of performance in the PSA Peugeot Citroën Group. In 2012, the policy in the medium and long terms. It identifies career itineraries Group established a new career management Information System, that can take employees from their current position to the jobs of christened “Global HR careers”. More than 50,000 employees tomorrow. worldwide connected to the system to enter and update their CVs, Job families are cross-functional skills communities that encompass including information on their language and technical skills, based on all the professions focused on the same ultimate work objective. The a catalogue of 330 skills collated by the Group’s business lines. The 20 families provide a map of the Group’s 113 professions and serve system ensures that all Group employees have clear visibility of their as the basis for skills development programmes, methods for learning career paths and skills. The cross-function database is managed by these skills, qualifying career paths and their bridges between the employees themselves and will enhance global internal mobility professions and job families, mobility and skills guidance. management by the HR function, aligning Group resources with the Company’s needs, as fluidly as possible. As a guarantee of excellence, all training courses are certified by PSA Peugeot Citroën University according to a structured audit path. 40 training courses were certified by the University in 2012, bringing to 94 the number of certified professional training courses. PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT THROUGH “360° FEEDBACK” ASSESSMENT The job family process helps employees set career objectives and prepare for mobility, while enabling managers to provide effective In 2012, in the second year of deployment and after assessments for support. It allows the Group to foresee strategic changes in the skills executives and senior managers, all new senior executives benefited base, identify the capabilities it will need in the future and prepare from the specific personal development assessment, based on “360° transitions to help avoid dismissals or difficulties. feedback” from a dozen or so peers (manager, team members and The intranet portal dedicated to the job family and professions colleagues). This performance appraisal tool is a customised review approach introduced in September 2011 was immediately successful. of eight key behavioural skills at PSA Peugeot Citroën (strategic The 330,000 connections logged since its launch confirms that the vision, results orientation, knowledge of their environment or sector, approach is aligned with the needs of the Group’s employees, helping change management, cooperation and influence, team leadership, them better understand potential career paths, key skills, bridges and skills development and ethical behaviour). A network of 50 specially the training curriculum. The portal has become an essential resource trained “360° feedback facilitators” manage the process in-house and for anyone interested in the Group’s professions, enabling them to provide support to new senior executives in completing this personal effectively manage their future career development. The English development exercise, backed by a senior manager. On completion version went live in October 2012. of the assessment, each participant draws up their own personal development plan to be implemented with their manager. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 133 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.2. Developing talent 5.2.3. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN UNIVERSITY: NURTURING TALENT G.11 G.12 HOURS OF TRAINING BY REGION (At 31 December 2012) Total hours of training Average hours of training (in thousands) per employee France 1,470,577 18.3 Rest of Europe 880,678 29 Rest of the world 237,401 18.6 TOTAL 2,588,656 21 Each employee received an average of 21 hours of training in 2012, with 102,391 employees attending at least one training course during the year. This represents an 83% rate of access to training. AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY AND GENDER (At 31 December 2012) Men Women Total Operators and administrative employees 20 22 20 Technicians and supervisors 19 15 18 Managers 28 28 28 AVERAGE 21.5 20.6 21 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN UNIVERSITY: TRAINING EXPENDITURE BY DIVISION G.11b MISSION G.11a (At 31 December 2012) PSA Peugeot Citroën University is responsible for instilling, in 0.3% employees around the world, knowledge, working methods and soft 47% Banque PSA Other businesses skills aligned with the Group’s values and strategic objectives. Since Finance it was founded in April 2010, the University has introduced a variety of curricula designed to fulfil this mission by guaranteeing that employees achieve excellent proficiency in technical and managerial capabilities. The training offered by PSA Peugeot Citroën University was adapted in 2012 to support the Group in a challenging economic environment. Course content reflected the following three priorities: upskilling of local managers in the Group’s plants (in France, Brazil, Argentina and Russia), continued development or roll-out of skills training through the “skills schools”, closely aligned with needs on the ground, and support for the “Top Competences” redeployment plan. 2012 saw more than 1,000 employees benefit from the “Top Competences” programme, delivering support to make the transition to a new 52.9% profession and increase their employment prospects. Personalised Automobile Division training courses were developed for each employee, giving an annual total of 60,000 training hours. The more than 2.5 million hours of training conducted throughout The two priorities for the teaching system are insourcing of training the Group represented an outlay of more than €32 million. coordination whenever the skills are available in house, and the development of blended learning combining classroom-based learning and self-learning through e-learning modules. 134 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.2. Developing talent 5 PSA Peugeot Citroën University maintained a range of 6,858 courses The training catalogue now comprises nearly 6,850 courses. In 2012, suitable to meet the needs of the Company in the following areas: employees across the Group received 2.5 million hours of training, O Core courses reflecting management’s intention of sharing with as representing an average of 21 hours per employee. many employees as possible the behaviours and working methods needed to ensure our successful transformation. The courses are delivered globally, in all departments from the top down. The AN EXTENDED UNIVERSITY: STRATEGIC rationale behind the core training courses organised throughout PARTNERSHIPS the Group since 2010 is to address two major challenges: O Senior Management’s wish to manage change with the PSA Peugeot Citroën University has joined forces with internationally cooperation of all Group managers This is reflected in the reputed colleges (in engineering, business and the sciences, etc.) provision of training designed for managers identified as the to attract a diverse range of talents. These partnerships are the leading channels for communicating the Group’s policy and cornerstone of its strategic relations with these world-renowned strategic guidelines to their employees. The Management colleges. The corporate university’s “extended university” approach College was established to meet this need and to develop is based on lasting relations with schools and universities, along with training targeted at assisting Group management. sponsoring of shared laboratories (“StelLabs” programmes most notably) and teaching or research chairs. O The dissemination of major cross-sector policies in the Group, such as responsible development particularly in relation to The University currently partners 30 colleges worldwide. The safety, managing psychosocial risks and diversity, English, Group has academic partnerships in Brazil (São Paulo and Rio working in multicultural environments, the skills required Universities), in China (Peking and Shanghai Universities) and in to meet the needs of an increasingly globalised Group and, the United States (with GeorgiaTech in Atlanta). finally, the PSA Excellence System (PES). The automotive industry must constantly adapt to the economic, The integration of new regions into the Group’s culture, resulting technological, environmental and social challenges facing it; therefore in the preparation of an onboarding process for new hires and the our partnerships, especially in research into the technologies of the creation of programmes for international deployment. future, are the main drivers of scientific dialogue between teachers and researchers in the academic community, the Group’s engineers O Training related to projects in departments: actions in 2012 and the students of the 30 scientific or management colleges spread concentrated primarily on supporting the Kaluga plant start-up across three continents (Europe, Asia and America), who are in Russia. currently on courses or studying to complete degrees and PhDs in O Training associated with the Group’s 113 professions: working in these colleges or labs. coordination with the professional representatives, PSA Peugeot Citroën University supports formally structuring the technical skills repository and steers the preparation of the related training cycles. Certification on the basis of an audit that assesses five “CLIP” ACCREDITATION FOR THE UNIVERSITY criteria to certify the maturity and consistency of the courses. “CLIP” accreditation is the international quality benchmark for The process of certifying the Group’s training courses is corporate learning programmes to enable comparison with best proceeding apace: at the end of 2012, the programmes for 94 of the practices in the market through the “CLIP” structure and network. 113 professions in PSA Peugeot Citroën were certified. “CLIP”(Corporate Learning Improvement Process) is awarded for O Personal development training: PSA Peugeot Citroën University three years and is a powerful continuous improvement tool. also offers personal development courses for employees. The aim PSA Peugeot Citroën received official notification of its CLIP of these courses is to maintain and improve employability levels. accreditation at the end of November 2012 from the European They are cross-sector in nature, rather than designed for the Foundation for Management and Development (EFMD). It became specific needs of a business line or profession. The training courses the 17th corporate university in the world to join this prestigious club. on offer include safety, accreditations, languages (in addition to the English which is offered as part of the core curriculum), office and IT applications, as well as speaking and communication techniques. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 135 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.3. Building trust through meaningful employee relations 5.3. BUILDING TRUST THROUGH MEANINGFUL EMPLOYEE RELATIONS Deployed across the world, PSA Peugeot Citroën’s employee with a Group-wide employee relations management system in place relations policies are designed to foster a sense of community built since 2011 enabling each one to strengthen social cohesion within the on the strong values of mutual support, tolerance and commitment. local organisation. At the core of these policies is constant, on-going dialogue with PSA Peugeot Citroën actively supports employee freedom of employee representatives. In undertaking major transformation association and representation and is committed to respecting the projects, we consistently choose to engage in social dialogue, based independence and pluralism of trade unions in all its facilities. on employee information and involvement. This process involves the signature of a large number of agreements in every host country, More than 96% of employees are represented by unions or employee representatives. 5.3.1. INTERNATIONAL SOCIAL DIALOGUE ORGANISATIONS THE EXPANDED EUROPEAN GROUP COUNCIL, THE JOINT UNION-MANAGEMENT STRATEGY REPRESENTING ALL EMPLOYEES COMMITTEE, SUPPORTING DIALOGUE AND DISCUSSION Established in 1996, The European Works Council provides Management and employee representatives with a forum in which to The Joint Union-Management Strategy Committee was set up discuss the Group’s strategy, results and outlook. During its annual as a forum for analysis, dialogue and discussion between Senior plenary meeting, participation in the European Council is expanded Management and the European trade unions. On 19 June 2008, the into a Global Works Council, with delegates from Argentina, Brazil, Committee was extended to the leading unions outside France in China and Russia. an agreement signed with IG Metall, T&GWU, SIT-FSI, UGT and In 2011, the European Works Council and its Liaison Committee CC-OO. It explores in detail issues related to our short and mediumof officers met eight times. During the meetings personnel term situation and developments, strategy and policies (products and representatives were informed about progress with the alliance services, markets, technological changes and new globalisation plans, between PSA Peugeot Citroën and General Motors, as well as the amongst others). Topics discussed include all of the issues and trends proposed measures to secure the Group’s turnaround. As every year, that could have an impact on jobs. a review of the application of the Global Framework Agreement and The members met three times in 2012 to address such major strategic the self-assessment were conducted during the plenary meeting. concerns as the Group’s purchasing strategy, its research cooperation These organisations, which promote social dialogue worldwide, are policy and the proposed Alliance with General Motors. an integral part of the Group’s contractual agreements. They enable Management to listen to employee concerns, expectations and suggestions, as well as to initiate the necessary discussions when a major cross-functional project is in the works. 5.3.2. STRENGTHENING SOCIAL COHESION G.7 A GLOBAL EMPLOYEE RELATIONS MANAGEMENT A LARGE NUMBER OF NEW AGREEMENTS SYSTEM The dynamic social dialogue process has resulted in a large number Structured around six commitments and 14 standards, PSA Peugeot of innovative, consistently pioneering agreements that reflect and Citroën’s employee relations policies are designed to support a embrace the social changes reshaping our world. They also reflect harmonious working environment in every plant and facility. In our commitment to extending best human resources practices particular, systems are in place to proactively foresee and manage the to every unit and to promoting such strong values as respect for employee relations aspects of all of the developments that impact the human rights, equal opportunity, team diversity and workplace Group, while strengthening social cohesion within the organisation. health and safety. Based on an annual self-assessment, each unit measures the progress Unions and employee representative organisations are consistently made on each standard and leads Action Plans to promote and informed and consulted before any major changes are undertaken capitalize on improvements in the employee relations process. in the Group. 136 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.3. Building trust through meaningful employee relations 5 In 2012, 78 company agreements were signed, including 49 outside RUSSIA France.They covered a variety of issues, from organisation of working O Agreement on labour union rights – July 2012 hours, wages and human resources planning and development to hiring and working conditions, diversity and social cohesion. All of the agreements were approved by a large majority. SLOVAKIA Worldwide, 90% of employees are covered by a collective bargaining O Agreement on work breaks – May 2012 agreement. SOCIAL AGENDA AGREEMENTS SIGNED WORLDWIDE In every major host country, social dialogue is making it possible to lead corporate transformation programmes in cooperation with The following list gives examples of agreements signed in the employee representatives. leading host countries. The agreements concern one or more Group companies (Automobiles Peugeot, Automobiles Citroën, Banque The dialogue process is structured according to a “social agenda”, PSA Finance, production plants, etc.). which is set annually to allow participants to prepare for the issues under discussion. Updated in real time as events unfold, the agenda reflects the legal deadlines for meeting with employee representative GERMANY bodies and mandatory commissions. It also sets aside time for O Agreement on the terms and payment of PSA Peugeot Citroën meetings with employee representatives to discuss current issues that profit-sharing for the year 2011 – March 2012 may be resolved through agreements. O Agreement on flexitime working – March 2012 Since 2010, monthly tracking of the European social agenda has O Agreement on the conciliation of interests and redundancy plan helped to drive convergence in the leading collective bargaining in relation to the consolidation of two brands – June 2012 negotiations. Global tracking was established in 2012. O Agreement on the implementation of a new software package for compensation and requests for leave – December 2012 EMPLOYEE INFORMATION AND SATISFACTION AUSTRIA O Agreement on the introduction of a new bonus system Employees are kept regularly informed through newsletters, bulletin for after-sales service employees – December 2012 board postings, intranet sites and a variety of other media. Employees worldwide can access the human resources intranet, which is also available in English and Spanish. To ensure that employees are kept BELGIUM fully and transparently informed, Group facilities and subsidiaries O Mobility agreement – September 2012 regularly organise information sessions and staff meetings for the entire unit. ITALY In many countries, such as Belgium, Chile, China, France, Germany, O Agreement on overtime – September 2012 Italy, Portugal, Russia and Spain, surveys are carried out every year to gauge employee satisfaction. They cover a variety of areas, including SPAIN internal communication, corporate culture, working conditions, professional development, training, wages and salaries, employeeO Agreement on jobs adjustments – October 2012 manager relations, Group policy and strategy, teamwork and food O Agreement on flexitime working – October 2012 services. The findings help to shape Action Plans and improve our O Agreement on partial retirement – December 2012 response to employee expectations. FRANCE O Agreement concerning jobs for women and gender equality in the MINIMUM NOTICE PERIODS PRIOR TO CHANGES workplace (Peugeot Citroën Retail) – January 2012 O 2012 wage agreement – March 2012 Unions and employee representative bodies are consistently O Amendment to the Group profit-sharing agreement – June 2012 informed and consulted before any major changes are undertaken in the Group. At the same time, employees are informed through regular procedures. PORTUGAL Except in exceptional circumstances, employees are informed at least O Agreement on the new career management system by skills for two months ahead of any major planned change and one month in workers – October 2012 advance for any major changes in work schedules. THE UK O Agreement on work schedule changes – November 2012 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 137 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.4. Workplace health and safety: a top priority 5.4. WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY: A TOP PRIORITY 5.4.1. WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM G.8 TRANSFORMING THE GROUP’S SAFETY O clearly established and applied standards; CULTURE O defined roles; O effective alert systems; PSA Peugeot Citroën’s workplace health and safety policy, signed O effective monitoring and improvement resources. by the Executive Committee on 12 January 2010, is defined and promoted at the highest level of the Company. Applicable to all The Workplace Health and Safety Management System is now subsidiaries and units, the policy marks a genuine breakthrough in operational at all PSA Peugeot Citroën units. An extensive workplace health and safety management, requiring radical changes programme is also underway at all units to help managers apply to manager and employee behaviours. the approach on a daily basis using a Workplace Health and Safety Management System “roadmap”. This roadmap includes five At all Group sites, employees and outside contractors must be able steps to establish a mature process and instil lasting change: raise to work in complete safety without any risk to their health. This is a awareness, change mind-sets, change behaviours, change habits and critical factor in the Group’s Responsible Development, anchored align the corporate culture. The roadmap provides a framework for in respect and consideration for individuals. Employee health and cascading best practices and for measuring results against objectives. safety is a prerequisite for continuous improvement. After two years, the roadmap has proved its effectiveness. Its structured The Group systematically assesses, monitors and manages risk in approach delivers a clear contribution to results and galvanises the all of its actions and decisions, with prevention guided by three core entire Group in the search for excellence in health and safety. behaviours: lead by example, maintain vigilance and respond swiftly. In addition to cross-functional training to help managers acquire The workplace health and safety policy has also been formalised in the knowledge they need to deploy the Workplace Health and Safety the Global Framework Agreement on Social Responsibility, which Management System, health and safety audits are carried out to expresses the Group’s commitment to implementing the best ensure that the principles are effectively applied. standards and practices in this area and makes health and accident prevention a priority. The system is overseen with the Health, Safety and Working Conditions Committees in France and similar committees in other PSA Peugeot Citroën complies with International Labour countries. Organisation recommendations concerning workplace health and safety and fulfils its obligations in every host country. Meeting safety targets is also a criterion for determining executive EXACTING HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS bonuses, alongside operating income and quality performance. FOR EVERYONE In 2010, safety criteria were also integrated into discretionary profitsharing plans to give all employees a stake in the Group’s safety Safety is a priority for everyone present at PSA Peugeot Citroën sites, results. including employees of outside contractors. Without taking on their legal responsibility, the Group ensures that these companies comply with safety practices and requires them to apply its Workplace Safety Management System standards. A support and management A PROCESS THAT DELIVERS RESULTS system has been set up with temporary employment agencies. It Implementation of the Group’s Health and Safety policy is emphasises coordination between temporary employment agencies supported by the Workplace Health and Safety Management System. and the Group for prevention actions and management of the health Comprising 22 requirements that define areas requiring special and safety of temporary employees. Managers from temporary attention and management, the health and safety standards are employment agencies visit the Group’s facilities and take part in the applicable to all Group units and subsidiaries. risk-observation preventive procedure and the analysis of workplace incidents. Results continued to improve in 2012 with a lost-time The new management approach is based on six fundamental principles: injury frequency rate for temporary employees of 6.2, compared O executive management involvement; with 8.6 in 2011 and 25.1 in 2010. O structured leadership; 138 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.4. Workplace health and safety: a top priority 5 5.4.2. LONG LASTING PROGRESS G.10 PSA Peugeot Citroën saw significant improvements in workplace TOTAL LOST-TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE health and safety in 2012. The total lost-time injury frequency rate BY REGION (including temporary employees) as of 31 December 2012 was 1.99, reflecting a continuous improvement process for workplace health (For 2012) and safety. The 22 % improvement in safety performance in 2012 compared with 2011 shows the efficiency of the Workplace Health 3 and Safety Management System introduced three years ago. 2.42 2.5 2 THE ONLY ACCEPTABLE TARGET IS ZERO ACCIDENTS AND ZERO HIGH-RISK SITUATIONS 1.5 PSA Peugeot Citroën believes that the only acceptable goal is an 1 accident-free work environment and that no real progress can be 0.5 achieved without ensuring employees’ safety. 0.5 0.27 PSA Peugeot Citroën will continue to progress in 2013, to guarantee 0 a robust process and achieve a total lost-time injury frequency rate France Europe Non of 1 in 2014. This target has already been achieved in 17 entities in not including Europe France, Latin America, Slovakia, Spain and Portugal. France In 2012, the Group-wide lost-time injury frequency rate (LTIF) stood at 1.78 (1.99 including temporary employees). TOTAL LOST-TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE The lost-time injury frequency rate fell from 7.94 points in 2011 to 6.93 points in 2012. The first aid frequency rate fell from 29 points 8 in 2011 to 24 in 2012. 7 6.36 6 5.06 5 4.4 TOTAL LOST-TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE 3.72 (INCLUDING TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES) 4 3.41 3.43 3.43 2.79 3 6 1.99 1.78 2 4.63 5 1 3.87 0 4 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 3 2.42 The lost-time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) corresponds to the 1.99 “number of lost-time occupational accidents times 1 million divided 2 by the number of hours worked”. 1 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 The total lost-time injury frequency rate includes temporary employees. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 139 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.4. Workplace health and safety: a top priority SAFETY PERFORMANCE (For 2012) Sales units Manufacturing units Ofﬁces Frequency rate Severity rate Frequency rate Severity rate Frequency rate Severity rate Europe 1.15 0.10 2.81 0.29 0.37 0.04 Africa 1.76 0.02 0 0 0 0 South America 0 0 0.44 0.02 0 0 Asia and Middle East 0 0 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 1.10 0.10 2.45 0.25 0.36 0.04 The Group does not have any manufacturing facilities outside COMMUTING ACCIDENTS Europe and South America. In 2012, the frequency rate for the Group was 3.3. The sales units include import subsidiaries and dealerships. The frequency rate corresponds to the number of commuting The lost-time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) corresponds to the accidents with lost time multiplied by 1 thousand and divided by the “number of lost-time occupational accidents times 1 million divided number of employees. by the number of hours worked”. The severity rate corresponds to the number of consecutive days lost to accidents times one thousand divided by the number of hours worked. FATAL ACCIDENTS (For 2012) Rest of the France Rest of Europe world Total Automobile Division 2 1 0 3 Banque PSA Finance 0 0 0 0 Other businesses 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 2 1 0 3 There were three fatal accidents in 2012, two fatal workplace accidents (one in France and one in Russia) and one death during the commute between home and work. NUMBER OF OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS REQUIRING FIRST-AID INVOLVING CONTRACTOR OR TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES Safety conditions for contractor employees are the same as for Group employees. First aid and follow-up care are provided for contract and temporary employees who are victims of occupational accidents. (At 31 December 2012) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world Total Contractor Temporary Contractor Temporary Contractor Temporary Contractor Temporary employees employees employees employees employees employees employees employees Occupational accidents 116 829 77 9 103 8 296 846 140 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.4. Workplace health and safety: a top priority 5 5.4.3. FIVE PRIORITY COMMITMENTS FOR PREVENTING HEALTH AND SAFETY RISKS To meet its responsibility in preserving employee health and safety, these disorders appear and find remedial actions to mitigate their PSA Peugeot Citroën has strengthened its overall approach by occurrence. focusing on five priority commitments that reflect the major risks to In 2011, PSA Peugeot Citroën carried out a review of workstations which the Group is exposed: that reflect the major risks to which the that require repetitive movement at all manufacturing sites. Based Group is exposed. on seven factors taken from the Ergonomics Management System The five commitments are: (EMaS), this assessment identified the risk level for each profession O preventing musculoskeletal disorders; and detected factors with the greatest potential to cause MSDs. The analysis resulted in Action Plans being deployed in 2012 at all Group O preventing chemical risks; manufacturing facilities. At the same time as this review of repetitive O preventing psychosocial risks; work, PSA Peugeot Citroën developed a method to assess stress O preventing road risks; and exertion at non-repetitive workstations. All MSD risk factors at O promoting workstation safety with STOP audits. repetitive workstations will be explored in 2013, while complaints from non-repetitive workstations will be processed to consolidate the deployment of the approach defined in 2012. PREVENTING MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS Actions will be rolled out in multidisciplinary teams of occupational Preventing musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) is a key workplace physicians, safety engineers and technicians, ergonomics specialists health and safety policy priority. MSDs are a leading cause of workand managers. related injuries in the automobile industry. MSDs stem from a In addition to this initiative, PSA Peugeot Citroën continues to diverse range of interacting factors, including physical origins, such improve its workstations. Manufacturing sites focus on alleviating as posture, exertion and misalignment of the upper limbs, as well physical and postural stress by reducing the number of workstations as from non-physical factors, such as work organisation (in terms rated as “heavy”. Between 2005 and end-2012, the percentage of of the duration and frequency of effort), mental stress (processing workstations rated as “heavy” declined to 9% from 18%, while the information, relations with colleagues and with supervisors), and percentage of “light” workstations rose to 56% from 37% during the operators’ perception of their work (recognition and motivation for same period. The Group intends to pursue this trend and has set a example). To cope with the complex interactions between all these target for 2013 of 58% “light” and 7% “heavy” workstations. factors, the Group developed a structured approach to analyse how THE CHANGING PROPORTION OF “LIGHT”, “MEDIUM” AND “HEAVY” WORKSTATIONS (Automobile manufacturing units, as a %, as rated by the METEO method*) 70 57 58 60 56 51 52 50 44 38 39 38 40 35 34 35 30 18 20 10 9 8 9 7 10 0 2005 ... 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 objective Light workstations Medium workstations Heavy workstations * METEO is a French acronym for “work load and organisation assessment method” PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 141 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.4. Workplace health and safety: a top priority PREVENTING CHEMICAL RISKS The challenge for PSA Peugeot Citroën is to replicate the motivation in other areas, such as preventive actions and the Preventing chemical risks is a crucial element in the Group’s health treatment of cases of employees experiencing hyper stress. and safety prevention policy. It extends not only to the risks related The two main levers to identify the behaviours to adapt in order to the products and substances used, but also to pollutants generated not to contribute to the development of risk factors are: by processes. O Action Plans: Action Plans are generally coordinated as part of the The Group uses more than 6,000 chemical products and substances work of management committees, Workplace Health and Safety at its industrial and R&D sites, and more than 1,500 for its Management System rituals or, less frequently, during specific commercial activities. Some are classed as dangerous and are subject meetings with the HR function and/or occupational physicians. to extremely precise conditions of use to prevent any risk. There is a Working groups were formed in divisions and also in sub-entities safety data sheet at the workstation for every chemical product that (services, Responsibility Unit, etc.). involves risk, approved according to PSA Peugeot Citroën’s protocol, Actions were established in the context of relocations, job mobility in its Industrial, Research and Innovation and Commercial facilities. and changes in job descriptions; Air quality monitoring is another priority for which the Group has O developing skills: the requisite skills in this area are developed set the objective of ensuring that all Industrial, Commercial and individually on a self-assessment basis using the 29 workplace R&D activities have an air quality monitoring plan in place. Proactive stress factors monitored in the Group, and through a targeted in this area since 2005, the Group leads the competition in chemical training drive aimed at managers, support functions and the trade risk prevention. The 2012 monitoring plan was executed to schedule. unions. Moreover, rigorous medical check-ups are in place for the highest 86% of senior management state that they have distributed the selfrisk products. assessment table to their employees and have used the feedback to adapt their management practices. The self-assessment table was distributed in all divisions in general. It is an excellent resource for educating and raising awareness PREVENTING PSYCHOSOCIAL RISKS among managers of the issue of psychosocial risks. The system Preventing psychosocial risks, and in general, promoting well-being is perceived as an opportunity for dialogue, sharing and progress at work are not only crucial to the protection of employees’ health globally. and safety, but also make a direct contribution to the Company’s Training is dispensed by an international training body to performance. guarantee a consistent message in all countries, based on an e-learning module and a classroom-based session lasting either a A number of international studies have shown that when people half-day or a full day, depending on the Group. The training plan are exposed to “hyper stress” over a protracted period of time, their is systematically rolled out in all entities. As at 31 December 2012, efficiency drops by an average of 30%. The most recent review in 3,805 people were trained in France, 551 in Spain and Portugal March 2012 in the Group’s French entities showed that 7.6% of and 265 in Latin America; employees experience hyper stress. Beyond the health and safety O assessing the situation and trends: measurement of stress and considerations of this finding, the challenges for performance is also stress factors was undertaken in France using a workplace stress significant. evaluation and monitoring tool. The system was rolled out by Starting in 2007, PSA Peugeot Citroën decided to look at stress head the Health and Safety Department to detect potential individual on and to recognise psychosocial risks as job-related risks. problems and to have a collective measure of stress in the workplace. A company-wide agreement was signed in October 2009 to In 2012, 17,901 employees filled out confidential questionnaires implement a psychosocial risk prevention plan in all countries and (note: 16,727 questionnaires were filled out in 2011 and 14,308 all divisions. in 2010). As a result of the programme, the Group now has data for analysis as the basis for the preparation of Action Plans. A The plan is based on: similar process has been established in Spain. O developing vigilance clusters within the Group alongside active monitoring units. Medical and social services have a considerable role to play on a daily basis, both in terms of remaining alert to PREVENTING ROAD RISKS situations that generate distress and of providing the appropriate support where needed. As a carmaker, PSA Peugeot Citroën naturally puts a high priority In more general terms, all employees, starting with managers, have on road safety. In association with employee representatives, an been made increasingly aware of the issue of psychosocial risks, a occupational road risk prevention manual was reissued in 2010 to topic of concern to all employees. provide employees with guidelines on how to use their cars when on business trips or commuting. All employees have been made aware of For practically all the “acute” cases identified in the Group, the the manual, in part through presentations by their managers. vigilance clusters did their job effectively. 142 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.4. Workplace health and safety: a top priority 5 An Intranet site was developed containing all the road safety rules The main safety-related actions during 2012 focused on maintaining and procedures applicable to road testing of vehicles during the our awareness-raising campaigns and expanding them to contractors’ design stage to further strengthen appropriation of safety rules. personnel and temporary staff working regularly at our sites. Requirements for operations on the road were strengthened and all employees concerned received theoretical and practical training in the appropriate prevention principles. PROMOTING WORKSTATION SAFETY WITH Measures implemented under the Workplace health and safety “STOP” AUDITS management system (SMST) target greater education of employees who may be called on to occasionally use company cars for business The “STOP” preventive observation procedure helps employees trips. The Group also ensures that valid driving licences are held. develop their ability to detect risky situations or behaviours at workstations. This procedure encourages discussion between Awareness campaigns continue at all Group sites under the managers and employees and facilitates adoption of preventive occupational road risk prevention campaign, concentrated during measures. “STOP” audits involve observing the working environment Road Safety Week and at peak holiday periods and in cooperation to identify factors that might result in an incident. “STOP” audits take with external partners (the police force, insurance companies etc.). place at industrial sties, in the sales network and support functions. During the safety days organised at the Madrid site in 2012, five Supported by a major training plan for managers, this participative hours in every session were devoted to enhancing safety on the road. approach drives progress in safety performance. 5.4.4. AN ACTIVE COMMITMENT TO HEALTH Good health is essential to sustaining the performance of human Examples of the main training programmes for employees across the resources and business operations. For PSA Peugeot Citroën, health Group include: is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not O training in mechanical risk prevention: the aim of these courses merely the absence of disease or infirmity. is to raise awareness amongst supervisors and personnel of the Aiming to safeguard the health of all its employees, leveraging risks in their workstation environment. Machine safety, personal social dialogue and structured coordination among occupational protective gear, and working at heights are some of the topics physicians, the policy takes an individual and collective approach covered; with five priority objectives: O training in chemical risk prevention: preventing the risk of O maintain a responsive occupational disease tracking system; inhalation, absorption, skin absorption and ingestion also receives O educate and train employees to prevent negative impacts on health; attention through training delivered on such topics as toxicology, bacteriology and other health risks, in tandem with our air quality O correct disease-causing situations in the workplace and promote all assessments. In response to changes in European regulations, types of measures that foster workplace well-being; training is also requiredon new labelling of chemical products; O prevent non-work related illnesses when measures in the workplace O training in electrical risk prevention: electrical risk factors are a are feasible; major source of serious injury caused by industrial facilities, O support employees with health issues whenever possible. building equipment and vehicles running on electrical power. Plans and programmes developed for all Group employees make Employees potentially exposed to this type of risk receive use of internal, multi-disciplinary skills and take each region’s training leading to specific accreditation up to the most stringent environment, regulations and healthcare priorities into account. international standards; O training in road risk prevention: programmes tailored to the different on-road situations that may occur within PSA Peugeot HEALTH-RELATED PROGRAMMES UNDER WAY IN Citroën have been developed and dispensed to all employees concerned. Other training programmes target road safety when THE GROUP commuting to and from work. Lastly, training for handling As part of the health plan, various training, prevention, assistance equipment operators is rigorously and systematically monitored and treatment programmes are offered throughout the Group, based and updated as necessary to meet the needs of the environment; on the risks present in our entities. The training plan stems from the O training in psychosocial prevention: detecting early warning signals risk assessments conducted during the design and series production is a central focus of preventing psychosocial risks. Additional phases and in after-sales. courses are designed for health professionals and HR personnel; PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 143 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.4. Workplace health and safety: a top priority O ergonomic awareness training: correct gestures and postures: run campaigns on such issues as nutrition, addiction prevention, learning the correct gestures and postures is essential for the vaccination awareness, information on cardiovascular risk and prevention of disorders and illnesses caused by posture and contamination risks. repetitive strain. Onboarding of new hires includes training in In addition to programmes for Group employees, others training correct gestures, while ergonomic awareness training in general is initiatives involve their families. Examples include: coordinated between the occupational Health Departments and O awareness campaigns addressing a variety of issues, including management, particularly as regards correct gestures and postures. smoking, alcohol, healthy eating habits to combat diabetes, obesity, Individual physiotherapy sessions are offered to employees etc.; experiencing difficulty; O brochure sent to employees’ homes on the importance of looking O emergency response and first aid training: in an emergency, training for signs of mental suffering; is crucially important in helping to limit the consequences of an event. First aid courses cover topics such as using defibrillators, O distribution of a brochure on road risks, home accidents and health fire safety procedures and training of in-house first aid teams. issues before the summer and winter holidays. Additional specialised training is delivered by the teams tasked Training is also provided to members of the local community on a with responding to pollution risk; range of issues, including first aid, and participation in a variety of O public health awareness training: reflecting a general concern for health-related campaigns and events. public health risks, the occupational Health Departments also OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESSES BY REGION G.10 The priority focus is on job-related diseases, which are covered by active prevention programmes in every plant and facility. (For 2012) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world Total Musculoskeletal disorders of the upper limbs 263 5 5 273 Musculoskeletal disorders associated with carrying heavy loads 15 1 0 16 Asbestos-related occupational illnesses 26 0 0 26 Noise-related hearing loss 14 0 3 17 Other 8 1 0 9 TOTAL 326 7 8 341 In 2012, Group units declared occupational illnesses for Of the total declarations, 80% concerned illnesses related to 341 employees, of which 96% were in France, 2% in the rest of musculoskeletal disorders of the upper limbs, 5% musculoskeletal Europe and 2% in the rest of the world. This represents a reduction disorders associated with carrying heavy loads, 8% asbestos-related compared to the previous year. illnesses, 5% hearing loss and 3% other illnesses. 144 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.4. Workplace health and safety: a top priority 5 5.4.5. JOINT MANAGEMENT-WORKER HEALTH AND SAFETY AGREEMENTS AND COMMITTEES G.9 JOINT MANAGEMENT-WORKER HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEES – PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES REPRESENTED In most host countries, joint management-worker organisations are in charge of monitoring the application of employee health and safety practices. The following table provides examples of the Health and Safety Committees comprising both managers and employees in a number of countries. Country Organisation Membership Employer representatives South Africa Health and Safety Committee Employee representatives Employer representatives Employee representatives Algeria Joint Health and Safety Commission Occupational physicians Employer representatives Employee representatives Occupational physicians Safety manager Germany Safety and Health Committee External consultant Employer representatives Employee representatives Health Committee Occupational physicians Employee representatives Argentine Health, Safety and Ergonomics Committee Employer representatives Employer representatives Members of the Works Council Safety engineer Austria Central Safety Council Occupational physicians Prevention consultant Employer representatives Belgium Prevention and Workplace Protection Committee Employee representatives Employee representatives Brazil Internal Accident Prevention Commission Employer representatives Employee representatives Chile Joint Health and Safety Committee Employer representatives Employee representatives Denmark Safety and Health Committee Employer representatives Employee representatives Industrial Hygiene and Safety Committee Employer representatives Employee representatives Spain Safety and Health Committee Employer representatives Employer representatives Employee representatives Occupational physicians Safety manager Union representatives France Health, Safety and Working Conditions Committee Representative of the regional health insurance fund Employer representatives Employee representatives Medical officer Italy Prevention and Protection Services Prevention and Protection Services Manager Employee representatives Japan Safety and Health Committee Employer representatives Employer representatives Employee representatives Morocco Industrial Hygiene and Safety Committee Occupational physicians Employee representatives Mexico Health and Safety Committee Employer representatives Employee representatives Netherlands Health and Safety Committee Employer representatives Employee representatives Health and safety manager Employer representatives Portugal Industrial Hygiene and Safety Committee Occupational physicians PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 145 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.4. Workplace health and safety: a top priority Country Organisation Membership Employee representatives Employer representatives United Kingdom Health and Safety Committee Health and safety officer Employer representatives Employee representatives Romania Safety and Health Committee Occupational physicians Employer representatives Russia Health and Safety Committee Employee representatives Employee representatives Employer representatives Slovakia Working Conditions Committee Production centre Chief Executive Employee representatives Sweden Health and Safety Committee Employer representatives More than 93% of Group employees are represented by Joint Management-Worker Health and Safety Committees. HEALTH AND SAFETY AGREEMENTS SPAIN The Group is committed to implementing the best workplace health O Agreement on workplace health and safety commitments signed and safety standards and practices and has made health and safety a in March 2012 top priority. This commitment is expressed in the workplace health O Agreement on the accident reduction bonus – signed in May 2012 and safety policy, as well as in several national company agreements. FRANCE Health and safety agreements are signed every year in the countries in which the Group operates. O PSA Peugeot Citroën agreement to provide coverage of employees’ medical expenses – signed in January 2012 Examples of Group agreements signed in 2012 in the main host O PSA Peugeot Citroën agreement on the programme to monitor countries are: and prevent workplace stress – signed in June 2012 5.4.6. PROMOTING EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING IMPROVING WORKING CONDITIONS performance. Part-time schedules also take into account legal and medical considerations. Appropriate solutions are sought, including Regardless of their area of activity, all subsidiaries, dealerships and working part of a day or a half-day, reduced working hours, etc. Partsites focus on creating a pleasant and safe working environment. time work is chosen by employees and not dictated by the Company. The Group pays careful attention to the quality of work areas, break In 2012, 9,728 Group employees worked part-time schedules rooms and other facilities, using a charter that defines standards worldwide. for such things as lighting, office layout, washrooms and meetings A trial was conducted in two units in France in association with rooms, as well as traffic flow plans. employee representatives to observe the impact of telecommuting on employee well-being, working relations and operating efficiency. A hundred or so volunteers tested telecommuting for one or two ACHIEVING A HEALTHY WORK-LIFE BALANCE days a week during the first half of 2012. At the end of the period, Achieving a healthy work-life balance is a top-of-mind issue and, at the volunteers and their managers gave their feedback highlighting times, a source of stress. In response, we work with employees to their satisfaction with this new approach to organising working hours devise individualised solutions. and its conditions. The telecommuters, men and women of all ages, reported less fatigue and stress caused by transport to and from work, Requests for part-time work are approved whenever possible, with a positive impact on work-life balance and improved concentration individualised solutions that align employee needs with efficient team and efficiency. 146 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.4. Workplace health and safety: a top priority 5 Given the outcomes of the trial, the trade unions and management FOSTERING EMPLOYABILITY FOR EVERYONE decided to start negotiations aimed at signing an agreement on telecommuting in 2013. the Company is responsible for providing employees with positions aligned with their skills and capabilities. As part of its A range of services has been introduced to assist employees in social responsibility policy, PSA Peugeot Citroën introduced an achieving a better work-life balance, such as company concierge employability management system in 2010 covering all production services, travel agencies, special bus lines, carpooling sites and help facilities. Since keeping employee skills fresh is a management with administrative formalities. By becoming a founding member of priority, the actions deployed by the Group directly involve managers the French Labour Ministry’s “Businesses and Daycare” initiative, in achieving this objective. the Group enhanced its commitment to helping employees find good childcare solutions. In 2012, some 170 openings were offered PSA Peugeot Citroën enhances employability with a focus on four in French daycare facilities. areas: Involvement in outside activities is also encouraged, with more than O supporting employees who have restricted abilities; 80 sports, cultural and charity associations active within the Group. O identifying and monitoring positions adapted to people with The PSA Peugeot Citroën Challenges multi-site sports events in certain limitations; different host countries have become hugely popular. Works Councils O making any necessary adjustment; supported by the Company also offer a wide variety of social, athletic O anticipating changes in the structure of the workforce. and cultural activities. In France, PSA Peugeot Citroën signed an agreement on the AN INNOVATIVE SOLUTION: MULTI-SERVICE certification of Works Council management in July 2011. Under the PLATFORMS terms of the agreement,Works Councils can implement an assessment In the framework of its Employability Management System, and in and Internal Audit process to obtain “responsible management” the knowledge that medical restrictions and other life contingencies certification. The certification standard covers nearly 70 criteria that can make it more difficult for certain employees to remain on the job, assess the internal organisation of Works Councils, the existence of PSA Peugeot Citroën trialled “multi-service platforms” at the Aulnay ethics rules, operating budget management, accounting organisation, and Sochaux sites at the end of 2011. The objective is to develop budget controls and the role of the employer. PSA Peugeot Citroën individual employability bytrying new activities and supporting management and employee representatives clarified criteria for good transition through professional training. governance and openness for all employees, as well as the resources that can be made available by the Company to heads of associations After one year, the trial has proved a success and the 50 employees to support the functioning of sports and cultural programmes. involved not only showed commitment but also gradually regained confidence in their professional abilities. New horizons explored range from learning electronic document management skills to building completion work. Employees received support and encouragement for their transition to new jobs through training and the development of activities in line with their capabilities. In an environment adapted to their needs and with individual support, the social indicators are positive with a sharp improvement in absenteeism rates and zero workplace accidents. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 147 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.4. Workplace health and safety: a top priority 5.4.7. ORGANISATION OF WORKING HOURS G.4 In every host country, working hours are consistently equal to or less than the legal workweek or industry practices. MEASURES TO PRESERVE JOBS Company-wide and local agreements signed with the French government guarantee payment of 75% of an employee’s gross salary As an alternative to unemployment and redundancies, short-time for unworked days (equivalent to around 95% of net salary over a work enabled the Group to maintain jobs in 2012, despite the month). Individuals who volunteer for the scheme can take training recession in the European automotive market, while continuing to during the unworked periods to develop their skills and knowledge develop employee skills and prepare for the future. and receive a training benefit to maintain full pay during these shorttime periods. SHORT-TIME WORKING (At 31 December) Total Automobile Division 2012 7,093,162 2011 2,656,547 2010 1,737,650 Banque PSA Finance 2012 208 2011 0 2010 20 Other businesses 2012 15,279 2011 0 2010 14,840 TOTAL 2012 7,108,649 2011 2,656,547 2010 1,752,510 In 2012, 7.11 million unworked hours under short-time working arrangements were recorded by the Group, reflecting the severe impact of the sagging European market. 148 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.4. Workplace health and safety: a top priority 5 NUMBER OF PART-TIME EMPLOYEES UNDER PERMANENT OR FIXED-TERM CONTRACTS Part-time employees are defined as employees who work fewer hours per week or fewer average hours over a period of up to one year than a comparable full-time employee. Part-time work is chosen by employees and not dictated by the Company. (At 31 December) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world Total Automobile Division 2012 2,293 6,966 6 9,265 2011 2,180 2,800 18 4,998 2010 2,715 2,760 10 5,485 Banque PSA Finance 2012 45 309 0 354 2011 44 302 0 346 2010 45 190 0 235 Other businesses 2012 104 5 0 109 2011 66 5 0 71 2010 65 0 0 65 TOTAL 2012 2,442 7,280 6 9,728 2011 2,290 3,107 18 5,415 2010 2,825 2,950 10 5,785 As of 31 December 2012, 9,728 employees worked part-time Since 1 January 2010, employees on partial retirement in Spain are worldwide, of which 2,240 worked half-time. Of the total, 39% were accounted for on the basis of actual hours worked rather than being women and 61% were men. systematically classified as part-time employees. MATERNITY, PATERNITY AND PARENTAL LEAVE Maternity and paternity leaves are recognised in accordance with local legislation and comply with legally prescribed length-of-leave periods. Parental leave enables employees in certain countries to take time off work to raise their young children. (At 31 December 2012) Maternity leave Paternity leave Parental leave Operators TechniOperators TechniOperators Techniand admicians and and admicians and and admicians and nistrative superviMananistrative superviMananistrative superviManaemployees sors gers Total employees sors gers Total employees sors gers Total Automobile Division 484 491 360 1,335 1,848 711 495 3,054 196 599 46 841 Banque PSA Finance 0 65 12 77 0 10 8 18 0 42 7 49 Other businesses 2 1 7 10 45 9 8 62 2 1 1 4 TOTAL 486 557 379 1,422 1,893 730 511 3,134 198 642 54 894 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 149 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.4. Workplace health and safety: a top priority NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES ON SPECIAL WORK SCHEDULES (At 31 December) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world Total 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Automobile Division Double shifts (1) 25,930 24,976 26,225 10,450 9,298 8,534 5,285 1,765 2,109 41,665 36,039 36,868 Triple or night shifts (2) 8,275 9,586 6,492 1,975 1,967 4,054 840 877 1,241 11,090 12,430 11,787 Weekend (3) 1,310 1,439 869 175 163 77 0 1 28 1,485 1,603 974 Banque PSA Finance Double shifts 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 Triple or night shifts 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Weekend 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Other businesses Double shifts 350 312 2,040 0 0 0 0 0 0 350 312 2,040 Triple or night shifts 5 6 60 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 6 60 Weekend 0 0 9 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 9 DOUBLE TOTAL SHIFTS 26,280 25,289 28,265 10,450 9,298 8,534 5,285 1,765 2,109 42,015 36,352 38,908 TRIPLE OR NIGHT SHIFTS 8,280 9,592 6,552 1,975 1,967 4,054 840 877 1,241 11,095 12,436 11,847 WEEKEND 1,310 1,439 878 175 163 77 0 1 28 1,485 1,603 983 (1) Double shift: working in two teams. (2) Triple shift: working in three teams (with a permanent night shift). (3) Weekend shifts (generally Friday, Saturday and Sunday) are shorter than regular shifts. In 2012, some 51,738 employees worked under special work schedules. OVERTIME (At 31 December) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world Total Automobile Division 2012 368,951 697,341 588,819 1,655,111 2011 691,586 689,844 1,070,666 2,452,095 2010 873,535 1,016,890 1,430,435 3,320,860 Banque PSA Finance 2012 19,230 36,143 0 55,373 2011 19,415 37,455 27 56,897 2010 20,785 30,130 0 50,915 Other businesses 2012 12,176 0 0 12,176 2011 10,643 0 0 10,643 2010 7,545 0 0 7,545 TOTAL 2012 400,357 733,484 588,819 1,722,660 2011 721,644 727,299 1,070,693 2,519,636 2010 901,865 1,047,020 1,430,435 3,379,320 In most countries, working hours are determined on an annual or multi-year basis. 150 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.5. Compensation policy G.3 5 PAID ABSENCES OTHER THAN VACATION G.5 (At 31 December) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world Total Other paid Other Other paid Other paid Sick leave leave Sick leave paid leave Sick leave leave Sick leave leave Automobile Division 2012 3,757,531 1,350,693 1,359,880 598,152 526,339 207,497 5,643,750 2,156,342 2011 3,542,970 551,324 1,360,849 683,650 976,272 835,882 5,880,091 2,070,857 2010 3,586,680 559,245 1,540,460 830,100 452,235 248,600 5,579,375 1,637,945 Banque PSA Finance 2012 15,601 6,227 73,733 72,790 1,211 2,124 90,545 81,141 2011 24,003 7,606 72,053 55,855 246 2,039 96,302 65,499 2010 28,775 12,115 85,990 45,395 85 580 114,850 58,090 Other businesses 2012 133,658 17,065 1,696 816 0 0 135,354 17,881 2011 60,482 5,649 1,978 308 0 0 62,460 5,957 2010 59,400 4,285 1,275 305 0 0 60,675 4,590 TOTAL 2012 3,906,790 1,373,985 1,435,309 671,758 527,550 209,621 5,869,649 2,255,364 2011 3,627,455 564,579 1,434,880 739,813 976,518 837,921 6,038,853 2,142,313 2010 3,674,855 575,645 1,627,725 875,800 452,320 249,180 5,754,900 1,700,625 Paid absences other than vacation totalled 8,125,013 hours, of which 5,869,649 for sick leave, 686,534 for maternity leave, 745,553 for accident-related absences and 823,277 for other reasons. 5.5. COMPENSATION POLICY G.3 PSA Peugeot Citroën has consistently endeavoured to maintain reflect promotions to an increased level of responsibility. This process its employees’ purchasing power, reward performance, offer is strictly monitored to prevent any discrimination. compensation that is competitive with market practices and give In 2012, 20 agreements were signed with employee representatives employees a stake in the value they help to create. This same policy in Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Sweden and the United applies in every host country with the same objectives. Kingdom. These agreements not only maintained employee Although the crisis shaking the European automotive industry forced purchasing power, but also provided for individual performancethe Group to take specific steps in 2012, it nonetheless maintained based bonuses.They underline the Group’s commitment to achieving its payroll budget throughout the world. Its compensation priorities a balanced wage policy through consensus in a challenging economic in 2012 were to safeguard spending power for the lowest earners environment, while ensuring fairness and safeguarding real wages. and to award merit raises to the highest performing individuals or to PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 151 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.5. Compensation policy G.3 5.5.1. FAIR AND COMPETITIVE COMPENSATION THAT REWARDS PERFORMANCE The Group continued the gradual extension of a corporate bonus In a bid to ensure clarity for all concerned, and therefore to boost the system for executive managers worldwide, with the following effectiveness of the compensation policy in improving performance, objectives: the Group also took steps to harmonise communication about the O to recognise executive managers’ contribution to achieving scheme sent to all managers. Group-wide meetings were organised individual and collective operating targets that contribute to the during 2012 to present the new Corporate reference base of Group Group’s performance; functions (its rationale and structure, as well as the methods in the Group for validating the level of executive managers’ functions in all O to strengthen the culture of value creation in the Company; countries), and the principles of the compensation system. O to gradually align the bonus policy for managers with market practices in their countries. In addition, exceptional bonuses were also paid in recognition of the An additional 4,000 executive managers were eligible for the specific challenges of some jobs. To support the Group’s strategy of Group Bonus, under the corporate bonus system for management innovation and protection of industrial property, the bonus system personnel, bringing to 13,000 the number eligible in 2012, or 50% for patent filing, created several years ago, was extended to other of managers globally. Similar to the policy implemented in 2011 in countries, and to research centre locations in particular (China and Latin America and China, a specific corporate bonus system was also Latin America). introduced in Russia. TOTAL PAYROLL BY REGION (At 31 December 2012) (in thousands of euros) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world Total Automobile Division 2012 4,225,516 1,063,984 480,567 5,769,066 2011 4,375,199 1,130,883 414,535 5,920,616 2010 4,249,337 1,167,295 333,359 5,749,990 Banque PSA Finance 2012 50,126 89,188 7,917 147,231 2011 49,426 85,881 6,550 141,856 2010 47,865 81,243 5,348 134,455 Other businesses 2012 81,287 5,694 0 86,981 2011 96,652 5,448 0 103,354 2010 98,358 4,996 0 103 TOTAL 2012 4,355,929 1,158,866 488,484 6,003,279 2011 4,521,277 1,222,212 421,085 6,164,574 2010 4,395,560 1,253,534 338,707 5,987,801 In 2012, total payroll costs came to €4,294,197, while related payroll taxes amounted to €1,709,081. 152 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.5. Compensation policy G.3 5 GROUP MINIMUM WAGE VERSUS LOCAL STATUTORY MINIMUM WAGE, BY COUNTRY G.34 (For 2012, base 100) Country Ratio Local statutory minimum wage Germany 100 Local legal minimum wage Argentine 140 Local legal minimum wage Austria 100 Local legal minimum wage Belgium 123 Guaranteed average minimum monthly income Brazil 203 Local legal minimum wage China 100 Regional minimum wage (Shanghai) Spain 141 Local legal minimum wage France 125 Local legal minimum wage Italy 121 Local legal minimum wage Netherlands 108 Local legal minimum wage (for people over 23) Poland 125 Local legal minimum wage Portugal 138 Local legal minimum wage United Kingdom 100 Local legal minimum wage Russia 407 Regional legal minimum wage Slovakia 194 Local legal minimum wage Switzerland N/R* No legal minimum wage; no industry agreements Turkey 100 Local legal minimum wage * N/R: Not relevant. Information is reported for countries representative of the Group’s organisation where there are more than 300 employees. The ratio is calculated based on each country’s statutory minimum wage (when one exists), without considering any regional variations. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 153 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.5. Compensation policy G.3 RATIO OF AVERAGE SALARIES OF MEN TO WOMEN, OPERATORS AND TECHNICIANS AND SUPERVISORS (TAM), FRANCE (Peugeot Citroën Automobile France, in 2012, base 100) The ratios of the average salary of men to women are defined according to the classification table in the Metal Industry Collective Agreement. Operators Technicians and supervisors Ratio of average salary, men to women Ratio of average salary, men to women 170 99.8 190 N/M 175 99.46 195 N/M 180 99.8 200 N/M 185 100.5 215 N/M 190 101.0 225 N/M 195 100.8 240 N/M 200 100.5 255 104 215 100.4 270 102.3 225 101.6 285 99.2 240 102 305 98.2 255 103.1 320 98.9 270 105.8 335 95.3 285 N/M 365 96 In 2012, the average increase in compensation (excluding bonuses) The increase for operators and administrative employees was 2.86% was higher for women than men among operators and administrative for women and 2.68% for men. employees, technicians and supervisors. The increase for all The increase for technicians and supervisors it was 2.71% for women operators, administrative employees, technicians and supervisors and 2.57% for men. was 2.78% for women and 2.57% for men. RATIO OF AVERAGE SALARIES OF MEN TO WOMEN MANAGERS (Countries where the Group has manufacturing operations, in 2012, base 100) The following indicator concerns managers in sales subsidiaries, FRANCE (PCA) finance companies and production plants in countries where the Group has manufacturing operations. Ratio of average salary, men In France, managers are defined according to the Metal Industry Managers to women Collective Agreement and any relevant company agreements, while K92 101.4 in other countries, they are defined according to the Group’s job classification standards. 1 101.8 2 100.1 3A 100.8 3B 102.1 3C 114.0 154 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.5. Compensation policy G.3 5 ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, SPAIN, PORTUGAL, SLOVAKIA, RUSSIA Ratio of average salary, men to women Argentine Brazil Spain Portugal Slovakia Russia Executives N/M N/M N/M N/M N/M N/M Senior executive N/M N/M N/M N/M N/M N/M Upper management 105.8 101.7 100.7 N/M 119.9 109.2 Middle management 103.5 109.2 109.9 111.1 100.2 103.4 Junior managers 105.5 108.9 109.9 128.1 103.4 91.3 N/M = not material. 5.5.2. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EMPLOYEE BENEFITS: OVERALL COMPENSATION October 2011. The policy offers good health cover, funded by the AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Company for the most part. After a protracted period of preparation and providing information to employees (brochures, information Employee benefits in all host countries supplement the Group’s meetings, on-site advice, etc.) the scheme came into effect on compensation policy in an “overall remuneration” approach designed 1 July. The health insurance supplements the Company’s death and to meet the challenges of offering competitive and motivating disability cover, in place in accordance with the collective agreement compensation while meeting the Group’s social responsibility of 2009, and which has also been harmonised for all employee commitments. For example, the Group is committed to providing categories. major risks and life coverage for all employees worldwide. In 2011, PSA Peugeot Citroën set up a worldwide partnership with an insurance company to improve healthcare, death and GIVING EMPLOYEES A STAKE IN THE GROUP’S disability cover, in line with local practices, and optimise costs, EARNINGS benefiting both the Group and its employees. The partnership was maintained in 2012 and now covers all countries, outside France, The arrangements according to the three-year profit-sharing where the Group has employees. A number of calls for tender were agreement in France gave employees a share in the Group’s 2011 issued in 2012 for death, disability and health cover (Brazil, Czech results, based on quality (manufacturing and customer service), Republic, Italy, Japan, Portugal, Russia, Slovakia, Spain, etc.) and employee safety (workplace accident frequency rate) and financial resulted in improving policies or reducing the cost of some types of criteria (recurring operating income and free cash flow). Payments cover. Improvements were obtained for death and disability cover in were made in 2012 under these profit-sharing agreements based Italy and Romania, for example. on the results achieved by the Group in 2011.Local profit-sharing agreements are in place in Brazil and in Italy. In all other countries, A highlight of 2012 in France was the effective implementation the profit-sharing amounts due for the Group’s 2011 recurring of unique harmonised health insurance system for all employee operating income were distributed to employees in 2012. categories, following the agreement signed with the trade unions in DISCRETIONARY AND NON-DISCRETIONARY PROFIT-SHARING To give employees a stake in their Company’s earnings, discretionary profit-sharing programmes based on consolidated operating income are in place in every host country for all full and part-time employees under permanent or fixed-term contracts exceeding three months. (At 31 December) (Rounded to the nearest million euros) 2010 2011 2012 Total France – discretionary and non-discretionary profit-sharing (Group agreement) 56 48 29 Discretionary and/or non-discretionary profit-sharing programmes in other French subsidiaries* 13 13 0 Discretionary programmes in foreign subsidiaries 11 8 0 TOTAL 80 69 29 * 2010 and 2011 data concern GEFCO. 2012 data do not include GEFCO. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 155 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.5. Compensation policy G.3 In France, an enhanced profit-sharing agreement for 2010-2012 O the diversified savings plan, introduced on 1 January 2004, which was signed, along with a discretionary profit-share agreement that allows employees to invest in socially responsible funds as an recognises employees’ contribution to the achievement of strategic alternative to Company shares; targets. Employees outside France also benefit from a profit-sharing O a long term insurance-based saving plan. system. Out of 2012 earnings, €29 million was distributed in 2012 to Plan entitlements are granted according to the same terms and Automobile and Finance Division employees. conditions to both full-time and part-time employees, adjusted for hours worked in the case of part-time workers. Subject to seniority conditions, employees on fixed-term contracts are also entitled to EMPLOYEE SAVINGS PLANS (PEAG, PED join the plan. AND PEP) In March 2012, PSA Peugeot Citroën organised a €1 billion capital increase reserved for shareholders. In France, the PSA Peugeot To give employees a stake in their Company’s growth, a variety of Citroën employee mutual fund (FCPE) participated in this capital corporate savings plans have been set up. In France, employees have increase by selling a portion of its preferential subscription rights to the opportunity to invest in a PSA Peugeot Citroën employees’ fund, acquire shares at preferential rates. An equivalent mechanism was while in Germany, Spain, Portugal and the United Kingdom, they established for employees invested in the International Employee can select from a variety of investment vehicles depending on local Savings Plan in Germany, Portugal, Spain and the UK. The share legislation. In each case, the Group provides a matching contribution of Group equity held by employees through these profit-sharing to encourage employee participation. plans, based on matching contributions from the employer for every The corporate savings plan comprises three components: employee contribution, is greater than 3%, implying the involvement O the plan invested in Group shares; from 2013 of an employee representative on the Supervisory Board. Employee contributions 1 Jan.-31 Dec. Employer contributions 1 Jan.-31 Dec. Number of employees investing* (in million euros) (in million euros) 1 Jan.-31 Dec. 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Automobile Division 21.07 38.03 17.77 9.34 15.85 7.93 12,799 19,838 39,052 Banque PSA Finance 0.44 0.57 0.30 0.20 0.25 0.13 183 303 428 Other businesses 0.51 0.76 0.61 0.22 0.30 0.29 222 379 687 TOTAL 22.02 39.36 18.68 9.76 16.4 8.35 13,204 20,520 40,167 * Reinvestment of discretionary profit-shares, non-discretionary profit-shares and voluntary contributions. The Group paid more than €8.36 million in matching contributions into the local employee savings plans in 2012. INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYEE SAVINGS PLAN (At 31 December) Employee contributions Employer contributions (in million euros) (in million euros) Number of participants 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 United Kingdom 0.92 1.00 0.98 0.47 0.56 0.51 877 780 741 Spain 0.22 0.23 0.14 0.11 0.16 0.09 188 233 81 Germany 0.27 0.31 0.22 0.14 0.15 0.11 244 223 155 Portugal 0.04 0.03 0.01 0.02 0.02 0.01 25 27 14 TOTAL 1.45 1.57 1.35 0.74 0.89 0.72 1,334 1,263 991 2010 and 2011 data concern GEFCO. 2012 data do not concern GEFCO. 156 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.5. Compensation policy G.3 5 SUPPLEMENTARY PENSION PLANS BY DIVISION Y Employer contributions 1 Jan.-31 Dec. Employee contributions 1 Jan.-31 Dec. Number of participating (in thousand euros) (in thousand euros) employees Automobile Division 2012 36,536 15,480 49,248 2011 36,693 15,855 52,160 2010 37,150 15,798 55,349 Banque PSA Finance 2012 2,478 714 1,378 2011 2,263 694 1,167 2010 2,116 660 1,322 Other businesses 2012 663 330 824 2011 564 281 839 2010 566 283 841 TOTAL 2012 39,678 16,523 51,450 2011 39,520 16,830 54,166 2010 39,832 16,741 57,512 SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLANS BY REGION Y Employer contributions 1 Jan.-31 Dec. Employee contributions 1 Jan.-31 Dec. (in thousand euros) (in thousand euros) Number of participating employees 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 France 22,424 21,324 20,989 11,192 10,731 10,754 41,452 36,608 33,550 Rest of Europe 21,010 19,231 15,532 5,368 6,272 3,946 17,356 17,804 15,576 Rest of the world 1,619 2,369 3,157 1,715 1,900 1,823 2,378 2,782 2,324 TOTAL 45,053 42,924 39,678 18,275 18,903 16,523 61,186 57,194 51,450 2010 and 2011 data include GEFCO. 2012 data do not include GEFCO. To help employees prepare for the future, supplemental definedIn accordance with IAS 19, these obligations are measured every year contribution retirement plans are being set up in all host countries by an international firm of actuaries, based on assumptions reviewed and wherever they are necessary to offset insufficient mandatory by the Group’s auditors. pension schemes and market practices. Such plans have already been introduced in Germany, Brazil, Spain, France, Japan, the Netherlands, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and the United Kingdom. SOCIAL SERVICES Y Managed by joint labour-management commissions, in line with local practices, these systems are not designed to replace pay-as-youDepending on national and local opportunities, all Group companies go schemes in countries where these schemes are available. Rather, and plants contribute to social and cultural activities and help to they have been created to provide beneficiaries with supplemental improve the quality of work life. retirement income to offset the foreseeable drop in replacement Nearly €230 million werespentin 2012 by the Group (Automobile rates, as well as to harmonize retirement benefits across subsidiaries and Finance Divisions) on social benefits. Representing 3.8% of in each country. payroll, this amount encompasses employer payments for housing, transportation, food services, health and social services, corporate concierge services, daycare centres, health care and personal EXTENDING PENSION COVERAGE WITH DEFINED protection insurance, as well as subsidies paid to Works Councils in France for employee welfare programmes. BENEFIT PLANS Y At end-2012, future benefit obligations under defined benefit plans amounted to €3,819 billion, of which €3,214 billion was covered by external funds. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 157 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.6. A deep commitment to social responsibility 5.6. A DEEP COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY G.15 5.6.1. WORKING TOGETHER BRINGING TOGETHER THE BEST TALENTS In 2009, PSA Peugeot Citroën was one of the first French companies to obtain France’s Diversity Label, which was renewed in 2012. It PSA Peugeot Citroën has chosen to celebrate the diversity of its is awarded following a stringent certification and site audit process people and their cultures and to make equality and respect for by the French Standards Authority AFNOR. Eight different Group differences a founding principle of its responsible growth. This sites were audited in 2012. societal challenge concerns all of our host countries, where we are The label recompenses the long-standing HR policies and best committed to exceeding local legal requirements in applying and practices to promote diversity and equal opportunity and to prevent promoting best human resources management practices. discrimination. Workplace diversity is a social issue, since it is unacceptable to In France and Spain, joint labour-management diversity and equal exclude certain categories of people from the job market. We are opportunity oversight committees have been created to monitor therefore striving to hire more women and to bring in more young effective application of the agreements. They are responsible for people without previous experience, as well as seniors, people without ensuring that commitments are met and for analysing measures degrees, people from immigrant families and the disabled. taken locally. Because our business performance benefits from team diversity, In 2011, the French agreement on diversity and social cohesion was we need to hire people from a variety of backgrounds that reflect renewed in order to step up initiatives by introducing improvements our host communities and environments. Diversity is a source of in four areas: continuing to diversify our hiring, guaranteeing every synergy, social harmony and business efficiency. It also stimulates the employee equal opportunity in career development, raising employee emergence of different points of view, making it an important source awareness of diversity issues and preventing harassment. of creativity and innovation. PROMOTING DIVERSITY THE WORLDWIDE DIVERSITY COMMITMENT In 2010, PSA Peugeot Citroën formalised its actions in favour of PSA Peugeot Citroën also fights against all forms of discrimination diversity in the Worldwide Diversity Commitment, which is shared and intolerance towards difference, considering that capabilities are across the Group and applicable in every host country. the key factor in hiring and career development. Integrated into the PSA Excellence System, the Worldwide Diversity Promoting diversity therefore means recruiting, bringing together Commitment comprises seven founding principles that provide an and nurturing the brightest talent, regardless of national origin, overall view of diversity and its challenges. It is designed to improve gender, lifestyle, sexual orientation, age, marital status, pregnancy or our initiatives in this area and to help the subsidiaries make progress parenthood, genetic characteristics, real or supposed belonging or in implementing and promoting diversity measures. not belonging to an ethnic group, nation or race, political opinion, union activity, religious convictions, physical appearance, name, The global diversity correspondents met for the third time in pre-existing health conditions or disability. The Group guarantees December 2012 to review the deployment of the Worldwide respect for employees’ private lives. Diversity Commitment and to conduct a self-assessment. The review underscored the extensive involvement by the country organisations, The employee and skills base is being further diversified through the which are developing a real awareness of the importance of these use of new hiring channels, such as partnerships with educational issues, reflected in the 131 Action Plans implemented to reinforce systems and government employment services, online hiring awareness of diversity. In leading the diversity process in their initiatives and unsolicited applications. In addition, equal opportunity country, the correspondents use a deployment kit and share best is carefully tracked at every stage of the process and hiring practices practices within the global correspondents’ network. have been made more objective through the deployment of such tools as best practice guides for recruiters, anonymous CVs, simulationAfter contributing to formally stating their commitment, establishing based hiring techniques and training courses designed to help progress indicators and objectives and applying rigorous procedures prevent discrimination. aiming to exclude all forms of discrimination, Action Plans now give priority to communication to employees and outside partners to promote gender equality and diversity in the workplace. 158 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.6. A deep commitment to social responsibility 5 TRAINING EVERY MANAGER IN DIVERSITY TOP 10 NATIONALITIES (OTHER THAN FRENCH) ISSUES (At 31 December 2011 – percentage of total workforce) Since 2008, managers have been regularly trained in “managing diversity”, using a module designed to offer practical solutions and Marocco 1% Italy 1.1% effective resources for handling real-life equal opportunity issues Argentina 1.2% Spain 10.3% within their teams. This will help them to demonstrate the principles underlying respect for difference, prevention, and zero tolerance for Russia 1.2% any type of discrimination. 3,500 managers have been trained in the past five years. Portugal 1.7% As part of the deployment of the Worldwide Diversity Commitment, diversity management training is being extended to Spain, Portugal, Great-Britain Italy, Belgium and other host countries. 2.2% Germany 2.2% Slovakia 2.6% Brazil 4.4% The top 10 nationalities other than French represented in the workforce accounted for more than 31.7% of the total. The Group employs more than 46,608 non-French employees, or 38% of the workforce, and 132 nationalities are represented. AGE PYRAMID Y (Employees under permanent and fixed-term contracts, at 31 December 2012) 4,500 4,000 3,500 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 15 17 18 19 20 2122 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 3132 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 4142 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 5152 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 6162 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 The different employee age groups are evenly balanced. MAINTAINING OUR COMMITMENT TO HIRING The programme is designed to maintain a well-balanced age YOUNG PEOPLE G.15 pyramid and provide Group support for training the next generation and ensuring the transfer of knowledge and expertise. Profiles and In 2012, we pursued the programme to bring young people training are chosen based on the job family management system into the workforce, welcoming 2,744 interns and 4,378 workand the findings of the jobs observatory. PSA Peugeot Citroën gives study programme participants (including skills-acquisition and many young people the opportunity to discover first-hand the jobs apprenticeship contracts). and values of a large manufacturer. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 159 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.6. A deep commitment to social responsibility HIRING AND MOTIVATING OLDER EMPLOYEES employee representatives. In January 2010, an agreement to hire and motivate older employees was signed in France. PSA Peugeot Citroën does not believe in maintaining a separate Retaining and motivating older employees forms part of our policy for employees over 50, who represent nearly 27% of the total engagement with corporate social responsibility to guarantee equal workforce. On the contrary, our response is integrated into the general opportunity and treatment for all, irrespective of age. jobs and capabilities policy, which guarantees equal opportunity and treatment and anticipates demographic trends. The measures in this agreement seek to recognise the importance of older employees in the Company, to consider their experience Aware of the importance of this issue, back in 2005, initiatives as a strength to be leveraged by the Group, and to work across the were undertaken to address the hiring and motivating seniors with generations to strengthen social cohesion and economic efficiency. DISABLED EMPLOYEES G.14 (At 31 December) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world Total Automobile Division 2012 5,393 532 44 5,969 2011 5,096 538 47 5,681 2010 5,095 490 40 5,625 Banque PSA Finance 2012 13 25 0 38 2011 8 23 0 31 2010 10 20 0 30 Other businesses 2012 6 1 0 7 2011 8 1 0 9 2010 50 0 0 50 TOTAL 2012 5,412 558 44 6,014 2011 5,112 562 47 5,721 2010 5,155 510 40 5,705 Worldwide, the Group employs 6,014 disabled people, as defined by In addition to these direct hires, we were also one of the leading local legislation. manufacturers in France for sourcing from sheltered workshops, PSA Peugeot Citroën is committed to hiring and retaining disabled with purchases representing value added of €35 million. employees. In the Automobile Division in France, 8.3% of employees In 2011, the Group and five trade unions signed the fourth agreement are classified as handicapped (including sheltered workers under on social integration and job opportunities for the disabled, which contract), above the mandatory national rate of 6%. opens new pathways and identifies new improvement drivers for the In all, 81% of disabled employees are operators, 14% are technicians 2011-2013 period. and supervisors (TAM) and 4% are managers. Several communication and awareness campaigns are conducted In France, nearly €2.5 million is spent on programmes related to across the Group. For example, a number of Group facilities in hiring and retaining the disabled. France mobilised to participate in the country’s Hire the Disabled Week by organising events to get employees involved in this issue. 160 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.6. A deep commitment to social responsibility 5 5.6.2. CONTINUING TO INCREASE THE PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN IN THE WORKFORCE G.13 A RECOGNISED COMMITMENT on demonstrated capabilities and results. This practice ensures equal opportunity and treatment for employees, with the possibility of For many years, PSA Peugeot Citroën has pursued an assertive policy salary adjustments if variances are identified. of promoting gender balance and gender equality in its workforce. Building on an initial agreement signed in 2003 and renewed in 2007, a greatly expanded agreement to encourage gender equality and the development of jobs for women was signed in France with all ENCOURAGING GENDER DIVERSITY of the unions in February 2011. It is structured around three main IN MANAGEMENT commitments: supporting the integration of women in a traditionally True gender diversity means that women should have access to the male-dominated industry, guaranteeing gender equality in the same career paths and opportunities as men, notably as concerns Company and improving women’s access to senior management positions of responsibility. positions. It also includes two chapters concerning communication and the Company’s support for working parents. For this reason, the same criteria for detecting high potential individuals are applied to both women and men. These criteria do PSA Peugeot Citroën was the first company in France to receive the not take age and seniority into account so that women who take “Equal Opportunity Employer” label from the Ministry of Social maternity leave are not disadvantaged. They are based solely on Cohesion and Equality in 2005. Renewal of the label in 2008 and capabilities, effectiveness and performance. in 2011 attests to the sustained progress of the Group in achieving gender equality and offers an encouragement to pursue efforts in As of 31 December 2012, the executive and senior management this area. teams included 90 women and 792 men, for a rate of 10.2% versus 5% in 2008. Executive Management has set an objective of 15% In 2011, the globalisation of this commitment reached a real women for the senior management teams by 2015, marking its milestone when PSA Peugeot Citroën earned the first certification commitment to gender diversity in senior management. awarded under the “Gender Equality” European Standard for its operations in France, Spain, Italy and Belgium. The commitment will Created in the spring of 2010, the “Women Engaged for PSA Peugeot be extended to Portugal in 2013. Citroën” network now has more than 160 women managers from different departments and divisions. Among other outcomes, the network is actively helping to increase HIRING MORE WOMEN AND DEVELOPING the number of senior women executives by developing resources to identify and support women to have the ambition, potential and GENDER DIVERSITY IN THE PROFESSIONS desire one day to serve as senior managers and executives. A diverse workforce promotes synergy, social balance and business efficiency. Although the technical courses that lead to jobs in the automotive industry have traditionally attracted fewer women PARENTAL LEAVE INTERVIEW: SUPPORT students, the percentage of women in the Group’s workforce has risen, reflecting trends in the labour market and the various measures FOR WORKING PARENTS taken, notably to improve working conditions. The Group confirmed its strong commitment to increasing the Since 2002, the percentage of women employees has risen from number of women in the workforce and to developing gender 17.6% to 19.1% in 2012. PSA Peugeot Citroën intends to sustain equality by including specific measures in the new agreement, signed this increase and make its jobs and professions more open to women. in France in 2011, to support working parents in the Company, seen as a vital condition for achieving work-life balance. In October 2012, the Group introduced two interviews in GUARANTEEING EQUAL PAY AND CAREER preparation for child-related leave (maternity, adoption or parental leave), offered to all its employees in France (women and men). One DEVELOPMENT interview takes place in preparation for the leave and the other on In all job categories, men and women are guaranteed the same job their return. Conducted by their line manager, the interviews set out classifications and salary levels when they are hired. to prepare the employee for their return to the workplace (mobility and training needs, changes to working hours, etc.) and to review In line with the Company agreement on diversity and social cohesion the current position in coordination with the annual performance signed in 2004 and renewed in 2008 and 2011, promotions to a review (covering topics such as progress with missions, preparation higher coefficient, category or level of responsibility are based solely for periods of absence, etc.). PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 161 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.6. A deep commitment to social responsibility NUMBER OF WOMEN EMPLOYEES UNDER PERMANENT OR FIXED-TERM CONTRACTS (At 31 December) % increase 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2002-2012 Operators 16,235 16,295 19,105 19,060 21,065 22,365 21,635 19,980 21,190 22,446 10,087 -37.86% Technicians and supervisors 14,420 15,510 16,655 16,395 16,175 15,650 15,610 14,600 15,285 16,012 8,823 -38.88% Managers 4,245 4,580 5,325 5,945 6,320 6,255 6,310 6,155 6,650 7,588 4,621 8.86% TOTAL 34,900 36,385 41,085 41,400 43,560 44,270 43,555 40,735 43,125 46,046 23,531 -26.84% The change in the period 2011 to 2012 is due primarily to the PSA Peugeot Citroën’s commitments to gender equality are exclusion of the GEFCO Transport & Logistics Division from the expressed in the 12 November 2003 agreement on gender equality scope of consolidation. and employment for women, which was renewed in 2007 and Women account for 19.7% of engineers and managers, 27.4% of early 2011. As a result, 2002 has been chosen as the reference year. technicians and supervisors (TAM) and 14.9% of operators and administrative employees. PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN EMPLOYEES UNDER PERMANENT AND FIXED-TERM CONTRACTS (At 31 December) 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 % women in the workforce 17.6% 18.2% 19.8% 19.8% 20.6% 21.3% 21.6% 21.9% 21.8% 22.0% 19.1% The change in the period 2011 to 2012 is due primarily to the exclusion of the GEFCO Transport & Logistics Division from the scope of consolidation. EMPLOYEES UNDER PERMANENT AND FIXED-TERM CONTRACTS BY GENDER AND REGION G.1b (At 31 December) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world Total Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Automobile Division 13,222 62,914 6,438 22,158 1,878 10,764 21,538 95,836 Banque PSA Finance 485 344 890 829 48 73 1,423 1,246 Other businesses 558 2,820 12 29 0 0 570 2,849 TOTAL 14,265 66,078 7,340 23,016 1,926 10,837 23,531 99,931 PSA Peugeot Citroën has deployed a Worldwide Diversity differences between the number of women in the workforce in Commitment that is applicable in all the subsidiaries and countries different geographic areas mainly reflect the types of activity carried in which it has a presence. It contains strong principles, expressed out and the seniority of current employees. as Action Plans, to promote gender equality in the workplace. The 162 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.6. A deep commitment to social responsibility 5 EMPLOYEES UNDER PERMANENT OR FIXED-TERM CONTRACTS BY AGE GROUP AND GENDER G.1b G.1c G.15 (At 31 December 2012) 35,000 29,977 28,729 28,132 30,000 25,000 20,000 15,000 11,929 10,000 7,974 6,113 5,569 3,662 5,000 1,144 253 0 < 20 20/29 30/39 40/49 ≥ 50 Men Women NEW EMPLOYEES HIRED UNDER PERMANENT CONTRACTS BY AGE GROUP AND GENDER (At 31 December 2012) 2,500 2,286 2,000 1,500 1,212 1,000 725 556 525 428 500 265 178 56 41 0 < 20 20/29 30/39 40/49 ≥ 50 Men Women PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN EMPLOYEES UNDER PERMANENT CONTRACTS, BY AGE GROUP (At 31 December 2012) <20 20-29 30-39 40-49 ≥50 Total Number of women hired 56 725 556 265 54 1,643 Percentage of total hires 11.6% 24.1% 31.4% 33.5% 24.7% 26.2% PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 163 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.6. A deep commitment to social responsibility PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN MANAGERS UNDER PERMANENT OR FIXED-TERM CONTRACTS BY AGE GROUP (At 31 December 2012) <30 30-39 40-49 ≥50 Total Number of women managers 451 1,971 1,461 738 4,621 Total number of managers 1,510 7,750 8,477 5,727 23,464 % OF WOMEN MANAGERS 29.9% 25.4% 17.2% 12.9% 19.7% Women accounted for 29.9% of managers under 30 and 12.9% of managers over 50. PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN MANAGERS (At 31 December 2012) 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Percentage of women managers 15.3% 16.5% 17.3% 17.9% 18.6% 18.9% 19.1% 19.3% 19.9% 19.7% The data previous to 2012 includes GEFCO and Faurecia. SENIOR EXECUTIVES (At 31 December 2012) 30-39 40-49 ≥ 50 Total Men 38 298 346 682 Women 10 52 20 82 TOTAL 48 350 366 764 “Senior managers” includes senior managers in charge of adapting and implementing the Group’s strategy, policies and programmes. It does not include members of the Executive Committee or senior executives. 164 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.6. A deep commitment to social responsibility 5 Nationality Number % PREVENTING WORKPLACE HARASSMENT, DISCRIMINATION AND VIOLENCE G.15 French 638 83.5% Spanish 33 4.3% PSA Peugeot Citroën condemns all infringements of respect for individual rights and dignity, verbal or physical abuse, harassment, German 13 1.7% workplace violence and discrimination. This type of behaviour British 13 1.7% is liable to sanctions and specific measures have been prepared in Belgian 12 1.6% every country to prevent it. Employees are regularly informed about these policies and a large number of managers have participated in Italian 8 1% sensitivity campaigns. Argentine 7 0.9% Employees who are victims of or witness cases of harassment, Brazilian 6 0.8% discrimination or violence in the workplace may contact their Portuguese 5 0.7% Human Resources Department or, in the event of complications, use traditional channels. They may anonymously contact identified Chinese 5 0.7% managers responsible for diversity and/or harassment issues. Switzerland 4 0.5% “Harrassment” and “Diversity” mailboxes are also provided for Dutch 3 0.4% employees to report problems, which will trigger a full internal Polish 3 0.4% investigation by HR. American 2 0.3% A standard tracking procedure aligned with the local legal framework has been introduced in every host country. When a problem is Austrian 2 0.3% identified, the information is reported to human resources and Russian 2 0.3% a review is conducted. In 2012, 85 complaints alleging workplace Danish 1 0.1% harassment, discrimination or violence were reported to the corporate Human Resources Department. Moroccan 1 0.1% 21% of the complaints are still being reviewed by the Human Lebanese 1 0.1% Resources Departments concerned or by an outside authority. Romanian 1 0.1% Of the others, 63% were deemed unfounded and 22% resulted in Croatian 1 0.1% disciplinary action for the person concerned. Japanese 1 0.1% Slovak 1 0.1% RAISING EMPLOYEE AWARENESS OF MORAL Turk 1 0.1% HARASSMENT ISSUES TOTAL 764 100.0% As part of the agreement on diversity and social cohesion, senior management and employee representatives wanted to raise employee awareness of the problem of moral harassment. EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT An e-learning module was deployed in France in 2012, with three (Automobile Division, at 31 December 2012) main objectives: PSA Peugeot Citroën is led by a six-member Managing Board. O enhance employee sensitivity to moral harassment issues; O present the Group procedures for fighting against moral The Executive Committee comprises the six members of the harassment; Managing Board and four Executive Vice-Presidents. O engage stakeholders across the Group in preventing and managing In addition, five Senior Vice-Presidents report to the Chairman of the cases of harassment. Managing Board. The module uses interactive role-playing exercises to help employees As of 31 December 2012, the Group’s executive management team define and identify moral harassment, anticipate situations at risk, comprised 15 people. 12 members were French, one was Portuguese, and prevent and manage harassment situations. one was German and one was from the UK. 5,500 people completed the e-learning module in 2012. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 165 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.6. A deep commitment to social responsibility 5.6.3. HUMAN RIGHTS GLOBAL FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT ON SOCIAL WORLDWIDE BUY-IN RESPONSIBILITY G.6 G.7 The PSA Peugeot Citroën Global Framework Agreement is primarily designed to enable every Group unit to improve its social responsibility performance, by encouraging everyone to embrace the A HISTORIC COMMITMENT social and environmental sensitivity that society increasingly expects For many years, PSA Peugeot Citroën has been leading programmes of companies. to drive responsible growth in its business. In 2003, this commitment It engages PSA Peugeot Citroën to respect and promote the to corporate social responsibility was formalised by the pledge fundamental human rights expressed in the Universal Declaration of to support the United Nations Global Compact, a voluntary Human Rights and to apply the best human resources management initiative designed to align a company’s strategy and operations with and development practices. It also commits the Group to sharing its responsible growth principles. By encouraging fruitful dialogue standards with its partners, suppliers and independent dealers. among all our stakeholders, it represented a critical milestone in the deployment of our responsible growth process. The Agreement is structured around five main areas of application: Three years later, the Group wanted to demonstrate the full depth O respecting fundamental human rights; of its commitment and decided to get a wide range of stakeholders O managing and developing our human resources; involved in the process on an international level. On March 1, 2006, O sharing social responsibility practices with stakeholders; the first Global Framework Agreement on Social Responsibility O helping to foster economic and social development in our host was signed with the International Metalworkers’ Federation communities; (IMF), the European Metalworkers’ Federation (EMF) and more O safeguarding the environment. than 90 unions around the world. After four years of application, the Agreement was renewed in 2010, adding a new section on environmental stewardship and strengthening the employee relations commitments. The amendment has instilled new momentum in our drive to demonstrate our corporate social responsibility. DILIGENT APPLICATION G.16 G.17 G.18 G.19 G.40 The Agreement’s five areas of application have been expressed in 15 commitments that are enabling every unit, regardless of size or host country, to implement the underlying principles. The Global Framework Agreement’s 15 Commitments 1. Avoid complicity in human rights abuses 2. Uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 3. Effectively abolish child labour 4. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 5. Anti-corruption 6. Focus on safety, working conditions and health 7. Develop the skills of the future through continuing training 8. Provide employees with the means to participate 9. Advance planning for changes to professional and job profiles 10. Remuneration practices 11. Ensure social protection 12. Negotiate organisation of work and scheduling 13. Share social responsibility practices with suppliers, subcontractors, production partners and dealers 14. Take into account the impact of the Company’s business in its host communities 15. Preserve the environment 166 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.6. A deep commitment to social responsibility 5 Every year, the subsidiaries deploy three Action Plans to improve Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour their ability to fulfil the Agreement’s commitments. 128 subsidiaries Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights performed a self-assessment in 2012, which revealed 80% buy-in of at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development and the Global Framework Agreement. the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. The Group This continuous improvement process is being led jointly with promotes the respect of human rights in every host country, even in unions or employee representatives, who are directly involved in regions where such respect is not always forthcoming. The Group’s implementing the Action Plans and the self-assessment process. policies demonstrate that it is deeply committed to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This commitment is expressed to the In 2012, more than 370 Action Plans were defined in subsidiaries public on corporate website and to employees around the world on based in 35 countries on four continents. the human resources intranet site, with a direct link to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights on the UN website. No subsidiary was convicted in 2012 of involvement in human rights UPHOLDING FUNDAMENTAL HUMAN RIGHTS G.40 violations or the use of forced labour. PSA Peugeot Citroën is committed to growth founded on sociallyMoreover, PSA Peugeot Citroën actively supports employee freedom responsible principles and practices, consistently applied in every of association and representation around the world and is committed host country and business around the world. to respecting the independence and pluralism of trade unions. Active, on-going social dialogue is maintained with union representatives in In 2003, the Group pledged to uphold and promote the 10 principles every host country. of the United Nations Global Compact, an agreement inspired by the TRAINING IN HUMAN RIGHTS POLICIES AND PROCEDURES G.40 (For 2012) Areas Number of hours Number of employees Equal opportunity, diversity, anti-discrimination training 11,196 1,817 Compliance with internal rules, Global Agreement, data privacy guidelines, etc. 11,423 9,050 Code of Ethics 4,429 8,858 Corruption, conflicts of interest, etc. 916 397 TOTAL 27,964 20,122 In 2012, some 27,964 employees participated in dedicated training were presented in the form of a module in a more general programme, in Human Rights policies and procedures. such as orientation training for young hires. Some of the courses focused on an issue specific to the employee’s In addition, the Group’s Human Rights policies and procedures duties, such as the anti-money laundering course designed to combat are explained on the human resources intranet site and reaffirmed money laundering, prevent fraud and avoid financing terrorist in the different agreements signed by the Group, the text of the activities, which was required for all finance company employees. Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Global Compact’s Others, concerning Human Rights and antidiscrimination practices, ten principles, etc. were specifically intended for managers and recruiters. Still others PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 167 5 RENEWED COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.6. A deep commitment to social responsibility A GLOBAL SOCIAL AUDIT social cohesion in the Company was launched based on a new audit framework. During 2012, application of the health and safety PSA Peugeot Citroën’s social responsibility policies have management system was audited at 21 sites (plants, branches and been deployed worldwide and are regularly monitored. At technical centres), in addition to local audits covering all subsidiaries. PSA Peugeot Citroën, social audits help to drive continuous As a socially responsible company, PSA Peugeot Citroën shares improvement processes and ensure that social policies are effectively its social requirements with suppliers. Since 2010, 39 social and applied. These audits are designed to ensure compliance with legal initial environmental audits have been performed at tier 1 to tier 3 and regulatory requirements, contractual commitments and our suppliers identified as potentially at risk, as part of the deployment of social responsibility principles. the Purchasing Department’s sustainable development action plan. In 2012, application of the global framework agreement on social Conducted by an external, independent organisation, these audits responsibility was audited in five Group subsidiaries in Spain. A lead to corrective Action Plans whenever cases of non-compliance campaign auditing application of the agreement on diversity and were detected. 168 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 6 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL PRACTICES 6.1. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 170 6.3. ETHICAL PRACTICES 185 6.1.1. nature of ownership and legal form 170 6.3.1. The Code of Ethics 186 6.1.2. Governance principles 172 6.3.2. Preventing fraud, corruption 6.1.3. Governance structure 174 and anti-competitive behaviour 186 6.1.4. Internal control procedures 179 6.3.3. Transparency and integrity of inﬂuence strategies and practices 190 6.2. DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED 181 6.2.1. Payments to capital providers 181 6.2.2. Remuneration and beneﬁts of corporate officers 183 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 169 6 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL PRACTICES 6.1. Corporate Governance 6.1. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Y Since 1972, Peugeot S.A. has had a two-tier management structure addressing the concern for a balance of power between the executive comprising a Managing Board, responsible for strategic and and oversight functions, as reflected in the principles of good operational management, and a Supervisory Board, responsible corporate governance. for oversight and control. This separation is especially effective in 6.1.1. NATURE OF OWNERSHIP AND LEGAL FORM OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE 31 December 2010 31 December 2011 31 December 2012 % % % % % % exercisable theoretical exercisable theoretical exercisable theoretical Main identiﬁed Shares % voting voting Shares % voting voting Shares % voting voting shareholders (1) outstanding interest rights rights outstanding interest rights rights outstanding interest rights rights Établissements Peugeot Frères (2) 19,115,760 8.17 12.47 12.19 19,115,760 8.17 13.11 12.38 22,312,608 6.29 9.93 9.64 Foncière, Financière et de Participations (FFP) 51,792,738 22.13 33.79 33.02 53,363,574 22.80 35.20 33.24 67,372,689 18.99 27.97 27.14 Maillot I 100 0.00 0.00 0.00 100 0.00 0.00 0.00 164 0.00 0.00 0.00 Société Anonyme de Participations (SAPAR) (3) 148,672 0.06 0.05 0.05 833,317 0.23 0.20 0.20 Peugeot family 70,908,598 30.30 46.26 45.21 72,628,106 31.03 48.36 45.67 90,518,778 25.51 38.11 36.97 Other individual shareholders 18,413,671 (4) 7.87 6.15 6.00 16,635,083 7.11 5.92 5.59 59,413,026 16.74 14.34 13.82 GM Automotive Holdings SL 24,839,429 7.00 5.96 5.78 Employees 6,538,348 2.79 3.88 3.80 7,638,100 3.26 4.54 4.29 11,452,869 3.23 3.98 3.86 Other French institutions 43,710,387 18.67 15.08 14.73 43,346,051 18.52 14.86 14.03 52,236,259 14.72 12.52 12.15 Other foreign institutions 87,290,771 37.30 28.63 27.97 76,614,552 32.73 26.32 24.86 103,600,004 29.20 24.88 24.14 Treasury stock 7,187,450 3.07 2.29 17,187,450 7.34 5.56 12,788,628 3.60 2.98 TOTAL 234,049,225 100 100 100 234,049,344 100 100 100 354,848,992 100 100 100 (1) Source: Euroclear TPI (Identifiable bearer securities service) 31 December 2012 and Thomson Reuters. (2) Comtoise de Participation and LFPF were combined within EPF starting from December 2010. (3) Société Anonyme de Participation (SAPAR), a holding company with ties to Thierry Peugeot, Chairman of the Supervisory Board, and Marie Hélène Roncoroni, member of the Supervisory Board. Disclosure made by SAPAR on 6 December, 2011, pursuant to Article L. 621-18-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code. Each share entitles the holder to vote at the Annual Shareholders’ In compliance with Article 223-11 of the AMF General Rules and Meeting. Regulations, the following chart analyses potential voting rights Fully-paid up shares registered in the name of the same holder for outstanding, which include rights attached to shares held in treasury. at least four years shall carry double voting rights at Shareholders These potential voting rights are the ones used in determining when Meetings. statutory disclosure thresholds have been exceeded. 170 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL PRACTICES 6.1. Corporate Governance 6 SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE EXERCISABLE VOTING RIGHTS, (At 31 December, 2012) BY SHAREHOLDER Treasury stock (At 31 December, 2012) 3.60% Peugeot family Other foreign Peugeot family Other foreign 25.51% institutions 38.11% institutions 24.88% 29.20% Other French institutions 12.52% Other individual shareholders Employees Other French 16.74% 3.98% Other individual institutions GM Automotive shareholders 14.72% GM Automotive Holdings SL 14.34% Employees Holdings SL 5.96% 3.23% 7% PERCENTAGE OF CAPITAL HELD BY EMPLOYEES THROUGH EMPLOYEE STOCKHOLDING PLANS WORLDWIDE (In Germany, Spain, France, the United Kingdom and Portugal, at 31 December) 3.26 3.23 3.5 2.76 2.80 2.79 3.0 2.67 2.54 2.52 2.25 2.5 1.85 2.0 1.40 1.5 1.0 0.5 0.0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 More than 46,000 employees or former employees are Peugeot S.A. shareholders. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 171 6 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL PRACTICES 6.1. Corporate Governance 6.1.2. GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES PSA Peugeot Citroën’s corporate governance is based on compliance to French joint-stock companies with a Supervisory Board and with recommended corporate governance practices and on the Code Managing Board. The consolidated version of the Code, issued in of Ethics described in section 6.3 below. April 2010, may be viewed at Peugeot S.A.’s head office or on the MEDEF website at www.medef.com. The table below summarises those Code recommendations that the APPLICATION OF THE AFEP-MEDEF CORPORATE Company has elected not to apply given the specific features of its GOVERNANCE CODE legal structure, its operating procedures and the automotive industry in general. On 16 December 2008, the Supervisory Board decided to adopt the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code, as applicable Recommendation Explanation Independence of the Supervisory Board members The Supervisory Board applies all of the independence criteria recommended in the AFEP-MEDEF Code, with the following two exceptions: • not being a Director or Supervisory Board member of the corporation for more than twelve years for JeanPaul Parayre, Ernest-Antoine Seillière and Joseph F. Toot Jr. Because auto manufacturing requires a medium and long-term approach, the Supervisory Board considers that the automotive experience acquired by its members through long service with the Board is extremely valuable. This is particularly the case in fulfilling one of the Board’s key responsibilities, which is to discuss the Group’s strategic growth vision. The Group considers that the successive terms of office in excess of 12 years served by these members do not hinder their independence, and that the Group benefits from their experience in a cyclical industry, especially in periods of crisis; • not holding a directorship or equivalent position in another Group company in the past five years for JeanLouis Silvant: the Board considers that the fact of having recently been a Director of another Group company does not give rise to any risk of the type of conflict of interest that the AFEP-MEDEF independence rules are designed to avoid. In addition, no member of the Supervisory Board exercises any senior executive responsibilities or is a salaried employee of a Group company. Consequently Jean-Louis Silvant is considered to be independent, even though he sits on the Board of Directors of Peugeot Suisse, a company whose operations only represent a small proportion of the Group’s automotive business. Moreover, he receives no compensation for this office. Based on these criteria, the Supervisory Board considers that the following members may be qualified as independent: • Pamela Knapp; • Jean-Paul Parayre; • Thierry Pilenko; • Henri Philippe Reichstul; • Dominique Reiniche; • Geoffroy Roux de Bézieux; • Ernest-Antoine Seillière; • Jean-Louis Silvant; • Joseph F Toot Jr. Nine out of the 14 members of the Supervisory Board, i.e. 64% (instead of 58% for the prior year), therefore qualify as independent based on these criteria, which is significantly more than the AFEP-MEDEF recommendation of at least one third for controlled companies. Representative proportion of independent members 50% of members are independent (compared with 40% in 2011) instead of the minimum two-thirds on the Finance and Audit Committee recommended in the Code: the presence on the Board of representatives of the Peugeot family, the Company’s majority shareholder, explains why the two-thirds minimum is not achieved. Term of office of Supervisory Board members Supervisory Board members serve four-year terms from the date of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on 25 April 2012. However, members in office on the date of this 2012 Meeting serve six-year terms. Having a variable component of attendance fees Introducing a variable component of attendance fees based on actual attendance does not seem warranted, based on actual attendance. given that: • the attendance rate at Supervisory Board meetings was 96% in 2012; • attendance rates at the various Committee meetings was close to 100% in 2012, as it was in 2011; • the Chairman of the Supervisory Board frequently consults Board members on issues outside of scheduled meetings, and likewise, Board members regularly take the initiative of informing the Chairman of their opinions and recommendations. Actual attendance is not a relevant criterion for judging the members’ involvement and engagement. 172 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL PRACTICES 6.1. Corporate Governance 6 INFORMATION ON THE SITUATION their competence and long experience in the industry to the Board, as OF MEMBERS OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD well as a long-term view of strategic objectives. Non-voting advisors are appointed by the Supervisory Board for four-year terms. AND MANAGING BOARD Louis Gallois was co-opted as a lead independent director by the The membership structure of the Supervisory Board appropriately Board at its meeting of 14 February 2013. As such, he is independent reflects the percentage of capital held by the Company’s main under the meaning of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. His specific duties shareholder, the Peugeot family. are as follows: In 2012, the Board comprised five members representing the major O call and chair meetings of the independent members of the shareholder: Thierry Peugeot, JeanPhilippe Peugeot, Robert Supervisory Board at least once a year; Peugeot, Marie-Hélène Roncoroni and Marc Friedel. Marie-Helene O submit suggestions or recommendations on the operation of the Roncoroni is Thierry Peugeot’s sister. Marie-Hélène Roncoroni, Board to its Chairman, after discussions with the other members; Jean-Philippe Peugeot, Robert Peugeot and Marc Friedel are third O inform the Chairman of the Supervisory Board about any conflicts cousins. There are no family ties among the other Supervisory Board of interests identified; or Managing Board members. Pamela Knapp, Thierry Pilenko, Henri Philippe Reichstul, Dominique Reiniche, Geoffroy Roux de O stay abreast of significant concerns regarding the governance of Bézieux, Ernest-Antoine Seillière and Joseph F. Toot Jr. have no ties the Company expressed by shareholders not represented on the with the Company, its Group or its management and contribute Supervisory Board, and make sure they are met; their international financial and managerial experience to the Board’s O participate in steering the work of evaluating the Board’s operation, deliberations. in cooperation with the Chairman of the Appointments and Governance Committee; A former member of the Executive Committee, Jean-Louis Silvant contributes his long experience in a large number of executive O report on the performance of the Supervisory Board’s mission, positions with the Group, particularly in production and human and report to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, if necessary. resources management. In accordance with the law, two members of the Works Council also Jean-Paul Parayre, former Chairman of the Peugeot S.A. Managing attend Supervisory Board meetings in a non-voting capacity. Board and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Vallourec, contributes his knowledge of the automobile industry and the Group’s operation, as well as of British and American corporate CONFLICTS OF INTEREST CONCERNING governance practices. SUPERVISORY BOARD OR MANAGING In compliance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Supervisory BOARD MEMBERS Board reassesses the independence of its members every year. At its meeting of 12 February 2012, the Board examined the position of The corporate officers have stated that there were no conflicts of each of its members with regard to the independence criteria applied interest during the 2012 financial year between their obligations to by the Group, based on the proposal made by the Appointments and Peugeot S.A. and their own personal interests or other obligations, Governance Committee. and that no such conflicts exist as of the date of this document. Based on these criteria, the Supervisory Board considers that the No loans or guarantees have been granted to or on behalf of any following members may be qualified as independent: members of the Supervisory Board or Managing Board by the Company or any Group entities. O Pamela Knapp; O Jean-Paul Parayre; No assets required for the operation of the business are owned by any members of the Supervisory Board or Managing Board or their O Thierry Pilenko; families. O Henri Philippe Reichstul; O Dominique Reiniche; In addition, corporate officers pledge to comply with the Stock Market Code of Ethics introduced in February 2010, which states O Geoffroy Roux de Bézieux; that “corporate officers shall refrain from trading in any stocks or O Ernest-Antoine Seillière; other securities, directly or indirectly, on their own behalf or for a O Jean-Louis Silvant; third party, during the 30 calendar days preceding the publication of O Joseph F. Toot Jr. the annual financial statements, the interim financial statements and In addition, when nominating Supervisory Board candidates the consolidated revenue figures.” for election or re-election, based on the recommendations of the It was updated by the Supervisory Board in 2012, mainly to take Appointments and Governance Committee, the Board seeks to account of the changes introduced in Act 2010-1249 of 22 October refresh its membership and enhance its independence, as well as to 2010 on banking and financial regulation. It has also been extended ensure a smooth rotation of its members by staggering their terms to cover members of the Executive Committee. of office. In particular, the people concerned by the Code are now prohibited There are two Vice-Chairmen, who can take over from the Chairman from carrying out any hedging transactions on the Group’s securities, of the Board should he be unable to attend. including through the use of options. Its meetings are also attended by two non-voting advisors (censeurs). This is a long-standing practice in the Group to bring the benefits of PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 173 6 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL PRACTICES 6.1. Corporate Governance SANCTIONS APPLICABLE TO THE MEMBERS O been a corporate officer of a company that was declared bankrupt, OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD AND or placed in liquidation or receivership in the past five years; MANAGING BOARD O been the subject of any official public incrimination and/or sanctions by statutory or regulatory authorities; As is the case each year, each corporate officer declared that they O been disqualified by a court from acting as a member of the have not: administrative, management or supervisory bodies of an issuer or O been convicted of any fraudulent offence in the past five years; from acting in the management or conduct of the affairs of any issuer in the past five years. 6.1.3. GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE 6.1.3.1. THREE MANAGEMENT In recommending future members, the Appointments and AND SUPERVISORY BODIES Governance Committee also applies a selection policy aimed at increasing the proportion of non-French members and diversifying the capabilities of the entire Board. THE SUPERVISORY BOARD The Supervisory Board has 14 members elected by shareholders for THE MANAGING BOARD terms reduced to four years for appointments from 25 April 2012 Managing Board members are appointed by the Supervisory (while members currently in office on that date serve six-year terms) Board for four-year terms. They may be removed from office by to comply with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. the Supervisory Board pursuant to the Company’s bylaws, or by Its meetings are also attended by two non-voting advisors (censeurs). shareholders in a General Meeting, in accordance with French No member of the Board is a salaried employee of a Group company. company law. The other functions exercised by Board members and advisors are Appointed on 17 June 2009, the members of the Managing Board at listed in section 14.1.1 of the 2012 Registration Document, as well 31 December 2012 are: Philippe Varin, Chairman, Guillaume Faury, as the dates when they were elected to the Peugeot S.A. Supervisory Grégoire Olivier, Frédéric Saint-Geours, Jean-Baptiste Chasseloup Board. de Chatillon and Jean-Christophe Quemard. Jean-Marc Gales stepped down as a member of the Managing Board on 1 March Members of the Supervisory Board in 2012: Thierry Peugeot 2012. (Chairman), Jean-Philippe Peugeot, Jean-Louis Silvant, Marc Friedel, Pamela Knapp, Jean-Paul Parayre, Robert Peugeot, Henri In addition to their collective decision-making role, the Managing Philippe Reichstul, Marie-Hélène Roncoroni, Geoffroy Roux de Board members also have the following specific areas of responsibility: Bézieux, Ernest-Antoine Seillière, Joseph F. Toot Jr. Thierry Pilenko, Guillaume Faury is in charge of research and development, Grégoire and Dominique Reiniche. Olivier heads the Asia Division and Frédéric Saint-Geours is in charge of brands, Jean--Baptiste Chasseloup de Chatillon heads up Five of them are members of the Peugeot family and nine have been Finance, and Jean-Christophe Quemard is in charge of Programmes. qualified as independent by the Supervisory Board. The other functions and directorships held by Managing Board There are three women and 11 men. members are listed in section 14.1.2 of the 2012 Registration The Appointments and Governance Committee is committed Document, as well as the dates when they were appointed and when to increasing the percentage of women members, in accordance their terms expire. with new legal requirements on gender balance (Act 2011-103 of 27 January 2011) and based on the guidelines set out in the AFEPEXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEDEF Corporate Governance Code. The Executive Committee comprises the six members of the Having elected Pamela Knapp to the Supervisory Board in 2011, the Managing Board and four Executive Vice-Presidents reporting to Annual Shareholders Meeting of 25 April 2012 elected Dominique the Chairman of the Managing Board:Yannick Bezard (Purchasing), Reiniche, bringing the percentage of women members up to 21%, Claude Brunet (Human Resources and Quality), Denis Martin thereby applying the legal requirements and recommendations of the (Industrial Operations), and Pierre Todorov (Corporate Secretary). AFEP-MEDEF Code in advance. In addition, four Senior Vice-Presidents in charge of Latin America, The Board will continue its policy of appointing women and has Russia, Ukraine and CIS, Communication and Strategy report to the set a target of at least 40% female membership by the end of the Chairman of the Managing Board. Annual Shareholders Meeting held in 2016, in accordance with the recommendations of the AFEPMEDEF Code on female representation on Boards. 174 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL PRACTICES 6.1. Corporate Governance 6 6.1.3.2. SUPERVISORY BOARD OPERATING O the purchase, acquisition or sale of any equity interest in any and PROCEDURES all existing or future enterprises directly or indirectly representing an immediate or future investment, expense, debt guarantee or seller’s warranty involving an amount in excess of the ceiling set by 6.1.3.2.1. THE SUPERVISORY BOARD’S ROLES, the Supervisory Board (currently €50 million); RESPONSIBILITIES AND OPERATING O the signature of loan agreements, other than for bond issues, for a PROCEDURES period or an amount in excess of the limits set by the Supervisory Board (currently €100 million). Internal Rules Lastly, guarantees given on behalf of subsidiaries are submitted for In its current version dated 13 March 2012, the Supervisory Board’s Supervisory Board approval when the amount exceeds a certain internal rules define the Board’s roles and responsibilities as follows: level. In 2012, such approval was required for individual guarantees O the Supervisory Board appoints members of the Managing exceeding €25 million, or when the cumulative amount of guarantees Board, and can remove them from office. It determines their given during the year exceeded €125 million (excluding customs and compensation packages; tax bonds). O the Supervisory Board sets the amount of compensation for its The Supervisory Board’s internal rules also set out the following: Chairman and Vice-Chairman or Chairmen and determines the O Supervisory Board information procedures, practices and procedures for allocating attendance fees among its members; guidelines; O in accordance with the law, the Supervisory Board acts as the O the minimum number of Board meetings that must be held per oversight body of the Company, which is administered and year (currently five), as well as the procedures to be applied when managed by the Managing Board. holding the meetings and preparing the agenda; As such, it is therefore responsible for: O the roles and responsibilities of Supervisory Board Committees; O overseeing the Managing Board’s management of the O the procedures for assessing the Board’s performance; Company by performing any checks and controls it deems O the obligations of Board members, particularly the requirement to appropriate, comply with the Stock Market Code of Ethics introduced in 2010, O carrying out periodic controls of the Company’s management which each Board member has signed. (i) on a quarterly basis by reviewing business reports presented by the Managing Board and (ii) within three months of each Stock Market Code of Ethics year-end, by examining and issuing its opinion and comments The Stock Market Code of Ethics sets out the rules on dealings by on the annual financial statements of the Company and Group, Supervisory Board members, non-voting advisers and Managing as presented by the Managing Board, and on the Management Board members in securities issued by Peugeot S.A., Société Report to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting; Foncière, Financière et de Participations (FFP) and Faurecia. The O the Supervisory Board ensures that the strategy proposed and Code provides for preventive measures under which Board members applied by the Managing Board fits with the Group’s long-term can trade in these securities while complying with market integrity vision as defined by the Supervisory Board. It reviews the strategic rules. plan and the various multi-year business plans, as well as the It was updated by the Supervisory Board in 2012, mainly to take capital expenditure plan and the budget. account of the changes introduced in Act 2010-1249 of 22 October The internal rules stipulate that the Supervisory Board is required to 2010 on banking and financial regulation. It has also been extended authorise in advance the following actions by the Managing Board as to cover members of the Executive Committee. provided for in Article 9 of the Company’s bylaws: In particular, the people concerned by the Code are now prohibited O shareholder-approved share issues (whether paid up in cash or by from carrying out any hedging transactions on the Group’s securities, capitalizing retained earnings) and capital reductions; including through the use of options. O any and all issues of ordinary or convertible bonds; Operating Procedures O the drafting of any merger agreements or agreements for the sale of a business; Supervisory Board meetings are prepared as follows. Two weeks O the signature or termination of any manufacturing or sales before the date of meeting, Board members receive the agenda of the agreements representing a future commitment for Peugeot S.A., forthcoming meeting and the draft minutes of the previous meeting. with companies whose corporate purpose is similar or related to In addition to these minutes, each member’s information pack that of Peugeot S.A., and generally the execution of any major contains the presentations to be given for each agenda item, the transaction which substantially alters the scope of the business or minutes of the meetings of the Board Committees and, where the the balance sheet structure of the Company or the Group. meeting involves examining a quarterly business review, the Report of The Managing Board may carry out the following actions only with the Managing Board. The pack also contains the updated agenda for the unanimous backing of all of its members or, failing that, with the the meetings of the Supervisory Board and the Board Committees, prior authorisation of the Supervisory Board: an update of the “blackout periods” during which Board members are prohibited from trading in the Company’s securities (as specified O the purchase, sale, exchange or transfer of any and all operating in the Stock Market Code of Ethics), press articles that have been real estate and businesses in transactions representing an amount published about the Group since the last Board meeting, and any in excess of the ceiling set by the Supervisory Board (currently external financial analyses that have been released. The pack is sent €50 million); to members at the end of the week preceding the planned meeting. A copy of the pack is usually also provided in the meeting itself. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 175 6 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL PRACTICES 6.1. Corporate Governance The members of the Managing Board attend Supervisory Board O 14 February: Peugeot S.A.’s consolidated and individual financial meetings on topics of relevance to them, and the Statutory Auditors statements for the 2011 financial year (in the presence of the attend the meetings where the annual and interim financial statements Statutory Auditors); 2012 action plan (cost-cutting and optimised are examined. investment in the Automobile Division); proposed alliance The agenda for each year’s meetings is prepared in April of the with GM; real-estate disposals plan; sale of stake in GEFCO, preceding year. Ordinary Supervisory Board meetings are generally authorisation for a bond issue under the Euro Medium Term Note preceded by meetings of the Finance and Audit Committee. programme; authorisation to grant guarantees for borrowings by subsidiaries; independence of the Board’s members; evaluation of Ordinary Supervisory Board meetings last at least four hours, but the Board’s performance; may be longer when required by the agenda. Moreover, the Chairman O 27 February: Proposed alliance with GM; authorisation to sign a of the Board may call special meetings where necessary. “Master Agreement”; approval in principle for a capital increase Pursuant to the law, two employee representatives, delegated by the of roughly €1 billion, maintaining preferential subscription rights; Peugeot S.A. Works Council, are invited to attend each meeting of authorisation for the sale of treasury shares to GM; authorisation to the Board in a non-voting capacity. countersign subscription commitments; Managing Board’s report; Registration Document; approval of the report of the Chairman of Two employee representatives are due to join the PSA Peugeot the Supervisory Board; Citroën Supervisory Board at the end of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on 24 April 2013: O 13 March: preparation for the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of 25 April 2012; Managing Board’s report on progress O one as an employee shareholder, since the employees’ stake implementing the alliance with GM; nomination of Board in PSA Peugeot Citroën’ s capital exceeded 3% on 31 December members: Jean-Baptiste de Chatillon, Chief Financial Officer, and 2012; Jean-Christophe Quemard, Vice-President with responsibility for O the other in fulfilment of the undertaking to the French Programmes; adoption of a new version of the Board’s internal Government (one employee representative). rules; Assessment of the Board’s Performance O 24 April: publication of quarterly sales; Managing Board’s report on progress implementing the alliance with GM; authorisation for The Supervisory Board’s internal rules require the Board “to perform the disposal of real-estate assets; authorisation to grant guarantees a regular self-assessment of its operating and control procedures”. for borrowings by subsidiaries; results of the assessment of the In February 2012, the Supervisory Board conducted an annual Board’s operation; upcoming appointment of two independent assessment of its own work and the work performed by its Committees, members to the Board’s Committees (Thierry Pilenko to the based on an individual questionnaire completed by each Board Finance and Audit Committee, and Dominique Reiniche to the member. The main topics addressed by the questionnaire were: Strategy Committee); reappointment of an advisor (François (i) Board membership, (ii) quality of Board meetings, (iii) Board Michelin); Committees, (iv) knowledge of the Group. O 5 June: presentation of financial guidelines by the Managing The improvement suggestions made in 2012 by the Board members Board; were input to a dashboard for monitoring of the following issues: O 11 June: Group’s position with reference to the publication of H1 2012 results; discussions with the Managing Board on O identification of a number of basic issues to be addressed on a the strategic action plan to return the Automobile Division to regular basis (development of automotive technologies and the profitability; competitive environment, social and environmental responsibility O 24 July: H1 2012 results and financial statements (in the presence and ethical practices, amongst others); of the Statutory Auditors); authorisation to grant guarantees for O measures intended to facilitate understanding of sales performance; borrowings by subsidiaries; O changes to the organisation of Board meetings; O 6 September: update on the agreements implementing the alliance O shorter lead times for the provision of documents, and in general, with GM; review of bids for the sale of a majority stake in GEFCO; improvement in the quality of the information provided; O 17 September: authorisation to sign an undertaking to conduct O examination of the composition of the Finance and Audit exclusive negotiations with the JSC RUSSIAN RAILWAYS Committee. (“ RZD”) Group for the sale of 75% of the capital of GEFCO; Of the steps taken in 2012 following this evaluation, we would mention financing of Banque PSA Finance; update on the alliance with GM; (i) more frequent presentations relative to sales performance, on the O 23 October: publication of quarterly sales; financing of Banque basis of stable and relevant comparative data, as well as presentations PSA Finance; Managing Board’s report on the implementation of of planned vehicles and component parts, (ii) amended Board the alliance with GM; meeting organisation, and (iii) the introduction of an induction O 8 November: financing of Banque PSA Finance; process for new members. O 18 December: Managing Board’s report on progress with the implementation of the alliance with GM; authorisation to sign Supervisory Board Meetings in 2012 contracts implementing the Master Agreement; 2013 budget, The Supervisory Board met 13 times in 2012, with an attendance Medium-term Plan; renewal of the annual authorisation to grant rate of 96%. sureties and guarantees; review of equal opportunity and wage Meetings dealt with the following topics in 2012: equality policy; authorisation to issue a guarantee as part of the sale of receivables; proposed co-option of a new Board member. O 5 February: discussions of a strategic alliance with another manufacturer; change in the Company’s credit rating, mediumA long-term strategy meeting was held on 6 June 2013, attended by term plan 2012–2015; all members of the Board. 176 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL PRACTICES 6.1. Corporate Governance 6 6.1.3.2.2. SUPERVISORY BOARD COMMITTEES One of its primary roles is to steer the selection procedure for appointing the Statutory Auditors. The Supervisory Board is supported by the preparatory work performed by four specialised committees: It is also responsible for informing the Board of its opinion on offbalance sheet commitments and any project requiring prior approval O the Finance and Audit Committee, which has six members, three by the Board, notably corporate actions. of whom are independent: Jean-Paul Parayre (Chairman), Marc Friedel, Pamela Knapp, As part of its duty to oversee the effectiveness of internal control Robert Peugeot, Thierry Pilenko and Marie-Hélène Roncoroni; systems, the Committee examines the Internal Audit plan for the coming year and is informed of the findings of the Internal and Risk O the Strategy Committee, which has eight members, five of whom Management Audits performed in implementing the plan. are independent: Robert Peugeot (Chairman), Jean-Paul Parayre, Jean-Philippe The Finance and Audit Committee, which enjoys free access to all Peugeot, Thierry Peugeot, Philippe Reichstul, Dominique the information it needs, meets with the Audit and Risk Management Reiniche, Ernest-Antoine Seillière and Jean-Louis Silvant; Director and with the Statutory Auditors, with or without the O the Appointments and Governance Committee, which has six presence of Managing Board members. members, three of whom are independent: Meetings in 2012 Jean-Philippe Peugeot (Chairman), Thierry Peugeot, Robert Peugeot, Ernest-Antoine Seillière, Jean-Louis Silvant and Geoffroy The Finance and Audit Committee met 12 times in 2012, with an Roux de Bézieux; attendance rate of 97%. O the Compensation Committee, which has six members, four of It reviewed the Group’s 2012 budget, strategic outlook and financing whom are independent: strategy during its meeting of 3 February. Thierry Peugeot (Chairman), Jean-Philippe Peugeot, Geoffroy The Committee reviewed the consolidated and individual financial Roux de Bézieux, Ernest-Antoine Seillière, Jean-Louis Silvant and statements for the 2011 financial year during the meeting held on Joseph Toot Jr. 10 February, with discussions between the Committee members and The role of these Committees is to prepare matters to be discussed at the Statutory Auditors. Supervisory Board meetings.They issue proposals, recommendations During its meeting of 26 February, the Committee thoroughly and opinions on the areas falling within their terms of reference and examined all aspects of the proposed alliance with GM, the proposed submit them to the Supervisory Board at its meetings. capital increase, the asset disposal plan, and the draft Registration Document. It officially recorded the guidelines presented by the The Finance and Audit Committee Managing Board to the effect that the Company would not distribute Membership a dividend for the 2011 financial year. The Finance and Audit Committee comprises six members, who are The meeting on 12 March examined the summary of the 2011 audit appointed in their own name and may not be represented by another plan missions, the mapping of the “Group’s top risks” (as they are party. Three of its members – Jean-Paul Parayre (Chairman), Pamela defined in 2.4.1 below) and the 2012 audit plan. During this meeting Knapp and Thierry PIlenko – are classified as independent in the Committee noted that the Group had strengthened its system to accordance with the criteria applied by the Group. combat fraud and ensure confidentiality of information. It inquired about the conditions for the capital increase and the proposed bond The Board considers that Pamela Knapp’s experience as Chief issue. Financial Officer first of the Siemens AG Group and then of the GfK SE Group have given her specific expertise in financial and The Committee met on 2 and 23 April to review the results for the first accounting matters. quarter and their publication, the impacts of the recommendations of the Strategy Committee and the conditions for implementing the In addition, the Committee’s Chairman, Jean-Paul Parayre, has the asset disposal plan. accounting and financial expertise required to hold this position, acquired during his service within various French ministries and as a The meetings on 16 June and 9 July focused on the financial position senior executive in major French groups. of the Group and of Banque PSA Finance, as well as on the prospects for returning the Group to profitability by 2015. Marie-Hélène Roncoroni, who represents the Company’s main shareholder, has specific knowledge in financial and accounting During the meeting of 23 July, attended by the Statutory Auditors, matters, and also worked for seven years in the Group’s Finance the Committee reviewed the half-yearly financial statements. Department. Meeting on 15 September, the Committee examined the process for the disposal of a majority stake in GEFCO, and on 22 October, it Roles and Responsibilities reviewed the Group’s Q3 results and their publication, as well as the In accordance with Article L. 823-19 of the French Commercial financing of Banque PSA Finance. Code and its internal rules, the Finance and Audit Committee The Committee meeting on 17 December reviewed the draft oversees the following matters: contracts under the Master Agreement with GM, financing of Banque O preparation of financial information; PSA Finance, management of 2012 cash and cash equivalents and O effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems; the 2013 budget. It also examined the summary 2012 audit plan O statutory audit of the Company’s annual financial statements and missions, the mapping of the “Group’s top risks” (as they are defined the Group’s consolidated financial statements; in 2.4.1 below) and the 2013 audit plan. O independence of the Statutory Auditors. The Committee works pursuant to the report of the Working Group on Audit Committees published by the AMF on 22 July 2010. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 177 6 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL PRACTICES 6.1. Corporate Governance The Strategy Committee recommending candidates for appointment or re-appointment, and monitoring succession plans for members of the Managing Board. Membership It is informed about plans to replace certain senior managers. The Committee comprises eight members, appointed in their own name and not as representatives of corporate Supervisory Board It tracks changes in French and European legislation concerning the members. Five of the members – Jean-Paul Parayre, Henri Philippe governance of companies whose shares are traded on a regulated Reichstul, Dominique Reiniche, Ernest-Antoine Seillière, and Jeanmarket, as well as all of the recommendations issued by market Louis Silvant – are classified as independent in accordance with the regulators and representatives of listed companies. It also submits criteria applied by the Group. opinions or recommendations to the Supervisory Board concerning governance issues. Roles and Responsibilities The Appointments and Governance Committee is committed The role of the Strategy Committee is to examine the Group’s to increasing the percentage of women members, in accordance long-term future, reflect on potential avenues of growth and give its with new legal requirements on gender balance (Act 2011-103 of opinion on the Group’s broad strategic vision. 27 January 2011) and based on the guidelines set out in the AFEPMEDEF Corporate Governance Code. It also pursues a selection In this respect, it makes recommendations on the long-term strategic process with a view to reinforcing global skills diversity. plans and the medium-term plan presented by the Managing Board. The Strategy Committee examines all major projects from their Meetings in 2012 outset and is kept informed of the projects’ terms and conditions The Appointments and Governance Committee met 13 times (particularly their financial structure), as well as of any changes and in 2012, with an attendance rate of 99%. developments. During the meeting held on 9 February, the Committee issued In particular, the Committee meets to discuss any project that falls recommendations on the draft resolutions to be submitted to the within the scope of Article 9 of the Company’s bylaws, whereby Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on the appointment of two new the Supervisory Board must approve in advance “the signature or members, the statutory changes to the composition of the Board, termination of any manufacturing or sales agreements representing a and members’ term of office. The Committee also examined the future commitment for Peugeot S.A., with companies whose corporate independence of each Board member during this meeting, according purpose is similar or related to that of Peugeot S.A. and generally the to the independence criteria applied by the Group. It initiated the execution of any major transaction which substantially alters the scope of preliminary preparations in view of the expiry of the Managing the business or the balance sheet structure of the Company or the Group”. Board’s term of office in June 2013, and examined the process for assessing the Board’s performance. Meetings in 2012 Having analysed the Group’s strategic and operating challenges, The Strategy Committee met five times in 2012, with an attendance on 8 March the Committee proposed nominating Jean-Baptiste rate of 97%. Chasseloup de Chatillon and Jean-Christophe Quemard for In 2012, the Committee mainly reviewed preparation and appointment to the Managing Board. It issued a recommendation in development of the strategic alliance with General Motors. In favour of the new version of the Board’s internal regulations. addition to issues around the alliance, the work of the Committee The meeting of 19 April was dedicated to the findings of the assessment covered the Medium-term Plan and related budget (meetings of of the Board’s performance and to the follow-up required. During 23 January, 19 April, 25 September and 6 November), assumptions this meeting, the Committee recommended appointing Dominique for developments in the automotive market (25 September), and Reiniche and Thierry Pilenko to the Board’s Committees, subject to review of the products plan in the framework of the 2013 Cash Flow appointment by the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. It also reviewed Plan (14 December). the organisation of the Managing Board and the target management During the long-term strategy meeting in June, the Committee in the context of the alliance with GM. specifically reviewed brand strategy, improving competitiveness and During its meetings of 18 June, 19 July, 17 September and 4 October, the strategy deployed in Asia, Latin America and Russia. the Committee examined the methods for circulating information The Appointments and Governance Committee between the Group’s operating teams and the Supervisory Board, organisational management in the Group, succession planning Membership for senior managers and the guidelines for a survey on the labour The Appointments and Governance Committee comprises six relations climate in the Company. members, who are appointed in their own name and may not be The meetings of 18 and 22 October were dedicated to reviewing represented by another party. the governance undertakings that could be made to the French Three of the members – Geoffroy Roux de Bézieux, Ernest-Antoine Government, in return for its guarantee, and an assessment of the Seillière and Jean-Louis Silvant – are classified as independent in operation of the Board. accordance with the criteria applied by the Group. During its meetings of 7, 15 and 26 November, the Committee considered the impacts of the appointment of a lead independent Roles and Responsibilities director to the Board. The Appointments and Governance Committee prepares On 13 December, the Committee reviewed the report comparing the Supervisory Board discussions concerning the appointment of general employment conditions and training of men and women in new members of the Supervisory Board and Managing Board, the Company, the process of co-opting Louis Gallois to the Board, by proposing selection criteria, organising the selection process, and the method for the appointment of an employee representative to the Board by the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. 178 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL PRACTICES 6.1. Corporate Governance 6 The Compensation Committee Meetings in 2012 The Compensation Committee met five times in 2012, with an Membership attendance rate of 97%. The Compensation Committee comprises six members, who are In its meetings of 31 January and 9 February, the Committee appointed in their own name and may not be represented by another discussed the bonus for the members of the Managing Board for party. the 2011 financial year and the extent to which objectives were Four of the members – Geoffroy Roux de Bézieux, Ernest-Antoine achieved. It officially recorded that the members of the Managing Seillière, Jean-Louis Silvant and Joseph F. Toot Jr. – are classified as Board waived their bonus payments for the 2011 financial year, and independent in accordance with the criteria applied by the Group. that the Chairman of the Board waived the salary increase granted in February 2011. The Committee formulated proposals for the Board Roles and Responsibilities on 2012 targets, as well as the amount and structure of bonuses for The Compensation Committee prepares Supervisory Board the members of the Managing Board. discussions regarding all aspects of compensation and benefits for The meeting of 8 March discussed the introduction of a longthe: term incentive plan and the amendments to the Board’s internal O members of the Supervisory Board (Board and Committees); regulations. The Committee declared itself in favour of the draft O Chairman and Vice-Chairmen of the Supervisory Board; resolution to be submitted to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on O Chairman and other members of the Managing Board. the allocation of bonus shares, tied to performance conditions, and not in favour of the draft resolution on the allocation of stock options. To fulfil these responsibilities, the Committee stays informed of French and European regulations on executive compensation in During the meeting of 19 April, the Committee examined the listed companies, all market recommendations and practices, levels compensation packages for Jean-Baptiste Chasseloup de Chatillon and forms of compensation of senior executives who are not on and Jean-Christophe Quemard, as well as their individual objectives. the Managing Board, as well as the Managing Board policies for The meeting on 13 December discussed the allocation of attendance reviewing and updating these compensation packages. fees among the members of the Board. 6.1.4. INTERNAL CONTROL PROCEDURES OBJECTIVES OF THE INTERNAL CONTROL issued by the AMF in January 2007, and the Report of the Working SYSTEM Group on Audit Committees published by the AMF on 22 July 2010. Banque PSA Finance has a specific system that complies with CRBF As part of its commitment to preventing and limiting the effect of regulation 97-02 concerning the internal control systems of credit internal and external risks, risk management and internal control institutions. systems are in place to provide reasonable assurance concerning the achievement of the following objectives: O compliance with laws and regulations; INTERNAL CONTROL PRINCIPLES O application of the Managing Board’s instructions and strategic PSA Peugeot Citroën’s internal control system was designed with guidelines; four key goals in mind: O efficient internal processes, particularly those that help to safeguard the assets of Group companies; O to reflect the Group’s strategic objectives, which are to be a global, O reliable financial reporting. profitable, independent company that ranks among the world’s leading broadline automobile manufacturers: More generally, these procedures and processes also contribute to the O the entire process is designed to proactively identify the risks proficient management of the Group’s businesses, the effectiveness capable of affecting the Group over the medium to long term, of its operations and the efficient use of its resources. O all of the Group’s companies are involved in the process, managing risks and ensuring internal control compliance in all of their operations, RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL O the process focuses on Action Plans and outcomes, with a FRAMEWORK USED BY PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN constant view to supporting operating efficiency, The risk management and internal control framework is compliant O the process is underpinned by compliance with applicable laws with and operates according to the rules of the eight EU Directive and regulations, exemplary behaviour and ethical practices, on legal oversight of financial statements, the reference framework which the Group believes to be essential to responsible growth; PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 179 6 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL PRACTICES 6.1. Corporate Governance O managing all the risks inherent to their business in each department, Secretary meets on a quarterly basis. An international network of through appropriate internal control procedures; Chief Ethics Officers deploys the process in every host country O specifically identifying the major risks (“Top Risks”) to which and systematically reports to the Ethics Committee any local the Group is exposed in order to implement relevant risk ethical issues or breaches of compliance. management Action Plans, with reporting to the highest Executive The Ethics Committee is responsible for overseeing a fraud Committee level; prevention system and has tasked the Group’s Security Department O making the system auditable based on quality indicators. with managing the system, carrying out investigations, monitoring and reporting incidents. The Security Department, which reports to the Corporate PARTICIPANTS AND PROCESSES Secretary, is responsible for defining and coordinating on a global basis all actions intended to protect the employees and tangible There is an overall set of security processes that contribute to the and intangible assets of the Group (except for Faurecia) against Group’s risk management system. the risks arising from malicious acts of all kinds. O The Group’s organisation and operating procedures, as The Legal Affairs Department, which reports to the Corporate defined by Senior Management, are set out in a number Secretary, is responsible for preparing or verifying the Group’s of reference handbooks that form a working framework contractual commitments and ensuring their legal and regulatory applicable to everyone. compliance. It is also in charge of organising the Group’s defence They include the Organisation Handbook and the Operating in the event of disputes with third parties. In this way, it helps Procedures Handbook, which are expanded and updated regularly. to limit and manage the Group’s exposure to legal risks as an These handbooks describe the procedures to follow, the division of employer, a designer and distributor of vehicles, a purchaser of responsibilities and the rules to be applied by all employees, in all components and a provider of services. of their day-to-day business activities. The Management Control Department, which reports to the In addition, each department has its own operating manual Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for overseeing the Group’s describing its operating procedures and processes as well as business and financial performance and proposes annual and interfaces with the other departments. medium-term targets for growth, operating margin and return on All these general and department-specific guidelines are available capital employed to Senior Management. It oversees the process on an intranet site dedicated to the Group’s Excellence System. of preparing the medium-term plan and the budget guidelines. It Based on lean management principles and a culture of continuous prepares annual budgets, updated forecasts and monthly estimates improvement, this system structures the Group’s organisation, in conjunction with the various business divisions in order to management and working methods, thereby enabling the measure and track actual performance against targets. It controls development of formal standards. the results of the operating departments and the Group’s projects, and produces summary reports. In addition, it carries out other O The risk-management system is deployed across all Group financial tasks, particularly for the automotive business, such departments. as product costings, selling price control, project profitability Each department oversees management and control of the risks control, financial monitoring of industrial cooperation with other to which it is exposed, in accordance with the relevant Operating automakers, negotiations for mergers, acquisitions and disposals, Rule, embedding risk management in its day-to-day operating and drawing up formal management rules and standards. procedures. Risk is identified and measured by the departments, O The Audit and Risk Management Department’s control taking into account existing management systems and introducing over the proper application of these general and specific risk Action Plans to address weaknesses where necessary. management procedures. O The Audit and Risk Management Department steers the risk The Audit and Risk Management Department conducts audits management process and oversees efficient application of to ensure that operating procedures are observed and that all risk control systems. general and specific risk management procedures are applied The main risks for each department, with the highest impact and Group-wide. The annual audit plan is drawn up independently, criticality (impact x probability) and which are considered to be based on the “Top Group Risks”. It is submitted to the Executive insufficiently controlled by the systems in place are covered by Committee for approval and presented to the Supervisory Board’s half-yearly reporting on specific “Top Department Risks” to Finance and Audit Committee. The Audit and Risk Management the Corporate Secretary, via the Audit and Risk Management Department is also responsible for assessing the degree of maturity Department. of the risk management system and making recommendations for In addition to this departmental view, the Audit and Risk improving its effectiveness. 107 audits were conducted in 2012 Management Department identifies the Group’s chief cross-sector across the entire Group. risks (top cross-sector risks) on an annual basis, during interviews O The Supervisory Board’s control and oversight role. with a representative sample of the Group’s senior executives and The Finance and Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board managers. Action Plans to address relevant risks are then decided ensures that the risk management and internal control system on and applied. operates effectively. The Corporate Secretary reports to the The “Top Group Risks” (top department risks and top crossSupervisory Board on the systems in place and their degree of sector risks) are reviewed twice a year by the Executive Committee. maturity, as well as the risk map, with particular emphasis on O Specific risk management and control procedures cover risks capable of having an impact on the Company’s financial and specific risks. accounting information. The Group’s Code of Ethics was updated and expanded in 2010. The Board also reviews the Internal Audit Department’s It is directly available to all employees through the Intranet portal. organisational and operating principles, expresses an opinion on All senior executives are required to formally accept the terms the Internal Audit plan and is informed of the findings of (i) the of the Code. An Ethics Committee chaired by the Corporate Internal Audits performed as part of the plan and (ii) the follow-up 180 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL PRACTICES 6.2. Direct economic value distributed Y 6 audits to check that the recommendations have been implemented. BANQUE PSA FINANCE As mentioned in section 1.2.3.1 above, a Finance and Audit Committee meeting dedicated to the efficacy of the internal In line with CRBF regulation 97-02, dealing with internal control control and risk management system was held in March 2012 to systems of credit institutions, the bank’s internal control system is pursue this objective. organised around two lines of responsibility for recurring controls The Finance and Audit Committee may also be asked by the and periodic controls and the first-tier controls performed by the Managing Board, the head of Audit and Risk Management, or operating units. the Statutory Auditors to review any event exposing the Group to The fundamental principles underpinning the organisation and significant risk. implementation of internal control are set out in the bank’s internal control charter that describes the system’s organisation, resources, scope, missions and processes, as well as the operation of the bank’s controls. 6.2. DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED Y 6.2.1. PAYMENTS TO CAPITAL PROVIDERS PERFORMANCE OF THE PEUGEOT S.A. SHARE VERSUS THE CAC 40 INDEX AND THE FTSEUROFIRST 300 AUTOS & PARTS INDEX Base 100 200 150 100 50 0 J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D 2010 2011 2012 UG FP Equity CAC Index E3AUTO Index PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 181 6 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL PRACTICES 6.2. Direct economic value distributed Y The Peugeot S.A. share declined by 48.2% in 2012, ending the year at €5.47. (This compared with decreases of +15.2% in the CAC 40 Track the Peugeot S.A. share price in real time at index and of +39.1% in the FTSEurofirst 300 Autos & Parts index www.psa-peugeot-citroen.com. over the year). DIVIDEND HISTORY 2010 2011 2012 Net dividend per share (in euros) 1.10 0 0* * Subject to shareholder approval at the 24 April 2013 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. In the light of the 2012 results, at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on 24 April 2013 the Managing Board will recommend that no dividend be paid in respect of 2011. TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN (TSR) (Consolidated Group, including Faurecia) TSR compared with 31 December TSR compared with of the previous year 31 December 1999 31 December 2012 -54.82% -48.09% 31 December 2011 -57.37% -30.42% 31 December 2010 +24.67% +12.96% Total shareholder return (TSR) corresponds to the unrealised capital gain on a share plus dividends received at a given date, divided by the purchase price of the share. FINANCE COSTS (Consolidated Group, including Faurecia) (in million euros) 2010 2011 2012 Interest on borrowings* (395) (245) (374) Interest on bank overdrafts (25) (32) (30) Interest on finance lease liabilities (20) (20) (30) Foreign exchange gain/(loss) on financial transactions (8) (25) (15) Other (7) (9) (7) TOTAL (455) (331) (442) RETAINED EARNINGS Information concerning the appropriation of income for the year may be found in the third resolution submitted to shareholders at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, as presented in the Notice of Meeting. The Notice of Meeting may be found on the PSA Peugeot Citroën website. 182 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL PRACTICES 6.2. Direct economic value distributed Y 6 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED 2012 N.B.: the scope of value distributed no longer includes GEFCO, which was sold in 2012. Faurecia was also excluded from the scope to concentrate reporting on economic value distributed in the Automobile and Banking Divisions. 2011 2012 Revenue (in million euros) 44,369 39,986 (in million (as a % (in million (as a % Distributions euros) of revenue) euros) of revenue) Capital expenditure + R&D (1) 4,202 9.5% 3,843 9.6% (2) Public sector 1,131 2.5% 1,063 2.7% Employees (3) 440 1.0% 261 0.7% (4) Shareholders 250 0.6% 0 0.0% (1) Gross R&D, excluding research tax credit and subsidies. (2) Corporate income tax, customs duties, etc. 2010 and 2011 updated on the basis of actuals. (3) Discretionary and non-discretionary profit-sharing plans, variable bonuses and raises (3.1% on average in 2012). (4) Dividends paid to the shareholders of Peugeot S.A. for the previous year. Moreover, the value distributed for community investment amounted to nearly €5.25 million in 2012 (see section 4.2). It includes the corporate projects supported by the Group, the initiatives led by the Peugeot and Citroën brands, the Local Social Responsibility Plans deployed by the sites, and the budget allocated by the PSA Peugeot Citroën Foundation to qualified projects. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE RECEIVED FROM GOVERNMENTS (Automobile Division) A total of €101 million in financial assistance received from governments in Europe was recognized in income for 2012, versus €104 million for 2011, the impact of which is distributed against profit/(loss) and investments. 6.2.2. REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS OF CORPORATE OFFICERS 6.2.2.1. MANAGING BOARD COMPENSATION The incentive bonuses for the Managing Board for 2012 were determined as follows: the Chairman of the Managing Board is entitled to an incentive bonus representing up to 150% of his annual COMPENSATION POLICY base salary. Of the total, 20% represents an exceptional bonus that The compensation paid to each Managing Board member may be awarded by the Supervisory Board based on its assessment is determined by the Supervisory Board after reviewing the of the Chairman’s performance in heading the Group and the recommendations of the Compensation and Appointments other 130% is awarded based on the attainment of clearly defined Committee. objectives. For the other Managing Board members, the incentive bonus represents up to 110% of their annual base salary, of which up The annual compensation paid to Managing Board members includes to 10% represents an exceptional bonus that may be awarded by the a base salary and an incentive bonus based on the achievement of a Supervisory Board based on its assessment of their performance and certain number of qualitative and quantitative objectives. 100% is based on the attainment of clearly defined objectives. Their incentive bonuses are calculated at the beginning of each year, In other words, apart from the exceptional bonus, the incentive based on performance in relation to shared and personal objectives. bonus is paid only when certain performance targets are met. Also at the beginning of the year, the Supervisory Board sets objectives for each Managing Board member for the current year. The members of the Managing Board are assigned both shared and personal objectives: 2012 COMPENSATION O The portion of the incentive bonus corresponding to shared objectives represents a maximum of 90% of base salary for the For 2012, annual base salaries remained unchanged at €1,300,000 Chairman of the Managing Board and 75% for the other members. for the Chairman of the Managing Board, and at €618,000 for the These are quantitative objectives and concern: other members of the Managing Board. Grégoire Olivier, who is O consolidated recurring operating income (representing 20% based in China, also received a distance allowance corresponding to for the Chairman of the Managing Board and 15% for the half of his salary on an annualised basis. other members), PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 183 6 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL PRACTICES 6.2. Direct economic value distributed Y O Automobile Division recurring operating income (representing The additional benefits comprise a fixed portion equivalent to 30% 20% for the Chairman of the Managing Board and 15% for the of the reference compensation and an additional 2% of the reference other members), compensation per year of service with the Group, up to a maximum O free cash flow* of the Group’s manufacturing and sales 20%. To be entitled to this additional pension benefit, a member companies (representing 20% for the Chairman of the must have served as a senior executive of the Group (as defined in Managing Board and 15% for the other members), the plan) for at least five years and must end his or her career with the Group. O the Automobile Division Performance Plan (representing 15% for the Chairman of the Managing Board and the other For the Members of the Managing Board Appointed members), from 1 January 2010 O occupational safety (representing 5% for the Chairman of the A new system was introduced for new members of governing bodies Managing Board and the other members), on 1 January 2010. O vehicle quality and customer service (representing 10% for the The following terms and conditions apply to future Managing Chairman of the Managing Board and the other members). Board members: the reference compensation shall correspond to the The achievement level for each of the objectives is calculated average of their base salary for the last three years in their position based on accounting data or information provided by external plus a percentage equal to the average of the ratios of their incentive organisations. The required achievement levels were determined bonus/base salary for the eight years preceding their retirement from precisely, in relation to the corresponding budget items. the PSA Peugeot Citroën Group. O The portion of the incentive bonus corresponding to personal The additional benefits comprise a fixed portion equivalent to objectives represents a maximum of 40% of base salary for the 20% of the reference compensation and an additional 1.75% of the Chairman of the Managing Board and 25% for the other members. reference compensation per year of service with the Group, up to These individual objectives – which relate to each member’s a maximum 30%. The overall pension benefits payable under all individual executive responsibilities – include for 2012 criteria plans (statutory and supplementary) shall be capped at 50% of the such as implementing the 2012 cost-cutting plan, improved benchmark salary and at 29 times the annual ceiling used for social profitability of operations, the performance of vehicle projects security contributions. To be a beneficiary of the plan, a member and inventory control. Detailed objectives (relating to current must have served as a senior executive of the Group (as defined in operating income, market share, volumes etc.) are associated with the plan) for at least eight years and end his or her career with the most of these criteria. Group to be entitled to this pension benefit. O No bonus was paid to the Managing Board for 2012. This plan complies with the recommendations of the applicable 2013 COMPENSATION AFEP-MEDEF Code. Table 10 of section 15.3 of the Registration Document presents the Group’s pension obligations under this For 2013, the base salaries of the Chairman and members of the supplementary pension plan for each member of the Managing Managing Board will remain unchanged and no bonus will be paid. Board. Total compensation for the members of the Managing Board for 2012 was determined taking the benefits of this supplementary PENSION BENEFITS UNDER AN INSURED PLAN pension plan into account. In 2002, the Group set up a “top-hat” defined benefit pension plan for senior Group executives with insurance company Axa France EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS Vie. The eligibility criteria and the applicable terms and conditions No member of the Managing Board is a salaried employee of the are set out in the plan. Group. The employment contracts of Jean-Baptiste Chasseloup de Chatillon and Jean-Christophe Quemard were suspended on their For the Members of the Managing Board appointment. at 1 January 2010 For current Managing Board members, the top hat plan guarantees a level of pension benefit in the aggregate for all plans (statutory and supplementary) equal to up to 50% of the reference compensation, taken to be the average of the three highest gross annual compensation (including incentive bonus) received over the last five years with the Group. * Net cash generated by the operating activities of manufacturing and sales companies – excluding Banque PSA Finance – in 2012, less net cash used in investing activities. 184 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL PRACTICES 6.3. Ethical practices 6 STOCK OPTIONS/PERFORMANCE SHARE GRANTS 6.2.2.2. SUPERVISORY BOARD None of the members of the Managing Board was granted any COMPENSATION stock options or performance shares in 2012. In accordance with the Supervisory Board members and advisors are paid annual attendance undertakings made by the Group in the framework of the financial fees up to an aggregate amount determined in advance by the Annual guarantee granted by the French government backing issues by Shareholders’ Meeting. Pursuant to the decision of the Peugeot S.A. Banque PSA Finance, the Board decided not to grant stock options Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of 31 May 2011, this amount has or bonus shares to the members of the Managing Board for the been set at €1,000,000 until further notice. duration of the State guarantee. In 2012, €40,000 was allocated to each member of the Supervisory The Managing Board members who have received stock options Board and €20,000 to each advisor. The members of the Supervisory since 2007 are subject to lock-up rules and are prohibited from using Board Committees were paid an additional €15,000, with the hedging instruments. Chairmen of the Strategy Committee, the Appointments and To the best of the Company’s knowledge, none of these options have Governance Committee and the Compensation Committee receiving been covered by a hedging instrument. The Stock Market Code an additional €20,000 and the Chairman of the Finance and Audit of Ethics bans corporate officers from entering into any hedging Committee €30,000. transactions on the Company’s shares, including shares receivable on The Chairman of the Supervisory Board waived the increase in exercise of stock options. his compensation voted by the Supervisory Board on 8 February Details of stock option plans in effect at 31 December 2012 are 2011 and therefore received compensation of €425,000 for 2012, presented in note 26.3 to the consolidated financial statements in unchanged since 2002. Each Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory section 20 of the Registration Document. Table 5 in section 15 of Board received €40,000. the Registration Document shows that none of these options were No benefits in kind have been awarded to Supervisory Board exercised by corporate officers during the 2012 financial year. members, with the exception of a company car provided for the Chairman. the Company reimburses the expenses incurred by the OTHER BENEFITS Supervisory Board members living abroad. Details on the different The only benefit in kind provided to Managing Board members is a types of compensation, commitments and benefits granted to company car. Supervisory Board members in respect of 2012 are presented in section 15 of the 2012 Registration Document. No other commitments have been given to past or present Managing Board members concerning any other benefits to be paid when they Thierry Peugeot, Jean-Philippe Peugeot, Robert Peugeot and cease to be a member. Details of the different types of compensation, Marie-Hélène Roncoroni also receive compensation for working or commitments and benefits granted to Managing Board members in holding corporate offices in the Peugeot family’s companies. Details respect of their office in 2012 are presented in section 15 of the 2012 regarding this compensation are provided in the Foncière, Financière Registration Document. et de Participations (FFP) Management Report. 6.3. ETHICAL PRACTICES PSA Peugeot Citroën’s corporate culture is based on respect compiled in the Group’s Code of Ethics and organised around the and responsibility, reflecting the history of the Group and of its following standards of ethical conduct: Peugeot and Citroën brands. This ethical outlook is formalised by O respect for the law; policies, international agreements (Global Framework Agreement) O respect for people; or by adhering to international guidelines. It is reaffirmed in the strategic vision statement unveiled in 2009, which is grounded in a O respect for the environment; commitment to responsible growth. O respect for customers; O respect for the Company. This vision is evidenced in the collective commitments to customers, employees, shareholders, partners, the community and other The Group’s ethical practices are founded on three core factors: stakeholders. To fulfil these commitments, everyone in the corporate a revised and supplemented Code of Ethics, ethical governance community must comply with shared ethical guidelines, which are and a structured system of escalating information, warnings and monitoring, and a rigorous deployment process. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 185 6 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL PRACTICES 6.3. Ethical practices 6.3.1. THE CODE OF ETHICS G.40 A NEW CODE OF ETHICS STRUCTURED MANAGEMENT LEADERSHIP In 2010, PSA Peugeot Citroën emphasised the importance of ethical Roll-out of the new Code of Ethics was supported by a robust practices by deploying a new, expanded Code of Ethics. This is a part cascading process, with extensive involvement by managers at every of the six key areas of the Group’s policy. level. In 2010, executives and senior managers, including the senior O Comprising 16 rules of ethical conduct, the Code is designed executive team, were requested to demonstrate their commitment to to provide employees with updated guidelines that reflect the the rules by completing an electronic questionnaire and personally Company’s business, social and environmental responsibilities. Its signing the Code. They also agreed to cascade the Code down to summarised form means it is easy to read and understand quickly. their teams and to promote its principles. Translated into 17 languages, the Code applies to all the Group’s This buy-in process, based on the electronic questionnaire and subsidiaries, including BPF, with the exception of Faurecia, which personal sign-off, was deployed among managers, from 2011, and has its own Code of Ethics. continued in 2012. Cascaded deployment in France took place to The Code of Ethics and its explanatory handbook, “Applying the April 2012, with each new wave targeting the next reporting level Code of Ethics on a Daily Basis”, is available for download by down within the Group, in a process intended to ensure that all employees from the corporate Intranet. It is part of the onboarding employees are included and embrace the Code, and that supervisory package given to all new hires. and management personnel are motivated up to the highest level of O “Compliance with the Code of Ethics” operating procedure in Top Management. the Group’s procedure manual governs the running of the Group At year-end 2012, 20,420 employees in 22 countries had been trained and applies to all employees. Available on the corporate Intranet, it in the Code via the questionnaire, which has now been translated sets out employees’ and managers’ practical ethical obligations, the into 17 languages, and had formally embraced it with their personal actions to take and the channels to follow if they have a question sign-off. Close monitoring of the process took place in departments or if they observe any breach of the Group’s ethical principles, and businesses considered to be more at risk of fraud or corruption: as well as the roles of the various bodies. In particular, it states Purchasing (684 signatories), brands (6,276 signatories), Finance that divisions and corporate departments must follow formal (432 signatories), BPF (970 signatories). procedures in managing ethical issues and must meet at least twice In addition, an Ethics Committee was created in 2010, which reports a year to assess their corporate ethical practices. directly to the Executive Committee. It is chaired by the Corporate This rule includes detailed guidelines concerning fraud, antiSecretary, and also includes the Executive Vice-President of Human competitive behaviour and corruption, which comply in particular Resources and Quality and the head of Audit and Risk Management. with the United Kingdom’s Bribery Act, which came into effect It held six meetings in 2011, its first year, and met quarterly in 2012. in 2011, as well as the Company’s commitments to combating It is supported by an international network of Chief Ethics Officers, corruption (the Global Framework Agreement on social who deploy the process in every host country and systematically report responsibility). It is based on the “operation of the fraud prevention to the Ethics Committee any local issues or breaches of compliance. mechanism” introduced in 2012 in the Group.. Roll-out of the Code of Ethics will continue in the Asia and the recently created Russia-Ukraine Divisions in 2013. Coordination in the Asia and Russia Divisions is already led by a Chief Ethics Officer, a Fraud Detection Manager and Local Security Managers. 6.3.2. PREVENTING FRAUD, CORRUPTION AND ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR G.40 The system to guarantee fair practices and prevent fraud and O the separation of powers and multiple signatures depending on the corruption is based on a set of shared Group principles: amount of the transaction; O the involvement of every employee; O careful selection of partners. O an analysis of risks and the definition of processes to control them; The prevention system is built upon three pillars: a structured O the traceability of every transaction; compliance governance system, well-known and easily accessible reference documents and a disciplined deployment process. 186 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL PRACTICES 6.3. Ethical practices 6 THE COMPLIANCE GOVERNANCE SYSTEM METHODS FOR HANDLING ETHICAL ISSUES Governance procedures for ethical compliance are clearly described O Questions about ethical issues are handled as follows: in the “Compliance with the Code of Ethics” operating procedure: O employees should first refer to their manager for guidance; O the Ethics Committee, chaired by the Corporate Secretary, O employees noticing behaviour or a situation in breach of the comprises the Executive Vice-President, Human Resources and Code of Ethics have several options available to them. They Quality and the Head of Risk Management and Internal Audit. can refer the matter to their manager, human resources It meets every quarter and is responsible for: manager, a member of the Executive Committee or directly to O ensuring that ethical practices are properly deployed and the Ethics Committee; applied (updating the Code and operating handbooks, tracking O any manager informed by an employee of a violation of the deployment, and analysing and responding to compliance Code must report this information through one of these same cases and questions submitted by employees), channels. O tracking external trends and factors, such as new risks, O A whistleblowing system using a dedicated Intranet site has emerging stakeholder expectations and new legislation, been introduced in Latin America. In this region, a local Ethics O deploying and tracking the fraud prevention mechanism. Committee handles cases of non-compliance in Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Mexico, in close liaison with the Group Ethics If a case of non-compliance poses a major risk to the Company, Committee. A whistleblowing system is also in place in the United the Committee alerts the Managing Board, which then decides Kingdom, as well as at Banque PSA Finance, in accordance with whether to inform the Supervisory Board’s Finance and Audit legislation. Committee; O the Ethics Committee is supported by a global network of A strengthened fraud prevention system was established in 2012 in 12 Chief Ethics Officers covering the regions in which the Group the Group’s Automobile Division (BPF has its own system), with operates and tasked with ensuring local compliance with ethical responsibility assigned to the Ethics Committee, which has tasked principles. They systematically report to the Ethics Committee the Group’s Security Department (one of the entities reporting to any local issues or breaches of compliance and assess the need to the Group’s Corporate Secretary) with managing it, carrying out directly alert the Committee on a case-by-case basis. investigations, monitoring and reporting incidents. The system is The Ethics Committee is also responsible for overseeing a built around prevention, detection, investigation, treatment and fraud prevention system and has tasked the Group’s Security continuous improvement processes: Department with managing it, carrying out investigations, O prevention and dissuasion are ensured at departmental level, in monitoring and reporting incidents; compliance with at least the Group’s internal control systems: valid O the Departments and their managers in particular are responsible authorisations and powers of attorney, principles of separation for assessing fraud risks and their departmental corporate ethical of tasks, two signatures, best practices for controlling access to practices. They are accountable for the application of the Code of information systems, etc.; Ethics within their sphere and for implementing the appropriate O the Group Security Department relies on a network of 12 Fraud systems to address the levels of risk identified. At least twice a year, Detection Managers, one in each department, and 50 local Security each division or corporate department holds a meeting to review Managers in the Group’s entities to oversee fraud detection; and encourage compliance with the Group’s ethical principles. O investigations are overseen by the Security Department, while As part of this process, it identifies its exposure to risks of fraud, decisions and/or sanctions are implemented by the department’s corruption or anti-competitive practices and submits the resulting operating manager; risk map and corresponding Action Plans to the Audit and Risk O in terms of remedial measures and the continuous improvement Management Department for consolidation. In accordance with process, cases of fraud are analysed by the Security Department the principle of clearly separating work and political activities, and the Audit and Risk Management Department focusing on divisions that manage production, R&D or office facilities define preventing recurrence, enhancing swift detection of impacts and their procedures for managing on-site visits by politicians; remedying weaknesses in the system. O the Audit and Risk Management Department has responsibility for the practical roll-out of procedures, confirming and analysing any occurrences of fraud or corruption that may arise. Each audit RESOURCES of a site or a subsidiary includes a section analysing this risk; O during the annual presentation of the ethical compliance In 2012, no less than 74 managers (excluding auditors) across the process to the Supervisory Board, a separate section is Group’s activities, entities and regions provided optimum cover of dedicated to measures taken to prevent fraud, corruption and the Group; they are specifically tasked with alerting and informing anti-competitive behaviour. the Ethics Committee about instances of fraud and ensuring monitoring of actions plans. The warning system is reinforced in the Group’s UK subsidiaries by whistleblowing arrangements using email. Moreover, CSR audits are conducted at suppliers by the Purchasing Departments (some 50 audits completed since 2010), systematically including an audit of anti-corruption policy and practices; PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 187 6 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL PRACTICES 6.3. Ethical practices LATIN AMERICA O Banque PSA Finance: the Internal Control Charter and AntiMoney Laundering Procedure, In this region, an existing local Ethics Committee handles cases of non-compliance related to the activities of PSA Peugeot Citroën in O Purchasing Department: Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Mexico, in close liaison with the Group • preliminary reviews of suppliers in countries deemed at risk, Ethics Committee. The Chief Ethics Officer for the region reports to • CSR audits of suppliers (around 50 conducted since 2010); the Group’s Corporate Secretary and participates in the work of the audits of anti-corruption practices and policies, Latin American Ethics Committee, with a member seconded by the O Latin American Division: a local Ethics Committee and webAudit and Risk Management Department. based whistleblowing process. A whistleblowing system using a dedicated Intranet site was also introduced in the region, providing inputs to the local Ethics Committee and the Group Ethics Committee. DEPLOYMENT PROCESS O To employees: REFERENCE DOCUMENTS O in 2012, 5,281 hours of training in ethical practices and in preventing corruption and conflicts of interest were attended The system to prevent fraud, corruption and anti-competitive by 9,128 or more employees; among these employees, 397 behaviour is an integral part of our ethics commitment. Practices were identified as being particularly concerned by these issues in each area are governed by principles formalised in the following and were offered an additional 916 hours of more in-depth reference documents: training; O documents committing the Group with regard to stakeholders: O 1,817 employees attended training on equal opportunities, The Global Framework Agreement on Social Responsibility diversity and anti-discrimination (11,196 training hours). was renewed in May 2010. Anti-corruption is one of the 11,423 hours of training, dispensed to 9,050 employees, 15 commitments of this agreement. Signed with the International addressed compliance with internal rules, the global framework Metalworkers’ Federation (IMF), the European Metalworkers’ agreement and IT regulations; Federation (EMF) and more than 90 unions around the world, O the e-questionnaire used in the Code of Ethics buy-in process the Agreement applies to 127 subsidiaries in 33 host countries. from July 2011 to end-2012 includes questions that raise Compliance is regularly tracked, with consolidation of the awareness of fraud, corruption and competitive issues. The associated Action Plans; corruption-related questions were expanded as part of the O employee documents: Group’s response to passage of the Bribery Act 2010 in the O rules 1, 11, 12 and 16 of the Code of Ethics specify guidelines UK. As of 31 December 2012, 20,420 employees had used to avoid anti-competitive practices and corruption, prevent the questionnaire to formally embrace the Code of Ethics and conflicts of interest, limit gifts and maintain a clear separation 22 countries had participated in the process; between work and political activities. At the same time, O all PSA Peugeot Citroën employees are required to be familiar Applying the Code of Ethics on a Daily Basis offers examples and comply with applicable national or European laws and of situations and appropriate behaviour in these areas. The regulations in the performance of their duties.Targeted training Code of Ethics is part of the orientation kit systematically in preventing anti-competitive behaviour and corruption will given to every new hire, be rolled out in 2013 by the Group’s Legal Affairs Department O the “Compliance with the Code of Ethics” procedure is the in the departments most particularly concerned by these issues; foundation of all of our operating procedures. It includes O under the terms of the Global Framework Agreement on detailed guidelines concerning fraud, anti-competitive Social Responsibility, PSA Peugeot Citroën is committed behaviour and corruption, which comply in particular with to fighting against all forms of corruption and avoiding the UK Bribery Act; conflicts of interest. Every employee has been informed of this O supplier documents: commitment and made aware of its importance. These same issues are covered in the Supplier Guidelines for PSA O To suppliers: Peugeot Citroën’s Corporate Social Responsibility Standards; PSA Peugeot Citroën insists that suppliers also comply with its O documents for corporate officers: procedures to prevent corruption and avoid conflicts of interest. O to complete the process of preventing insider trading, a These same issues are covered in the “Supplier Guidelines for PSA Stock Market Code of Ethics applicable to members of the Peugeot Citroën’s Corporate Social Responsibility Standards”. Supervisory Board, non-voting advisors and members of the Purchasing directives have also been defined to discourage corrupt Managing Board was introduced in 2010, practices. O a second Stock Market Code of Ethics was introduced in O Control and verification: April 2012 applicable to the members of the Executive O the separation of powers and, in the area of management Committee, control, the need for two or three signatures, depending on the O in addition to this general system and the Group’s reference type of commitment and amount of the transaction, help to documents, other procedures have been introduced in certain limit and detect possible acts of fraud or corruption; corporate departments depending on the identified risks or O the prevention, control and supervision system is built around particular legislation; the following departments and units: O examples include: • the Group Security Department defines the resources to O UK subsidiaries: the Conflict of Interest and Anti-Bribery be deployed, in particular to prevent fraud and corruption, Policy introduced after passage of the UK Bribery Act, 188 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL PRACTICES 6.3. Ethical practices 6 • the Audit and Risk Management Department consolidates, BANQUE PSA FINANCE assesses and prioritises Group risks and reports its findings to senior management, Banque PSA Finance is subject to banking regulations governing the • the Group Audit Department verifies that the processes resources and actions of its Internal Control Department. are actually applied and confirms and analyses any cases Pursuant to standard regulation CRBF 97-02 of 21 February 1997, of fraud or corruption. Each audit of a site or a subsidiary BPF established an internal control system addressing the main includes a section analysing this risk, risks to which all credit institutions are exposed, and introducing the • management controllers verify the nature of the services following procedures in particular as part of its internal control and provided, their actual provision and the consistency of ethics policies: accounts. O an Internal Control Charter, setting out the basic organisational O The Ethics Committee is informed by the Chief Ethics Officers of and operating principles of its internal control system, with the any suspected cases of non-compliance and, if need be, alerts the widest possible dissemination, which is available for consultation Managing Board and presents an annual review of the process to on the Bank’s Intranet site. The Charter specifies and explains the the Supervisory Board. principles of the separation of tasks and prevention of conflicts of interest. For example, the process of allocating access rights to the IN 2012 information system for employees or service providers incorporates a system to verify that there are no conflicts between the various The Ethics Committee met six times in 2011, the first year of permissions granted. Each entity in the BPF Group must ensure operation, and four times in 2012, according to a quarterly schedule. compliance with the principles of the separation of tasks and prevention of conflicts of interest when preparing and revising its instructions, procedures and authorisations and as part of all CASES OF CONFLICT OF INTEREST reviews of its organisation. The Operating Risk Control entities are tasked with ensuring the prevention and early treatment of risk There were no major cases of conflict of interest reported in 2012. through a process of identification, assessment, monitoring and control; O a system to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing is CASES OF CORRUPTION in place in BPF. It is based on a framework procedure rolled out locally, controls targeting the risks identified for each operating There were no convictions for corruption in 2012. procedure, and reporting tools enabling the Central Compliance Department to oversee application of the Group’s policy and to monitor Action Plans as required. CASES OF ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR The system can focus on tools to detect people who are exposed politically, in accordance with regulatory provisions, and, where There were no major convictions for breaches of competition rules necessary, tools to improve aspects of customer relations, especially in 2012. Peugeot Turkey Popas was fined €6,098,648 in 2011 and with regard to identifying the provenance of funds. Banque PSA has appealed the ruling. The appeal is ongoing. Finance also introduced an automated system to detect people whose assets have been frozen and ensure no business is conducted with such customers. Internal training in measures to counter money-laundering and the financing of terrorism is targeted at employees according to their level of risk exposure; O in addition to the systems and procedures described above, BPF operates a professional alert system whereby any employee can report occurrences of non-compliance to the Central Compliance Manager. In the framework of strict adherence to the rules set by an ad hoc internal procedure and the imperatives of confidentiality, this alert system is part of the Bank’s general drive to prevent internal fraud and conflicts of interest. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 189 6 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL PRACTICES 6.3. Ethical practices 6.3.3. TRANSPARENCY AND INTEGRITY OF INFLUENCE STRATEGIES AND PRACTICES PSA Peugeot Citroën’s lobbying strategies and practices are guided The resources dedicated to the Group’s lobbying activities in Europe by the Code of Ethics and governed by specific written procedures are published in the EU Transparency Register, under reference and the Group’s operating procedures. 399 008 07 417-87. The Group does not make financial contributions to political parties. PUBLIC POLICIES AND LOBBYING POSITIONS ORGANISATION OF THE LOBBYING PROCESS In Europe, a dedicated Public Affairs Department manages relations VEHICLE CO2 EMISSIONS with governments, ministries, parliaments, public agencies and As the global community becomes increasingly aware of climate enterprises, local authorities, European Union institutions, foreign change issues, the eco-car of the future remains a major topic of governments and, by extension, the business and professional public debate. communities and non-governmental organisations. In the case of automotive carbon emission standards, PSA Peugeot The department is overseen by the Corporate Secretary, who reports Citroën defends the position that test cycles and procedures should directly on these issues to the Chairman of the Managing Board. be harmonised worldwide. In Latin America, China and Russia, dedicated external relations More generally, PSA Peugeot Citroën feels that there is not a “oneofficers report directly to the Regional Chief Executive, who is a size-fits-all” technology that will produce a carbon-free automobile. member of the Managing Board or reports to it. Instead, reducing overall carbon emissions will require the commercial development of several closely related technologies to meet the The managers in the Public Affairs Department have embraced the differing usage patterns and price requirements of car buyers around Code of Ethics and expressly pledged to uphold its principles. Every the world. It is widely believed that internal combustion vehicles will person hired by the department is given a copy of the Code, with still account for 85% of automobile sales in 2020, and electric and special attention paid to the rules that concern him or her. hybrid vehicles 15%. The Public Affairs Department may be audited by the Group Working with public authorities, the Group is helping to define the Audit and Risk Management Department, which acts completely conditions that would enable the emergence of a market for lowindependently. More particularly, the audit may be performed as part carbon vehicles. As part of this process, it is helping to develop and of a wider assessment of the Public Affairs Department’s compliance assess electric infrastructure technologies and standards, particularly with the Code of Ethics. EV recharging technologies and plug-in hybrids. In addition, PSA Peugeot Citroën has signed the European Commission’s Code PSA Peugeot Citroën would like for governments to support the of Conduct for Interest Representatives. development of electric vehicles, hybrids and plug-in hybrids with The Public Affairs Department is tasked with the following missions: incentives to stimulate emerging demand for these vehicles. For this new market to reach maturity, it is vitally important that these O preparing the Group’s positions on all kinds of proposed public incentives (free parking) be highly visible and stable over time. measures, in collaboration with the other departments; O defending the Group’s interests and, at the same time, promoting Concerning biofuels, the Group is in favour of introducing blends its positions to any authorities likely to make decisions impacting of up to 10% to achieve a meaningful impact quickly. That said, it PSA Peugeot Citroën; is important to apply sustainability criteria in developing a biofuel industry, notably to address the potential conflict between using O informing government authorities and opinion leaders about crops for fuel instead of food. PSA Peugeot Citroën’s various business, industrial and employee relations issues, in particular by sharing its expertise; O representing PSA Peugeot Citroën to European Union institutions TELEMATICS AND ROAD SAFETY G.41 (Commission, Parliament, Council, etc.), to public institutions in Cars are increasingly connected to roadway infrastructure, other countries where the Group has operations or interests, and in trade vehicles and to the outside world. These new information and associations (ACEA, ANFAC, CCFA, MEDEF, PFA, SMMT, communication technologies should not only improve road safety, VDIK), as well as research associations, foundations and structures driving pleasure and comfort, and mobility in general, but also in which the Group participates (road-safety foundation, Avere reduce our carbon footprint. and Movéo, amongst others); The launch of a European eCall service in 2015 should not hinder the O providing corporate public affairs support and expertise in development of an emergency call system by PSA Peugeot Citroën, operating regions outside Europe; which is already in widespread use (1.3 million vehicles equipped O staying current with emerging legislation, issues and trends, and with the feature in 13 countries). keeping the entire Group informed as needed. 190 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL PRACTICES 6.3. Ethical practices 6 It is part of a high performance PSA Peugeot Citroën telematics (response to the AMI Investment for the Future programme for the solution that can serve as a springboard for innovative telematics car of the future) in France and the rest of Europe. services, including emergency calls, assistance, fleet management To drive the technological breakthroughs needed, in particular, support and electronic service records. The Group confirms its to reduce vehicle carbon emissions, PSA Peugeot Citroën must intention to develop post-accident (or tertiary) safety and connected find new sources of R&D financing. Although support from mobility services. the European Investment Bank and the EU R&D Framework At the same time, passive safety performance is improving even as Programme is quite necessary, it is not enough, given the global vehicle weight is reduced to meet lower carbon emissions targets. environment. The Group feels that R&D support for the automobile More and more, the focus is on accident avoidance as the way industry needs to be adapted so that European carmakers can meet to cut down on road fatalities, notably through the use of new the challenges of the future and remain competitive in a highly communication technologies and active driver assistance systems. aggressive global marketplace. Occupancy safety tests continued to converge around the world in 2012, with the gradual expansion of standards for the China ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT and Latin NCAPs. In addition, the importance of active safety in In a still-challenging economic environment, public debate is EuroNCAP tests continues to increase. increasingly focused on the need to retain manufacturing jobs in France and to develop a European industrial policy. With deep THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF MANUFACTURING roots in France, PSA Peugeot Citroën needs a robust, competitive manufacturing base. OPERATIONS G.20 The Group has taken a front-line stand in supporting the French For many years, PSA Peugeot Citroën has deployed programmes automobile industry, notably by participating in the newest PFA auto to manage its environmental impacts and drive continuous industry platform nationally, and in the regional ARIAs (regional improvement in environmental performance. This has led to automotive industry associations). Both these platforms work to ISO 14001 certification for all of the production plants and a strengthen ties within the industry, especially between manufacturers steady decline in the environmental footprint of the manufacturing and equipment manufacturers, and between equipment operations. These programmes have also been updated over the years manufacturers and suppliers. to reflect changing legislation and standards. Applicable European legislation being transposed into national law or in preparation The Group is also committed to taking this process to the next level – such as the REACH regulation and the proposed SEVESO III by fostering a new relationship with suppliers to prepare the future Directive on dangerous substances and their use, the Industrial more effectively. It has strengthened relations with strategic suppliers, Emissions Directive, the Energy Efficiency Directive and the carbon which are global companies for the most part, with major suppliers, Quota Directive – is having a multi-faceted impact on the Group, benchmark companies in their areas, and has initiated a structured requiring extensive work to introduce substitute inputs or to adjust supplier development process. production facilities to the new standards. The impact is also taxThe Group also pays very close attention to the rapid developments related in the case of carbon quota legislation. In addition to these in the conditions of international trade, especially as the free trade EU obligations, national legislation in other areas of application may agreements between the EU and other countries come into effect. also entail significant investment impacts. In view of the specific Following the principles of the European Commission (in the EU characteristics of the industry, lobbying is engaged in by an entity 2020 Strategy, CARS21 High Level Group Report, and “A Stronger in the Industrial Division, which reports to the Public Affairs European Industry for Growth and Economic Recovery” industrial Department on its activities. policy communication), PSA Peugeot Citroën aims to promote a trade policy that hinges on reciprocity and mutual benefits, reducing INNOVATION non-tariff barriers and UN-ECE regulatory convergence. The automobile industry is facing major innovation challenges that These principles were promoted by the Group following the entry of will be embodied in technological paradigm shifts. the EU-South Korea FTA, and more recently, during negotiations with Canada and preliminary negotiations between the EU and Japan. France has a national R&D strategy based on companies cooperating on research projects upstream from the competitive stage. The government also wants to encourage cooperative ventures between TAXATION companies and government or private-sector laboratories. PSA To drive a general reduction in carbon emissions, PSA Peugeot Peugeot Citroën also participates in numerous research programmes Citroën supports the need for a technology-neutral regulatory with research laboratories and institutes. This has led to the hiring and tax framework. However, certain high-cost technologies of 50 doctoral candidates under CIFRE contracts, participation in need incentives to jump-start wider demand for products that are government-sponsored automotive clusters in France (Véhicules du currently too expensive for most people, such as electric vehicles and Futur, ID4car and MOVéO), in the IEED Vedecom (French Institute plug-in hybrids. for Carbon-free Energy, in the Carbon-free and Communicating Vehicle project), and the creation of StelLab, a network of OpenLabs The increasing trend towards taxing cars based on CO2 emissions conducting joint research with leading laboratories. accelerated in 2004 with the goal of encouraging sales of lowercarbon models. This trend, which has become even more pronounced The Group is also participating in or leading innovation and since 2004, has restructured demand, with a shift in sales towards lowexperimentation projects on electric vehicles, hybrid vehicles, lightermargin segments, and led to greater fragmentation of the European weight vehicles and other issues as part of innovation programmes PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 191 6 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL PRACTICES 6.3. Ethical practices market. PSA Peugeot Citroën and all other carmakers recommend which furthermore would significantly hamper the competitive that changes in taxation be foreseeable. position of the French auto industry. Lastly, as a pioneer in deploying the diesel particulate filter, the O It is the Group’s opinion that increasing taxes on diesel would run Group does not support any move to destabilise diesel sales, which counter to efforts to mitigate climate change and would damage would suddenly disrupt European car markets and hamper efforts to the competitiveness of the French automakers. To avoid these reduce vehicle carbon emissions. impacts, we recommend retaining lower tax rates on diesel, or at least not raising them above the rates applicable to petrol. The proposal to overhaul Directive 2003/96/EC on the taxation of O Urban pollution problems stem from the older vehicle population; energy products and electricity includes increasing excise duty on therefore the way forward to reduce pollution in cities is to remove diesel, with a minimum tax equal to the tax on petrol from 2015, these vehicles from our roads. Compliant with EURO 5 regulations rising to a higher excise tax on diesel from 2018. (since 2011) and with EURO 6 (from 2014), new diesel vehicles O This revision of the Directive would have a significant negative feature clean engine technology and their emissions are similar impact in the short term on the competitiveness of diesel compared to those of petrol engines. There are no grounds therefore for with petrol vehicles and would threaten automakers’ ability to penalising diesel technology, especially as such a measure would achieve CO2 reduction targets in Europe, since this effort is highly run counter to the drive by the auto industry to continually reduce dependent on the excellent carbon performance of diesel vehicles. its impact on the environment. O PSA Peugeot Citroën strongly recommends not sending a signal which contradicts EU policy on reducing CO2 emissions, and 192 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 7 EXTERNAL AUDITOR’S REPORT CERTIFICATE OF PRESENCE AND MODERATE ASSURANCE REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR ON SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INDICATORS INCLUDED IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT 194 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 193 7 EXTERNAL AUDITOR’S REPORT Independent Auditor’s disclosure certification and moderate assurance report on the Company’s human resources, environmental, and societal information CERTIFICATE OF PRESENCE AND MODERATE ASSURANCE REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR ON SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INDICATORS INCLUDED IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT Year ending 31 December 2012 To the attention of the General Management, At the request of Peugeot S.A. and in our role of independent auditor, we hereby present you with our report of the consolidated social, environmental and societal indicators for the year ending 31 December 2012 pursuant to the provisions of Article L.225-102-1 of the Commercial Code. COMPANY’S RESPONSIBILITY The Board is responsible to prepare a management report including consolidated information on social, environmental and societal indicators pursuant to the provisions of Article R. 225-105-1 of the Commercial Code (hereinafter «Information»), established according to the referential used (the «Referential») by the Company and available at the Company’s headquarters. INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL We adhere to independence rules defined by the regulations, the code of ethics of the profession as well as the provisions of Article L. 822-11 of the Commercial Code. In addition, we have implemented a quality control system that includes policies and documented procedures to ensure compliance with the code of ethics, professional standards and applicable laws and regulations. RESPONSIBILITY OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR Based on our work it is our responsibility: O to certify that the Information required has been included in the management report or is subject to an explanation if not included in the report pursuant to the third paragraph of Article R. 225-105 of the Commercial Code and Decree No. 2012-557 of 24 April 2012 (Certificate of Presence); O to express a conclusion of moderate assurance on the fact that the Information, presented in all material respects, is fairly stated in accordance with the Referential (Moderate assurance report). We have called upon the help of our Corporate Social Responsibility experts in order to complete this assignment. 1. CERTIFICATE OF PRESENCE We performed our work in accordance with professional standards applicable in France: O We compared the Information contained in the management report with the list provided in Article R. 225-105-1 of the Commercial Code; O We verified that the Information covered the consolidated scope, namely the Company and its subsidiaries pursuant to Article L. 233-1 and the companies under its control according to Article L. 233-3 of the Commercial Code; O We verified that explanations were provided in accordance with the provisions of Decree No. 2012-557 of 24 April 2012 in case of omission of certain information. Based on these procedures performed, we confirm that the information is available in the management report as required. 194 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 EXTERNAL AUDITOR’S REPORT Independent Auditor’s disclosure certification and moderate assurance report on the Company’s human resources, environmental, and societal information 7 2. MODERATE ASSURANCE REPORT NATURE AND SCOPE OF WORK We conducted our work in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (“ISAE”) and the professional standards applicable in France. We implemented the procedures described below to obtain moderate assurance that the Information does not contain any anomalies likely to call into question their appropriateness, in all their significant aspects, in accordance with the Referential. Providing assurance at a greater level would have required additional procedures. We performed the following tasks: O We assessed the appropriateness of the Referential in terms of its relevance, completeness, neutrality, clarity and reliability, taking into account, where appropriate, industry best practices; O We verified the implementation within the group of a collecting, compiling, processing and controlling process in order to achieve completeness and consistency of the Information. We have taken note of the internal control procedures and risk management procedures relating to the preparation of the Information. We conducted interviews with the personnel responsible for the social and environmental reporting; O We selected consolidated information to control(1) and determined the nature and the extent of the controls taking into account their importance in terms of environmental and social impacts associated with the activity and characteristics of the group as well as its societal commitments. O Concerning the quantitative consolidated information that we considered the most important: • at the level of the consolidating entity and the other controlled entities, we selected samples, implemented analytical procedures and verified the calculations and the consolidation of such information; • for the sites selected(2) based on their activity, their contribution to the consolidated indicators, their locations and on a risk analysis, we: conducted interviews to verify the correct application of the procedures, implemented detailed testing on a selected sample in order to verify the calculations and reconcile the data to the supporting documentation. The sample selected represents an average 20.3% of the workforce and between 20% and 33% of the tested environmental quantitative information. O Concerning the consolidated qualitative information that we have considered most important, we conducted interviews and reviewed the documentary sources in order to corroborate this information and review their sincerity. O Concerning the other consolidated information published, we assessed the appropriateness and consistency against our knowledge of the company and, where appropriate, corroborated information through interviews and consultation of documentary sources. O Finally, we assessed the relevance of the explanations to the absence of information when appropriate. CONCLUSION Based on our work described in this report, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Information, presented in all material respects, is not fairly stated in accordance with the Referential. Paris, 14 March 2013 Grant Thornton French Member Firm of Grant Thornton International Gilles Hengoat Alban Audrain Partner Partner National Audit Director Head of Corporate Social Responsibility (1) Employees (number and breakdown), recruitments and separations, employees’ benefits, frequency and fatality rates of work accidents, hours of training, water withdrawals, energy consumption, GHG direct and indirect emissions, emissions of VOC and NO2, gross effluent discharge of COD and SM, weight of NHPW and HPW excluding metal waste. (2) Sites of Mulhouse, Poissy, Sept-Fons, Sochaux, Trémery,Vigo (Spain), Madrid (Spain). PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 195 7 EXTERNAL AUDITOR’S REPORT 196 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 8 GRI STATEMENT AND CROSS REFERENCE TABLES PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 197 8 GRI STATEMENT AND CROSS REFERENCE TABLES GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) STATEMENT 198 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 GRI STATEMENT AND CROSS REFERENCE TABLES 8 GRI INDEX 2012 CSR Report Indicator (relevant sections) Reporting status 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Executive management statement 1.1. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 11.2.1./1.2.2./1.2.3. 2. ORGANISATION PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organisation Cover 2.2 Primary brands, products, services 2.4.1.2./2.3.1.1./2.3.1.2. 2.3 Operational structure 1.3.3.1./2.4.1.1. 2.4 Location of headquarters First page 1.3.3.1/introduction chap. 3, 2.5 Country operations introduction chap. 5/2.4.1./5.1.1. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 6.1.1. 2.7 Markets served 2.4.1. 1.3.3.1/introduction chap. 3, 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation introduction chap. 5 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 1.3.3.1. 2.10 Awards received 1.5. 3. REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period 1.3.3.1. 3.2 Date of most recent report 1.3.3.1. 3.3 Reporting cycle 1.3.3.1. 3.4 Contact point for questions about the report or its contents First page (1) 3.5 Process for defining report content 1.4.3./1.2.1./1.3.3.1. 1.3.3.1./introduction chap. 3, 3.6 Boundary of the report introduction chap. 5 1.3.3.1./introduction chap. 3, 3.7 Limitations on report scope introduction chap. 5 3.8 Basis for reporting on subsidiaries and partially/non-owned entities 1.3.3.1. 1.3.3.1./introduction chap. 3, introduction chap. 5 for Reporting Methodology, Scope of reporting, precisions on Definitions of indicators 3.9 Data measurement techniques inside each chapter 1.3.3.1./introduction chap. 3, introduction chap. 5 for Reporting Methodology, Scope of reporting, precisions on Definitions of indicators 3.10 Re-statements from previous reports inside each chapter 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 1.3.3.1. 3.12 GRI content index 8 3.13 External assurance for the report First page/1.3.3.2. 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS & ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure 6.1.3. 4.2 Executive officer and the Chair of the governance body 6.1./6.1.3.1/6.1.2. (2) 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive Board members 6.1.3. 4.4 Shareholders/Employee mechanisms for Board Direction 6.1.3.2.1. 4.5 Compensation and organisational performance 6.2.2. (6.2.2.1./6.2.2.2.) 4.6 Conflict of interest avoidance 6.1.2.1./6.3.2. 4.7 Qualifications/expertise of Board members 6.1.3.2.2. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 199 8 GRI STATEMENT AND CROSS REFERENCE TABLES 2012 CSR Report Indicator (relevant sections) Reporting status 4.8 Mission and values statements 1.1./1.2.3./1.2.4./1.2.5./6.3.1. 4.9 Board oversight of sustainability performance 1.2.3./1.2.4./1.3.1. 4.10 Performance evaluation of Board of Directors 6.1.3.2.1. 4.11 Precautionary approach/principle 6.1.4. 4.12 Endorsement of external sustainability charters/initiatives 1.3.2. 4.13 Significant memberships in associations 1.3.2. 4.14 Listing of stakeholder groups 1.4.1. 4.15 Basis for stakeholders identification/selection 1.4.1./1.4.2. 4.16 Stakeholder engagement approaches 1.4.2. 4.17 Key stakeholder issues and concerns 1.4.3./1.2.1. 2012 CSR Report Indicator (relevant sections) Reporting status ECONOMY EC1 Economic value generated and distributed 6.2.1. Financial implications, risks and opportunities (3) EC2 due to climate change 1.2.1./2.1.2./2.1.3./2.2.1. EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations 5.2.2. Financial assistance received from government EC4 last point in 6.2.1. EC5 Wages comparison 5.5.1. EC6 Spending on locally based suppliers 4.1.2. EC7 Local hiring 5.1.1./5.6.1./5.6.2. EC8 Infrastructure investments and public benefit 2.1.1./4.2. (4) EC9 Indirect economic impacts 1.2.1./4.1.1./4.1.2. ENVIRONMENT 2.1.3./2.2.1.6./2.2.3.1. EN1 Weight or volume of materials used /2.2.3.2./3.1.3.2. (5) EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled 2.2.3.1./3.1.3.2. Direct energy consumption broken down EN3 by primary source 3.1.2.1. Indirect energy consumption broken down (6) EN4 by primary source 3.1.2.1. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 2.1.2./2.1.3./2.2.1.1./2.2.1.2./3.1.2.1. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient products/services, (7) EN6 and energy saved 2.2. (8) EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption 2.2./3.1.2.1. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 3.1.3.1. (9) EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 3.1.3.1. (10) EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Location/size of land owned/lease/managed in, EN11 or adjacent to, protected areas 3.2.1. Description of significant impacts of activities EN12 on protected areas 3.2. EN13 Area of habitats protected or restored 3.2.2./4.2.3. EN14 Programmes for managing impacts on biodiversity 3.1.4.4./3.2./4.2.3. IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species EN15 affected by operations 3.2. 200 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 GRI STATEMENT AND CROSS REFERENCE TABLES 8 2012 CSR Report Indicator (relevant sections) Reporting status Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions EN16 by weight 3.1.2.2./3.1.2.3. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions EN17 by weight 2.2.1./2.2.1.1./2.2.1.2. 2.2.1.3./2.2.1.4./2.2.1.5./2.2.1.6./3.1.2. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions (3.1.2.1./3.1.2.2./3.1.2.3.) (11) EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 2.1.3./3.1.4.1.2. NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions EN20 by type and weight 2.2.2.1./3.1.4.1.1. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 3.1.4.2./3.1.4.3. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 3.1.5. (3.1.5.1./3.1.5.2.) EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 3.1.4.3. EN24 Weight of hazardous waste transported, imported, exported, or treated 3.1.5.1./3.1.5.2. EN25 Water sources/habitats significantly affected by water and runoff 3.1.3.1./3.1.4.2./3.1.4.3./3.2.1. Initiatives to manage environmental impacts EN26 of products and services across product life cycle 2.1.3./2.2. EN27 Reclaimed products 2.2.3.2. Incidents/fines for non compliance with EN28 environmental regulations 3.1.4.3. EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transport for logistics 3.1.2.3. (12) EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures 2.1.2./3.1. LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Workforce by employment type, LA1 employment contract, and region 5.1.1. LA2 Employee turnover by age/gender/region 5.1.2. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees 5.5.2. LA4 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 5.3. LA5 Notice period regarding operational changes 5.3. LA6 Management-worker Health and Safety Committees 5.4.5. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, LA7 absenteeism and fatalities, by region 5.4.2. LA8 Education for families affected by serious diseases 5.4.3. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements 5.4.5. LA10 Average hours of training 5.2.3. LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning 5.1.2./5.2.3./5.6.1. LA12 Performance and career evaluations 5.2.2. LA13 Employee and governance body demographics 5.6. Ratio of basic salary of men to women LA14 by employee category 5.5.1. HUMAN RIGHTS HR1 Investment agreements with human rights clauses 4.1.3./4.1.5. HR2 Human rights screening of major suppliers/contractors 4.1.3./4.1.5. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 201 8 GRI STATEMENT AND CROSS REFERENCE TABLES 2012 CSR Report Indicator (relevant sections) Reporting status HR3 Employee training on human rights policies and procedures 5.6.3. Total number of incidents of discrimination HR4 and actions taken 5.6.2. HR5 Freedom of association 5.3.1./5.3.2./5.6.3. HR6 Child labour risk and elimination 4.1.5./5.6.3. HR7 Forced and compulsory labour risk and elimination 4.1.5./5.6.3. HR8 Security practices (security personnel training) 4.1.5./5.6.3. HR9 Indigenous rights 4.1.5./5.6.3. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Health and safety across the life cycle of products PR1 and services 2.1.3./2.2.2.1./2.2.3.1./2.3.2. PR2 Non-compliance with health and safety regulations 2.4.3. PR3 Product and service information and labelling 2.4.4. Non-compliance with product and service information and labelling PR4 regulation 2.4.4. PR5 Procedures relating to customer satisfaction 1.2.1./2.4.2. PR6 Marketing communications’ adherence to regulations 2.4.4. PR7 Non-compliance with marketing communications regulations 2.4.4. PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy 2.4.3. Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations regarding provision and use PR9 of products and services 2.4.3./2.4.4. SOCIETY SO1 Impacts of operations on communities 2.1.1./4.2. SO2 Business units analysed for risks related to corruption 4.1.5./6.1.4./6.3.1./6.3.2. SO3 Extent of training and risk analysis to prevent corruption 6.3.1./6.3.2. SO4 Actions taken in response to instances of corruption 6.3.2./4.1.5. SO5 Participation in public policy development and lobbying 6.3.3. SO6 Financial and in-kind contributions to political parties 6.3.3. SO7 Anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, andmonopoly practices 6.3.2. Monetary value of significant fines/sanctions SO8 for non-compliance with laws/regulations 2.4.3./2.4.4./3.1.4.3./6.3.2. Standard indicators are in black. Additional indicators are in grey. Fully reported – Partially reported – Not reported – N/R: Not relevant. The Global Reporting Initiative guidelines are available on the GRI its reporting status shows that it is partially or fully reported. This is website. because the reporting status reflects information disclosed in other Note that this document does not necessarily contain all of media, such as the PSA Peugeot Citroën sustainable development PSA Peugeot Citroën’s response to a given indicator, even though website (www.psa-peugeot-citroen.com). 202 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 GRI STATEMENT AND CROSS REFERENCE TABLES 8 Notes: (1) For defining report content, material issues have been studied thanks to the stakeholders’ feedback and thanks to our own assessment of our main impacts at every step of the life cycle of the products. Main challenges and results are also reported in the 2012 Sustainable Development and Annual Report. This process complies with the GRI’s “Guidance on Defining Report Content”. (2) The governance of PSA Peugeot Citroën is based on an Executive Board and a Supervisory Board. (3) The Group has responded to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) questionnaire. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change are indicated in the Group’s answers to this questionnaire. Risk factors are described in the 2012 Registration Document, section 4. (4) Not available. Indirect economic impact is difficult to assess by company. The ratio in industry between direct employment and ancillary employment can be estimated at 3 to 4. Other impact types are covered in certain studies, but it is still difficult to make reliable economic assessments. (5) The use of renewable materials is monitored internally. The key focus is on recyclability and the effective recycling of vehicles. (6) Not available. The Group consumes outsourced electricity and steam. No detail on all suppliers’ primary sources is available at this moment in the year, for all countries and all suppliers. (7) The energy challenges of the automotive industry concerning its products are closely linked to the greenhouse effect. Cf. EN18. (8) Not available. The energy consumption of suppliers of automotive parts for Peugeot and Citroën vehicles is neither compiled nor estimated. PSA Peugeot Citroën encourages its suppliers to make progress through its purchasing requirements. (9) Not relevant. PSA Peugeot Citroën’s sites are not located in areas with water withdrawal restrictions, so have no significant impact on the water source. (10) Not available. Optimising water consumption at PCA automotive sites is factored in from the design phase of the new site and is one of the objectives of the Environmental Management System.Water recycling and other processes to limit water consumption are encouraged. Open circuit cooling is forbidden at all new facilities. PSA Peugeot Citroën prefers to monitor its water consumption (cf. water consumption indicator) rather than measure the quantity of water recycled at each site. (11) The Group strictly applies the requirements of the 1987 Montreal Protocol and the related regional laws. In particular, the Group has ceased using all substances covered by the Protocol in its main automobile manufacturing applications. These include first generation refrigerants (CFCs) in vehicle air conditioning systems, trichloroethane for degreasing in certain mechanical component operations and Halon in fire extinguishers. Because replacements for these substances have been used for many years now, indicator EN19 is no longer applicable. The only meaningful remaining uses of substances covered by the Montreal Protocol concern HCFC refrigerants in certain industrial or domestic air conditioning systems, which do not fall within the scope of EN19. (12) Not available. Only R&D expenses dedicated to environmental issues are estimated and published. This indicator is not consolidated. As of today, no methodology exists to assess this cost within a reliable bracket for all industrial activities. The Group monitors trends in these costs on a caseby-case basis, notably investments in this area, and has started internal discussions on the subject in parallel with the development of a possible international standard. CORRESPONDANCE BETWEEN GLOBAL COMPACT AND GRI INDICATORS Areas Principle GRI G3 indicators 1. Businesses are asked to support and respect the protection of international human rights HR1, HR2, HR3, HR5, HR6, HR7, 1. Human rights within their sphere of influence; HR8, HR9 2. Make sure their own corporations are not complicit in human rights abuses. 1.1., EC1, HR1, HR2, HR8 3. Businesses are asked to uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition 2. Labour of the right to collective bargaining. HR5, LA4, LA5 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. HR7 5. The effective abolition of child labour. HR6 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. HR4, LA2, LA10, LA13, LA14 3. Environment 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 2.1. EN2, EN5, EN6, EN7, EN10, EN13, EN14, EN 18, EN21, 8. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. EN22, EN26, EN27, EN30 EN2, EN5, EN6, EN7, EN10, 9. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. EN18, EN26, EN27 4. Anti-corruption 10. Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. SO2, SO3, SO4 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 203 8 GRI STATEMENT AND CROSS REFERENCE TABLES ISO 26000 GUIDANCE ON SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Core subjects and issues of social 2012 CSR Report responsibility (relevant sections) Core subject Organizational governance 6.1. Core subject Human rights Issue 1 Due diligence 5.6.3. Issue 2 Human rights risk situations 5.6.3. Issue 3 Avoidance of complicity 5.6.3. Issue 4 Resolving grievances 5.6.3. Issue 5 Discrimination and vulnerable groups 5.6.3. Issue 6 Civil and political rights 5.6.3. Issue 7 Economic, social and cultural rights 5.6.3. Issue 8 Fundamental rights at work 5.6.3. Core subject Labour Practices Issue 1 Employment and employment relationships 5.1./5.2. /5.3. Issue 2 Conditions of work and social protection 5.4. Issue 3 Social dialogue 5.3. Issue 4 Health and safety at work 5.4. Issue 5 Human development and training in the workplace 5.2. Core subject The environment Issue 1 Prevention of pollution 2.2.2./3.1.4. Issue 2 Sustainable resource use 3.1.3.2. Issue 3 Climate change mitigation and adaptation 2.1.2./2.2.1./3.1.2. Issue 4 Protection and restoration of the natural environment 3.1.4./3.2. Core subject Fair operating practices Issue 1 Anti-corruption 6.3.2. Issue 2 Responsible political involvement 6.3.1. Issue 3 Fair competition 6.3.2. Issue 4 Promoting social responsibility in the sphere of influence 4.1. Issue 5 Respect for property rights Core subject Consumer issues Issue 1 Fair marketing, information and contractual practices 2.4.3./2.4.4. Issue 2 Protecting consumers’ health and safety 2.2.3.1./2.3.2./2.4.3. Issue 3 Sustainable consumption 2.3./2.4.2. Issue 4 Consumer service, support, and dispute resolution 2.4.2. Issue 5 Consumer data protection and privacy 2.4.3. Issue 6 Access to essential services 4.2. Issue 7 Education and awareness 1.4.2./2.3.1. Core subject Community involvement and development Issue 1 Community involvement 4.2. Issue 2 Education and culture 4.2. Issue 3 Employment creation and skills development 5.1.2./5.2.3. Issue 4 Technology development 2.1.2./2.1.3. Issue 5 Wealth and income creation 6.2. Issue 6 Health 5.4.4. Issue 7 Social investment 4.2. 204 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 GRI STATEMENT AND CROSS REFERENCE TABLES 8 CROSS REFERENCE TABLE FOR THE INFORMATION REQUIRED BY ARTICLE R. 225-105 OF THE FRENCH COMMERCIAL CODE (Application of France’s Grenelle 2 Law) PSA icon number corresponding 2012 Registration to the Grenelle 2 2012 CSR Report Document Reporting Required information Law topic (relevant sections) (relevant sections) status 1. Human resources information a) Employees Total number of employees G.1a 5.1.1. 17.1.1. Breakdown by gender G.1b 5.6.2. 17.1.1. Breakdown by age G.1c 5.6.2. 17.1.1. Breakdown by region G.1d 5.1.1. 17.1.2. • Hirings G.2a 5.1.2. 17.1.1. • Dismissals G.2b 5.1.2. 17.1.1. • Compensation and trends in compensation G.3 5.5. 17.1.4. b) Workplace organisation Working hours G.4 5.4.7. 17.1.2. Absenteeism G.5 5.4.7. 17.1.2. c) Employee relations Social dialogue, including procedures for informing, consulting, and negotiating with personnel G.6 5.6.3. 17.4.1./17.4.2. Collective bargaining agreements G.7 5.6.3./5.3.2. 17.4.1. d) Occupational safety and health • Safety and health conditions at the workplace G.8 5.4.1. 17.2.1. • Occupational safety and health agreements with trade unions and employee representatives G.9 5.4.5. 17.2.3. • Workplace accidents, including frequency and severity, and occupational diseases G.10 5.4.2./5.4.4. 17.2.2. e) Training Employee training policies G.11a 5.2.3. 17.1.3.1. Employee training resources G.11b 5.2.3. 17.1.3.2. • Total hours of training G.12 5.2.3. 17.1.3.2. f) Equal opportunity • Measures to promote gender equality G.13 5.6.2. 17.3.2.1. • Measures to promote employment of the disabled G.14 5.6.1. 17.3.2.2. 17.1.1./17.3. /17.3.2.3. • Anti-discrimination policy G.15 5.6./5.6.1./5.6.2. 17.3.3. g) Compliance with and promotion of the International Labour Organization’s Fundamental Conventions • Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention G.16 5.6.3. 17.4.1. • Discrimination (Employment and Occupation) Convention G.17 5.6.3. 17.4.1. • Abolition of Forced Labour Convention G.18 5.6.3. 17.4.1. • Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention G.19 5.6.3. 17.4.1. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 205 8 GRI STATEMENT AND CROSS REFERENCE TABLES PSA icon number corresponding 2012 Registration to the Grenelle 2 2012 CSR Report Document Reporting Required information Law topic (relevant sections) (relevant sections) status 2. Environmental information a) General environmental policy • Measures the Company has implemented to address environmental issues G.20 2.1./3.1.1.1. 5.3.1./ 5.3.2./5.3.3.1. Environmental audits and certifications G.20 3.1.1.2./6.3.3. 5.3.3.2. • Employee training and awareness-building on environmental protection G.21 3.1. 5.3.3.3. 2.1.2.1./2.2.1./2.2.1.3. /2.2.1.4./2.2.1.5. /2.2.1.6./2.2.2./3.1. 5.3.2./5.3.2.1. • Resources allocated to preventing pollution and other /3.1.2./3.1.3.1. /5.3.2.1.2./5.3.2.1.3. environmental risks G.22 /3.1.4./3.1.4.3./ 3.1.5. /5.3.2.2./5.3.3.4. • The amount of guarantees and provisions for environmental risks, provided that disclosing this information would not cause serious harm to the Company in an ongoing legal dispute G.23 3.1.4.3. 5.3.3.4.3. b) Pollution and waste management 2.2.2./2.2.3.1./3.1. 5.3.2.2./5.3.2.3.2. • Measures for preventing or reducing the emission of air, water, and soil /3.1.3.1./3.1.4./3.1.4.2. /5.3.3.3./5.3.3.4. pollutants, and remediation efforts for any such emissions G.24 /3.1.4.3./3.1.4.5. /5.3.4.2. 5.3.2.3.3./5.3.3.4.2. • Measures for reducing, recycling, and eliminating waste G.25 2.2.3.2./ 3.1.5. /5.3.4.4. • Procedures for accounting for the noise and other pollution specific to a given activity G.26 3.1.4.4./3.2./3.2.2. 5.3.3.4.2. c) Sustainable use of resources • Water consumption and sourcing relative to local conditions G.27 3.1.3.1. 5.3.4.2. • Consumption of raw materials and measures to use raw materials more efficiently G.28 2.1.3./2.2.3.1./3.1.3.2. 5.3.2.3.1./5.3.4.3. 2.2.1.3./2.2.1.4. • Energy consumption, measures to improve energy efficiency, /2.2.1.5./2.2.1.6. and the use of renewable energy G.29 /3.1.2.1. 5.3.2.1.2./5.3.4.1. • Soil use G.30 3.1.4.5. 5.3.3.4.2. d) Climate change 2.2.1.2./3.1.2.2. • Greenhouse gas emissions G.31 /3.1.2.3./6.3.3. 5.3.2.1.1./5.3.4.1. 2.2.1./2.2.1.3. /2.2.1.4./2.2.1.5. /2.2.1.6./2.3./2.3.2. 5.3.2.1./5.3.2.1.2. • Measures for adapting to the consequences of climate change G.32 /3.1.2./3.1.2.2./3.1.2.3. /5.3.2.4./5.3.4.1. e) Biodiversity protection Measures for protecting or improving biodiversity G.33 3.1.4.4./3.2./3.2.2. 5.3.3.4.2. 206 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 GRI STATEMENT AND CROSS REFERENCE TABLES 8 PSA icon number corresponding 2012 Registration to the Grenelle 2 2012 CSR Report Document Reporting Required information Law topic (relevant sections) (relevant sections) status 3. Information on societal initiatives to support sustainable development a) Effect on local communities, economies, and jobs 5.3.5.2.1./5.3.5.2.2. • Regional development and jobs G.34 4.1.1./4.1.2./5.5.1. /17.1.5. • Local communities G.35 4.2. 5.3.5.4. b) Relationships with people and organisations concerned by the Company’s operations, like welfare-to-work agencies, educational establishments, environmental organisations, consumer associations, and community organisations • Outreach programmes designed for these people and organisations G.36 1.4. 5.3.5.1. 5.3.5.2.2./5.3.5.4. • Corporate sponsorship activities G.37 4.1.2./4.2. /17.3.2.2. c) Subcontractors and suppliers • A sourcing policy that factors in social and environmental criteria G.38 4.1.1. 5.3.5.2.1. • The extent to which the company uses subcontractors, and whether the company’s subcontractor and supplier relationships take into account their corporate social responsibility G.39 4.1.1./4.1.5. 5.3.5.2.1./5.3.5.2.3. d) Fair business practices • Anti-corruption measures G.40 5.6.3./6.3.1./6.3.2. 5.3.5.5. 2.2.2./2.2.3.1./2.3.2. /2.3.3./2.4.3./3.1.4. 5.3.2.2./5.3.2.3.2. • Measures to protect consumer health and safety G.41 /6.3.3. /5.3.5.1. e) Other measures taken related to Article R. 255-105 • Measures to respect human rights G.42 4.1.5. 5.3.5.2.3./17.3.3. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 207 8 GRI STATEMENT AND CROSS REFERENCE TABLES 208 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic guidelines, commitments and indicators 2012 This document was printed in France by the PSA Peugeot Citroën printing centre, which has implemented the proper handling and disposal of hazardous waste through approved entities and the use of paper that is certified 100% recycled. Please recycle this publication in the appropriate container. Cover: Head-up display. Photo credits: ©Taylor S.Kennedy/Getty Images, Nico, P. Thirion. Creation: PEUGEOT S.A. Incorporated in France with issued capital of €354,848,992 Siège social : 75, avenue de la Grande-Armée 75116 Paris – France R.C.S. Paris B 552 100 554 – Siret 552 100 554 00021 Phone: + 33 (0)1 40 66 55 11 – Fax: + 33 (0)1 40 66 54 14 www.psa-peugeot-citroen.com
