Communication on Progress PT. Martina Berto June 2012 – June 2013 Martha Tilaar Group 2013 CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 1 TABLE OF CONTENT DESCRIPTION PAGE The statement of CEO of Martha Tilaar Group 4 Overview 5 Introduction 7 Strategy, Governance and Engagement 8 Criterion.1 : Strategic aspect of Global Compact Implementation 8 Criterion 2: The description of effective decision-making processes and systems 10 of governance for corporate sustainability Criterion 3: The description of engagement with all important stakeholders 11 Criterion 4: The description of actions taken in support of broader UN goals and issues 13 Criterion 5: The description of commitment, strategies, policies in the area of human rights 14 Criterion 6: The description of effective management system to integrate human rights principle 16 Criterion 7: The description of effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism 16 of human rights integration Criterion 8: Standardize performance indicators in human rights 17 Criterion 9: The description on commitment, strategies or policies in the area of labour 18 Criterion 10: The description on effective management system to integrate the labour 19 principles Criterion 11: The description on effective monitoring and evaluationmechanism of 20 labour principles integration Criterion 12: Standardize performance indicators on labour principle integration 21 Criterion 13: The description on commitments, strategies or policies in the area of 21 environmental stewardship Criterion 14: The description of effective management system to integrate the 25 environmental principle Criterion 15: The description on effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism for 25 environmental stewardship Criterion 16: The outcome of standardize performance indicators on environmental 28 stewardship Criterion 17: The description of robust commitment, strategies or policies in the area 29 of anti corruption Criterion 18: The description of effective management system to integrate the anti 29 corruption principle CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 2 DESCRIPTION PAGE Criterion 19: The description on effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism for 29 The integration of anti corruption Criterion 20: Standardize performance indicators on anti corruption 29 Criterion 21: The implementation of Global Compact Principle in the value chain 29 Criterion 22: The information on the company profile and context of operation 30 Criterion 23: The description of high standard of transparency and disclosure report 32 Criterion 24: Iindependently verification of the CoP 36 CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 3 The statement of CEO of PT. Martina Berto, Tbk. After a year run so many activities implementing the ten principles of Global Compact in our company through our business line and strategy, we do also actively improve awareness among our workers to keep our commitment in implementing these principles. Rising up the awareness of each company member in holding responsibility to do so, will make it possible to sustain our practices as well as our efforts in implementing the ten principles in all area that cover the whole company activities. The strategy of implementation has covered the whole company’s operations. Everyone as a company member has taken the pride to be part of the Global Compact movement together with other world class companies in making the world as a better place to stay and work by implementing the 10 principles of the Global Compact in the factory, office work place, Bryan David Emil environment as well as society. President Director Our corporate vision has also been rephrased into “Local Wisdom, Goes Global” to strengthen our commitment in line with the Global Compact mission and sustainability. We have made lots of effort to preserve our local culture and biodiversity and convert them into innovative and value-addingproducts for human health, beauty and wellness. Our commitment in increasing Global Compact members has been synchronized with the program of Indonesia Global Compact Network that in every occasion we do promoting Global Compact Principles and asking private sectors, non government organisations, the education sectors and government to join in together and implement their social responsibility through Local Global Compact Network. It is honourable things for us to be part of GC Board member and also a member of Global Compact LEAD, that make us possible to contribute more to the UNGC especially to our Local network. We would also like to take this as a tool to promote the Global Compact initiatives and share our experience to peers in Indonesia as well as overseas. Jakarta, 10 June 2013 Bryan David Emil Dr. (HC) Martha Tilaar President Director Board of Commissioners PT. Martina Berto, Tbk. PT. Martina Berto, Tbk. CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 4 Overview As it had been reported previously, PT. Martina Berto Tbk. has been grown significantly by bringing local wisdom in every single product to go to the market globally. By the time being, competition among national companies as well as multi national companies become very tight. However, we can enter the global market with competitive advantages in exposing our local wisdoms that can be proven by technology and scientific exploration as market preference in this modern era. Furthermore, in running business we stand in commitment to implement Global Compact principles inline with MDGs which every criterion of those initiatives could be run in sinergis and support each other. New trend in business currently introduce to our corporate is “an inclusive business with the poor” that we have to do business not only collect profit but do the business process wisely by giving chance to the communities to become our supply chain with better added value products and services that can improve their skill and welfare. The ASEAN leaders had decided to transform ASEAN into a stable, prosperous, and highly competitive region with equitable economic development reducing poverty and sosio-economic disparity as ASEAN vision to become ASEAN Economic Community in year 2015, where ASEAN will have 5 free flows of products, services, investment, capital and human skill labours. From now on, market competition will be so tight especially for cosmetic industries in local, regional, and global scale. Through our strategy “Local Wisdom Goes Global” we try to win the competition by exploring wisely our local wisdom, then proven by science and technology to meet global requirements. It is therefore, we declare our strategy since early 2010 by implementing four pillars:  Beauty Education,  Beauty Green,  Beauty Culture,  Beauty in Women (Women Empowering Program). Our Five Caring Program has been designed and developed as our responsibility to boost the code of conducts of professionalism with objectives that Indonesian leaders and young professional can demonstrate integrity, respect and teaming with energy, enthusiasm and the courage to lead and build business relationships based on doing the right thing, without corruption and bribery practices to achieve their goals.  Care for Total Beauty,  Care for Environment,  Care for Halal,  Care for Soft & Hard Skills,  Care for Professionalism. One of the missions is to enhance the career and professional grooming of young and urban generation in the competitive business world by performing good leadership that effectively balance the current career objectives without compromising the code of ethic and professionalism of present and future generations, both through personal leadership and business practice. “Martha Tilaar goes campus” becomes focus excellent of our activity. Moreover, activities regarding to the 4-pillars will be described and included in each criteria, while the 5-Caring can be described as below. CARE for TOTAL BEAUTY In the modern life and consciousness-based, the reinforcement of Eastern culture considers that all seeking the true beauty as an expression of the combination of the balance of the Outer Beauty and the Inner Beauty. Only by enhancing these beauty in the balanced stages can express the radiant of health that makes each of us the most fulfilled and beautiful person we can be. The program focuses on improve and strengthen the total beauty practices in daily life to increase the self confidence of professional people. CARE for ENVIRONMENT CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 5 Program to combat the global warming has been promoted and presented to increase the awareness and change the current habits to reduce the impacts of global warming by daily simple practices in daily life and working environment. 10 or 20 steps to combat global warming, including several green programs have being held in 30 campuses in Indonesia. CARE for HALAL products Products that have the Halal Certificate become one of our priorities, since 96 % of Indonesia community are Moslem. Brands of Sari Ayu and Caring Colours already have Halal certificates. CARE for SOFT & HARD SKILLS Soft and hard skills will be very needed urgently by each professional. Our program enhances and strengthens the capability and grooming of professional to improve their career path. Soft skills complement hard skills, which are the occupational requirements of a job and many other activities. Soft skills are personal attributes that enhance an individual's interactions, job performance and career prospects. Unlike hard skills, which are about a person's skill set and ability to perform a certain type of task or activity, soft skills relate to a person's ability to interact effectively with coworkers and customers and are broadly applicable both in and outside the workplace. Since people get the hard skills in schools, universities and other training center, a person's soft skill is an important part of their individual contribution to the success of an organization. Soft skills as behavioral competencies is very important to be increased in the professionalism world, such as communication skills, conflict resolution and negotiation, personal effectiveness, creative problem solving, strategic thinking, team building, influencing skills and selling skills. CARE for PROFESSIONALISM Reasonable work morale, high motivation and desire to do a job well as holding positive attitude towards the profession are important elements in attaining a high level of professionalism. A high standard of professional ethics, behaviour and work activities while carrying out one's profession become part of our goal to enhance our customer and consumer to be the best in their profession and improve their career path. The Global Compact Principles have always been incorporated within our company’s mission and business strategies. They are undoubtedly the soul of our corporate culture that enhances the company’s image. Implementing these principles has been done sustainably inline to 8 targets of MDGs (Millenium Development Goals). Not only has such business value been well recognized by our stakeholders, but it eventually also influences our business network worldwide. We would say that it is notably imperative that business operators should put some extra efforts to concatenate these core values with theirs. Through our support of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we also promote all principles of Global Compact to other stakeholders. It is, therefore, no doubt for us as corporate giving statement on continuing program implementation of ‘UNGC 10 Principles’ in the line of our business. Here we summarised into the 24 criteria about the progress we have made to fulfil these principles and we will continue to follow them up in future. CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 6 Introduction We started 2012 with full of expectation because Indonesia as the company's main market is a country in Southeast Asia that has excellent growth prospects. In 2012 the growth Indonesia amounted to 6.4%. Consumption and investment of domestic-oriented demand remains high, despite declining production and export-oriented investment. Without ignoring the export market, trying to focus attention on the domestic market that is still growing quite large. Therefore the company increases the capital expenditures of machinery and equipment from IDR 7.401 million in 2011 to Rp. 8.955 million in 2012, or increased by 21.00%. The addition of this machinery and equipment expenditures is mainly to cater for the production of new products and increased production capacity in order to meet the market demand for the company's products as well as improving production efficiency. To face the intense competition in cosmetics industry, the company continues to increase the range through more market channels and more closely to the consumer or potential consumer. Achievement of the company's sales growth in 2012 was 10.71% from Rp.648,375 million to Rp.717,788 million. The entire product category as well as the contract manufacturing as the company's subsidiary delivering sales growth, where growth is greatest contribution given by the category skin & body care with 29.2% growth. The company sales growth exceeding the growth of the industry based on the research of Euromonitor about 7.69% in 2012. The company's efforts in increasing market share in cosmetic industry were quite turned up, where the company's market shares rose from 2.50% in 2011 to 2.79% in 2012. The effort in improving its market is not an easy things, it takes a smart and effective efforts with a limited marketing budget to grab it. In 2012, the company’s spending for marketing and sales activities of Rp.252,453 million or increased by only 6.49% from Rp.237,071 million in 2011. However, in 2012, the company was able to record an increase in net profit to Rp.45,523 million, or increased 6.71% from Rp.42,659 million in 2011. For the year 2013, we will continue to focus on efforts to grow the market and to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of operations of the company. We looked at a number of potential and the prospects of the business, such as the retail industry growth become one of our concerns to be able to take advantage of its potential. We believe that the diversity of our product/portfolio brand, high quality with competitive costs, the strength of our innovation, market development program, we are ready to address those challenges as well as opportunities in the future to create added value and sustainable profit growth. Along the year 2012 we do some works on implementing the 10 Principles of the Global Compact optimally in every business sector in our company. Embedding sustainable business strategy in the company core business becomes more important in our future business. As the public company we have responsible to communicate openly our activities to shareholders as well as all stakeholders including financial reports, business strategy, and social activities related to the social principles. We realize that support commitment from company management and investors can accelerate the achievement of business targets from year to year, not only business growth but also recognition of company as the friendlier company growth balance between business area, social, and environmental area. Corporate Social Responsibility is still focus in 4 pillars of BEAUTY and then added with 5 CARING in year 2013, where each Beauty pillar and Caring will be explored more detail in the 24 criteria of our Communication on Progress report. As a Global Compact LEAD member, we try to keep our commitment in promoting GC Principles among private sectors and set collaborative programs among members of GC local network. Internal and external activities as well as collaborative action we have made will be described in the following criteria of this report. Finally, we express our appreciation and thanks to shareholders, the Board of Commissioners, employees, suppliers, distributors, agents, customers, business partners and all stakeholders over the full trust and support to us in 2012. With the help of our brothers all, ready to perform even better in 2013 and ever. CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 7 Communication on Progress Review Strategy, Governance and Engagement Criterion 1: Strategic Aspect of Global Compact Implementation Company has set up strategic aspect to implement the ten principles of Global Compact both internally and externally by elaborating Global Compact principles in the business process and market communication, as well as program activities involving other parties, GOs and NGOs. a. Embedding the ten principles into our business strategy Our business strategy is mention in company vision designed with elaborating the GC principles, ‘To become one of the world’s leading companies in beauty care and spa industry with natural nuances and eastern values, through modern technology’, by involving stakeholders in our supply chain. Labors and human right as well as environment have been together coloring and designing the company strategy as the valuable point to improve our product competitiveness. b. Bringing the ten principles in our CSR activity Since beginning, our company has run the business by involving all stakeholders in the supply chain of production as well as product distribution. CSR activities have linked into our business process that is empowering local community (farmers) as our material suppliers and also women as our main costumers. Anti-corruption became more important to build our good governance to be able to compete in the global market. Moreover, implementing GC principles together with CSR activities becomes more powerful in resulting high impacts to community and to every target achievements.  We integrate our business values and operations to meet the expectations of our stakeholders, include customers, employees, regulators, investors, suppliers, the community and the environment.  We merge our social, economic and environmental responsibilities to our stakeholders through our action and within our corporate policies.  We transparently communicate our strategies, targets, performance and governance to our stakeholders in our continual commitment to sustainable development  We try to measure the implementation and the outcome of our CSR activities, then improve continuously to meet the short and long term of company objectives. c. The Water Conservation Program of Gajahwong river This Water Mandate program that preserve the water resources has been set up in Yogyakarta province in the area of Gajahwong river. This program has special goal for preserving water resources which also can create the food security and health conscious of local community, as well as the environment friendly program that covers the commitment of several stakeholders, including the collaboration and cooperation between the local community, local government, local universities, local non government organizations and several private sectors. d. Broaden strategy through local network By collaborating with members of Local network, we try to design program for collaborative action. Some program we have done and will be scaled up to regional area if possible.  Program Tjahaja: Human Rights for Children Thus program is to develop children as a role model and agent of change for their family and community as an effort to accomplish their rights for a better quality of life through photo essay method.  Save Water Campaign as a Program of Water Mandate This program is an action to increase public awareness to save water as it becomes limited for community to have access on it. This campaign was aimed to share information about water crisis and present ideas on how to save water through easily applied methods in daily life. The campaign on Indonesia save water would be continued with other actions bay establishing ‘Save Water Community’ by inviting people to come and join in. CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 8  Indonesia Water Mandate Working Group (WMWG) Setting up this group is mainly to increase awareness among members and also stimulate the snowball effect in environment aspect, especially in water issues, within company and institutions. To date the members of this group would be about 10 companies and will grow up soon later. Pictures 1: Celebrating World Water Day and Private sector pledge on CEO Water Mandate ceremony, March 2012.  Global Compact Voluntary Day Together with all members of GC Local network held this event to support the development of villages as a tourist village in Central Java and Yogjakarta. This program was also held to support local community to repair school buildings to facilitate students with reliably classroom for studying. Pictures 2: Collaborative action of Indonesia Global Compact Network by conducting voluntary day in reparing houses after Mt. Merapi disaster in December 2012  Green Movement for the Earth CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 9 This program has been held in some places in different occasions. The theme of Greening the brown land to support our atmosphere layer is a continuous program by involving other parties, GO and NGOs. The main idea will be Tree planting in some areas both in remote area and in urban area around people housing that can be functioned as garden area where people can use it for relaxation and public area. Criterion 2: Description of effective decision-making processes and systems of governance for corporate sustainability Decision-making processes of governance are based on the company leadership blueprint we have set up called NET-I3 as the corporate commitment for sustainable business. This can be described as below: Natural most MTG products use natural ingredients Eastern all MTG products are based on Eastern culture Technology all MTG products are created and manufactured in the state-of-the-art technology practice Icon the positioning of MTG as “Indonesian Beauty Icon” Institution MTG will be transformed as world class company Innovation innovation on product and service will become the centre and the main strategy to compete with local and global players The four-pillars on the other hand, is the commitment of company management in implementing corporate responsibilities to our people including employee and costumers, and also responsibility to our environment (planet) to speed up target achievement of sustainable business. 1. Beauty education:  Training on organic farming system for farmers producing plant materials as our suppliers of raw materials. This program is done continuously to the existing farmer group extended to other community.  Training on MAC (medicinal, aromatic, and cosmetic) plants gardening in small area of land surrounding houses that can be used for family health care.  Training on site for communities in rural area was also activity done periodically and consistently every year.  Jamu goes to school program was about introducing local wisdom of Jamu as Indonesia indigenous culture for caring family health by using natural ingredient. 2. Beauty green: The activities relate to green mission have been done along the year 2011 as the commitment of corporate management in conserving our nature as well as greening our nation. The main target of this program is reducing emission and environment conservation through collaborative actions.  Greening factory area as supporting activity on implementing green factory.  Planting movement in schools area to raise awareness among students that tree planting action should be done in reducing impacts of global warming and also resource of oxygen for human life.  3-R (reduce, reuse, and recycle) movement have been done to recycle waste water from production process before released to public drainage through waste water treatment plant setup previously. Monitoring and evaluating periodically all activities producing waste and how to handle waste properly. We have applied environmental management since few years ago that is one of continuous improvement program.  Saving energy used in production process by reducing electric and water consumption on every step of production and offices. Using solar panel in some parts for specific needs such as for lighting in our garden. Water saving both for production processes and office needs also done continuously to reduce water consumption.  Reducing water used for toilet flush in all manufacturing and office area by setting up method of reduction. CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 10  Water saving energy output in the first is total every year 2012 is 12% from total water consumption or equal with 7.080.000/month.  Actively support in the programs in line with CEO Water Mandate initiative by campaigning Water saving through program activities internally and externally. 3. Beauty culture: Promoting and preserving local culture in term of exploring indigenous culture and local community to be parts of sustainable development that they are not only as an object of development but also as a subject who play an important role especially in preserving our nature. So, this program is focused in the conservation of Indonesian indigenous knowledge  Our activity in exploring local culture has been done consistently through cosmetic color trend to open views and knowledge of people about our richness in diverse culture and its potential resources in nation. This year we promote culture of Nusa Tenggara through our cosmetic color trend.  Performing local culture as a resource potential for our nation by supporting local community in exploring local resources which have economic value in the market and possible for them to trade it while activity in conservation run simultaneously. 4. Beauty in women: This activity has been done mainly to promote the role of women by exploring their indigenous potential to be stronger in playing the same role to other and also educating them for specific area of women. So, the activities will focus on how we can improve the skill and knowledge of women, especially in the remote and forest area, so they can improve the family welfare.  Beauty class activity was has been done periodically to give more skills for women and knowledge on how to explore self skill in beauty makeup. The measurement indicators based on 4 pillars implementation will be presented as below Table 1: Implementation of 4 pillars Beauty Education ACTIVITIES 2009 2010 2011 2012 Farmers trained organic farming 10 14 15 37 Farmers implements organic farming 6 9 10 18 Green trainees for organic awareness 3,265 3,774 4,576 5,912 Beauty Green ACTIVITIES 2009 2010 2011 2012 Living library in schools & universities 2 4 6 3 Plant seedlings for community 5,060 5,700 6,125 7,285 MAC plants preserved in garden 611 627 627 640 Beauty Culture ACTIVITIES 2009 2010 2011 2012 Amount of published book 4 8 6 7 Culture performance supported by company 8 12 10 12 Women Empowerment ACTIVITIES 2009 2010 2011 2012 Women got special skills 3,780 5,290 5,350 5,410 Good quality of trainees (%) 64 86 90 92 New enterprises that managed by women 7 9 2 5 Criterion 3: The COP describes engagement with all important stakeholders a. List of stakeholder group engaged by the organization CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 11  Indonesia government authorities  Agriculture ministry, especially with Directorate General of Horticulture, Directorate General of Estate Crops, Directorate General of Processing and Marketing for Agricultural Product, and The Indonesian Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (mainly with two research center institutions: research center for medicinal and aromatic plants and research center for spices).  Forestry ministry, especially with Research and Development Forestry Agency and Directorate General Forest Enterprises.  Health ministry, especially with Directorate General Pharmaceutical Services and Medical Devices and the National Agency of Drug and Food Control.  Industrial ministry, especially with Directorate General Manufacturing Industrial Base.  Trade ministry, especially with Directorate General Foreign Trade  Coordinating ministry for economic affair  Ministry of justice and human rights  National standardization body  Non government organizations  World Wildlife Fund Indonesia  Yayasan Kehati (The Indonesia Biodiversity Foundation)  Setara Foundation  Indonesia Non Timber Forest Product  Wahana Lingkungan Hidup Indonesia (Walhi – Indonesia Forum for Environment)  Indonesian Conservation Community Foundation (Warsi)  Aliansi Masyarakat Adat Nusantara (Indigenous Peoples Alliance of the Archipelago).  Perkumpulan Telapak  Dewan Rempah Indonesia (Indonesia Spice Council)  Indonesia Global Compact Network  Swisscontact Indonesia  Perkosmi (Indonesia Cosmetic Association)  ASEAN cosmetic Association (ACA)  Gabungan Pengusaha Jamu dan Obat Tradisional (Association of Jamu and Traditional Medicine Producers)  Yayasan Bina Swadaya (Self reliance development foundation)  Yayasan Bina Usaha Lingkungan  United Nations Institutions  International Labour Organization  United Nations Conference on Trade and Development  United Nations Development Program Indonesia  Global partners  ProFound – Adviser in Development  SIPPO the Swiss Import Promotion Programme  Local and global universities  The Leiden University in the Netherlands  Indonesia University  Padjadjaran University  Surabaya University  Airlangga University  Institute Technology Bandung  Institute Technology Bogor  University Mulawarman, East Kalimantan  University of Nusa Penida, Kupang, East Timor.  Several Suppliers and Farmers cooperation b. Outcome of stakeholder involvement  Product and service selection matrix for sustainable Biotrade program of Indonesian native species: collaboration with UNCTAD and Setara Foundation. CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 12  Facilitating Indonesia SME working on natural ingredients to participate in SIPPO program that is promoting Indonesia natural product in International exhibition in Europe for 3 years.  New master degree program of Integrated Microfinance Management in Padjadjaran University in Bandung that started in September 2011 with the collaboration of the Leiden University (the Netherlands), Padjadjaran University, Yayasan Bina Swadaya and Martha Tilaar Group.  The second lifting of master degree program on Jamu in University of Indonesia that started last June 2010 : collaboration program between Martha Tilaar Group and University of Indonesia.  Continuous program of women empowerment in women prisoner in Tangerang and Jakarta: collaboration program with Ministry of Justice and Human Rights.  Maintaining living library (garden of medicinal, aromatic and cosmetic plants) in campus of Indonesia University and Institute Technology Bandung and setting up in basic schools and high schools.  Education program, training facilitation and coaching clinic for small and medium enterprices of Indonesian cosmetic producers and related health authorities: collaboration between PT. Martina Berto, the University of Indonesia, the National Agency of Drug and Food Control, the Health Ministry and the Industrial Ministry.  ASEAN Cosmetic Good Manufacturing Practices, ASEAN cosmetic standard and related method of analysis for cosmetic ingredients and finished products : collaboration between PT. Martina Berto, Indonesian Cosmetic Association, the Health Ministry, the Nasional Agency of Drug and Food Control, the National Standardization Body, the Industrial Ministry, ASEAN Cosmetic Association, and the International Standardization Organization.  Guiding and supervising farmers producing plant materials of MAC plants to be supplied to company as high quality plant materials produced by local farmers.  Progress in innovation and product development The commitment of PT Marina Berto towards R&D is well depicted in increasing number of research conducted in Martha Tilaar Innovation Center (MTIC) and increasing number of project collaboration with the local universities and several research institutions. The company takes nearly 45 weeks to develop a new product. This includes R&D, marketing, packaging, trial production and product launching. UN Goals and Issues Criterion 4: The COP describes actions taken in support of broader UN goals and issues Program activities of company CSR have been inline to the Millennium Development Goals of United Nations, though for only some point of MDGs. However, we do continuously improvements and extend programs suitable for target area we have work on. Some activities related to goals of MDGs will be described below as it is in goal criteria. Related to MDGs #1, Balisari spa therapist training program is dedicated as example of Growing Inclusive Market, how we create business with the poor. Through the scholarship program granted to the teenage girls from poor families in rural areas of Indonesia, Martha Tilaar Group has created a business model that is beneficial for both parties. Those teenage girls are given opportunities and facilities to train as professional spa therapists. Next, the grantees are employed as spa therapists. As such, they receive both appropriate financial and non-financial facilities. The benefits enable the women to raise their level of dignity, as indicated by the improvement of their living standards and economic conditions of their families and by their personal pride as employees of a big company whose professionalism is well acknowledged. At the same time, the benefits of this program have guarantee Martha Tilaar Group with a supply of professional employees, so this company can improve its brand image as the provider of international quality products and services. In the end, all of these efforts contribute profits for the company. Having been officially accepted as the grantees of the scholarship program, all of them are going to engage in the training program, within which they are educated to be a good quality spa therapist. CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 13 Related to MDGs #2, The company supports all people to achieve universal primary education through scholarship and education awards for children of low level employees. Everyone who has kids with good achievement and rank will be awarded and had scholarship from company for continuing their study until Senior High Schools. This program has been done since long years ago. Related to MDGs #3, The company has more women working in the company due to our business related closely to women. However, we do treat all employees at the same wages based on their level. The important thing for our company is not employing children under the age of 18. Related to MDGs #5, The company has always been committed in improving maternal health since the beginning. We came to area where maternal mortality was higher such as in Nias before year 2009. We give extension and knowledge to people how to be healthy in delivering baby. We guide them how to use local potential and wisdom such as using herbs and traditional treatment in caring pregnant mother. This program has been replicate to other area especially in remote area for low income people. Related to MDGs #6, Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other diseases, we do it mainly for people visiting our garden KaDO where the event of health presentation takes place. We motivate audience to do self health care by using natural products including herbal products. There are so many people visiting our garden and have learned about health care and health improvement by using herbs. We also conducted special training program for our employees regarding the HIV/AIDS matters. Related to MDGs #7, Ensuring environmental sustainability is one of our main programs here by involving all stakeholders or we do it ourselves internal company. Kampoeng Djamoe Organik (KaDO) or spice garden is the real example of our movement in greening our planet where in the area of about 10 hectar in the center of industrial estate, we set up green area with various kind of MAC plants. This garden has been dedicated for the city people in Cikarang, West Java, to reduce pollution released from industries and city vehicles, and also producing oxygen for human life. There are more than 600 MAC plant species grown in this garden planted organically and also designed as a landscape garden. So there are so many people visit this garden every day especially during holidays. People learn more about environment and our indigenous plant species that can be used as herbal products. In this garden we also set up pond as a water catchment and fishery. There are also some species of fish living in this pond. In the future, this garden will be a center for environmental education and the area of conservation. We do highly support government program called One Billion Indonesia Trees (OBIT) green campaign program stated by Indonesia Precident in year 2008. The Indonesian government has committed for the planting of one billion trees in Indonesia until 2013 to reduce green house gases emissions by 26% resulting from clearing and degradation. Our company has implemented this program in the area of KaDO. Moreover, we do also education to young children, pupils and students on how to reduce the impact of global warming and to preserve the environment. We provide education for the public of all ages and professions regarding efforts to address global warming, and utilization of medicinal, cosmetic and aromatic (MAC) plants in health care, beauty and environmental preservation. Several visits have been held by young children, the pupils from elementary to high schools, as well as the students from universities and companies to our MAC plants organic garden of Kampoeng Djamoe Organik (KaDO), where they learn how to preserve the food, the environment and daily activities to reduce the impacts of global warming Related to MDGs #8, We always develop a global partnership for development that as mention above we do collaboration local and international partners both government and non governments. By doing collaboration we can speed up the program goals and also scaling up project coverage area. We realized that achievement of target goals we need to conduct collaboration and connection among organization with the same vision and mission in order to fasten and to give more impact to the program. Program of water mandate Gajahwong in Yogyakarta is one of our multi-stakeholder partnerships. CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 14 Human Rights Implementation Criterion 5: Description of our commitments, strategies or policies in the area of human rights a. Reflection on the relevance of human rights for the company  Health and safety system. o Since the company has the Good Manufacturing Practices certificate, as well as the international certificates of ISO 9000 and ISO 14001, the company provides safe and healthy working facilities and take appropriate precautionary measures to protect employees from work-related hazards and anticipated dangers in the workplace. o Then health and safety incidents are reported and investigated, and a confidential procedure is in place for receiving and handling health and safety complaints from employees, then routinely monitors its production processes, machinery and equipment to ensure that they are safe and in good working order. o Workers, supervisors and managers are trained to respond to workplace emergencies; first aid kits and fire extinguishers are readily available; and escape exits are clearly marked and free from obstruction. o The workplace is maintained to ensure clean and comfortable conditions including a suitable temperature, ventilation and lighting; suitable washing and sanitation areas appropriate for both genders. o The company also provides safe drinking water and lunch or dinner for all employees and facilities for clean and sanitary food storage and eating.  Protective equipment and training The company supplies its employees with the protective equipment, especially in danger tasks and provides training necessary to perform their tasks safely  Free for all religions and ethnic group Company have supported and respected the protection of human that was proclaimed internationally in term of treating our man power in running business. Our employees are coming from many parts of Indonesia with different culture and have different beliefs in religion and culture. Therefore, we have to facilitate them all living together in differences and give them similar job description and right without any discrimination among them. Table 2: Description of employee religion 2010 2011 2012 RELIGION TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL MGT NON MGT MGT NON MGT MGT NON MGT Moslem 65 545 610 70 540 610 69 540 609 Christian 53 51 104 49 51 100 46 52 98 Buddhist 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 Total 118 596 714 120 591 711 115 592 707 Table 3: The description of the ethnic of employees 2010 2011 2012 ETHNIC TOTAL MGT NON MGT TOTAL MGT NON MGT TOTAL MGT NON MGT Javanese 66 503 569 64 501 565 65 501 566 Sundanese 14 60 74 10 60 70 11 60 71 Sumatranese 9 20 29 14 20 34 16 20 36 Kalimantanese 1 1 2 1 1 2 2 1 3 Sulawesinese 3 2 5 3 2 5 3 2 5 Malukunese 2 4 6 2 4 6 2 4 6 CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 15 Balinese 1 1 2 1 0 1 1 0 1 Ns-Tenggara 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 1 1 Chinese 24 2 26 25 2 27 15 3 18 Total 120 594 714 120 591 711 115 592 707 Criterion 6: Description of effective management systems to integrate the human rights principles a. Regular stakeholder consultations in the area of human rights Continuous program from last year is about external program for empowering women prisoner to support their right to prepare their future and improve their welfare. Several training program for women prisoner has been held in Women Prison at Tanggerang (West Java) so that their human rights are recognized and appreciated. The training includes making pot plants, sewing, drawing, and making card decorations. It is expected that when they are free and join the society, they already have the skills and expertise sufficient to support their life. We help also to market their products so that they earn revenue for the saving for its future. b. Training and job enrichments Several training programs have been conducted internally, as well as sending the employees to join the external training and capacity building programs c. The outcome of our commitment in human rights principle Dr. Martha Tilaar has been chosen by the Ministry of Law and Human Rights as the Ambassador of Education and Training in Human Rights, period 2010 – 1014. Criterion 7: The description of effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of human rights integration a. Performance objectives for each supervisor and manager The company implements Management by Objective method for employee assessment, where each employee is fully aware of his/her role in making contribution toward the performance objective of the company. This method is supported by 360 degree feedback method which is useful for qualitative assessment to show the employees strength and areas for improvement. Employees are expected to assess themselves (self assessment) for upgrading themselves, in conjunction with Training and Development Needs Analysis resulting in positive synergy. All supervisors and managers, including the directors, should set-up the performance objectives, based on their job description every year as working plan, and then will be evaluated in the end of year. The result of this evaluation of performance objectives will be used to set-up the career plan and the new amount of their salary compensation and other company benefits. b. Process to deal with incidents Every employee becomes the member of workers social security insurance (Jamsostek ~ Jaminan Sosial Tenaga Kerja) as it is based on Indonesian Law No. 3 of 1992, in principle, a system of social insurance for workers and their families. Social security scheme covers programs associated with risk, such as occupational accident insurance, death insurance, health insurance, and retirement program. d. Product stewardship  The company take steps to prevent risks to human rights arising from product defects or improper use or misuse of company products  Every product complaint, both comes from internal staffs or our customers, will be managed according to our standard operation procedure by the customer relation managers and follow up by Quality Assurance Department, to ensure that product stewardship with regard to human rights entails that the company protects consumers, users and others against hazards to human rights, including health, life, privacy and other impacts, which may result from the manufacturing, marketing, usage and disposal of a given product. CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 16  Product stewardship reports and procedures will be evaluated periodically to prevent and monitor such improper use or misuse.  We also give a reward for the customer who give a product or service complaint(s) to us. e. Human rights standards in suppliers The company has promoted the international human rights standard in its interactions with suppliers and business partmers. Although the the human rights standards of suppliers and other business partners are beyond the direct control of the company, however, the company tries to avoid complicity in human rights abuses by its suppliers and business partners by taking human rights standards into account when selecting and developing business relationships. Criterion 8: Standardized performance indicators on human rights a. Outcomes of internal awareness-raising and training efforts The career path and promotion will be given to every employee by our Human Resources Management Department, which based on the achievement of their overall performance objectives, the improvement of their personal characters, as well as the effectiveness of implementation of training program that has been given for every employee. b. Our human resources management has six dimensions:  Job analysis; Regarding job analysis, manager in any organization can understand and determine duties and responsibilities of each job that in turn will be beneficial in finding out the right person to occupy the positions. Every job has different scale of responsibilities, from the simple one to the complex duties. Consequently, certain job types may need simple skill while another one requires more complete skills.  Recruitment process; Recruitment process is a process in which organization choose applicant to fulfil a certain job. Selection refers to the process to identify potential applicants who have education, skills, ability and characteristics needed by organization to attain its goals.  Competence development; In this stage, there are two interrelated activities: training and development process. Training refers to efforts to facilitating learning of particular sciences and skill that is suitable for creating more professional staff. Meanwhile development opportunitines consist of efforts to improve staffs’ education, skills and attitude in order to enlarge staff capability in coping job challenges.  Performance management; Performance management is used to ensure that staffs and managers’ activities and their results are relevant with organization’s goals. It requires specified activities and results as a guidance to attain organization goals.  Reward and punishment system; Salary structure is also play important role in managing human resources. By determining salary level of staff performance, organization can decide activities and performances demanded from the staff. The salary structure also will be evaluated and compared by the same business structure and segmentation, to avoid the hijack of our good people.  Working relation. Working relation is a manner in which organization finds out capable staff to participate in decision making process, their rights and responsibilities. If so, every organization member can perform their jobs well. Moreover, there will be transparency in measuring staff performance since all of organization member understand their rights and responsibilities. As consequence, manager and organization in general will be more equal in giving reward and punishment. In relation to staff promotion, carrier path is an important tool to guide staff and organization in placing person in higher position. This path will be beneficial for organization to find competent staff and also for staff to plan their carrier in the future. It means that organization may take policies to promote staff in higher position without waiting enough service age as stated in regulation, but manager may appoint potential staff due to their achievements. CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 17 Further, staff may plan their carrier for example, after ten years from recruitment, they want to sit in the middle level manager – based on carrier path guidance. Labour Principles Implementation Criterion 9: Description on commitments, strategies or policies in the area of labour For labour implementation in our company, we try to keep and run such good system have been run since years ago, and develop it if necessary depended on the condition and situation, and always be reviewed to the government references. We try to maintain our employee stay in condusive situation and increase their wellness. a. Reflection on the relevance of the labour principles for the company The company provides freedom to employees in implementing their aspiration in various activities, such as:  Puspa Karya Employee Cooperatives The Employee Cooperatives, which have become a legal entity, were founded as an employee forum to sharpen their enterpreneurship skill through mini market operation, soft loan program and other business ventures that give financial as well as non financial benefits to the members. The cooperative income has increased by average 10% every year.  Religious Activities Mambaul Barokah, Choirunnisa, and Prayers Meeting are carried out periodically, intended to strengthen employees’ faith that would have effect on their spiritual values. Several interreligion celebrations are carried out to develop religious tolerance among the employees. The company also provides the religion weekly ceremonies for both Moslem and Christian.  Sporting Activities Sporting Events are conducted to build sportsmanship and develop close relationships among departments b. Written company policy on labour The company has the written on labourship which is distributed to all employees, so they can learn the labour’s code of conduct to find out their duty and rights. c. Human asset composition  Human asset based on education and ages in year 2011 is not so different to the previous year. Here are employee composition based on education and age  Composition comparation of human asset in year 2009, 2010, and 2011 Table 4: Composition of human asset based on ages 2010 2011 2012 AGES NON NON NON TOTAL MGT MGT TOTAL MGT MGT TOTAL MGT MGT < 18 years old 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 18 20 years old 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 21 30 years old 4 52 56 2 57 59 3 78 81 31 40 years old 47 270 317 45 243 288 39 208 247 41 50 years old 45 243 288 50 263 313 48 266 314 51 55 years old 5 37 42 16 27 43 17 39 56 > 55 years old 10 1 11 7 1 8 8 8 Total 111 603 714 120 591 711 115 592 707 CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 18 There is no child labour under 18 years old work as company employees but more in productive period at the range 31-40 years old. There is also no discrimanation in beliefs, culture, and gender, which are our value in achieving high productivity of this company. Our commitment in treating our man power as the asset of company instead of just workers, they have contributed a lot in target achievement both for sales target and other company performance targets. Tabel 5: Composition of human asset based on genders 2010 2011 2012 GENDER TOTAL NON TOTAL NON TOTAL MGT NON MGT MGT MGT MGT MGT Women 64 280 344 67 288 355 66 306 372 Men 54 316 370 53 303 356 49 286 335 Total 118 596 714 120 591 711 115 592 707 Moreover, there is no such discrimination in culture, beliefs and gender. It means that every person has similar treatment as company members. We gave opportunity to employee to develop and improve their skill by giving external training and courses. We gave also scholarship to potential employee to take higher degree for special subject. Facilities and benefits are given to employee as their achievement of target setup annually. Pictures 3: Several employee’s indicators d. Specific commitments and goals for specified years  Every supervisor and manager will set up their yearly goals based on the company’s objectives. The achievement of the target will be evaluated in the end of the year.  The new salary will be adjusted based on the goal achievement and job position. Criterion 10: The description on effective management systems to integrate the labour principles a. Training and Development Needs Analysis Internal awareness-raising and training on the labour principles for management and employees are based on training and development analysis.  Training and Development Needs Analysis is conducted carefully as a key process in selecting the right training programs. Therefore it is very important to understand the CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 19 requirements of each department and design taylor-made programs. This is intended to equip the employees with specific horizon and values necessary for their jobs.  The company provides its employees with 2 (two) categories of trainings, intended to enhance their knowledge, skills and working attitude.  The first category is training for improving employee character, intended to improve the value of work, namely leadership, goal achievement, responsibility, integrity, risk taking and endurance. Moduls used among others are: Personal Effectiveness, Team in Action, Continuous Improvement.  The second category is technical training related to the job so the employees may sharpen their knowledge and skills in order to respond quickly to change in technology and working methods in each field. This training focuses on the employees' competency. The training modules include among others: Certified Professional Marketer, Assessment Center Assessor Certification, Advanced Course on Safety Assessment of Cosmetics, and Annual Process Improvement Symposium.  Especially front liners across Indonesia have been trained continuously on monthly basis to maintain their skills in beauty care and salesmanship. b Employee grievance mechanisms The company has a mechanism for hearing, processing, and settling grievances of employees which are managed by their direct superior and the Human Resources Management Department. . c. Employee Scholarships and Awards  In order to create positive environment for excellent performance and sense of belonging of the employee, the management provide scholarship for the employee children who are best ranked in Primary School, Junior High School, and Senior High School. This program is a form of the company support on education, which has been carried out in the last 20 years.  Rewards are given regularly to those employees with certain periods of service, and also employees with good performance. Employees with outstanding achievements will receive Employee Awards and opportunity for overseas vacation. Criterion 11: The description on effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of labour principles integration a. System to track and measure performance based on standardized performance metrics The company has a mechanism for standard wages, salary, annual increasement and additional benefits based on the grade and position of each employee, then periodically will be compared by the standard salaries of relevant industries. b. Employee performance evaluation The company implements “Management by Objective” method for employee assessment, where each employee is fully aware of his/her role in making contribution toward the performance of the Company. This method is supported by 360 Degree Feedback method which is useful for qualitative assessment to show the employees strength and areas for improvement. Employees are expected to assess themselves (self assessment) for upgrading themselves, in conjunction with Training and Development Needs Analysis resulting in positive synergy. c. Process to deal with accidents  The management guidelines state our top priority of ensuring a safe, healthy workplace where employees can work in peace of mind. To achieve this, we constantly strive to create a zero accident workplace where our employees and subcontract employees work safely, both for their own sake and to instill a feeling of safety in the minds of residents around our factories.  Occupational Safety and Health Committee at each company site leads Safety and AccidentPrevention Efforts. The committee also ensures the safety of facilities and prevent accidents through risk assessments, conduct site patrols to make sure rules are being followed, and raise employee safety awareness through hand-on workshops. The committee also send members to other sites to exchange safety information with committee members there. CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 20 d. Disclosure of main incidents involving the company We set-up incident management in our customer relation department to respond quickly and effectively to a customer problem enables a company to deliver the highest standards of customer care at a time when the customer most needs it. Based on Good Manufacturing Practices, we have a standard operation procedure to deal with customer complaint(s). We also have dedicated manager and his team who will have closed relationship with our Quality Assurance Manager to handle this matter, so we can give a quick and right response to our customers. Criterion 12: The standardized performance indicators on labour principles integration a. Outcomes of internal awareness-raising and labour principle integration The business principle to be success is the commitment of company management making integration among all stakeholders including labors and communities. Our company labors perform good performance in their area of work based on their specialization. It is impossible to produce good quality end products without any support from labors and suppliers. It is also impossible to make high sales of our products in the market without support from distributor, media, and also facilitation of government agencies. So, our successful thing in growing our company is our good integration among us internally and also externally with other parties including government. This can be seen in our supply chain production in this company by involving all stakeholders. b. Outcome from our loyal customers to our credible capacity building to make-up professional artists. There are events of loyal costumer gathering organized by each product brands to give appreciation to our loyal costumer in various type of events. There are also distributors gathering to give appreciation to our good performance distributors which can achieve target or even more, both for national and international distributors. The successful marketer is about how they can contact and integrate to their costumer. c. Reward for our loyal customers It is a marketing policy of the company to give reward to our loyal costumer. As it is mention above, there is annual event for costumer gathering. Environmental Stewardship Implementation Criterion 13: The description on our commitments, strategies or policies in the area of environmental stewardship We setup our environmental programme to be implemented both as internally and external activities. a. For internal program, We are focusing in the area of manufacturing process. This programme will be monitored and evaluated periodically to meet our commitment in preserving evergy and implementing green production. Some internal programs have been implemented as follow:  As we have pledged in CEO Water Mandate, we do internally saving water used for manufacture and office needs. The program conducted in year 2011 is about reducing water used for toilet flush in every office toilet where we can reduce about 1.2 liters of flush water. The next step of 2012, we have utilised the recycle water from WWTP for toilet flush instead of using clean water. By saving water energy we can support national program on saving clean water for future.  In the garden we setup solar energy to utilize more sun light for office need and also giving an example for visitors that we can do such things in fulfilling our need of electricity.  Saving natural resources by reusing waste water after being treated in the waste water treatment plant (WWTP) to be normal water without any harmful material. We have used for CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 21 about 40 tonne/month along year 2012. Moreover, we do saving on energy use for manufacturing including electricity and water that was monitored periodically.  Good environment by controlling impact that may release such as treating sewage before reused as garden irrigation, absorption well, and changing ozone material more friendly to environment. In year 2012 we have treated waste water 100% before reusing it. We have made biopores in some places around the factory to absorb more water inside the soil. We have also changing ozon destructive material of central air condition into 100% safe with environment friendly material.  Together with all stakeholders we try to perform clean environment around the factory by continuing clean emition programme that have been started view years ago, and also make a code with recycle logo/environment friendly in every plastic packaging we use. By the end of 2012 about 100% vehicles entering factory area have met standard emision. This was applied not only for company vehicles but also visitor’s vehicles and all vehicles entering factory area without any exception.  Sustainable program on environment conservation have been centralized in the area of conservation “Kampoeng Djamoe Organik” where we have collected more than 600 species of Indonesia original MAC (medicinal, aromatic and cosmetic) plants. In this area we conduct some training in preserving environment for students and communities. Pictures 4: Booth of Kampoeng Djamoe Organic Martha Tilaar at exhibition event conducted by Indonesia Ministry of Industry b. External program  We actively involved in green programme conducted by other parties (GO and NGOs) or self initiatives implementing our own programme. Collaborative action under coordinator of IGCN (Global Compact Network for Indonesia) together with other members we do implement program in tree planting and disaster recovery program in villages.  Collaborative program we setup with other parties, GO and NGOs to rehabilitate water resource in the area of mount Manglayang, Bandung, West Java. This program is in the step of designing activities involving communities around the area. This area will be rehabilitate by planting more trees and also educate community to take care their environment while they still can get income from this area.  Collaboration program in Clean Ciliwung river. CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 22 Pictures 5: Movement of clean Ciliwung river supported by Indonesian Army, October 2012  Collaborative action of water conservation has been conducted in Gajahwong river in Yogjakarta to support local community in caring their water resources from the mountain and use it for community needs. Description of Gajahwong program will be described in other chapter. Pictures 6: Cleaning Gajahwong river movement involving community supported by local government of Sleman Yogjakarta, July 2012 (condition before the water mandate program) CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 23 Pictures 7: Kick-off Grebeg Air Gajahwong river movement program, July 2012 Pictures 8: Training for Trainers program has been conducted to give know-how about water conservation and healthy living of Grebeg Air Gajahwong river movement program, July 2012 Pictures 9: Training of organic farming for community along Gajahwong river, September 2012 CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 24 Criterion 14: The description of effective management systems to integrate the environmental principles Since year 2000 we have implemented management system of ISO 14000 related to environmental policy in running our production process. It is no doubt that our company conducts monitor and evaluation regarding to the ISO requirements and it is fully supported by company management from the top level to down. Some action have been done in bolstering environmental awareness among us as company members can be described as below: a. Continuing environmental program on setting up Waste Water Treatment Plant (WWTP), conducting monitor and evaluation of the process. There are about 38 ton per month average of recycle water from the WWTP have been use for garden irrigation and other uses such as washing vehicle, and also direct flow to the city drainage. Currently in the phase-3 of this program b. Continued program saving electricity by changing electrical equipment with the new save equipment including ball lamp and air conditioner. Currently in the phase-2 of the program to change the Freon resource of aircond with environmental friendly resource for about 20 units in this year 2011. In the garden (KaDO) we set up solar panel to produce about 6000 watt hours of electricity to light on our garden. c. Reviewing environment program documents regarding to government rules and communicating environmental friendly activities as we got BLUE Label of PROPER policy from the Ministry of Environment. The blue label means we have met requirement on handling environment impact due to our production process in our factory. The next step of labeling for next year will be GREEN label means our activity in business conducts CSR program that is involving communities as our stakeholders. d. Promoting action and movement on Green & healthy program as well as environmental friendly activities among stakeholders through:  Media gathering Giving information what we have done regarding to the environmental activities through press release and giving opportunity to media to see directly our company and also our activities on environmental movement. From this event, we hope there is something to learn and to share to others.  Supplier gathering This event is objected to deliver information and program that the company setup related to environment conservation. We do periodically inform our supplier about our policy in reducing gas emition around the factory, so they ask to be aware to join this program by monitoring their vehicles entering the factory with zero emition, otherwise they can not enter the area. Criterion 15: The description on effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for environmental stewardship a Effective monitoring and evaluation for company internal green program Effective monitoring and evaluation has been done periodically to all our environmental program wich had been set up in the beginning. Document of monitor and evaluation will be reported to stakeholders and company management to set up policy in the next run. The internal environment programs and its target and achievement indicators in year 2010, 2011 and 2012. (attached) CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 25 b. Green program objectives in year 2012 Table 6: Green internal program activities 2010 – 2012 OBJECTIVES, GOALS & ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM Clause 4.3.3 TIME SCHEDULE No. Starting 2010 2011 2012 Description of company objectives, goals and program Period Jan to Jun Jul to Dec Jan to Jun Jul to Dec Jan to Jun Jul to Dec 1 Company that saving the The usage of the output of waste water treatment for T = 40 T = 40 T = 40 T = 40 T = 40 T = 40 natural energy resources public use (ton/month) A = 38 A = 42 A = 38 A = 38 A = 38 A=? (water and electricity) a. manufacture of tanks 2007 b. installation and procurement of pumps to the park 2007 c. implementation flush watering gardens Dec-10 3/Jun'10 3/Dec'10 3/Jun'11 3/Dec'11 3/Jun'12 1/Dec'12 Saving of natural resources through: Dec-10 a. Recording and monitoring electricity usage: The use of electricity (KwH / month) 114.22 133.56 134.09 140.32 141.6 156.2 Ratio (pcs products / KwH) T = 27000 T = 27000 T = 27000 T = 27000 T = 27000 T = 27000 A = 23775 A = 26610 A = 25189 A = 26099 A = 22823 A = 27766 b. Recording and monitoring of water use: Water use (m3 / month) 3873.67 3661 4726 2951 6268 3539.68 Ratio (Kg product / m3) T = 60 T = 60 T = 40 **) T = 40 T = 40 **) T = 40 **) A = 33 A = 45 A = 35 A = 61 A = 42 A = 71 2 Together with other 1. Emissions reduction program with the achievement until year stakeholders to create of 99% of 4-wheel vehicles in the neighborhood MB 2011 company that clean, determined eligible -> through beautiful and safe set up in 2010. ---> a. AEB continue cooperating with the program 1/Jun'10 4/Nov-Dec'10 1/Jun'10 3/Jun'12 for cleaner emissions vehicle wheel 4 b. monitoring & evaluation 4/Nov-Dec'10 4/ Dec'11 4/Nov'12 2. Inclusion of logo recycle / sustainable until year T = new PM T = new PM T = new PM T = new PM T = new PM T = new PM for plastic packaging materials (own moulds) 2011 A = 3 new items A = 3 new items A= A= A=2 A= 1 while free mold should wear friendly materials a. New product info b. assessments to supplier c. approval d. delivery 3/May'10 4/Dec'10 3/May'11 4/Dec'11 3/ Jun'12 4/Dec'12 CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 26 OBJECTIVES, GOALS & ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM Clause 4.3.3 TIME SCHEDULE No. Starting 2010 2011 2012 Description of company objectives, goals and program Period Jan to Jun Jul to Dec Jan to Jun Jul to Dec Jan to Jun Jul to Dec 3 Creating a corporate 1. Application of domestic wastewater program environment with a Per appropriate. Gub. No.. 122/Tahun 2005 -> controlled impact through setup STO facilities in Dec 2010, namely: a. gather information 2007 b. make progress 2007 c. Phase I implementation of STP-making Dec 2007 d. Monitoring and evaluation of STP results phase I 4/Apr'10 4/Apr'10 Appropriate wastewater quality standards Dec 2009 e. Implementation of Phase II of making STP Jul 2010 2/ Jun'10 5/ Dec'10 2/ Jun'11 5/ Dec'11 5/Jun'12 1/Dec'12 f. Monitoring and evaluation. Appropriate wastewater quality standards Dec 2010 2. Program making appropriate catchment wells conditions apply -> through a. gather information Feb 2009 b. planning Mar 2009 c. Phase I recharge wells (20%) Dec 2009 3/ Jun'10 3/ Dec'10 3/ Jun'11 3/ Dec'11 5/Jun'12 1/Dec'12 d. stage II infiltration wells (20%) Dec 2010 e. stage III infiltration wells (20%) Dec 2011 f. stage IV making absorption wells (20%) Dec 2012 g. V phase infiltration wells (20%) Dec 2013 3. Gradual replacement program of equipments that use ozone --> through a. make an inventory list of equipments Mar-09 b. alternative search Jun-09 c. trial Jul-09 4/Jan'10 4/Jan'10 d. evaluation Dec-09 4/Jan'10 4/Jan'10 e. periodic replacement of Phase I (2 AC) Jul-10 1/Jun'10 4/Des'10 f. periodic replacement of stage II (2 AC) Dec-11 2/Jun'11 4/Dec'11 g. periodic replacement of stage III (2 AC) Dec-12 3/ jun'12 4/Dec'12 h. periodic replacement of stage IV (2 AC) Jul-13 i. periodic replacement of stage V (3 AC) Dec-13 until Dec 2013, all Fire Extinguishers 4. Replacement of unfriendly Fire Extinguishers should be changed with friendly materials a. make an inventory list of equipment Dec-10 N/A 4/ Dec'10 b. Alternative search (trial & evaluation) Jul-11 4/Jun'11 c. periodic replacement of stage I (40 pieces) Dec-11 4/ Dec'11 d. periodic replacement of stage II (40 pieces) Dec-12 3/Jun'12 4/ Nov'12 e. periodic replacement of stage III (35 pieces) Dec-13 CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 27 Criterion 16: The outcome of standardized performance indicators on environmental stewardship a. Outcomes of internal awareness-raising and training efforts Report document as mention in the criteria 15 will be followed up by company management in setting up planning of the next step. The goal had been achieved will also be recorded and being replicated to other program and partners as well as stakeholders. Scaling up the program by involving other partners in the form of colaborative action through GC local network. b. We have appointed to be the lead of several green Biotrade action program such as:  The local expert of SIPPO (Swiss Importer Promotion Program Organization) As local expert, we give the facilitation for SME’s from natural and organic products producers in Indonesia to improve the quality of their products and also give the market access to European natural and organic markets. Pictures 10: SIPPO program 2012 to facilitate Indonesian SME’s to export to the European countries  Participate in UNCTAD for sustainable trade of natural cosmetic in Doha April 2012. Pictures 11: Presentation of natural cosmetic trading in UNCTAD event, Doha April 2012 CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 28  The leader of several council bodies in Indonesia, such as Indonesia Spice Council and Indonesian Global Compact Network, as well as the president of Perkosmi (Indonesian Cosmetic Association). Anti-Corruption Implementation Criterion 17 20: The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of anti-corruption Anti-corruption commitment is stated by company management and is supported and implemented in all level of employee as well as suppliers and other stakeholders. This program is continuous action in our company by continuous monitor and evaluation to all level and all section related to government policy and company policy. We do identify potential area where someone can do such thing including bribery, so there is no potential section doing corruption. We also implement this policy to all stakeholders involve in the supply chain including supplier and partners as well as government. Value Chain Implementation Criterion 21: The implementation of the Global Compact principles in the value chain a. Description of raw materials and (semi-) finished products used, by country or region of origin Our company uses natural ingredients as well as chemical ingredients for our cosmetic and herbal products, which comes from local and global suppliers. b. Strong supply and distribution relationships The company maintains strong relationships with its suppliers and distributors. Its distributor network enables widescale distribution and also serves as a channel for promotional activities, consumer education and awareness programmes. In addition, Martha Tilaar shop support brandbuilding initiatives, acting as company customer support centres alongside its retail hub. The Company’s spa products are separately promoted and distributed through spa chains operated by the PT Cantika Puspa Pesona. A different subsidiary of the company also provides outsourced labour for Company manufacturing facilities. c. Strategically located manufacturing facilities well supported by distribution network and marketing activities The Company operates three strategically-located manufacturing facilities in Indonesia. Seamless logistics support, excellent distribution system, proximity to major sea and air ports make these locations elements of paramount strategic advantage to the Company. It has an extensive presence across marketing channels, with multiple agents, branches and depots located across Indonesia that ensure superior distribution. Additionally, the Company has a strong relationship with its suppliers and distributors that support the Company in various promotional activities. d. Internal audit which involved in our business:  Quality, GMP and environmental system internal audit The internal audit is done annually for the evaluation of our suppliers and material principles which is held by our own audit team, both audits for ISO 9000, ISO 140001, and also internal audit based on GMP of cosmetic and herbal products. We have run ISO-2000 and ISO14000 simultaneously since year 2000. So, regular audit is done to meet the requirements by independent surveilance bodies.  Company financial internal audit The Board of Commissioners has appointed the Audit Committee Charter as a guide for the Audit Committee and its members in carrying out the task. Charter of the Audit Committee CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 29 has been poured in the decision of the Board of Commissioners no. 001/PKJ/HRM/IV/2013, dated 1 April 2013. The Audit Committee holds the meetings periodically. According to the Audit Committee Charter, the Meeting is conducted at least once a month. During the year 2012 has been held 37 meetings. If it necessary the meeting was also attended by the Commissioner, the Director, head of Division, head of the Internal Comptroller Unit or representative of the Company’s Independent Auditors. The audit Committee during the year 2012 has been carrying out tasks according to the Charter of the Audit Committee as follows:  Based on the results of the evaluation has been performed, the Audit Committee concludes that the independence of the public accounting in the audit of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted Auditing Standards 2012 set by Indonesia Institute of public accounting. These standards require that the auditor plan and perform the audit to obtain sufficient confidence that the Auditors of the financial statements are free of any misstated material. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An Audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as an assessment of the overall presentation of the financial statements.  Monitoring and evaluation of audit planning and implementation as well as monitoring of the follow-up of the audit in order to assess the adequacy of the financial reporting process, the least by conducting monitoring and evaluation of:  Implementation of Internal Audit Unit Of the evaluation can be concluded that the Internal Audit Unit planning has been implemented in accordance with the risk-based audit planning, execution and reporting of the audit has been conducted in accordance with the Standard Implementation of Internal Audit Function.  Compliance of audit implementation of public accountant by the standards applied. From the results of monitoring and evaluation of the audit committee, the public accountant has conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards set forth by the Institute of Accountants Indonesia. According to the audit report of the public accountant, financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the applicable standards. e. Policy on value chain, including a policy for suppliers and subcontractors We have several standard operation procedures to evaluate and monitor the performance of our suppliers and principles, which is based on the supplier/principle assessment policy that will be evaluated every year. In this policy, it is also including the allocation of responsibility in the value chain and procedures to remedy any non-compliance issues, audits / screenings for compliance in the value chain, and also value chain risk assessment to identify potential issues with suppliers and other business partners Transparency and Verification Criterion 22: The information on the company's profile and context of operation All information regarding the legal and organization structure, as well as countries where the organisation operates and market share can be seen in the Company Annual Report 2012. a. Legal structure CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 30 Pictures 12: Legal structure of PT. Martina Berto Tbk. b. Organisation structure Picture 13: Organisation structure 2012 CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 31 c. Countries where the organisation operates Picture 14: International Marketing Network 2012 d. Consistent Market Share & Top Line Grabber Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). We started 2012 with full of expectation because Indonesia as the Company’s main market is a country in Southeast Asia that has excellent growth prospects. In2012 the growth Indonesia amounted to 6.4%.Consumption and investment of domestic-oriented demand remains high, despite declining production and export-oriented investment. Without ignoring the export market, trying to focus attention on the domestic market that is still growing quite large. Therefore the Company increases the capital expenditures of machinery and equipment from Rp.7,401 million in 2011 to Rp.8,955 million in 2012, or increased by 21.00%. The addition of this machinery and equipment expenditures is mainly to cater for the production of new products and increased production capacity in order to meet the market demand for the Company’s products as well as improving production efficiency. To face the intense competition in cosmetics industry, the Company continues to increase the range through more market channels and more closely to the consumer or potential consumer. Achievement of the Company’s sales growth in 2012 was10.71% from Rp.648,375 million to Rp.717,788 million. The entire product category as well as the contract manufacturing as the Company’s subsidiary delivering sales growth, where growth is greatest contribution given by the category skin & body care with 29.2% growth. The Company sales growth exceeding the growth of th industry based on the research of Euromonitor about 7.69% in 2012. The Company’s efforts in increasing market share in cosmetic industry were quite turned up, where the Company’s market shares rose from 2.50% in 2011 to 2.79% in 2012. Criterion 23: The description of high standards of transparency and disclosure report Suggested best practices: Detail description of company performance can be analyzed in the Company Annual report 2012, consist of several parameters, including the below data, such as: CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 32 a. Indonesia cosmetics industry: Indonesian Market Size and Growth with potential to sustain momentum to 2012 b. Major players in the Indonesian market c. Comparison of key performance indicators for the previous 2-3 years  Company income statement Table 7: Financial statement 2010 2012 CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 33  The highlight of financial statements Table 10: Several indicators of company’s financial statement d. The comparison of key performance indicators with peer companies CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 34 Tables 11: Several financial performance of company 2010 – 2012. CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 35 Criterion 24: The COP is independently verified by a credible third party a. Reviewed by a multi-stakeholder panel Table 12: The national and international awards for the company in year 2012 CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 36 b. Reviewed by peers (e.g., Global Compact Local Network)  Dr. Martha Tilaar has appointed to be the board of The Global Compact Initiative since June 2012 and starting in Rio+20 event in Rio de Janeiro 2012. Pictures 15: Dr. Martha Tilaar with the boards of Global Compact Network in Rio+20 event.  Dr Martha Tilaar received the Honorary Principle Engineering in Medicine and Herbal Jamu Products from the Indonesia Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology. Pictures 16: Awarding of Dr. Martha Tilaar to be The Honorary Principle Engineering, September 2012.  Another achievements can be described in the below data. CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 37 Pictures 16: Achievements in year 2012 CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 38  Achieving Green Leadership Award by AREA (Asia Respnsible Entrepreneurship Award) in Singapore, Septemnber 2012 Pictures 17: Green Leadership Award in Singapore, September 2012 Jakarta, 10 June 2013 Nuning S. Barwa Heru Data Wardana CSR Director Martha Tilaar Group CSR and Community Development Manager CoP PT. Martina Berto Tbk. 2012 Page 39
