Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 The Power of the Human Touch KINGSLEY CHIMA EJIMADU, switzerland Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 Letter from the Executive Group Management In light of the current global macroeconomic climate, the progress we made in 2012 in our strategic transformation, including on Corporate Responsibility Health and safety: Our customers are concerned about those (CR), was satisfactory. We will continue to invest in working in and visiting their facilities; their health and safety our CR efforts as we strongly believe that CR is an is paramount. Procedures and processes must be documented important factor for our employees’ purpose and and incorporated into the work environment. A focus on health pride and simply a prerequisite for customers in and safety is not only the right thing to do from a CR perspective; today’s critical business enviroment. it also helps the financial bottom line due to fewer industrial accidents and lower levels of absence due to illness. Today, the demand from customers is a key force in helping us to improve CR. We must deliver our services excellently, Reputation: Our customers want to protect their reputation and consistently and flexibly around the world and, in the cases brand. We have customers with brands that are worth billions where we deliver a number of integrated services, our of Danish kroner, and for them it is important that we deliver customers want a convenient solution with a single point services in a way that contributes to protecting this value. Our of contact who manages everything efficiently. Furthermore, employees work at the locations of our customers, in their customers want ISS to manage their risks. We must protect offices and factories, every day. We fully understand the impact our customers’ brands by protecting their employees and of our services on this value. their facilities. Natural resources: The consumption of natural resources is CR is therefore at the very core of the value proposition that becoming an increasingly important measure to most of our ISS delivers, among other things, to its customers. Three areas customers. More and more customers are setting objectives have particular significance for our customers when it comes for reducing carbon dioxide emissions, and water and energy to risk management: health and safety, reputation and conusage. Here we must deliver improvements that can be seen sumption of natural resources. on the bottom line and contribute positively to the customers’ resource accounts. In 2012, ISS secured several new global and regional contracts, including two of the largest global contracts in the history of ISS, and we welcomed two new long-term investors, resulting in a significant reduction in our debt. Despite challenging macroeconomic conditions, ISS delivered solid growth and financial results. From a CR perspective, ISS sharpened its focus on ensuring strong corporate governance. We significantly increased the number of managers completing our e-learning modules in Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 anti-corruption and competition law, where more than 2,550 While we are pleased with the overall progress in 2012, we howand 1,500 managers completed the two modules, respectively. ever recognise that we can make further progress in 2013 and The e-learning modules are available in five languages and are the years to come. We are particularly focused on bringing down being used in all our countries. the number of fatalities. One fatality is one too many, and we are committed to our efforts to reach our goal of zero fatalities We also launched our whistle blower system in June 2012 to among our more than 530,000 employees. make it possible for all employees of ISS, business partners and other stakeholders to report any serious and sensitive concerns. In 2013 we will remain focused on integrating CR in everything Going forward we will roll-out and create awareness of the we do, as we are confident that this will benefit our customers, system, including translations and adapting the system in our employees, the communities in which we operate and the accordance with local legislation. bottom line. Through our global presence in countries covering more than 90% Yours faithfully of the world’s GDP, we understand the CR issues at hand and are addressing them through structured efforts. Our systematic approach through our Group Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) management system supports our HSE risk management, consistent delivery and continual improvement. We respect, support and promote human rights and are aligned with the ambitions stated in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Core Conventions of the International Labour Organisation. ISS has made a strong commitment as a signatory and supporter of the United Nations Global Compact since its inception in 1999. ISS is committed to aligning our strategy and operations with the ten Global Compact principles on human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. In most markets where ISS operates, our company plays an important role in promoting diversity and facilitating integration of immigrants. In several markets we have employees from more than 100 different countries. In this way, ISS is contributing to solving a very important societal task by ensuring better integration into the labour market. While ISS is a strong supporter of both diversity and integration, we also have a clear stand on illegal immigration. ISS always operates fully in compliance with local law and we never support Jeff Gravenhorst Group Chief Executive Officer (right) illegal immigration. Henrik Andersen Group Chief Financial Officer (left) Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 1 Contents Letter from the Executive Group Management Creating the world’s greatest service organisation 2 The ISS Approach to Corporate Responsibility 4 Governance 6 Our Performance and Targets 12 ISS and People 14 ISS and the Planet 20 ISS and Profit 24 ISS and Partners 26 Independent assurance report 34 Reporting principles and compliance 36 2 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 Creating the world’s greatest service organisation The vision of ISS is to create the world’s greatest Self-delivery service organisation. Every day, our more than At ISS we believe in self-delivery. By delivering our services 530,000 employees deliver services and add value to through staff employed directly by ISS, we have much better our wide range of private and public sector customers. control of delivery and quality and we help our customers ISS provides a wide range of single-service, multimanage potential risks. service and integrated facility service solutions, managing risks and protecting our customers’ brands. The self-delivery model has made ISS one of the world’s largest private-sector employers providing jobs, education, career opporIt all started in 1901 with a small group of employees in tunities and being a stable source of income for more than half Copenhagen, Denmark. Today, ISS is a global company capable a million employees. ISS aspires to become the world’s greatest of self-delivering integrated facility service (IFS) solutions to service organisation. To achieve this we strive to keep our our customers. At ISS, the value we bring to our customers is employees highly engaged as this is the best way to keep our not only about efficient, reliable and flexible services, it is also customers satisfied. about helping customers achieve their purpose and objectives and reduce their risks. Organisation From our head office in Copenhagen, Denmark we lead and Our offering and value proposition inspire more than 50 local country organisations through Focusing on our selected customer segments we offer leadstrategic direction, managerial support and financial control ing value propositions based on our philosophy of self-delivery combined with functional leadership. At the same time, ISS of excellence within each of our facility service offerings. We maintains a decentralised organisational structure and our tailor our offering to individual customer needs, providing one country operations have significant autonomy, led by a strong or more services within cleaning services, support services, regional management structure. The multi-local structure ensures property services, catering services, security services and facility a coherent and yet entrepreneurial organisation that is highly management. Our customers generally do not consider these responsive to developments in our markets. services to be a core part of their business operations. At ISS however, providing these services is our core business. Ownership Even a basic service, such as cleaning a floor, can be done ISS is owned by FS Invest II S.à r.l (Luxembourg), a company in many ways. Because providing facility services is our core indirectly owned by funds advised by EQT Partners and Goldman business, we have developed processes to secure the best Sachs Capital Partners as well as Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan outcome for our customers. Our value proposition is built on (Teachers’) and KIRKBI Invest A/S (KIRKBI). a strong foundation of service excellence suited to specific customer needs. In recent years, our customers have realised the benefit of having fewer providers take care of their facilities. In response, ISS has developed a full range of services, including our IFS concept. This allows the customer to have a single provider and only one company delivering all facility services instead of having employees from many different service providers on their premises. This is convenient for the customers and also offers them one point of contact. It is also more flexible and efficient and it provides our customers with a consistent delivery model across all their operations – locally or globally. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 3 Roland Wolf, germany 4 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 The ISS Approach to Corporate Responsibility This section describes how corporate responsibility at As a result of these changes, a ISS is fundamental to business growth and we have primary element in ISS’s value a dedicated approach involving our business strategy. proposition is our ability to manage extensive risks on our ISS has more than 530,000 employees in over 50 countries across customers’ behalf. This moves six continents. Through our people, we influence the world. corporate responsibility close to the heart of our operations. Employment with our group creates income and opportunity And puts extra demands on for access to education, health, consumption and more for an our ability to govern, lead extended group of two million people. When our people do their and manage these areas. job, as cleaners, caterers, maintenance staff, guards, gardeners etc., we touch the lives of our customers and of their clients and business partners as well. We create safe and secure work environ“ Corporate Responsibility used to be a luxury. Now it is fundamental to our business.” ments, guard property and sites to ensure business continuity. Joseph Nazareth, Head of HSE and Providing entry-level jobs, ISS is also an engine for diversity and Corporate Responsibility global integration. Just consider our Danish operating company, where employees are from more than 130 countries. ISS as a global citizen In this way, solutions to major global issues are intertwined with Our 2011 scenario project1 documented a clear conviction of ISS’s daily operations. We contribute to creating a more sustainboth ISS managers and facilities management industry experts able world by running our business with concern for our employees globally that issues related to sustainability will be critical factors and their safety, our customers and their business needs and in global development in the coming years. At the heart of this respect for the environment. process lies the challenge of combining economic growth and opportunity with sustainable use of resources and distribution of opportunity. Taking over customers’ risks One of the important value propositions that ISS offers our Our company has a part to play in this development. We are the customers is credible and effective risk management including 4th largest private employer in the world2 and our reach goes health, safety and environment and local labour law managebeyond our own activities and employees. The work we perform ment. ISS’s customer mix is changing and a main strategic growth can help ISS, our customers and society: driver is the increase in large contracts where companies sign • use resources more efficiently; over their corporate needs for facilities services to ISS, covering • provide employment and training which helps national, regional or even global operations. These customers alleviate poverty; have brands and reputations worth billions of Danish kroner, • create healthy environments for work; which they do not want to see harmed from operational break• improve labour standards in terms of fair and equal downs or facilities services which do not live up to international treatment, association, wages, etc.; and standards for health and safety, human rights, labour practices, • set an example for responsible business practices, environmental protection, etc. including anti-corruption. The global distribution of growth potential is also changing. The European Union and the World Trade Organisation estimate that emerging markets are destined to hold up to 50% of global economic output by 2050. Already now, global companies are pursuing opportunities in these markets, and where our customers go it is strategic for ISS to follow. In this case that 1 ISS 2020 Vision: Scenarios for the future of the Global Facility Management Industry available at: http://www.issworld.com means increased activity in markets, which for a number of reasons carry higher corporate responsibility risks. 2 Based on FT Global 500, 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 5 Our focus areas We identified the following key stakeholders at the Group level: Under the umbrella of sustainability exists a myriad of issues and topics in which a company can involve itself, commit and engage Society Strategic Government/ in. However, the North Star of all corporate sustainability efforts Partners Regulators is to take action where it matters to your business and to your End users Potential stakeholders. EXTERNAL customers Media We conducted our first materiality assessment in 2009. Together NGOs/ Investors Charities Leadership with an external partner, ISS’s seven regions were assessed based on the UN Global Compact, resulting in a consolidated and prioritised list of corporate responsibility issues and topics Competitors Internal Trade Associations which still provides guidance for the prioritisation of our efforts. The 2009 materiality assessment pointed to three areas where Potential Employees ISS holds a unique position to contribute, and which support Unions recruits our overall business vision and business strategy, Contractors Existing The ISS Way: customers Suppliers Financial community • Facilitating the right to work; • Non-discrimination, equal opportunities and diversity; • Access to education. The stakeholder analysis is presented on page 26. In late 2012 and early 2013, we followed up on this analysis To help us identify the material issues, we used as a reference with an internal stakeholder and materiality assessment exerthe issues stated in both the ISO 26000 Standard Guidance cise. Participants in this process were representatives of the on social responsibility and the Danish Standard Guidance following Group functions: Legal, Human Resources, Risk 49004-2011 ‘Vejledning i samfundsmæssigt ansvar’ (Guidelines Management, Internal Audit, Marketing, Communications, for Corporate Responsibility). The subjects identified are shown Strategy and HSE and CR. in the table below: Organisational governance Human rights Labour practices Environment 1. Dialogue with stakeholders 1. Wages 1. Employment conditions e.g. 1. Prevention of pollution 2. Management composition 2. Social and cultural rights Work time/ overtime and promoting cleaner and organisation 3. Discrimination 2. Working conditions and technology e.g. energy, 3. Risk management and due 4. Handling of incidents social protection arrangements water, chemicals, waste diligence 5. Risk areas around 3. Health and safety 2. Sustainable use of 4. Decision processes and human rights 4. Freedom of association resources structure 6. Core labour standards e.g. (unions) child labour Business ethics Customer interests Local community development 1. Anti-corruption 1. Responsible marketing, 1. Local community involvement 2. Responsible sourcing information and contractual 2. Education and culture and safety 3. Fair competition relationship 3. Job creation and development of 4. Promotion of social responsibility 2. Protection of the customer’s competencies in the value chain health 4. Health 3. Sustainable consumption 4. Customer support and complaint management 6 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 In 2013 we will begin validating the results of this materiality analysis with representatives from our main markets such as employees during seminars. Reporting for accountability We published our first data based corporate responsibility report in 2010, to show that we have a strong framework in terms of responsibility and that we are accountable and transparent in our activities and performance to our stakeholders. The intended purpose and audiences remain the same for the 2012 report. The report covers safety data for ISS employees and our contractors. The scope of electricity and water consumption covers ISS offices and own facilities such as central kitchens. The scope of safety data does not cover our customers. The scope of our environmental data does not cover electricity and water consumption at our customer sites. Items reported on in this report have been chosen based on our work to determine materiality in terms of corporate responsibility for ISS. For more details on our reporting principles and compliance, see page 36. STÉPHANE BENOIT, FRANCE Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 7 Corporate responsibility embedded in strategy and leadership ISS’s strategy is based on four strategic cornerstones Employee Engagement: To have satisfied customers, you and a value chain perspective. Into each of these, need capable and engaged employees motivated by being corporate responsibility is ingrained. part of a strong team, led by very visible leaders and made capable through training. Research clearly shows that when We firmly believe that corporate responsibility will lead to a companies focus on corporate responsibility, employees find competitive advantage in the facilities services industry. It will that it provides a sense of purpose and a source of pride. aid us in becoming a preferred partner because of our perforService Value: Our customers may have different needs mance records and proactive risk management, our ability to but they all request a consistent service product. Our Group save on resources and costs. Furthermore, it will enhance our Health, Safety and Environment Management system reputation and help us attract both new business and employees. supports a systematic approach in delivery of our services. Customer Experience: A positive customer experience is supported by capable, engaged and motivated ISS team Embedded in our strategic cornerstones members. In line with research, we believe our focus on 1. Customer focus: We build sustainable partnerships with our corporate responsibility will provide our employees with a customers who value our approach to how we deliver our sense of purpose that will contribute to a positive customer services in alignment with their corporate responsibility goals; experience. 2. People management: We excel in managing our people by Business Growth: Our corporate responsibility performance managing our HSE risks in our operations and providing inspires customers’ trust in our company leading to increased opportunities for development; business opportunities. 3. Integrated Facilities Services strategy: By integrating our service deliveries into our customer’s organisation, we can also create value for our customers in helping them reduce their risks, for example in terms of the environment; 4. Multi-Local Approach: Our global framework for managing health, safety, environment, labour practices, human rights Acquisition Growth and anti-corruption allows us to leverage a systematic approach to these areas regardless of location and with a very strong local ownership. Business Platform Embedded in our value chain Service Concept The implementation of the ISS Value Chain as a manageBusiness ment tool is an integral part of the Group’s strategic process Growth in implementing the ISS Way. We believe that value is created through dedication in each link of the Value Chain, and that corporate responsibility activities support each of these links. Business Platform: Our corporate responsibility commitment, Employee strategy and performance are important aspects of the business Engagement Customer platform in determining what to do and what not to do. The Experience choices made in the business platform must be aligned with our commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Service Service Concept: The purpose of the service concept process Value is to convert the needs of our customers into concrete and attractive service offerings. Global challenges deeply embedded in corporate responsibility can inspire business opportunities such as ‘Green Cleaning’. Extended stakeholder engagement activities will also provide more sources for market understanding. The ISS Value Chain 8 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 Governance In this section, we highlight key aspects of how our Corporate Values solid values, management structures, policies and processes help our business grow. The management structure in ISS has two tiers consisting of the Board of Directors and the Executive Group Management (EGM). The Board of Directors regularly reviews the Group’s corporate governance in relation to the Group’s activities, business environHONESTY ment and statutory requirements. We respect The ISS Group corporate governance guidelines are implemented by all regional and local entities, and according to these, all operations in ISS must align with four fundamentals: Compliance with law – ISS companies always operate in accordance with local laws ENTREPRENEURSHIP and regulations. We act The ISS Corporate Values four words that must guide ISS business conduct, and each manager is expected to understand and live by. The ISS Code of Conduct – all managers are responsible for managing the ISS business in compliance with our Code of Conduct, and for ensuring RESPONSIBILITY that employees are aware of and adhere to its content. The We care Code of Conduct is distributed to all employees, and is part of the employment terms for all employees. Compliance with ISS Group policies – which is a ISS regional and country management responsibility. Management must document implementation of policies and guidelines designed by the ISS Group functions through selfassessment tools and audits. QUALITY We deliver Strengthening governance The strategic focus on Corporate Clients requires alignment across ISS toward a certain representation of the company’s expression of values and behaviour. For this reason the governance barometer points towards a continuing strengthening of the governance and control environment throughout the “It is about making the values, procedures and systems more Group to ensure consistency in service delivery and a uniform visible across the organisation. We have to make sure that all approach in how we express and live the ISS values. parts – including the 600 companies added in the first decade of this century – of the business are ISS to the core, and that ISS The Corporate Governance guidelines from 2009 that govern is protected and in control,” says Bjørn Rasteen, Group General the organisation and control of each subsidiary in the Group Counsel. “Governance and controls provide the ability to lead are in the process of being updated and elevated to a Policy. the business and always be able to look yourself in the mirror.” kate bola abu, united kingdom 10 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 Risk management Self-assessments and internal audits The importance of risk management has increased in ISS in recent By the end of 2012, governance controls documents included years, as we have pursued stronger governance mechanisms all subjects uncovered by a risk identification exercise in 2010. (read CR report 2011), and as corporate clients have gained The full library of control documents now covers finance, IT, strategic importance to our business. As risk transfer is a fundacorporate governance, HSE, and anti-corruption. Going forward, mental part of our value proposition, this trend has only been the control documents will also entail the areas of sales and strengthened. human resources. In addition, more corporate responsibility and HSE-related subjects in the control self-assessment will be included. ISS has evolved the enterprise risk management framework to include both top down risk assessments as well as a bottom The implementation of these key control activities is monitored up process of regional and country risk reporting. In 2012 we in a control self-assessment tool, which by the end of 2012 was rolled-out reporting tools to all business units for them to be in place for countries representing more than 95% of Group ready to report during 2013. turnover. Review and validation of information submitted in self-assessments is embedded in our internal audit activities. The subject of all reports is the ten most significant risks, which are consolidated by the Group into an overview of the ten Group Internal Audit’s control self-assessment tool and subsemost significant corporate risks and related mitigating actions. quent guidelines for internal auditing also include oversight One of the ten identified Group risks addresses HSE and CR of the ISS International Human Resources Standards. Human issues. The fact that the end product relates to Group level risks Resources receive reports on all 15 areas in the standards, means that mitigating actions come in the shape of both Group which provide us with a status of compliance. level initiatives and country level actions that may differ from each other. This reflects the multi-local approach, where each In 18 of the 50 audits Group Internal Audit performed in 2012, country operates in accordance with the composition of their corporate responsibility issues such as the Code of Conduct, the business environment. ISS Safety Rules, child labour and working hours were part of the audit scope. With this activity level we exceeded our target The ISS risk profile covers a number of arenas: risks associated of carrying out audits of at least 20% of countries in which we with the macro-economy, our growth strategy, our customer operate regarding Corporate Responsibility issues. contracts, employee capacity, competition and regulatory environments. A full overview of our risk profile can be seen While minor observations were identified locally, none posed a in the ISS Annual Report for 2012. risk to the Group. Corrective actions were taken to ensure that these observations have been closed. This is in line with one of the ISS Values of taking responsibility in the CR area where Governance of corporate responsibility actions are based on living our values. Corporate responsibility is anchored in ISS’s Executive Group Management (EGM) comprised of the CEO and CFO. Executive Group Management is ultimately responsible for ISS Corporate Organising for corporate responsibility Responsibility activities, but the Group Health, Safety and compliance Environment and Corporate Responsibility function (Group HSE We have communicated our commitment to corporate responand CR), is charged with the development of the ISS Group’s sibility to our stakeholders. We actively promote the ISS Code Corporate Responsibility strategy, including Health, Safety and of Conduct when we enter new markets and joint venture Environment. opportunities, and have a zero tolerance approach to material breaches of the Code of Conduct. In the past, we have terminated Group HSE and CR reports to a member of the Group contracts with managers and employees if they were found to Management Board (GMB), and is mandated by the EGM and behave in breach of the Code of Conduct. GMB to work with other Group functions, Regional CEOs and Country Managers to implement the Corporate Responsibility ISS has a Group Business Integrity Committee. The members strategy in our operations and countries. As part of the reporting are the Group CFO, Head of Group Legal, Head of Group HR, process, country managements report on corporate responsibility and Head of Group Internal Audit. The Committee is authorised performance, based on a Group HSE and CR Reporting Manual by the Executive Group Management to evaluate ISS’s business specifying indicators and data parameters that all countries integrity policies and recommend updates when appropriate; need to report on. monitor ISS’s compliance with its business integrity policies; and manage communication, staff awareness and implementation programmes. The Committee is further assigned to review reported concerns and incidents and evaluate channels for reporting of concerns; initiate investigations for significant suspected fraud incidents; and monitor remediation progress, including implementation of actions taken to identify and address material irregularities or weaknesses. Sukarsih, INDONESIA 12 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 Our Performance and Targets This section presents our Key Performance Indicators and results objectives and targets for 2013. We report on our performance against objectives and targets for 2012. We have also established within three areas: People, Planet, and Profit PEOPLE 2012 2011 2010 PLANET 2012 2011 2010 No. of employees 534,273 534,519 522,700 Electricity consumption (MWh) 97,677 100,734 91,995 – Full time % 73% 73% 73% Electricity emissions (tonnes CO2 eq.) 30,507 39,341 30,710 – Part time % a) 27% 27% 27% Electricity costs (million DKK) 88.9 88.4 76.2 Total workforce – Front line 503,304 505,265 494,109 Fuel usage e) (million litres) 54.65 57.74 N/a – %Male 51% 49% 48% – %Female 49% 51% 52% Vehicle emissions (tonnes CO2 eq.) 126,333 133,489 132,589 – White collar 30,969 29,254 28,591 – %Male 57% 54% 52% Business Travel – %Female 43% 46% 48% emissions f) (tonnes CO2 eq.) 14,782 16,367 3,660 Turnover Water consumption (m3) 586,849 702,690 – % All employees 50% 45% 49% – % Front line 51% 46% 53% – % White collar 23% 23% 16% Hours of training PROFIT 2012 2011 2010 – Front line 4,377,634 2,212,730 2,605,633 – White collar 442,082 396,402 382,255 Revenue (million DKK) 79,454 77,644 74,074 Absentee rate 2.1% 2.3% 2.3% EBITA g) (million DKK) 4,411 4,388 4,310 Incidents of discrimination 10 29 48 Net Finance costs (million DKK) 2,718 2,807 2,566 Fatalities 7 7 5 Taxes paid (million DKK) 885 749 697 Lost time Injury Frequency Staff costs (million DKK) 52,071 50,089 47,990 (LTIF) b) 8 10 11 Exposure hours (mill. hours) c) 970.2 930.7 908.4 Number of Vehicles d) 22,741 22,589 24,960 No. of Vehicle Accidents 5,685 6,453 5,574 a) Defined as employees working an average of less than 30 hours per week for ISS. consumption and the data covered less than 75% of the fleet. The 2010 figures b) An LTI is defined as any work related injury which results in a person being unfit shown are extrapolated numbers for 100% of the fleet based on budgeted for his/her normal duties for more than 24 hours any day after the injury. The LTIF consumption. is based on 1 million exposure hours. This includes contractors under ISS operaf) Covers emissions from Business travel from Group and 32 countries; we have tional control. corrected the 2011 data from 16,510 tonnes to 16,367 tonnes where we c) Exposure hours include contractors working under ISS operational control. reported emissions from Group and 29 countries. In 2010, we reported emissions d) Improvements in data quality has led to corrected data for 2011. from Group and 5 countries. e) We are now reporting using actual fuel consumption reported by countries for g) EBITA reported is EBITA excluding other income and expenses; the numbers for 2012 and 2011. In the two previous reports, we have based this on budgeted 2011 and 2010 have been adjusted to reflect this. Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 13 Performance against objectives and targets for 2012 Targets 2012 Performance 2012 Trend In accordance with the HSE Vision, our first priority is We experienced seven fatalities. to prevent fatalities at our work places. Our Group See page 15. ää target is 0. In terms of Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF), the LTIF decreased by 36% from the baseline value ä Group target for 2012 is to reduce LTIF by 40% to of 13, to 8.3 in 2012. below 8. Related to the LTIF are Lost Work Days (LWD) as a result of The number of Lost Work Days per 1000 ä lost time incidents. The Group target for 2012 is a reduction exposure hours was 0.230, a reduction of 17%. of 25% per 1000 exposure hours from the baseline in 2010. In terms of Total Reportable Cases Frequency (TRCF), TRCF decreased by 43% from the baseline value ä ä the Group target for 2012 is to reduce our TRCF by at of 23, to 13.2 in 2012. least 30% from the baseline in 2010. At least one yearly Management review by Country 94% of countries have carried out at least one management of the suitability, adequacy and effectivemanagement review for 2012. ness of the Country’s HSE Management system. Systematically measure the carbon emissions across Began measuring consumption of electricity at the Group from electricity in 2012. our own sites, enabling us to establish baseline ä data for these consumptions. We can start to establish baseline data for improvement targets. Reduce the emissions from our leased cars (g/km) In 2012, we have reduced emissions from our ä ä from 2011 over the leasing period of 4 years by 15%. leased cars (g/km) by 6% compared to the baseline figure in 2010. To conduct an annual employee engagement survey We offered 250,000 employees, nearly half of our with a target to have offered 250,000 of our workforce from 46 countries, the opportunity to employees to respond to the questionnaire by the express their opinion of working for ISS through this end of 2012. mechanism. 47%chose to make use of this option. To roll-out e-learning module on Anti-Corruption The e-learning module on Anti-Corruption was in different languages. developed and launched in German, French, ä Spanish and simple Chinese. In total 2,553 employees have completed the ISS Anti-Corruption e-learning module. To carry out audits on at least 20% of countries we In 2012, the scope of internal audits in 18 operate in regarding to issues within Corporate countries (greater than 30% of countries) ä Responsibilities. included the Code of Conduct, the ISS Safety Rules, child labour and working hours. Objectives and targets for 2013 lost time incidents. The Group target for 2013 is a reduction The focus of our objectives and targets is related to of 35% per 1000 exposure hours relative to the baseline health and safety as our business is based on our figure in 2010. employees. We have also included objectives and 4. At least one yearly Management review by Country targets on environment as well as audits to ensure management of the suitability, adequacy and effectiveness that we are being proactive in addressing identified of the Country’s HSE Management system. material issues. 5. Reduce the emissions from our leased cars (g/km) from 2011 over the leasing period of 4 years by 15%. 1. In accordance with the HSE Vision, our first priority is to 6. To carry out audits on least 20% of countries we operate prevent fatalities at our work places. Our Group target is 0. in regarding to issues within corporate responsibility. 2. In terms of Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF), the Group 7. To conduct an annual employee engagement survey target for 2013 is to reduce LTIF by 45% relative to our with a target to have offered 400,000 of our employees baseline figure. in 50 countries to respond to the questionnaire by the 3. Related to the LTIF are Lost Work Days (LWD) as a result of end of 2013. 14 ISS and People – a safe and respectful employer This section describes how providing jobs, safety and training for more than half a million persons EMPLOYEES PER REGION is a responsibility ISS takes seriously. • Western Europe 40% ISS is the fourth largest private employer in the world. We • Nordic 8% provide jobs for 534,273 people in over 50 markets. Only • Asia 33% 30,969 hold white collar positions, which means more than • Pacific 3% 500,000 people work the front line of our business. • Latin America 10% • North America 3% Safety is a basic human right, and we want our people to have • Eastern Europe 4% the safest working conditions in the industry. This requires us to provide good work tools and procedures, but also train and campaign for knowledge of and adherence to our safety rules and procedures. When we deliver this, a strong health and safety performance will be the result, which is high on the list FULL TIME VS. PART TIME BREAKDOWN of priorities of our stakeholders such as our customers and PER REGION investors. Western Europe Nordic Asia Pacific 51% 67% 98% 57% The health, safety and environment framework The health, safety and environment work carried out in ISS is guided by a number of principles: Latin America North America Eastern Europe • It is part of the ISS Way that we operate in a safe and 95% 50% 60% environmentally conscious manner. • The ISS Code of Conduct stipulates that we secure and protect the personal health and safety of our workforce. It also secures our employees’ right to fair and equal treatment, freedom of association and collective bargaining, and states that we do not use forced labour or employ children, that we offer adequate wages and THE ISS VISION AND POLICY FOR HSE training opportunities as well as respect employee privacy Our HSE vision is called ‘100’. and protection of personal data. 1: We aim to be number 1 in our industry and recognised as • One of our Leadership Principles states that we treat our an industry leader in the way we deliver health, safety and employees with respect, which includes the protection environmental performance; of their health and safety 0: We operate with 0 fatalities in our workplaces; and • We have an HSE vision and policy. These are reflected on 0: We incur 0 serious incidents and occupational injuries at this page. our workplaces. • The ISS Group Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Manual is based on four international standards (OHSAS Our HSE Policy is to: 18001, ISO14001, ISO 22000 and ISO 9001). • Have a systematic approach to HSE management designed • The ISS Safety Rules aiming to align behaviours in daily to ensure compliance with the law and achieve continuous operations. improvement; • Measure, review and report performance and set targets for We also send out ad hoc alerts titled ‘Safety Flashes’ to safety improvement; responsible persons across ISS, when we trace a need for • Investigate incidents to determine their root causes and take increased focus on a subject. appropriate corrective actions; • Require our suppliers to manage their HSE in line with this policy; Driving HSE performance • Include HSE performance in the appraisal of staff and reward Structures and processes have been put in place to drive improveaccordingly. ments in HSE performance across the countries. Management systems in some countries are certified in accordance to ISO Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 15 9001, 18001 and 14001. The bar chart on the right side shows the number of countries that have certified their system to countries that have certified their cover all their operations or certain services or divisions. MANAGEMENT system Our 2012 actions in driving HSE performance included the 25 following: • Covering all 20 • All countries performed self-assessments, identified gaps services and set up action plans in line with the HSE Manual’s 15 • Covering certain requirements. services or 10 • All seven ISS regions have now implemented the HSE-IT tool, divisions 5 concentrating on the incident, compliance and audit module. The tool increases awareness through reporting. 0 ISO 9001 ISO 18001 ISO 14001 • Group HSE held 4 Regional HSE meetings where 21 countries participated to foster a shared language and understanding of the Group HSE strategy and the priorities going forward. • All countries developed a “Drive to Zero” Action Plan Health and safety performance 2012 2012-14, in support of our commitment to an injury and Seven incidents resulting in a fatality occurred at our workplaces incident free workplace. in 2012, the same as in 2011. Even one fatal accident is one too • Implemented an action plan in each country to ensure emmany. We are by no means satisfied that we did not improve bedding their country HSE Management system in operations. our performance on our number one corporate responsibility priority, our most material issue. We regret each and every one For 2013 we have asked the countries to: of the lives lost and have communicated this to the families of • Design a personal safety action plan with objectives and the employees we have lost. targets for each member of a country management team. • Establish HSE leadership teams which will meet twice a year Of the seven incidents, four occurred in India, two in Belgium to review goals, performance and progress on the HSE Action and one in China. Three of the incidents were in Cleaning Plan, among others. services and three were in Security and one incident was in the Property Management service. In 2013, we will launch an animation of the ISS Safety Rules to extend the reach of the messages and overcome potential Each fatality and serious injury is reported to Group HSE within 24 language barriers. hours of occurrence and local management carries out an investigation determining the root cause of the incident and the correctWe believe these requirements will help us in maintaining the ive actions to be taken to prevent similar incidents in the future. focus in our safety work because of the obvious demonstration of leadership commitment, and because of the increased manageOne action we took to address one of the fatalities that was fire ment attention to HSE performance in the country. related was to issue a Safety Flash regarding fire evacuation plans as this type of incident can occur at ISS offices and also at our customer sites. Campaigning to improve As part of the Group HSE and CR Action Plan, we run annual We believe that the only way to avoid fatal accidents is through ‘Me and You’ campaigns on HSE topics. the strongest possible safety culture independent of local customs. In 2012, the safety campaign focused on working alone, driving safely, slips, trips and falls and working at heights, all areas that still pose challenges and are represented in the overview of fatalities in 2012. The health campaign focused on manual lifting, using personal protective equipment and healthy lifestyles. Group HSE produces posters which are translated into Danish, Chinese, Czech, Dutch, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hindi, Indonesian, Italian, Kannada, Malay, Marathi, Norwegian, Portuguese, Russian, Slovak, Spanish, Swedish, Tamil and Thai. In 2012, we saw a trend towards the campaigns being used to strengthen customer relationships. ISS employees take the campaigns to customer meetings and talk about the subjects, and at some customer premises the posters are put up, extending the message reach beyond ISS employees to our customers and Examples of two of the posters from the Global Health their visitors as well. campaign translated into Greek and Spanish respectively. 16 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 We continue to build this culture through our campaigning, governance framework and leadership commitments. Specific actions are planned for 2013, as described in the following pages. IN FOCUS: Facilitating the right to work We have set ambitious reduction targets for incidents resulting Every time one person is employed by ISS it potentially affects in lost time. In 2012 the target was to reduce our Lost Time the life of four other people, providing stable income and in Injury Frequency based on incidents per 1 million exposure some countries health and educational opportunities. In addihours by 40% compared to the 2010 baseline of 13. We managed tion, ISS offers employment to people with few documented to improve performance by 36%, resulting in an LTIF rate of 8.3. skills and qualifications, who may find it challenging to gain entry and a foothold in the labour market. LOST TIME INjury FREQUENCY (LTIF) In this way, we facilitate the right to work in a way only few other 2008-2012 global companies can. And around the world, our operating companies find different ways to enhance and formalise this opportunity. 25 • ISS Spain is very active in the provision of jobs to groups with 20 challenges in accessing the labour market. In 2012, ISS Spain joined a forum for socially responsible recruitment along with 15 other global companies who support and work to promote an 10 equal access job market. To support this commitment, ISS Spain LTIF based on injuries per also signed an agreement with the Adecco foundation to 5 1 million exposure enhance the focus on vulnerable groups in recruitment prohours across the cesses, including people with disabilities, female heads of 0 Group one-income families, seniors and victims of violence. Under 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 an agreement with regional government in Catalonia, groups of young people who have left school with no qualifications are offered a spot in a cooking and serving course organised We also aimed for a reduction in the number of workdays lost by ISS, to help them gain entry to the labour market. Furtherdue to lost time injuries. The target was a reduction of 25% more, a special foundation set up in 2007 supports job relative to the baseline figure of 0.275 per 1000 exposure hours creation in developing countries – to date 1,200 direct and in 2010. In 2012, the LWD per 1000 exposure hours was 0.230, 25,000 indirect jobs and eleven microenterprises in Ecuador, a reduction of 17%. Peru, Burkina Faso, Morocco and the Dominican Republic. The foundation is financed by ISS employees’ voluntary donation Capturing the full safety spectrum we also record Total Reportable from their salary and Christmas collections. Cases Frequency (TRCF). Our target for this parameter was a 30% reduction. Our 2012 performance resulted in a 43% reduction. • ISS France has over the last 10 years set up a specialised team in charge of development and inclusion of disabled persons. The reductions achieved are all attributable to higher awareness The team’s efforts include recruitment systems for disabled in our organisation especially at the operational levels, more focus people, work station and vehicle adaptations, work schedule at the strategy and business review processes and the developadaptation, development of external partnerships and a network ment of a three-year strategy plan to drive our performance to of committees across the company’s divisions. Over these 10 meeting our HSE Vision. years, 1,600 people with disabilities have been employed by ISS France. We continue our driver safety programmes in many countries as part of an effort to reduce vehicle accidents. The training has led • ISS Singapore has been offering employment to young people to a reduction in the number of accidents from 6,453 in 2011 to with mild intellectual disability as housekeeping staff since 5,791 in 2012. This has also led to lower insurance premiums. 2009. Eight such dedicated workers are currently working at the National University Hospital site and nearly all have been The number of incidents of discrimination decreased from 29 in with us since 2009. In 2012, three were nominated for an 2011 to 10 incidents in 2012. In line with the ISS Code of Coninternal award for their good work. duct and the International HR Standards, ISS takes all claims of discrimination seriously. All incidents of discrimination that were • ISS Finland provides jobs for many hundreds of people with a filed were investigated and followed up with the appropriate partial capacity to work, with a normal employment contract local legal authorities in the country. Each time an employee and salary. The goal is to offer employees work that matches filed a claim with the local legal authority, ISS responded with a their working capacity by modifying work content and hours, position paper on ISS’s understanding of the facts. Most of the and by relocating and re-training them. incidents filed were dismissed by the country’s legal authority as being without cause. marcián ludĚk, CZECK REPUBLIC 18 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 Creating a stable workforce Year ended 31 December A stable work force increases engagement and productivity and by extension the value proposition we can make to our customers. 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 ISS operates in an industry with consistently high levels of Employees length of service employee turnover as well as high rates of absenteeism. Share of employees with less than one year of service 31% 34% 39% 36% 35% ISS accepts that jobs in our industry are often used for short-term Share of employees with one or secondary employment, but we nevertheless want to make a to five years of service 40% 41% 38% 40% 38% long-term effort to reduce both turnover and absenteeism. Our Share of employees with more numbers for 2012 show relative stability in both areas. In 2012, than five years of service 29% 25% 23% 25% 26% the share of full-time employees (working 30 hours or more a week) was 73%, same as in 2012. This indicator is important, as, on average, full-time employees develop stronger ties with ISS. The distribution of employee seniority (in years) provides another perspective for employee loyalty within ISS. The number ISS University curriculum of employees with more than one year of service increased from Which programmes does ISS University offer? 66% in 2011 to 69% in 2012, with 29% of our employees • Advantage programme with more than 5 years of service. The ISS Advantage Programme is the first step to enabling employees for key roles in the ISS Strategy – The ISS Way. Some of the specific tools applied to reduce turnover among The Advantage Programme is an energised forum with front line employees is more full-time and daytime work, jobs involvement from Group Management Board who presents with greater variation in tasks, offering career development the ISS Group Strategy and focuses on giving an in-depth opportunities and programmes to promote teamwork and skills understanding of all of the steps in The ISS Way. development. • Strategy and the Value Chain programme The Strategy and the Value Chain Programme has been Training developed for Regional and Country Management with the ISS needs to be able to train and develop employees of all kinds. objective to secure a more in-depth understanding of The ISS Our services are never better than the people who perform Way Strategy and the ISS Value Chain and how to apply it. them, the managers that ensure the daily operations and the Participants will further be introduced to the ISS Value Chain leadership that sets direction. Each and every one must be toolbox and communication/implementation of our strategy equipped to make it possible for ISS to deliver on our promises and the change management required for securing its success. to take over customers’ operational risks by providing high quality, systematic and consistent facilities services. • Value Proposition programme This hands-on workshop moves through the steps necessary Our employee engagement surveys consistently find that training to create a value proposition that motivates the buyer. It is appreciated and necessary. To ensure that training is organised shows how to select the right kind of value, quantify it and a part of our International Human Resources Standards obligates link it to ISS’s differentiators. It also provides practice in using countries to ensure that all employees receive the necessary the most effective pattern for presenting value. training to enable them to fulfil their job requirements, as well as relevant training in health and safety. It also stipulates that Most of these training programmes were developed training needs to be planned, implemented and evaluated to exclusively at ISS University, while others were designed in ensure that it meets business needs and defined objectives, and co-operation with institutions, such as Stanford University, to be adjusted to match business strategies. International Institute for Management Development, Henley Management College and INSEAD Business School. FACT: Nearly 2,000 employees of ISS Australia have over the last three years completed nationally accredited training As part of the ISS University philosophy, regional and country programmes in asset maintenance, security, hospitality, managers are being certified to run ISS Academy programmes customer service, risk management and business in local languages, which will facilitate the flow of knowledge administration. In the same period there has been to our employees. improved retention, productivity and employee engagement. In Austria, to improve the understanding Additionally, in order to implement strategic initiatives, such of safety instructions for our front line employees, ISS as Cleaning Excellence and the integrated facility services Austria designed posters with the messages explained concept, ISS University continues to develop key specialists in photos showing the right and wrong methods of and train-the trainers. carrying out the tasks. PHILIP DUNBURS, IRELAND In 2012, front line employees participated in 4,377,634 hours of will be to provide country management with a form of ’Country class room type training on a range of subjects including health Management Driver’s license’ covering all the key elements of and safety, technical training, management, language training, The ISS Way toolbox as well as elements of leadership. The proleadership and supervisory, IT, security and fire prevention. gramme will also include the network and coaching opportunity that characterises aspirational and leading companies globally. First layer management, i.e. team leaders, supervisors and contract We have invested heavily in developing this into a high end managers, who are responsible for the immediate staff and programme to help us achieve our vision of being the world’s customer contacts, received 442,082 hours of training. greatest service organisation. Finally, 162 senior managers and specialists attended workshops and programmes in 2012 at the ISS University, an in-house Not only for leaders education centre in Copenhagen. The ISS Leadership Principles describe the way leadership is performed at ISS. In combination, they serve as a guideline and a benchmark for leaders and help us bring out the full potential The benefits of strong leadership of our employees. They translate our Values into actions and Analysing the results of our employee engagement survey describe behaviour that characterises a successful leader within from 2012, we had one very important equation confirmed our company. In other words, they are the framework for the time and again. way we do business. In 2012 we have worked to anchor the principles deeper into the organisation. We wanted to expand their application beyond Good leadership the management layer and began a project called ‘performance training’, introducing it in the head office functions first. The Engagement = Retention = Good Business objective is to integrate the principles to a much larger extent in the employee appraisal meetings held twice a year. We train managers in aligning business targets with individual “ Good leadership shows higher engagement scores. Employees with higher engagement have a longer employment history. targets, to ensure that each employee has clarity over his or her role in the organisation and which purpose their daily work The higher the engagement and retention, the better the serves. The project is to be extended across the entire organisabusiness performs.” tion in the next few years, through train-the-trainer activities. During the years from 2000-2008, ISS acquired more than 600 companies. In the last few years the focus has been on creating one company, one brand, one culture. This makes leadership development a clear strategic priority for ISS. The 9 ISS Leadership Principles Leadership is an essential part of any successful strategic trans1. In ISS we put the customer first; formation and leadership has always been a focus area for ISS. 2. In ISS we have passion for performance; Detailed knowledge of The ISS Way, our business fundamentals 3. In ISS we encourage innovation; and the spirit of what we are doing is therefore essential for 4. In ISS we treat people with respect; country management. Given the critical nature of this role, 5. In ISS we lead by example; additional resources have been put into securing existing and 6. In ISS we lead by empowerment; new country management the requisite knowledge and inspira7. In ISS we develop ourselves and others; tion to drive the ISS Way implementation locally. 8. In ISS teamwork is at the heart of our performance; 9. In ISS we are one Company with shared values, one brand We already have a number of university programmes (see ISS and one strategy. University curriculum on page 18). These have been supplemented by a Leadership Mastery course. The focus of this programme 20 ISS and the Planet – influencing our impact globally This section highlights initiatives we are undertaking The consumption of electricity for 2012 was 97,677 MWh, a to increase our operational efficiency and thus reduce decrease from 2011 when we reported 100,734 MWh. This our environmental impact. is combination of our efforts in reducing our consumption and also better reporting. We measured water consumption at our Our activities have environmental impacts. We emit CO2 when own sites for the first time in 2011 and we consumed 702,690 m3. we use cars and air transport to conduct our business. The In 2012, we consumed 586,849 m3. This decrease is due to largest impact on the environment, however, stems from our better quality of the data being reported. Collection of this data cleaning services. When we clean we use chemicals and is a challenge in some areas as we lease our offices and in some consume water and energy. leasing agreements the water usage is included in the lease. As this is only the second year that we have measured this data parameter, we believe that the quality of this data will improve in the next two years. ISS Environmental policy We also set a target of reducing our emissions from leased ISS is committed to continuously reducing the adverse environcars by 15% in four years beginning in 2011 compared to the mental effects of its operations. baseline figure of 172 g/km in 2010. By the end of 2012 we had reduced these emissions by 6%. This policy is included in the ISS Code of Conduct. FACT: Through changing to LED bulbs, and adjustments to compressors, cooling towers and the electrical systems, combined with enhanced management of environmental First and foremost we work to limit the impact from the activities impact, ISS Taiwan reduced energy consumption at the which we can influence – our own sites and the process and Taipei Metro headquarters by three per cent. This saving equipment we apply at our customers’ sites. equals to 1 million kwh in consumption and USD120,000 in costs. ISS Taiwan received awards from both local and ISS is well positioned to deliver environmentally friendly facilities national governments for this project. services. Over decades we have documented processes, supplier relationships and a structured management approach securing Our emissions from business travel decreased from 16,367 uniform services worldwide. In this section we describe a range tonnes in 2011 to 14,782 tonnes in 2012. While the number of initiatives that are in line with recommendations for greener of countries reporting this parameter increased in 2012, the cleaning. emissions reported decreased as we have reduced our air travel by changing the way we work (holding more webinars and video conferences) and also as we have changed our travel policy in Same service, smaller footprint terms of class of travel that has an effect on the factor used to Through our HSE Manual, which was introduced in 2011, we calculate emissions. are able to systematically manage the impacts from our activities. This manual is integrated in other environmental management In 2012 we began work on a sustainability module for our systems applied and certified by some of our countries. HSE-IT tool, to cover environmental data and the plan is to begin implementing this module across the group during 2013. We began collecting baseline data for electricity and water consumption at our own offices and sites in 2011. Our target Finally, we contributed to the Carbon Disclosure Project for for 2012 was to continue this journey to systematically measure the first time in 2012. The CDP is an annual survey of how carbon emission from electricity, in order to establish a baseline well the world’s largest companies manage and report on risks for our environmental reduction targets. While our reporting of and opportunities related to climate change. Two key points of this parameter has improved, we expect further improvements feedback we received from the survey were regarding external in the quality and quantity of the data in 2013 and 2014. verification of our performance and stakeholder management. We believe that the quality of data will then be at a level to These are two areas we have addressed and are covering in establish reduction targets. this Report. Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 21 Marilou lopez, australia IN FOCUS: The Green Offices programme Certification on three levels There are three progressive levels of the ISS Green Offices Programme: In September 2012, ISS launched a Green Offices Programme ISS Bronze, ISS Silver and ISS Gold. To receive certification for each (GOP) – a voluntary programme designed to reduce the environlevel, the requirements in the level’s checklist need to be complied mental impact of our own offices and daily work practices. with. At least 80% of employees must sign to attest that they are reducing their office’s resource use by taking the steps required The core content of the programme focuses on behavioural change by that checklist. to use resources efficiently and dispose of waste responsibly. The programme points to changing routines on the small things: Certification is administered by the country head of Health, Safety turning off lights, switching off the computer when going home, and Environment and Group HSE and CR. Participating ISS offices segregating waste, etc. In each case, the individual effort and in countries receive a certificate and are acknowledged on the ISS impact is small. But duplicated many times it can have a collective website and in other publications for their positive contribution to material impact on reducing our footprint. sustainability at ISS. FACT: In Australia, 27 out of our 27 offices have received certification: 24 bronze and 3 silver. 22 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 Campaigning for the environment We have in many ISS countries such as the UK, France, Belgium For the second consecutive year, ISS ran ‘Me & You’ campaigns and Spain introduced electric and hybrid vehicles in our fleet. to increase awareness of HSE subjects. The 2012 campaign was aligned with the main areas covered by the Green Offices FACT: ISS Spain introduced two electric cars to their vehicle Programme: waste, energy and water. fleet in 2012 and is expecting fuel savings of Euro 3,000 annually for each. More electric cars are planned for the 2012 2012 future. ISS Switzerland is committed to a climate-friendly M e & M Yo e Vuoden 2012 ympäristökampanja: Suunta 100 u & Yo «Цель–100» 2012. Охрана окружающей среды u  car fleet. As a partner of BMW, ISS participated in an  exclusive field test, to prepare for mass production of  2the electric vehicles. puol in tulo en stus Tiiviste In terms of the chemicals we use, we can now document that nearly 10% of the products we use for our daily cleaning needs are eco label certified according to the European Union requirements. We continue to search for the best possible solutions in partnership with our strategic supply partner for cleaning chemicals, Diversey. Read more about this collaboration on Vähennä jätteen määrää Сохраним водные ресурсы page 31. Älä haaskaa materiaaleja ja lajittele oikein – рационально расходуйте воду In 2012, ISS also conducted both machine and bench unit tests Examples of two of the posters from the Global of the EC-H20 technology in 275 cleaning machines purchased Environmental campaign translated into Finnish and in 2011, which use charged water for cleaning instead of cleanRussian respectively. ing chemicals. Tests were run at the FIGR cleaning institute in Germany, which specialises in cleaning technologies, methods, Once again, the actual steps may seem small, but at the end of training, certification, and testing. While the full results of the the day environmental change starts with each of us individually. test are yet to be published, preliminary results of the bench unit test illustrate that the technology in the EC-H20 machines does have a substantial effect on removing dirt when compared Less impact from transport, tools and processes with that of regular water. When we conducted our materiality review in 2009, it was clear that transport and the chemicals we use for cleaning should be in The principles of ISS’ ‘Cleaning Excellence’ bring sizeable reductions focus when we seek to reduce our impact on the environment. in terms of water and cleaning substances consumption. The benefits from ‘Cleaning Excellence’ include cutting detergents The driver safety programmes being run in many countries use and water consumption by more than half. also include speed reduction, leading to lower fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. The training is leading to the creation FACT: The cleaning industry consists of more than 250,000 of a safe and economical driving culture. companies. In 2010 it was estimated that at least 2.7 million tonnes of cleaning chemicals were used FACT: ISS France launched a driving safety program in February annually by industry members3. 2012 with three main actions: • training all ISS France drivers in the next two years in safe driving techniques; • investigations after an accident involving root cause analysis; and • awareness campaigns. The results in 2012 showed a 10% decrease in road accidents, a 15% decrease in insurance premiums and a 4% decrease in fuel consumption and emissions. 3 Global Green Cleaning, Sustainability “How-To Guide” Series. IFMA Foundation ISS SECURITY CAR, SPAIN 24 ISS and Profit – integrity and stronger controls In this section, we present an overview of our financial performance, highlight our principles performance highlights related to economic sustainability and report on related activities in 2012. Organic growth 1.7% Running a sustainable and profitable business in a challenging macroeconomic environment is the first order for ISS. ISS seeks to Operating margin 5.6% maintain and enhance operational efficiency by focusing on three operational objectives: (i) Organic Growth, (ii) Operating Margin Cash conversion 103% and (iii) Cash Conversion. ISS is implementing best practices and tools to ensure that customer We focus on organic growth through new sales to global and contracts are governed by written agreements that address the regional customers as well as cross-selling of facility service commercial and legal risk associated with the contracts including solutions to both new and existing customers. Our strategy is CR risks and that appropriate contract review and approval profocused on aligning our value propositions within each of our cesses are applied. In 2012, ISS accelerated the deployment of defined services focused on the needs of our customers and CRAM@ISS (contract risk assessment model), a web-based conhow we meet them. We are aligned behind this value propositract risk assessment and approval tool to support the contract tion through our self-delivery model and thereby giving our review and approval process. Seven countries commenced implecustomers the benefits of one point of contact, efficiencies, mentation of the tool in 2012 and more countries will deploy consistent delivery and credible risk transfer. These services CRAM@ISS going forward. CRAM@ISS is also being used at ISS can either be delivered as a single service, multiservice or as Group level on selected international and large customer contracts. an integrated solution. We have also established a system that determines the approval We are applying a commercial strategy aimed at specific level needed for contracts based on their financial value. Depending customer segments and implementing commercial planning on the contract value, the Board of Directors, the executive manageprocesses and tools. This is further supported by our Global ment or regional management is involved in the approval process. Corporate Clients organisation which enables us to win and deliver on large global contracts. The organic growth was In order for our business to respond quickly and adequately to the 1.7% in 2012 and has on average been 4.0% per year from needs of our customers, we believe in the benefits of having deep 2007 to 2012. Another objective is to improve our Operating local accountability and anchoring in line with our multi-local Margin, which has been on average 5.8% per year from 2007 approach (see page 7). On the other hand, we need to ensure to 2012. We will continue to invest in driving out efficiencies that we are able to deliver the standardised levels of service and and implementing best practice. quality which we agree to in our corporate contracts covering more than just one market. CRAM@ISS and the formalised approval levels add another element to the strengthening of our Governance of contracts governance structures, supporting this model. The ISS business is made up of more than 200,000 separate customers. In each of these we take on a set of risks on behalf of the customer, and we establish that we are able to manage Business integrity is non-negotiable in ISS and mitigate the risks – thus creating value for our customers’ The ways in which corruption and bribery are adverse to ISS business by securing continuity and brand protection. business practices are many and are criminal offences in most At ISS we fully realise that for ISS to continue to grow sustainably, the local communities wherever we operate need to grow and benefit as well. The most important way ISS contributes to local communities is by providing jobs, income, training, social benefits and career opportunities. But we are aware that also our payments of tax and duties are important contributions to many communities around the world. Paying our taxes timely and correctly is an integrated part of how we do business at ISS. Our Tax Policy is built on our values and leadership principles with focus on honestly and responsibility. The foundation of our Tax Policy is our commitment to comply with all local and international tax legislation. Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 25 Whistle blower system launched in 2012 Anti-Corruption in the ISS As planned, our whistle blower system was launched in June Code of Conduct 2012. The reporting channel and system is open to all our stakeholders and is available on our corporate website. Going for• ISS is against any form of corruption and bribery and is ward we will roll-out and create awareness of the system, committed to combat such practices. including translations and adapting the system in accordance • ISS competes for business on fair terms and solely on the with local legislation. merits of its services. • Regardless of local practice, any personal payments, kickbacks The system is intended as a channel for raising serious and or bribes between ISS and customers, suppliers or public sensitive concerns guaranteeing all persons making complaints servants are strictly prohibited. in good faith protection from reprisals or retaliation. Complaints • It is unacceptable to receive gifts or other gratuities from or concerns are received and recorded by the Head of Group business partners – unless customary in the environment, of Internal Audit who will consider the seriousness and credibility modest nominal value and serves a business purpose. of the complaint or concern raised, as well as proceed to determine the appropriate action in co-ordination with the Business These rules form the basis of our Anti-Corruption Policy. Integrity Committee. All of these considerations are made in accordance with a dedicated protocol. Some complaints or concerns may be resolved without investicountries. As signatories to the United Nations Global Compact gation. Others are investigated by Group Internal Audit or external we have committed to combat the use of corruption, extortion auditors, investigators and/or legal counsel. Conclusions of an and bribery, wherever we do business, as stated in the 10th prininvestigation are submitted to the Audit Committee of the ISS ciple. It is against our values (see page 8), the ISS Code of Conduct Board of Directors. Depending on the gravity and magnitude and our Anti-Corruption Policy. It is simply not The ISS Way. of the violation, the report may be presented to the Board of Directors. Business integrity is a central element of the terms on which we hire and potentially give members of our staff disciplinary sanction. We recognise that the challenge to avoid unethical business practices is greater in some areas of the world than others, but cultural factors or weak legal frameworks are not valid excuses: the ISS IN FOCUS: Slovenian employees Code of Conduct and the Anti-Corruption Policy apply everywhere blew the whistle we do business. The Code of Conduct is available in languages understood by employees in all countries where ISS has operations. In 2012, Slovenian employees confidentially contacted the regional management for Eastern Europe to anonymously report their observations of what they believed were irregularities in the E-learning in five languages Slovenian business. They stated that they were worried over a The ISS Anti-Corruption Policy from 2010 cements and elaborates number of lost contracts where the reasons for the losses were our position against corruption and bribery as set out in the Code unclear. They were also worried that the country’s top manageof Conduct. To ensure that all managers and key employees ment showed very little concern or surprise over the repeated understand and recognise the position of ISS against corruption loss of business. and bribery, we created e-learning based compliance training modules which were rolled out in 2011. In 2012, the target Regional management involved Group Internal Audit, and after was for these to be rolled out in different languages. This was a meeting with the Slovenian employees and a number of achieved as we translated and launched the training module on other investigative measures, computers, mobile phones and anti-corruption in German, French, Spanish and simple Chinese. files were seized and immediate management changes were implemented. An analysis of materials obtained showed that These new languages enable us to reach out further with the members of the former management team were channelling training across ISS. Prior to the launch in October 2012, we had business into a competing company in which they had a finantrained 1,330 managers on anti-corruption and 1,155 managers cial interest. in competition law. In the period from October to December 2012 another 1,223 and 346 persons completed the two modules Financially, this situation led to a significant loss for the Slovenian respectively which means that in total 2,553 employees have business but due to the timely action the predominant part of completed the ISS Anti-Corruption e-learning module and 1,501 the business was retained. On a different scale, the result was a employees have completed the competition e-learning module. prime example of how ISS employees care about the company Compliance training is also an integrated part of the ISS Advanand how business integrity is not just talk in ISS. tage Course as well as the Negotiation Process Framework training programmes in contract management. 2626 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 ISS and Partners – working together to find broad solutions This section highlights some of the many relationships The second step was to consider how interested the stakeholders we have established in conducting our business as we are in our company and how much power they wield over our pursue openness and collaboration with our many business continuity and reputation. The result of this exercise stakeholders. confirms that our main focus should be on employees and customers as well as investors and the financial community, Good stakeholder relationships allow ISS to secure brand value and we should be open and active towards a larger group of and business continuity for ourselves and our customers. Engagesecondary stakeholders. ment and dialogue allow us adjust our business practices to help our business succeed, as well as building our brand as a trusted partner in risk management. Main stakeholder engagements in 2012 ISS values opportunities for engagement and our main interISS has relationships with a multitude of stakeholders. With the actions in 2012 were with: right amount of shared interests and the desire to reach a common • Employees – we ran our third Corporate Employee goal or complementary competencies, these relationships can Engagement Surveys (EES), through which 47% of our turn into partnerships. In a number of situations, ISS has through employees told us what they think about working for ISS. a close collaboration with organisations managed to drive change Read more on page 30. We have a global agreement with in the market and create awareness on particular initiatives such Union Network International which commits us to support as new ways of working, sustainability and improved working the 12 fundamental principles based on the International standards and conditions. Labour Organisation conventions. • Customers – in 2012 customers had the chance to participate In other cases, stakeholder engagement is based on dialogue in a customer experience survey system, which provided us and open communication over ISS actions and activities in which with many insights. The survey was sent out to approximately stakeholders have an interest. It is our philosophy to have an 80% of our turnover, in line with our target. Read more on open line of communication when a stakeholder shows an page 30. interest in our actions or activity. • Investors – who at present consist of two private equity companies, a pension fund and a private holding investment A key leadership principle for ISS is that we are one company company. We have a very close relationship with these with one brand. This is also reflected in our stakeholder cominvestors through regular meetings and a professional munication in which we aim to speak with one voice and Board which met 8 times in 2012. strategy in spite of differences in local customs. This voice is • Unions – with whom we work to improve standards for open and honest in good and bad times, and reflects fairness employees. We engage in dialogue locally, regionally and and respect toward our stakeholders. globally to resolve possible issues. We have constructive interactions with Works Council, unions and employee representatives. Read more on page 31. Stakeholder mapping revisited • Suppliers – where we began implementation of a selfIn 2012 we undertook an internal process of stakeholder mapping assessment questionnaire in 2010, which have been and evaluation. Participants in this process were representatives repeated in 2012. We also carried out two internal audits of the following Group functions: Legal, Human Resources, in Bangladesh and Sharjah with suppliers of our work Risk Management, Internal Audit, Marketing, Communications, uniforms. These were chosen due to their presence in Strategy, and HSE & CR. recognised high risk industries and regions. In 2012, we also established a Code of Conduct for Suppliers, which The first step was to determine the most important stakeholders will be implemented in 2013 and serve as an audit framein our organisation. The criteria used were: work going forward. • Who are we legally obliged to? • Media and NGOs – with whom we have regular contact and • Who can be positively or negatively affected by our open lines of communication, particularly in Denmark. We decisions and activities? answered more than 1,200 media requests at head office in • Who will likely express concerns about our decisions 2012. For the most prominent 2012 example of NGO and activities? dialogue, go to page 32. • Who can help us handle specific issues? • Who can affect our ability to meet our responsibilities? Locally, our ISS countries engage with local stakeholders who • Who will be put off if they are not involved? they determine important in their community. For example, • Who in the value chain will be affected? ISS Turkey ran a Sustainability workshop in November where Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 27 management and leaders of the organisation participated to Social Media Policy, addressing the use of social media by ISS identify their stakeholders and sustainability areas important to employees and the creation of official ISS accounts, profiles, them and how they engage with their stakeholders in these areas. etc. on social media and acting on behalf of ISS. The main message is that ISS values, the ISS Code of Conduct and the ISS FACT: ISS India provides work training for 8,000 young people. Social Media Policy apply when communication by ISS employISS India has partnered with the Ministry of Rural ees on social media relates to ISS or references are made to or Development in India to provide work training for have a potential impact on ISS. elementary and high school drop-outs and candidates from industrial training institutes. The co-operation FACT: ISS Brunei has donated free cleaning and pest control between ISS India and the Ministry of Rural Development services to a centre for children with special needs. ISS is part of a series of initiatives to create more jobs in Spain granted 13 scholarships worth Euro 1,500 each the organised sector in India. in support of employee family members’ university education. ISS Finland made a Christmas donation to Icehearts, a non-profit organisation whose goal is Guidelines for new media improving child welfare with the help of team sports. Blogs, wikis, social networks, chats and other social media (e.g. ISS Thailand has made donations to individual schools, Facebook, Twitter, etc.) are increasingly influencing the way we and joined a customer in donating to a foster home and communicate and interact. In 2012, we established our first an AIDS project. ISS Thailand in cooperation with their customer Toyota ISS Spain poster for their foundation set up in 2007 Motor (Thailand) Co. Ltd. gives scholarships and donates supporting job creation in developing countries. to Baan Dek Tawan Mai foster home. 28 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 Symbols of trust • ISS Facility Service, Thailand received “Contractor Safety Business awards for corporate responsibility are handed out Performance Class” award from The 5th Contractor across our markets and ISS operating companies win some Excellence Safety Performance Campaign of BMCL. of these every year. We are proud of each because they are a • ISS Hong Kong (East Point Property Management Limited) testament to the trust our stakeholders put in us. Some of the received Merit Award of “Best Property Management awards won in 2012 are: Company in OSH” at the Construction Safety Forum and • ISS Spain won a European Business Awards in the category Award Presentation Ceremony which was organised by ‘The Award for Corporate Environment and Sustainability’. Occupational Safety & Health Council (OSHC). The award recognizes companies that develop activities in • ISS Hong Kong (Pan Asia Security Service Limited) received a social, cultural, economic and environmental context. The the Bronze Award for “Contractors’ Accident Free for 300 company also achieved a special mention in the José Luís Days Award” at the Operations Division Safety Oscar Awards Ruiz Pérez for Social Responsibility category at the Premios Presentation Ceremony 2012. Capital Humano in recognition of its management of • ISS China received the certificate of contract credit rating human capital, including the ability to integrate disabled of ”AAA” in July, 2012 which certified that ISS China had and immigrant workers. developed an excellent system on risk control and credit • Energy saving award from Taipei City and from Taiwan’s management in the past 2 years. Ministry of Economic Affairs was presented to ISS Taiwan for • ISS UK won the World Medal at the 55th New York Festival’s implementing technological solutions and achieving savings International Television and Film Awards and a gold statuette in energy consumptions at a customer site. at the US Telly Awards for four behavioural safety films, • For the 5th time, ISS Portugal was awarded by the Portucalled ‘Stop and think’. guese government for its activities in securing access to the • ISS UK has been awarded the Carbon Trust Standard, valid workplace for underprivileged groups. until the end of 2013. • The Finnish VATES Foundation awarded the Exemplary • ISS US has been awarded the Health & Safety Certificate of Employer of the Year Award to ISS Finland for its successful Accreditation for Contractors. work in providing jobs for those partially capable of working. The jury especially emphasised the company’s determined action to support those returning to work from sick leave. Cheung Ka Lam, HONG KONG 30 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 IN FOCUS: Asking employees AND customers what they think ISS constantly strives to improve the way we work. In order to of engagement in the Group, but more importantly we now gain insight into how employees perceive their daily work life, have a much better insight into what is important to our and how customers perceive our service delivery, we conducted employees in their work environment. an Employee Engagement Survey (EES) and a Customer Experience Survey in 2012. Our average employee Net Promoter Score increased by 10% from 2011. The ambition is to improve even further and to Insights from these surveys provide us with a gauge of how eradicate the variation between regions. we can improve our performance on drivers affecting employee engagement and customer experience. While the real value of the responses to these survey are to be found at the country and team levels, the story told by the consolidated results is that ISS runs a steady ship with The employee engagement survey motivated and skilled employees. The survey also provides For the third consecutive year we developed and enlarged the guidance on the areas we need to improve in. The honest scope of our employee engagement survey in 2012. Our target feedback from our employees is highly appreciated by managewas to make the survey available to 250,000 employees. The ment as guidance for how we can engage our employees engagement survey was sent out to 251,746 employees, which even more leading to ISS offering even better services. makes our survey one of the largest conducted by a private employer in the world. We had a response rate of 47% from The target for 2013 is to include 400,000 employees in 36 countries. 50 countries and conduct the survey in the third quarter of the year in all countries. The ultimate target is to include all The survey consisted of two scores: one is a measure of employees that have been employed by ISS for more than employee engagement and the other asks whether our 3 months. employees would recommend us as an employer (Net Promoter Score). The customer experience survey The survey measures four key drivers of employee engagement: In 2012, we conducted our second global customer experience • Capability – do our employees feel that they are capable survey for around 8,000 customers in 46 countries. We of fulfilling their roles? experienced an improvement in the response rate compared • Motivation – are our employees motivated to deliver what to 2011. We aimed to cover 80% of turnover in each of the is expected of them? participating countries, a target which we reached. The survey • Pride – do our employees feel proud about working for ISS? showed a 10 point improvement in the likelihood to Recommend • Retention – how likely are our employees to stay with ISS? ISS (NPS Score) from 2011 to 2012 at global level. A number of focus areas was identified on country level as well as regional Based on the result of the survey, which showed an overall level, improving the communication between Customer and employee engagement of 4.4 out of a possible of 5, which account manager being the most important. we are pleased with, we know that we have a high degree Results of the Employee Engagement Survey: Engagement Capability Motivation Pride Retention 3 3 3 3 3 4.0 2 4 4.4 2 4 4.4 2 4 4.3 2 4 2 4 4.3 1 5 1 5 1 5 1 5 1 5 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 31 Working with unions of facilities services and labour standards. When publicised, this ISS is the fourth largest private employer in the world with our study will create awareness of industry issues which could be front line employees being a majority. relevant for legislators and regulators to consider further. The activity was chosen jointly by UNI and ISS. We strongly support unionisation of our employees as a way of promoting human rights and global labour principles. It is also a component in the risk mitigation ISS provides their customers. Knowing more about our supply chain We collaborate with unions at the local level over core working An industry leader such as ISS has to have a responsible supply conditions and regionally and globally on broader issues. When chain, thereby guaranteeing our customers protection of their disputes do arise, we seek to resolve them within the structures brand. and mechanisms we have established with the unions. ISS is committed to ensure compliance to the ISS Group CR …in Europe policy throughout the supply chain. A structured effort in this area Our European operations model employee relations according has been initiated and a supplier questionnaire, based on recomto an established model of a European Works Council. This mendations of the Danish Institute of Human Rights and the consists in quarterly meetings between management and union Confederation of Danish Industry, was developed and tested in representatives, and an annual meeting for all union members 2010, and was sent to Group strategic suppliers in 2012 as well. and a number of management representatives. The objectives are two fold: to raise awareness of the CR issues In 2012, the annual meeting continued its discussion of ways and our commitment in these areas and to also identify gaps if to improve ‘Social Dialogue’, i.e. the communication between any, between the suppliers’ current way of working and the CR employer representatives and employees. The main topic was requirements from ISS. The CR questionnaire is sent to strategic to secure the establishment of continuous forums in which the suppliers handled by Group Procurement in Copenhagen such two sides can meet and management present their plans and as Diversey, SCA, Nilfisk, Renault and the PSA Group. Additionactions and employees can express their opinions on same. This ally the CR questionnaire is also sent to the 10 largest suppliers is particularly challenging for the Eastern European markets, in 12 largest ISS countries. The questionnaires are analysed cenwhere history and culture has provided no tradition or model trally and any critical items without a description of gap closing for this type of dialogue. activities will be addressed. The key issue to be addressed is the lack of knowledge of the ISS requirements such as the ISS …and globally Code of Conduct, the ISS HSE Management system and the ISS ISS has had a global agreement with Union Network InternaSafety Rules. We plan to address this by implementing the ISS tional (UNI) since 2003, which commits the company to support Supplier Code of Conduct in 2013. 12 fundamental principles based on International Labour Organisation (ILO) conventions. Based on presence in a high risk industry and geographies, we decided to perform in-person audits of one of our suppliers of The agreement was renewed in 2009 with an increased focus work clothes at two sites in Sharjah, an emirate of the United on labour and its right to join a union. The agreement aims at Arab Emirates (UAE) and Dhaka, Bangladesh. enabling all ISS employees worldwide to be able to exercise rights to union membership and collective bargaining. The During the audit, there were the following findings: agreement and collaboration have prompted UNI to name ISS • three non-conformances in Dhaka and one non-conformance as ‘an employer that treats its workers well and is setting a in Sharjah; good example for other global employers’. • eight observations in Dhaka and six in Sharjah; • four opportunities for improvement for both Dhaka and Sharjah. The Global UNIISS Foundation was created as part of the agreement in 2009 aiming to monitor and improve employment All the non-conformances have now been closed and the obserstandards within the service industry globally. ISS provides an vations and the opportunities for improvement have been accepted annual donation of EUR 100,000 which is invested in industry by the supplier. projects in countries where ISS operates. This has led to establishment of the Mexico City Fundación en Supplier as partner Pro de la Educación Sindical. The foundation will create the ISS has worked with cleaning materials supplier Diversey in United Cleaning Workers Center in order to impact Mexico developing an IT tool to provide a cleaning methodology using City facilities services in terms of compliance with labour laws products and materials in alignment with our Green Cleaning and improved bidding and contracting policies for cleaning practices. This simple and user friendly tool allows our operational contractors in public sector buildings. Current activities include employees to recommend alternate solutions to our customers a study into the practices of Mexican based companies in terms that incorporate environmentally friendly products and materials 32 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 that are recyclable, ergonomic, reduce the usage of water and Industry collaborations electricity, reduce emissions, waste and storage and can extend An industry leaders, ISS must be present in the various organithe life of the surfaces. The solutions also offer improved cost in sations promoting and self-regulating the conditions of the use and productivity. facilities management industry. Below is a list of our industry commitments. IN FOCUS: Responding to NGO criticism ISS is a sustaining partner and sponsor of IFMA and is especially In recent years, ISS has been in dialogue with Danish NGO involved in IFMA’s annual conference and exhibition called World DanWatch over our activities in Israel and the Golan Heights Workplace. IFMA works to promote the facility management and the West Bank in particular, that DanWatch believe to profession through education, credentialing, government relations, be problematic in terms of risk of human rights abuses. ISS leadership opportunities, publishing, research and standards disagrees with DanWatch’s criticism, which we have stated development. ISS partners with IFMA on several research projects publicly and during our dialogue with DanWatch. and has among other initiatives been involved in a project covering the diffusion of more sustainable cleaning services. In 2011, when ISS was first approached by Danwatch, ISS See also www.ifma.org invited the organisation to a meeting and dialogue, which DanWatch declined, but in 2012 ISS met with DanWatch twice and was in contact with the organisation numerous times via phone and email. ISS is committed to continuing the dialogue with DanWatch and with other relevant organisations. ISS is a sponsor and contributor to the IFMA Foundation, where we also sit on the Board of Trustees. The IFMA Foundation is DanWatch has made public its criticism of ISS in collaboraa non-profit organisation providing scholarships for Facilities tion with the Palestinian BDS (Boycott Divest and Sanctions) Management students, providing accreditations of universities National Committee. Danish mainstream business media and educational programmes for FM credentials and the foundapicked up the story in 2012 which led to a high profile intertion offers research on FM related topics. view with ISS‘s CEO on the subject. See www.ifmafoundation.org Human rights risks assessed As a part of our overall CR work and support for UN Global Compact, we have assessed the geographies where ISS does business and the possible problems each country might raise ISS is a long term partner of GlobalFM, an organisation confrom a Corporate Responsibility perspective. ISS is fully aware necting regional and local facilities management organisations of the special conditions which are connected with doing such as IFMA, EuroFM, AsiaFM etc. and providing guidance on business on the West Bank. It is our opinion that we are education and input on industry standards. doing everything possible to ensure that human rights are not See also www.globalfm.com negatively impacted. In addition, it is our opinion that ISS’s activities on the West Bank are positively contributing to ensuring a number of human rights for the local Palestinian population like the right to work, the right to a healthy work environment, and acceptable minimum wages. In other words, it is our opinion that ISS contributes to ensuring human rights ISS is a sustaining partner of IAOP, the global standard-setting and the dignity of the local Palestinian population. organisation and advocate for the outsourcing profession. With a global community of more than 110,000 members and affiliates worldwide, IAOP is the leading professional association for organiAbout ISS’s business on the West Bank and sations and individuals involved in transforming the world of in the Golan Heights business through outsourcing, off shoring and shared services. ISS does not have proactive sales efforts directed towards business opportunities on the West Bank, in Gaza or the Golan Heights. ISS is only accepting to deliver services to these areas Regional and local industry organisations if they are part of bigger national or international contracts. On a regional and local level ISS is involved in organisations ISS has 13 employees working in the West Bank, five such as: ISSA, Security league, EuroFM, AsiaFM, BIFM; Abrafac, employees in the Golan Heights and no employees in Gaza. FMAustralia, AustriaFM and more. ISS acts both as partners and sponsors of these organisations and many ISS managers are actively and personally involved in these organisations. Markus Bocek, AUSTRIA 34 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 Assurance Statement Verification Methodology DNV planned and carried out the assurance engagement in accordance with DNV’s Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting. We reviewed processes and tools for implementing the Company’s policies around Corporate Responsibility (including human resources, human rights, health & safety, environment, anti-corruption, and supply chain management) and challenged the related statements and data in the Report. We assessed the robustness of the underlying data management systems, information flows and internal control processes. We evaluated the Report’s adherence to six principles: Materiality, Stakeholder Introduction Inclusiveness, Responsiveness, Completeness, Reliability and Det Norske Veritas Business Assurance A/S (DNV) has been Neutrality. DNV’s conclusions are based on interviews with staff asked by the management of ISS (the Company) to carry out in various Group functions and our review of relevant processes, an assurance engagement on its 2012 Corporate Responsibility documentation and tools. Report (the Report) in its printed format. ISS is responsible for the collection, analysis, aggregation and Conclusions presentation of information in the Report. DNV’s responsibility In DNV’s opinion, the 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report in performing this work is to the management of ISS only and conveys a fair and credible presentation of ISS’s Corporate in accordance with agreed terms of reference. This statement is Responsibility activities, except for aspects of the environmental intended for the management and broader stakeholders of ISS. data which after two years of collection are still at too early a stage to be considered reliable. However, within the scope of our work, we have not observed any significant deviation in Scope of Assurance and Limitations reporting from the Company’s accounting principles, nor any DNV agreed with ISS to provide a limited level of assurance on other significant errors or omissions in the Report. The Report the Report which covers ISS’s global activities from 1 January to addresses all three dimensions of the Danish FSA §99a in a con31 December 2012, based on the scope defined in the Report. sistent manner, by presenting ISS’s policies, implementation and We agreed to verify the text and performance data in the Report performance, as well as describing where and how the work is by evaluating the underlying processes for determining material anchored throughout the organisation. We have evaluated the Corporate Responsibility issues at Group level and for collecting, Report’s adherence to the following principles on a scale of analysing and consolidating data at Group level. We agreed to ‘Good’, ‘Acceptable’ and ‘Needs Improvement’: evaluate the report against the requirements of the UN Global Compact Policy on Communicating Progress and the Danish Financial Statements Act (FSA) §99a. We agreed to confirm that Materiality: Good the Company’s stated Application Level meets the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting The Company has extended its materiality analysis to include all Guidelines Version 3.0. the subjects and issues in ISO 26000 and DS 49001. The output and our interviews confirmed that ISS management hold the We also agreed to review the alignment of ISS’s current Groupcompetence required for conducting a robust analysis. The results level management practices with the recommendations contained have informed the focus and content of the 2012 Report as well in the ISO 26000 Guidance Standard and the requirements in as planned management activities for 2013. This includes underthe Danish Standard DS 49001 (which is based on ISO 26000). taking a similar exercise at country level and validating the results with key stakeholders. On-site verification activities took place between November 2012 and February 2013 at the ISS Head Office in Denmark. Our assurance holds the following limitations: We did not visit Completeness: Acceptable or interview any local sites nor interview any external stakeholders. Verification of financial/economic data (incl. GRI IndiDNV believes that within the reporting boundary and scope cator EC1), baseline data, and individual case stories was not defined by ISS, the Report does not omit important information included in the scope, nor have we provided any opinion on that would significantly influence stakeholder assessments of the feasibility of ISS’s stated targets. how the Company conducts its business and manages its Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 35 Corporate Responsibility impacts. The challenge for global Based on the scope of our assessment of alignment, it is our service providers such as ISS remains how to account for the opinion that the fundamental principles in ISO 26000 and DS environmental impacts of services delivered on customer’s sites 49001 are reflected in ISS’s daily management and conduct at where – depending upon the scope of service – may imply use the Group level. Based on our review and assessment proceof e.g. energy, water, cleaning detergents and other chemicals dures, we have not found any significant non-alignments. We in a site infrastructure not controlled by ISS. have identified some partial alignments e.g. on expectations around stakeholder engagement and supply chain management, which we have conveyed to ISS management. Stakeholder Inclusiveness: Acceptable We confirm that the Report meets the requirements of GRI’s The ISS Group management team has undertaken a systematic Application Level C+. stakeholder mapping exercise to identify interests, influence and information needs. The criteria and overall results are presented in the Report along-side a review of the main stakeOpportunities for Improvement holder engagement acti-vities during 2012. The Company plans The following is an excerpt from DNV’s observations and to extend its engagement with suppliers in 2013 through the suggestions for improvement in ISS’s reporting, as reported implementation of a new Code of Conduct for Suppliers and a to the management of ISS. strengthened audit programme. • Increased focus on environmental data collection will help ensure more accurate and reliable data for future reporting. • A formalised process or framework for systematic stakeholder Responsiveness: Good dialogue around corporate responsibility issues would help to strengthen pro-active engagement (and related competence) ISS has implemented clear policies, governance structures, both at Group and Country levels. management systems, action plans and monitoring procedures • Using the results of the stakeholder validation of ISS’s matethrough which to manage material CR issues. The Report fairly riality mapping, a roadmap for reporting should be drawn up reflects the Company’s efforts in 2012, which include considerto clarify goals and audiences for future reporting and identify able work to implement its anti-corruption programme and to new metrics to be phased in over time, in order to anticipate ensure a continued focus on improving the Company’s health, and meet changing international expectations for reporting. safety and environmental performance at local level. • ISS may consider ways in which to measure the efforts and results related to helping customers reduce environmental impacts on their sites. Reliability: Needs Improvement In general, ISS demonstrates effective internal management and DNV’s Competence and Independence traceability of data, based on documented accounting principles DNV provides services in the area of Social Responsibility through and effective internal control procedures. During our review of qualified specialists worldwide. DNV was not involved in the data, data systems and reporting manuals, several inconsistencies preparation of any statements or data included in the Report and inaccuracies were identified; the affected data has been except for this Assurance Statement. DNV maintains complete corrected by ISS and adjustments to reporting manuals and impartiality towards people interviewed during the assignment. tools have been completed for 2013. A stronger focus over a long time has helped to ensure greater reliability of the human resources and safety data in the Report, while environmental data collection still requires time to improve the reliability of the reported data. The collection of electricity and water data is a challenge for ISS due to the number of offices across the world and difficulties sourcing data from leased facilities. Without verifying data input at local sites, we are unable to conclude on the extent of sources of error which may occur locally; however, ISS is committed to improving data quality in the future. For Det Norske Veritas Business Assurance A/S Neutrality: Good The Report contains a balanced account of the Company’s performance and highlights several negative incidents, breaches Dr Helena Barton Jens Peter Høiseth and dilemmas which the Company has faced during 2012. Lead Verifier Key Customer Manager These are presented together with commitments to future improvements. Copenhagen, 4 March 2013 36 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 Reporting principles and compliance This report, the third comprehensive corporate responsibility Internal guidelines report prepared by ISS, covers activities in the calendar year 2012. As a basis for our reporting, ISS developed a Group HSE and CR Reporting Manual in 2010 to provide reporting principles In 2012, we have not added new data parameters. We have and rules to ensure a consistent basis for reporting. focused on improving the quality of our data. To improve the quality of data, we are implementing a global reporting IT The principles listed are derived from generally accepted system in countries. accounting and reporting policies and include Relevance, Consistency, Transparency, Accuracy and Completeness. External principles and guidelines They are intended to guide data gathering and reporting to We have designed our reporting to be in line with level C+ in the ensure that the reported information fairly presents our HSE Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the world’s most widely used and CR performance. The Group HSE Manual requires that sustainability reporting framework. This requires reporting on a countries and other entities collecting data manage their HSE minimum of 10 performance indicators as well as a set of profile and CR data quality systematically as part of their managedisclosures. An overview of the GRI standard disclosures included ment system. in this report can be found in the table on the following pages. In order to facilitate control and review of HSE and CR data, We have also used the ISO Standard ISO 26000 Guidance on each reported parameter shall have an audit trail. An audit Social Responsibility and the Danish Standard DS 49001 ‘Social trail is a clear (documented) record of definitions, assumptions, responsibility management system – Requirements’ as a basis of aggregation, calculations and references that result in the final our analysis and reporting. reported data. ISO 26000 provides guidance on the underlying principles of The manual specifies the data that shall be available for social responsibility, recognising social responsibility and engaging monitoring performance and for reporting on corporate stakeholders, the core subjects and issues pertaining to social responsibility issues at Group level. responsibility and on ways to integrate socially responsible behaviour into the organisation. The standard emphasises the importance of results and improvements in performance on Response to feedback on the report social responsibility. The Danish Standard DS 49001 is a We received valuable feedback from the Danish Accountants’ management system standard based on the principles, subjects Association to the 2010 report to which we responded in the and issues, stakeholder engagement described in ISO 26000. 2011 report. There was one outstanding comment that we still needed to address: No third party assurance which would have Our annual reporting on our corporate responsibility activities increased credibility, particularly concerning the size of the comand management is also in accordance with the “Danish Finanpany. As the 2012 Report has now been independently assured, cial Statements Act (Accounting for CSR in large businesses)”. we have now addressed all the comments from the feedback. The reporting furthermore serves to fulfil our obligation to communicate on progress (COP) as required by the UNGC. Changes and future outlook We have corrected the number of vehicles and the emissions from vehicles reported in the 2011 Report. We report EBITA as EBITA excluding other income and expenses; the numbers for 2011 and 2010 have been adjusted to reflect this. We have added data on fuel usage to the data parameters reported compared to 2011.As we have done in 2012, in 2013, we will focus on improving the quality of our data. Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 37 Richard Akaza, Denmark 38 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 Overview of Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) and Global Compact (GC) compliance GRI Standard Disclosures 1 Strategy and Analysis Section in Report 1.1 Foreword by CEO Letter from the Executive Group Management 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. The ISS Approach to Corporate Responisibility; ISS and People; ISS and the Planet; and ISS and Profit 2. Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation Creating the world’s greatest service organisation 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Creating the world’s greatest service organisation 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation Creating the world’s greatest service organisation 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarter Creating the world’s greatest service organisation 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates Creating the world’s greatest service organisation 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Creating the world’s greatest service organisation 2.7 Markets served Creating the world’s greatest service organisation 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation Creating the world’s greatest service organisation 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Creating the world’s greatest service organisation; 2.9 regarding size, structure, or ownership Annual Report 2012 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period ISS and Partners 3 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period Reporting principles and compliance 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 2011 3.3 Reporting cycle Reporting principles and compliance 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report Colophon or its contents 3.5 Process for defining report content Reporting principles and compliance 3.6 Boundary of the report The ISS Approach to Corporate Responisibility 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of The ISS Approach to Corporate Responisibility the report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, The ISS Approach to Corporate Responisibility leased facilities, outsourced operations etc. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of Reporting principles and compliance calculations 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of Reporting principles and compliance information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods Reporting principles and compliance in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying Standard Disclosures in the report Reporting principles and compliance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking Independent Assurance Report external assurance for the report Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 39 4 Governance, Commitment and Engagement Section in Report 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation Governance 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest Governance governance body is also an executive officer 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board Annual Report 2012, page 70 structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to Governance; ISS and Profit provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and Letter from the Executive Group Management social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the ISS and Partners organisation 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders ISS and Partners with whom to engage 5 Management Approach and Performance Indicators EC1 Economic performance Our Performance and Targets; Annual Report 2012 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable ISS and the Planet energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Our Performance and Targets by weight EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and ISS and the Planet reductions achieved EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of ISS and the Planet products and services, and extent of impact mitigation LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Our Performance and Targets; ISS contract, and region and People LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age Our Performance and Targets group, gender, and region LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Our Performance and Targets; ISS absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities and People by region LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements ISS and People with trade unions HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors ISS and Partners that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Our Performance and Targets; ISS and People actions taken HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for The ISS Approach to Corporate Responsibility; incidents of child labour, and measures taken to Governance contribute to the elimination of child labour SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s ISS and Profit anti-corruption policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. ISS and Profit PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including ISS and Partners results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 40 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 The Global Compact Principles Read more on page Human rights 4, 5, 10, 14 and 31 Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Standards 4, 5, 10, 14, 19 and 31 Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 4, 5, 20, 21 and 22 Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 4, 5, 8, 10, 24 and 25 Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 41 Share your opinion We welcome your feedback as it is an important part of our dialogue with our stakeholders. You are welcome to contact Joseph Nazareth, Head of Group HSE and CR at +45 3817 0000 or write to us at: Head of Group HSE and CR ISS A/S, Bredgade 30 1260 Copenhagen K, Denmark Design: almaco Production and print: almaco Copy-writer: Eva Harpøth Skjoldborg Printed in March 2013. ISS A/S www.issworld.com
