OUR SPIRIT IS CLEAR bacardi limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Contents 3 5 18 36 A welcome from our Corporate Marketplace Environment, Chairman and Responsibility Strategy Health and Safety Chief Executive at Bacardi Limited Targets and progress Strategy Officer Our Corporate Responsibility Responsible marketing Targets and progress EHS management program Tackling alcoholWater Stakeholders related harm Energy Materiality Responsible drinking campaigns Greenhouse gases Our impacts Waste and packaging Safety 59 78 90 103 About Bacardi Limited 108 Responsible People Philanthropy Sourcing Strategy and Community Strategy Targets and progress Involvement Targets and progress Developing our Strategy Responsible supply people Targets and progress chain Engaging our people Global activity About this report Working with Local activities suppliers and partners Targets and progress Sustainable agriculture GRI content index and sourcing UN Global Compact Key stories Downloads 2 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited A welcome from our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Edward D. Shirley, President and CEO www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility We aim to be the best-in-class in Corporate Welcome to the latest Bacardi Limited Responsibility in the spirits industry and Corporate Responsibility Report. believe that by responsibly managing our We hope you enjoy the new online format – one that environmental and social impacts, Bacardi embodies our commitment to reduce our impact on will be a more sustainable business in the natural resources. Once again, we are reporting in line long term. with Global Reporting Initiative, or GRI, guidelines in the areas of economic, environmental, social and edward d. shirley, President and CEO governance performance. We are also aligned with the principles set forth by the UN Global Compact, which encourages the adoption and reporting of sustainable and socially responsible policies. These principles guide us in our approach to Corporate Responsibility and how we communicate our progress. We aim to be the best-in-class in Corporate Responsibility in the spirits industry and believe that by responsibly managing our environmental and social impacts, Bacardi will be a more sustainable business in the long term. Through our Corporate Responsibility programs, we regularly introduce new ways of working to improve efficiencies, reduce our global footprint and support grower communities and other partners, all while promoting responsible consumption. We are proud to be part of a company where the spirit of giving back has been a foundation for more than 150 years. Thanks to this long-standing Corporate Responsibility commitment, we have no doubt this legacy will continue for 150 more. Looking forward, we recognize there is a worldwide need to address key issues such as responsible sourcing, global population growth and climate change. It is important to us that we play a part in helping to address these challenges. Our increased engagement with stakeholders shows that our actions, as we deal with these and other important matters, are aligned with stakeholder interests. 3 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Our Corporate Responsibility program comprises five pillars that reflect our principal areas of activity. The pillars are Marketplace; Environment, Health and Safety; Responsible Sourcing; People; and Philanthropy and Community Involvement. Looking at last year’s performance, there are a number of success stories within these five pillars. Digital communication has become increasingly important in marketing campaigns, and we have made great strides in our Marketplace pillar to ensure all of our digital marketing adheres to our strict responsible marketing standards. In the area of Environment, Health and Safety, our environmental performance continues to improve, with more efficient use of water and energy and reduced greenhouse gas emissions per unit of production. Our newly developed environmental sustainability strategy will support ongoing progress, not only in our operations, but also in our wider value chain. Within Responsible Sourcing, we continue to be active in championing a sustainable sugarcane industry through our founding membership in BonsucroTM. Our target is to source 100% of our sugarcane molasses from sustainable sugarcane by 2022. This commitment is a first within our industry and among BonsucroTM members. Our first Global Employee Engagement Survey was a central activity in our People pillar during the past year. The employee response rate was exceptional. The survey results revealed that our employees are engaged with and positive about Bacardi Limited. The survey also gave us excellent insight into where we can improve career development and work experiences. We have been consolidating progress in the area of Philanthropy and Community Involvement. Following the great success of Corporate Responsibility Week last year, during which 65% of our employees served their communities, we are preparing for an expanded Corporate Responsibility Month in early fiscal 2013 to give employees more flexibility to participate in community activities. Overall, there have been some excellent achievements across Bacardi Limited in the last fiscal year, a performance that would not have been possible without the dedication and hard work of our employees. On behalf of the Bacardi senior leadership team, we thank them for this. Our challenge moving forward is to keep up our momentum by continuing to seek improvements in how we work and by embedding Corporate Responsibility in all aspects of our business and in our wider value chain. As ever, your feedback on any aspect of Corporate Responsibility at Bacardi Limited is most welcome. Facundo L. Bacardi, Chairman and Edward D. Shirley, President and CEO 4 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED In this section Our Corporate Responsibility program Stakeholders Materiality Our impacts Our approach to Corporate Responsibility covers our whole value chain, from raw materials to end product. Our corporate values of Trust, Caring, Passion and Excellence guide our approach to Corporate Responsibility. We are focused on developing a leading Corporate Responsibility position by delivering continual improvement and excellence in our performance and by creating a Corporate Responsibility program that is best-in-class. Corporate Responsibility governance CRLT comprises senior managers from various global functions and business units and is led by the global CR and management Director. Overall responsibility for Corporate Responsibility rests with the office of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), which CRLT members work with their functions and regions updates the Board and Chairman once yearly. to develop action plans to achieve the objectives of our Corporate Responsibility pillars. The Corporate Responsibility leadership team (CRLT) sets and delivers the goals of our Corporate Reporting progress Responsibility strategy. It updates the CEO and Bacardi The CRLT reviews progress on Corporate Responsibility on senior leadership team (BLT) on a regular basis. The an ongoing basis and provides regular updates to the BLT. 5 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Corporate Responsibility at Bacardi Limited Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Our governance structure Integrating Corporate Responsibility We have made significant improvements in aligning Board and Chairman business processes across our global organization and have increased efficiency by focusing more sharply on the strategic objectives of the Company. President and CEO For Corporate Responsibility, this enhanced business alignment and strategic focus takes two forms. First, Corporate Responsibility will evolve from being a specialist program to an essential way of working that Bacardi senior leadership team (BLT) is integrated throughout our entire business by 2015. By involving our people and functions in Corporate Responsibility activities, and engaging with our brands Corporate Responsibility on aspects of sustainability, we will embed Corporate leadership team (CRLT) Responsibility within the core of our operations. Second, we have updated the individual strategies for each of the Corporate Responsibility pillars, setting Philanthropy targets for 2015 and beyond in some cases. By aligning Environment, Marketplace Health and Responsible People and this program with other business initiatives across the Sourcing Community Safety Involvement Company, Corporate Responsibility will be better able to support our wider business goals. Each of the five pillars has its own strategies and targets, which are delivered through coordinated activity by the relevant global functions and/or operating companies. Communicating Corporate Responsibility internally We use the Corporate Responsibility Community on our ONE Bacardi intranet to communicate with employees on a regular basis. The Corporate Responsibility Community is one of the most popular on ONE Bacardi and is a good way of raising awareness across the Company. In our first Global Employee Engagement Survey, conducted in fiscal 2012, Corporate Responsibility achieved the highest engagement score of all survey topics. 6 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Corporate Responsibility at Bacardi Limited > Our Corporate Responsibility program Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Our Corporate Responsibility program Our overall aim is to achieve a leading Corporate Responsibility position for Bacardi Limited. We will do this by developing and delivering a Corporate Responsibility program that is best-in-class. Our five key pillars Within our Corporate Responsibility program, there are five pillars reflecting our main areas of activity. The table below introduces the five pillars; more information on them can be found in each pillar section of this report. MARKETPLACE We are proud of the quality and heritage of our brands and do not want them to be consumed inappropriately. Our ambition is to encourage consumers to enjoy our products on a regular basis in moderation. Pillar overview Measuring the results 240,000 Drinking alcohol is a matter of personal choice and most consumers choose to drink in moderation. Alcohol can cause harm, however, if it is misused. Encouraging responsible decision-making by legal drinking age consumers and discouraging inappropriate consumption of our products is, therefore, a key priority for Bacardi fans on the “Champions Drink Limited. It is the focus of our activity within the Marketplace pillar. Responsibly” Facebook™ page in the first year of the campaign. Our ambition is to be best-in-class in promoting responsible drinking and in 0 ensuring that we market our products in a responsible way. To this end, we aim to build on the recognition already received for our award-winning responsible drinking campaigns and to continue to uphold our excellent record of compliance with responsible marketing codes. No consumer complaints on our advertising were upheld in 2012. Read more about Marketplace 7 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Corporate Responsibility at Bacardi Limited > Our Corporate Responsibility program Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY We have a responsibility to minimize environmental impacts across our value chain and to ensure our people are safe at work. These are key business objectives that reduce risk, increase efficiency and make sound business sense. Pillar overview Measuring the results 49.4% Our values of Excellence and Caring underpin our goal to achieve best-in-class environmental and safety performance. Most of our products’ environmental impacts are in our supply chain, and we work in our own facilities and with our suppliers to reduce impacts and risks across our whole value chain. Ensuring the safety of our reduction in water use in the six employees is of vital importance to us. years since 2006. 75% Within the Environment, Health and Safety pillar, we have developed a new environmental sustainability strategy that will guide us in creating industry-leading programs to reduce our environmental impact. From a safety point of view, we have a long-term vision for an accident-free Bacardi Limited. improvement in our lost time accident rate since 2006 and we Read more about Environment, Health and Safety achieved our best-ever rate in fiscal 2012. RESPONSIBLE SOURCING We source high quality ingredients and raw materials from many countries around the world, including those where achieving good workplace standards, environmental protection and sound governance can be complex. Pillar overview Measuring the results 100% Our vision for Responsible Sourcing is for all of our raw materials and packaging to come from sustainably sourced, renewable or recycled materials – reducing environmental and social impacts, while maintaining or enhancing the economic status of growers and suppliers. Our Responsible Sourcing program, now in its fifth We are targeting 100% of high and year, aims to deliver this vision. very-high risk direct suppliers and global point-of-sale suppliers to be The Bacardi Limited Responsible Sourcing standards outline the standards we require of our suppliers in the areas of labor, human rights, health and safety, environment compliant with our Responsible and business integrity. We ensure that our suppliers comply with our standards Sourcing standards. through our internal procurement processes or by suppliers’ membership in Sedex®, the database for sharing supplier information on ethical business practices. 20% Read more about Responsible Sourcing From fiscal 2013, we are targeting a 20% year-on-year increase in supplier membership of Sedex®. 8 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Corporate Responsibility at Bacardi Limited > Our Corporate Responsibility program Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited people We aim to connect and align all of our employees across the globe behind one set of values, strategies and common ways of working. Pillar overview Measuring the results 92% Our People strategy is built on the belief that outstanding people will deliver excellent results. To Bacardi Limited, outstanding people means talented and engaged employees who are valued for their unique contributions to the Company. By demonstrating their commitment to our values of Trust, Caring, Passion and Excellence, our people are the Our first-ever Global Employee best ambassadors for our Company and brands. Engagement Survey achieved a best-in-class response rate of 92%. Within the People pillar, we aim to unleash the potential of our people by creating a 3.76 working environment where every employee takes advantage of the development opportunities Bacardi Limited offers. We strive to inspire, engage and support our people, and we intend to become recognized internally and externally as a Great Place to Work. Our overall employee engagement Read more about People score was 3.76 out of 5. Best-inclass engagement starts at 4.0. Philanthropy and cOmmunity Involvement Bacardi Limited has a 150-year history of quality, excellence, ethics and social involvement. These values were important to our founder, Don Facundo Bacardí Massó, and are still important to us today in our 150th anniversary year. Pillar overview Measuring the results US$3.23M We operate in many locations around the world and always aim to make a positive contribution to our local communities. Our employees are members of these communities, and taking part in community activities generates a strong sense of pride. reported giving by Bacardi Within the Philanthropy and Community Involvement pillar, we try to involve our companies and brands in employees in community activities and, through their participation, raise awareness of fiscal 2012 measured using the our approach to Corporate Responsibility. We hold a global flagship community event each calendar year. Local initiatives are managed by local operations, which are closer to LBG model. 5,580kg their communities. We provide support in four broad areas: arts and culture; education; environment; and health and social services. Read more about Philanthropy and Community Involvement of food were donated by Bacardi U.S.A. employees to the Abriendo Puertas food bank at Thanksgiving in 2011. 9 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Corporate Responsibility at Bacardi Limited > Stakeholders Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Stakeholders We recognize the need to connect with our stakeholders – those who affect or are affected by our business. Listening to stakeholders helps to prioritize the most important Corporate Responsibility issues for us to address. Stakeholder engagement has been central to our Corporate Responsibility strategy and to the approach we take within each of our five pillars of activity. Stakeholder feedback informs our assessment of the most material Corporate Responsibility issues and helps us determine which topics to include in this Report. Stakeholder groups We have identified a wide range of stakeholders important to Bacardi Limited: DESCRIPTION Consumers Identifying and understanding consumer trends, including attitudes to alcohol, is essential to ensuring that our responsibility messages resonate with our consumers. Customers Our customers expect us to be managing Corporate Responsibility issues, just as we expect the same from our suppliers. We seek to work together on areas of mutual concern. Employees We keep our people up-to-date on important issues about Bacardi Limited with CEO webcasts, management roadshows and our global ONE Bacardi intranet. Industry associations Sharing knowledge and experiences with industry partners promotes a collective response on industry-wide matters, such as responsible marketing and responsible drinking. Local communities Bacardi Limited has always seen itself as part of the communities in which we operate and we engage with our local communities to understand and respond to their concerns. Non-governmental We exchange views with NGOs on alcohol issues at various fora including the organizations (NGOs) World Health Organization, the EU Alcohol and Health Forum and a range of trade associations. Regulators We engage with regulators through trade bodies, one-to-one meetings and written responses to policy consultation documents. Shareholders As Corporate Responsibility becomes more important to business, our shareholders are increasingly interested in how we are planning for a sustainable future, as well as protecting our current reputation. Suppliers We engage suppliers on our Responsible Sourcing standards both through our regular procurement processes and our Responsible Sourcing program. 10 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Corporate Responsibility at Bacardi Limited > Stakeholders Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Prioritized areas of interest Consumers • Responsible drinking. • Responsible marketing. • Sustainable agriculture and sourcing. • Sustainable packaging. Customers • Responsible drinking. • Responsible supply chain. • Sustainable agriculture and sourcing. • Product responsibility. Employees • Sustainable packaging. • Product responsibility. • Responsible drinking. • Responsible marketing. Industry associations • Responsible marketing. • Responsible drinking. • Managing direct environmental impacts. • Sustainable agriculture and sourcing. Local communities • Responsible drinking. • Responsible marketing. • Managing direct environmental impacts. • Sustainable agriculture and sourcing. Non-governmental • Responsible marketing. organizations (NGOs) • Responsible drinking. • Good governance. • Supporting local communities. Regulators • Responsible marketing. • Good governance. • Responsible supply chain. • Responsible drinking. Shareholders • Good governance. • Product responsibility. • Responsible marketing. • Being a responsible employer. Suppliers • Responsible drinking. • Product responsibility. • Responsible marketing. • Sustainable agriculture and sourcing. 11 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Corporate Responsibility at Bacardi Limited > Stakeholders Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Stakeholder research Bacardi Limited and responsibility Stakeholders generally consider Bacardi Limited in a We have been developing a new and more structured positive light. With regard to our approach to Corporate approach to stakeholder engagement. This effort Responsibility, the results were mixed. While many began with independently conducted stakeholder stakeholders felt that Bacardi Limited strives to be a research in fiscal 2012 and will evolve into a stakeholder responsible business, others were unsure, due to their engagement strategy during fiscal 2013. limited awareness of our Corporate Responsibility activity. This was particularly the case with new This research into stakeholder views on Corporate stakeholders, who are less familiar with Bacardi Limited Responsibility issues involved structured, one-to-one and are more likely to link the Company solely with our interviews with a global range of individuals from each of BACARDÍ Rum brand. our main stakeholder groups, except for shareholders. The interviewees were a mix of established Bacardi Limited Suggested areas for improvement in our approach stakeholder contacts and new stakeholders contacted for to and communication of Corporate Responsibility the purposes of the research. included: • Practical solutions for responsible drinking, not The interviews focused on a number of areas, including: just education. • What Corporate Responsibility means for the • Further work on responsible consumption with those spirits sector. who sell and serve our brands. • How stakeholders view Bacardi Limited in relation to • Measuring and managing social and environmental Corporate Responsibility. supply chain issues. • What stakeholders think are the most important • Improving the environmental credentials of responsibilities for the sector. our packaging. Responsibility in the spirits sector Key areas of interest for stakeholders The results show that the larger companies in the spirits Although the main priorities and concerns of sector are generally considered to be responsible. There stakeholders differed, based on their interests or is a sense, however, that the industry will face greater expertise, there was broad consensus on the key expectations and scrutiny of its behavior with ongoing Corporate Responsibility issues for the spirits sector, political, NGO and public debate and with the growing as shown below. awareness and expectation in developing markets. It was also felt that while responsible drinking and responsible marketing are the highest priority issues and are most clearly linked with responsibility in the sector, other issues are becoming more important, such as managing direct environmental impacts. 12 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Corporate Responsibility at Bacardi Limited > Stakeholders Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited ISSUE PRIORITIzATION – GLOBAL, ALL STAKEHOLDERS (weighted scores) responsible drinking 58.8 121 RESPONSIBLE Marketing 66.5 106 Product responsibility 59 71.9 managing direct environmental impacts 58 86.3 Sustainable agriculture and sourcing 56 90.0 Responsible supply chain 43 95.8 good GOVernance 43 100.0 sustainable packaging 40 being a responsible employer 37 supporting local communities 32 The score for each issue is derived from the top five issues identified by each stakeholder weighted by their level of priority. Working with the results Engaging employees We have used the results of the stakeholder research to During fiscal 2012, we completed our first-ever Global inform our latest materiality assessment. The assessment Employee Engagement Survey. The survey was sent to all has prioritized the key Corporate Responsibility issues for employees and received a best-in-class participation rate Bacardi Limited by combining the level of priority given of 92%. The survey gauged employee engagement on a by stakeholders with the current or potential impact broad range of employee issues, including our approach of the issues on our business. Find out more about our to Corporate Responsibility, which achieved the highest materiality process. engagement score of all topic areas at 4.22 (out of 5). Read more on the Global Employee Engagement Survey in the People section of this report. 13 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Corporate Responsibility at Bacardi Limited > Materiality Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Materiality The five pillars of our Corporate Responsibility program – Marketplace; Environment, Health and Safety; Responsible Sourcing; People; and Philanthropy and Community Involvement – reflect our main areas of activity. Our business and the world in which we operate are The Corporate Responsibility leadership team (CRLT) constantly changing, and the specific priorities, risks and assesses the materiality of Corporate Responsibility opportunities within each of our Corporate Responsibility issues for Bacardi Limited on a regular basis. pillars need to reflect this. As a result, we use a materiality assessment to prioritize the importance of the issues Our first detailed materiality assessment was completed within each pillar. in July 2007 while we were establishing our Corporate Responsibility program. This initial evaluation was To complete a materiality assessment, we combine the updated with a more detailed assessment in February level of stakeholder interest in specific issues with the 2009. Our most recent materiality assessment took place current or potential impact of the issues on Bacardi in early 2012, using the results of independent Limited. This establishes the relative importance – the stakeholder research. materiality – of our Corporate Responsibility issues to one another. Our material issues The results of the materiality assessment reflect the The results of our latest assessment are shown on the relative importance of issues within our Corporate matrix below. It shows the relative level of stakeholder Responsibility program, not the overall importance interest in our Corporate Responsibility issues and of the issues to Bacardi Limited. For example, being the current or potential impact of these issues on a responsible employer is critically important to our Bacardi Limited. business overall but is less material than other issues within our Corporate Responsibility program, such as responsible marketing or environmental protection. We use the results of these assessments to inform our Corporate Responsibility strategy and the specific approach taken within each pillar of our program. 14 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Corporate Responsibility at Bacardi Limited > Materiality Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Key Responsible marketing Responsible drinking Marketplace Environment, Health and Safety INCREASING IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Product responsibility Responsible Sourcing Sustainable agriculture and sourcing Direct environmental impacts People Local communities Sustainable packaging Philanthropy Responsible supply chain and Community Good governance Involvement Responsible employer Governance Click on the issues to find out more. INCREASING IMPACT ON BUSINESS Read more about our stakeholders Notes to the results: • R  esponsible supply chain focuses on the minimum • Responsible marketing includes responsible standards required of immediate suppliers to commercial communications, marketing, advertising Bacardi Limited. and product promotion. • G  ood governance includes business ethics, • Responsible drinking includes action to promote transparency and controls to achieve regulatory responsible drinking and address alcohol-related harm. compliance. • Product responsibility includes product quality and • R esponsible employer includes employee rights, product labeling. health and safety, diversity, and training and • Direct environmental impacts includes carbon development. footprint, air emissions, effluent, water use, • S  ustainable packaging focuses on making our waste, transport. packaging more sustainable including material type, • Sustainable agriculture and sourcing focuses on packaging weight and recyclability. improvement in social and environmental standards • L  ocal communities includes employee throughout the entire value chain. volunteering in community projects, as well as fundraising and donations. 15 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Corporate Responsibility at Bacardi Limited > Our impacts Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Our impacts As a manufacturer and distributor of alcoholic beverages, our operations have a range of benefits and impacts. Our Corporate Responsibility program aims to maximize the positives of our business and minimize the negatives. Our value chain There are many stages in the production of our premium spirits before they reach the consumer. We know that many of the environmental and social impacts associated with our business are in our supply chain, and we try to reduce these impacts at all stages of our product lifecycle. 1 Agricultural raw materials 1 2 2 Manufacturing 3 5 5 Recycling and reuse 4 3 Packaging and distribution 4 Retail and consumer 16 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Corporate Responsibility at Bacardi Limited > Our impacts Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited 1 Agriculture raw materials Agricultural products, such as grapes, sugarcane products, grains and botanicals, are some of the raw materials used to craft our products and are sourced from all over the world. Our Responsible Sourcing program is designed to reduce any potential environmental and social impacts in our supply chain, focusing on the highest-risk raw materials and sourcing countries as a priority. 2 Manufacturing Agricultural ingredients are extracted or fermented at manufacturing sites following long-established recipes to create our six global brands and our strong portfolio of local brands. We aim to establish projects that will deliver continual gains in our environmental performance, particularly improvements related to energy and water use, greenhouse gas emissions, waste and water quality. Our success is built on our outstanding people, and we need to ensure they are safe at work. Establishing a safety culture is essential to delivering an accident-free workplace. 3 Packaging and distribution Aging and bottling take place at sites around the world, where finishing touches are put on our products. When complete, our products are shipped to customers through several distribution channels. Our packaging consists mainly of glass and cardboard, with small amounts of plastic and metal. Around 50% of the carbon emissions from our value chain come from the manufacture of glass. Reducing the weight of our bottles and increasing the use of recycled glass help to reduce this. 4 Retail and consumer Our customers are retailers who distribute our brands through a number of channels, including supermarkets, restaurants, hotels and bars. These customers sell our products to consumers, who enjoy our brands. The vast majority of consumers drink alcohol responsibly and in moderation. Irresponsible or excessive consumption can cause problems with health, anti-social behavior and drinking and driving. We contribute to reducing the incidence of issues by ensuring we adhere to responsible marketing codes and are an influential voice in engaging with consumers and raising awareness of responsible drinking. 5 Recycling and reuse Recycling is an essential way to reduce the impact of our packaging. All of our packaging is recyclable, and our sustainable packaging manual will build sustainability considerations into future packaging redesigns. We recycle the majority of our manufacturing waste, and many of the waste by-products from our agricultural raw materials are used as animal feed or fertilizers. 17 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited MARKETPLACE In this section A clear Strategy responsibility Targets and progress Responsible marketing Tackling alcoholrelated harm Responsible drinking campaigns Promoting responsible drinking with our “Champions Drink Responsibly” campaign. Promoting responsible consumer choices Drinking alcohol is a matter of personal choice, and most consumers choose to drink in moderation. Alcohol, however, can cause harm if it is misused. It is therefore in our interests to market our products responsibly and encourage consumers to enjoy drinking our brands in moderation. We are proud of the quality and heritage of our brands and want them to be consumed appropriately. Encouraging responsible decision-making by legal drinking age consumers and discouraging inappropriate consumption of our products is a key priority for our Company. The Bacardi Limited Global Marketing Principles represent our minimum global standards for producing all of our marketing materials, and our teams are trained and held accountable to comply with this code. We expect to comply with relevant local laws and regulations and, as in previous years, we had no consumer complaints that were upheld. Chris Searle, International Affairs and Global CSR Director Watch video 18 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Marketplace > Chris Searle, International Affairs and Global CSR Director Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Chris Searle International Affairs and Global CSR Director In the Marketplace section of our Corporate Responsibility report, we report on two strategic issues: responsible marketing and responsible drinking. On responsible marketing, the Bacardi Limited Global Marketing Principles represent our minimum global www.bacardilimited.com/corporate-responsibility/marketplace standards for all our marketing materials. Our teams are “Champions Drink Responsibly” encourages consumers to: trained and held accountable for complying with this • Have a plan for the evening so that everyone has an code. Our code is fully aligned with industry codes of amazing time. ICAP, DISCUS and EFRD. We also expect to comply with • Take their time over their drinks and choose quality relevant local laws and regulations. over quantity. • Be a true friend and look out for each other. We take our responsibilities seriously and, as in previous • Have a plan to make sure that everyone gets home years, in fiscal 2012 we received no upheld consumer safely. We all know that drinking and driving don’t mix. complaints on our marketing materials. This way, consumers can ensure that they have a On responsible drinking, we promote drinking in great evening. moderation to legal drinking age consumers globally. We encourage regular consumption and responsible We are also sharing this message through digital and enjoyment of our brands for those who choose to drink. social media. In its first year, the campaign’s Facebook™ This is part of our business strategy. page generated nearly a quarter of a million fans. Our flagship project is our award-winning global A key element of the “Champions Drink Responsibly” campaign “Champions Drink Responsibly”. This year digital campaign was the “Ace Rafa” Facebook™ game. marked the first full year with Rafael Nadal as the Bacardi We developed a unique online game and invited legal Limited Global Social Responsibility Ambassador and drinking age consumers to ace Rafa and enter a prize champion of our campaign. draw to win the chance to “Ace Rafa” in person on his home island of Mallorca. “Ace Rafa” was a great success We raised awareness of our four key messages around – over 100,000 consumers from more than 35 countries the world as we hosted consumer and media events in played the game and 20,000 entered the prize draw. New York, Shanghai and Melbourne. Once again, consumers were sharing their experiences with others and helping us to spread the important message of responsible drinking. 19 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Marketplace > Strategy Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Strategy We are proud of the quality and heritage of our brands and want them to be consumed appropriately. Encouraging responsible decision-making by legal drinking age (LDA) consumers and discouraging inappropriate consumption of our products is a key priority for our Company. We work to support this in three ways: • We adhere to responsible marketing codes in our businesses globally. • We work closely with third-party organizations to reduce alcohol-related harm. • We create and support targeted programs that aim to educate LDA consumers about drinking responsibly. Material issues Responsible marketing Responsible drinking Our priorities relating to responsible marketing and tackling alcohol-related harm closely INCREASING IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Product responsibility Sustainable agriculture and sourcing Direct environmental correspond to the results of our latest assessment of the most material Corporate Responsibility impacts Local communities Sustainable packaging issues for Bacardi Limited, completed in early 2012. Responsible supply chain Good governance Responsible employer The materiality assessment judged that issues relating to “responsible drinking” – defined as action to promote responsible drinking and reduce alcohol misuse – and “responsible marketing” were both very highly material to stakeholders and to the Company, relative to other Corporate INCREASING IMPACT ON BUSINESS Responsibility issues. View our materiality matrix Read more on our materiality process in the materiality section. Strategic approach We take a similar best-in-class approach to responsible marketing, ensuring that our products are not Our strategy for the Marketplace pillar is to be best-ininappropriately marketed, or targeted at people below class in promoting responsible drinking and tackling LDA. We focus on achieving this everywhere that we alcohol misuse. We aim to play an influential role in promote our products, including print, television engaging with LDA consumers, to raise awareness of and, increasingly, digital media. We continue to have responsible drinking issues. To achieve this, we create and an excellent record of compliance with our global support visible responsible drinking campaigns targeted marketing codes and with relevant industry codes at LDA consumers both globally and in local markets. We where local laws do not exist. We also support efforts also continue to build on the recognition already received by the spirits industry as a whole to maintain its good for our award-winning responsible drinking campaigns, performance on responsible marketing, compared to such as “Champions Drink Responsibly.” other business sectors. 20 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Marketplace > Targets and progress Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Targets and progress LONG-TERM AMBITION Our ambition is to be best-in-class in promoting responsible drinking and ensuring our marketing is responsible. In order to help reduce alcohol-related harm, we will play an influential role in encouraging responsible decisionmaking by legal drinking age (LDA) consumers and discouraging inappropriate consumption of our products. Targets for fiscal 2012 Progress in FISCAL 2012 Targets for fiscal 2013 Continue the development of our flagship Increased awareness with local market Achieve 500,000 Facebook™ fans by the “Champions Drink Responsibly” consumer events and “Ace Rafa” Facebook™ game end of fiscal 2013. campaign, aiming to generate activity in that was played by 50,000 people in more markets. 35 countries. Launch a global competition to align more clearly the “Champions Drink Achieved 240,000 fans on the “Champions Responsibly” campaign messaging with Drink Responsibly” Facebook™ page in the other brand consumer activity. first year of the campaign. Publish new global guidelines for New digital marketing guidelines Update the Bacardi Limited Global responsible digital and social published in July 2011, which include a Marketing Principles and supporting media marketing. section on social responsibility. guidelines to bring them up-to-date with the new developments with our digital marketing approach. Launch a responsible digital marketing e-book to support our existing e-learning module on responsible marketing and include in the induction of all new employees. Establish one Corporate ResponsibilityBrand imprint workshops run with Include the responsible sourcing of the related initiative for each of our six global DEWAR’s Scotch Whisky, BACARDÍ Rum botanicals for BOMBAY SAPPHIRE Gin as premium brands. and BOMBAY SAPPHIRE Gin. part of the brand story. Include responsible drinking messaging within BACARDÍ Rum consumer party events. 21 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Marketplace > Targets and progress Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Targets for fiscal 2012 Progress in FISCAL 2012 Targets for fiscal 2013 Further support of the Global Alcohol Global Actions on Harmful Drinking Play a part in developing a five-year Producers Group’s Global Actions on projects continued (27 projects in 18 industry commitment to reducing Harmful Drinking and the World Health countries) and an independent mid-term alcohol-related harm as part of Global Organization Global Strategy to Reduce evaluation report on progress has Actions on Harmful Drinking. We will the Harmful Use of Alcohol. been completed. support specific activities to prevent packaging appealing to those under Bacardi Limited provided local market LDA and also expand consumer support for projects in Mexico, Russia information on-pack. and China. Continue to build new and Launch of our Slow Drinking program Assist in reforming the Foreign Spirits creative initiatives to combat the harmful in France to build on previous Producers Association in China, use of alcohol at local country levels. educational initiatives. including widening the program of activities on responsible drinking. Continued to play a part in the U.K. Government’s Responsibility Deal. Expand our work with the U.K. Responsibility Deal, in particular increasing consumer choice of lower alcoholic strength drinks as a way to reduce alcohol unit intake and target alcohol-related harm. Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Target ongoing View all our targets 22 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Marketplace > Responsible marketing Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Responsible marketing We believe that self-regulation, as part of a legislative framework, is an effective way to manage marketing communications, which are essential to the commercial side of our business. Ensuring that our marketing does not promote Our implementation guidelines, introduced in 2007 and inappropriate alcohol consumption and reinforces the revised in 2009, will be updated again in fiscal 2013 to responsible drinking message is an important part of our take into account changes to our approach to digital commitment to encourage the responsible use of our marketing. products. Our marketing colleagues have a range of tools to support this objective, and we are particularly focused Read our Global Marketing Principles. on ensuring that our communications are aimed only at legal drinking age and over (LDA+) consumers. Compliance Our country managers have responsibility for ensuring Global Marketing Principles the compliance of all our local marketing materials, supported by legal or external affairs specialists. Key Our Global Marketing Principles are a set of eight core to our approach is that country managers are not principles that govern all of our marketing practices and involved in the development of marketing materials. act as our internal Company marketing code. Together They are, therefore, able to be more objective about the with our implementation guidelines, they form the local suitability of marketing materials developed by our platform for our responsible marketing strategy. marketing teams. We are happy to report that in fiscal 2012 we received no consumer complaints from the regulatory organizations that monitor these matters. External codes and regulations Our self-regulatory approach to marketing is based on a legislative framework. Our first priority is 0 to adhere to local marketing regulations, and to observe all global, regional and national voluntary No consumer marketing codes, wherever we sell our products. complaints on our Our Global Marketing Principles give us a consistent approach across the many marketing codes that advertising were exist in our markets. These Principles also act as a minimum standard in markets where advertising upheld in 2012. regulations are weak or nonexistent. In countries in which the availability or sale of alcohol beverages is prohibited, we respect these local cultural traditions. 23 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Marketplace > Responsible marketing Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Managing responsible digital marketing Developing digital marketing Our increased focus on digital marketing alters how we manage responsible marketing in some areas. At Fiscal 2012 was marked by an ongoing shift in our brand concept and early production stages, digital marketing marketing to incorporate greater use of digital and follows the same process as traditional marketing, social media communication, alongside more traditional requiring internal sign-off against our responsible marketing such as print and television advertising. marketing principles before the project can progress to the next stage. With all marketing campaigns, this To support this shift, we published new global guidelines early-stage intervention prevents responsible marketing on digital marketing for Bacardi Limited in July 2011. At the compliance issues later in the project. same time, we established a new way of working within our global marketing function that clarifies responsibilities Digital marketing campaigns also are bound by the same and delivers greater coordination among global, regional production and distribution rules as are our traditional and local marketing functions. marketing efforts: all actors or models must be over 25 years old and delivery channels for the campaign With the new focus on digital marketing, we now have must have a user profile made up of at least 70% LDA dedicated specialists who are “digital community” consumers, which is the global standard across the managers for key brands. These community managers industry. develop digital content, engage consumers in brand conversations and help us avoid inappropriate consumer content on our digital channels. Keeping digital marketing responsible As with all aspects of our marketing, digital and social media communications must adhere to our Global Marketing Principles and promote responsible drinking. Our Global Marketing Principles contain specific guidance on responsible digital marketing. Our approach is closely tied to the joint code on responsible digital marketing launched by the European Forum for Responsible Drinking (EFRD) and the U.S. Distilled Spirits Council (DISCUS). This ensures international alignment on our approach and creates consistency across our brands. Our newly launched global digital guidelines also give direction on how brand and digital community managers should manage digital communities on our social media platforms, such as Facebook™ (pictured right), YouTube™ and Twitter™, including how to ensure that user-generated content complies with our responsible marketing approach. 24 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Marketplace > Responsible marketing Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Active management To make this requirement clear to users, our social media The key difference between digital and traditional brand sites have prominent terms and conditions that marketing is that, once launched, a digital brand outline what is and is not acceptable content. This allows campaign requires active management on an ongoing inappropriate user content to be easily removed without basis. Digital campaigns are generally delivered through affecting other postings. our brands’ social media platforms, such as Facebook™, YouTube™ and Twitter™. Each of these digital platforms Responsible marketing training has an age-verification process to ensure that only LDA consumers can view our commercial material online. Digital marketing training In fiscal 2012, a number of web and face-to-face Unlike traditional advertising, which is a one-way meetings, workshops and training courses were held channel of communication, digital marketing establishes to support the launch of our new digital marketing interaction with and conversations between consumers guidelines, and all sessions included coverage of the over the life of the campaign. The challenge is to ensure responsible marketing element of the guidelines. that the tone of this conversation does not breach our own responsible marketing principles. Training on the guidelines was completed at Bacardi Global Brands in London, where our global brands are As a result, we require that our digital community managed, and a roadshow to introduce the guidelines managers actively monitor the tone of this conversation. around the Company began in June 2012. They need to ensure that the user-generated content created on our digital platforms conforms to our understanding of responsible marketing. Social responsibility e-learning module Our social responsibility e-learning module (pictured right) is an online training course that raises awareness of our Global Marketing Principles and our overall approach to responsible marketing. The module is available to all employees electronically through the ONE Bacardi intranet site. Completion of the training module is mandatory for all new marketers, and over 300 marketers have completed the course since it was launched. We broadened the delivery of the e-learning module in fiscal 2012 by incorporating it into Becoming Bacardi, our global employee induction program for new hires. As a result, since December 2011, all new employees have completed the module, underlining the importance of responsible marketing and our Global Marketing Principles to the growth and development of Bacardi Limited. 25 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Marketplace > Bacardi Limited Global Marketing Principles Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Bacardi Limited Global Marketing Principles Bacardi Limited is committed to the responsible and safe consumption of our brands by legal drinking age (LDA) consumers. We are extremely proud of our portfolio and are committed to long-term brand-building in a socially responsible manner. We will never market our brands to consumers under the LDA. We also discourage irresponsible consumption of our brands and urge consumers who choose to drink to do so responsibly. These principles are to be applied to the broad mix of marketing activity, which is generated by the global, regional and local marketing teams that are engaged in producing marketing activities for our brands. Principle 1 Principle 2 All Bacardi Limited companies and employees must comply with All marketing and promotional practices will present the the laws, regulations and self-regulatory codes applicable to their responsible enjoyment of alcoholic beverages and will not marketing and promotional practices. encourage the misuse of alcohol through the presentation of excessive consumption or situations where irresponsible consumption is accepted. Principle 3 Principle 4 All Bacardi Limited products will provide clear information The content and placement of all marketing and promotional on alcohol content. A message of responsible enjoyment will practices will be directed toward consumers of the required legal be included on commercial communications, as well as on all age to purchase alcohol beverages in the relevant markets, and Bacardi Limited products. will avoid associations with images and music that would appeal primarily to underage individuals. Principle 5 Principle 6 All marketing and promotional practices will support the Corporate communications may recognize reputable evidence safe consumption of alcohol beverages and will not associate of the physical benefits from moderate alcohol consumption, the consumption of alcohol beverages with any potentially but marketing activities will not claim medicinal or performance dangerous activity, such as driving motorized vehicles, operating properties for Bacardi products. machinery or performing hazardous athletic activities. Principle 7 Principle 8 Marketing and promotional practices will not be associated All marketing and promotional practices must be in with any individual or group behavior that is anti-social, violent good taste and must not contain indecent, demeaning or or destructive. insulting materials. 26 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Marketplace > Tackling alcohol-related harm Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Tackling alcohol-related harm Alcohol-related harm is recognized as a serious public health concern by a range of stakeholders, including the World Health Organization (WHO), national governments, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and the beverage alcohol industry. There is a collective commitment from these Despite our commitment to tackle the challenge of stakeholders, to reduce the harmful use of alcohol alcohol misuse and the recognition by the WHO Global globally. This is recognized in the WHO Global Strategy Strategy that the beverage alcohol industry needs to to Reduce the Harmful Use of Alcohol, which promotes be part of the solution, we still face calls from NGOs to a role for all stakeholders, including the beverage reduce total alcohol consumption through measures alcohol industry. such as restricting the availability of alcohol, increasing taxation and implementing advertising bans. Bacardi Limited encourages the development of appropriate public policy responses to alcohol misuse. We believe that the industry has a significant role to play in reducing alcohol-related harm within the framework set by the WHO. Internal management In fiscal 2012, we improved our global coordination of issues relating to alcohol policy and responsible drinking by establishing a Global External Affairs leadership team (GEALT). Chaired by the Bacardi Limited General Counsel, the team incorporates regional External Affairs Directors and meets three times a year to coordinate initiatives and share best practices from across the Company. WHO Global Strategy Detailed information on the Global Strategy is available from the WHO Web site: www.who.int Adopted in May 2010, the WHO Global Strategy to Reduce the Harmful Use of Alcohol focuses on four global objectives and will be implemented over a 10Supporting the strategy year period, with an initial review set for 2013. The Global Bacardi Limited supports the WHO Global Strategy Strategy provides a menu of 10 policy options that individually and in collaboration with a wide range of member states can follow when developing national international, regional and country-level stakeholders. alcohol policies that reflect their local cultures, issues and existing policy frameworks. 27 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Marketplace > Tackling alcohol-related harm Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Global Alcohol Producers Group (GAPG) In fiscal 2012, we attended all three meetings of GAPG Bacardi Limited is a founding, and active, member of and also hosted the November 2011 GAPG Board GAPG, an industry coalition of 15 leading beverage meeting in Miami. alcohol companies. GAPG provides a channel for the industry, WHO, member state governments GAPG supports the WHO Global Strategy and works to and other stakeholders to engage in constructive promote the role that self-regulation and other industry dialogue on the health problems caused by harmful efforts to reduce alcohol-related harm can play alongside drinking patterns. effective policy and regulatory frameworks. GAPG is working increasingly closely with the International Council on Alcohol Policies (ICAP) as the WHO Global Strategy is implemented across its member states. www.globalalcoholproducersgroup.com UN high-level meeting on non-communicable diseases In September 2011, the United Nations General Assembly held a high-level meeting on the prevention and control of non-communicable diseases (NCDs), also known as lifestyle-related diseases. In relation to alcohol, a range of perspectives on tackling alcohol-related harm were presented. These included the role of industry self-regulation and tackling the issue of non-commercial alcohol, which reflect work currently taking place to support the WHO strategy on alcohol-related harm. Following the meeting, the beverage alcohol industry committed to undertake further research into the harm caused by non-licensed, homemade and other forms of alcohol (medical, industrial etc.). www.un.org/en/ga/ncdmeeting2011 Global Actions on Harmful Drinking Global Actions on Harmful Drinking is the headline program developed by GAPG to support the WHO Global Strategy. This program, which represents a significant collective commitment to reduce the harmful use of alcohol, has established projects in three key areas where the beverage alcohol industry can make a positive impact: • Drinking and driving programs. • Self-regulation of responsible marketing and advertising. • Non-commercial alcohol and the informal alcohol market. Across these three areas, 27 projects have been established in 18 countries, with a particular emphasis on lowand middle-income economies, such as China, India and Russia, where existing alcohol responsibility programs are not so advanced. The International Council on Alcohol Policies (ICAP) is coordinating the projects on behalf of GAPG. The projects are delivered via a range of stakeholders and local third-party organizations. Bacardi Limited is providing direct support to projects establishing selfregulation frameworks in Mexico, Russia and China. The projects ran from 2010 to 2012 leading up to the planned progress review of the WHO Global Strategy in 2013. Following full evaluation, many projects will continue into 2013 and beyond. www.icap.org 28 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Marketplace > Tackling alcohol-related harm Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited As a result, ICAP has commissioned an independent Evaluation social development consultancy, specializing in Evaluating the effectiveness of Global Actions on evaluating public programs, to assess the Global Actions Harmful Drinking is essential to showing that the on Harmful Drinking projects. Evaluation took place commitment of the industry, member states and other over the life of the projects, from 2010 to 2012, and in stakeholders can make a real contribution to tackling September 2011, a mid-term evaluation report and alcohol-related harm. recommendations were completed. Details are available on the Global Actions on Harmful Drinking Web site. www.global-actions.org EUROPEAN ACTIVITY European Union Alcohol and Health Forum We take part in meetings of the European Union (EU) Alcohol and Health Forum. During fiscal 2012, our three existing commitments to the Forum were successfully completed, and we added our “Champions Drink Responsibly” campaign as a commitment running to March 2014. In fiscal 2013, we plan an additional commitment on digital marketing. www.ec.europa.eu/eahf As a member of the World Federation of Advertisers (WFA), we are also involved in three new commitments made to the Alcohol and Health Forum, known as the Responsible Marketing Pact. The commitments, which run until 2015, aim to develop common standards relating to commercial communications and marketing. Details of the Pact can be found on the WFA Web site. www.wfanet.org European Spirits Organisation (CEPS) The European Spirits Organisation (CEPS) is the representative body for the spirits industry at the European level. Bacardi Limited currently chairs the Alcohol and Society Committee of CEPS. During fiscal 2012, we played an active part in restructuring the secretariat function at CEPS, including selecting a new Director General to lead the organization from November 2011. In March 2012, the first annual progress report on the CEPS Roadmap to 2015 was published and made available on the CEPS Web site. The Roadmap outlines commitments in the areas of self-regulation of commercial communications, consumer education and stakeholder engagement. www.spirits.eu * 29 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Marketplace > Tackling alcohol-related harm Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited European Forum for Responsible Drinking (EFRD) Bacardi Limited is one of six leading European spirits producers that make up the European Forum for Responsible Drinking (EFRD). The EFRD works to promote responsible drinking in the EU and encourages the industry to adopt responsible self-regulatory standards for commercial communications. It works alongside the European Spirits Organisation (CEPS) to promote social aspects programs on responsible drinking. In fiscal 2013, Bacardi Limited will add a responsible drinking message with a link to the EFRD Web site on all back labels of brands sold in Europe. www.spirits.eu * * In November 2012, after the close of fiscal 2012, CEPS and EFRD merged to become spiritsEUROPE. U.S. ACTIVITY DISCUS Bacardi U.S.A., Inc. is a member of the Distilled Spirits Council (DISCUS), the national trade association representing America’s leading distillers, which covers nearly 70% of all distilled spirits brands sold in the U.S. The Bacardi Regional President for North America sits on the board of DISCUS, and we participate in all committees. www.discus.org www.spirits.eu A common approach to responsible digital marketing In fiscal 2012, DISCUS in the U.S. and EFRD in Europe launched a joint set of responsible digital marketing guidelines. The organizations agreed on a common approach to self-regulation of digital and social media communications, with the new guidelines building on both organizations’ experience in this area. The guidelines cover spirits advertising through social networking sites, blogs and mobile apps, as well as govern user-generated content on digital platforms. Between EFRD and DISCUS, the new guidelines cover spirits marketing in the world’s largest alcohol advertising markets. www.discus.org www.spirits.eu LOCAL TRADE ASSOCIATION ACTIVITY The spirits industry is heavily regulated and is a significant contributor to local economies. Because of this, we believe that the interests of Bacardi Limited and our industry often are represented more effectively by working closely with trade associations in local markets on both regulatory and social aspects. Our local managers are encouraged to get involved with the policy-making objectives of these local bodies and, in more significant markets, to take the chair of associations and sit on leadership committees. In addition to having significant positions in global or regional organizations, such as DISCUS, CEPS and GAPG, Bacardi Limited representatives held leadership roles in local associations in Russia, France, Italy and Chile in fiscal 2012. In developing markets, where industry representation is not so advanced, our external affairs executives support the establishment of spirits trade associations and, drawing on our global experience, assist trade associations that are newly established. 30 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Marketplace > Responsible drinking campaigns Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Responsible drinking campaigns We aim to play an influential role in engaging with legal drinking age (LDA) consumers on responsible drinking and create consumer campaigns to do this in the regions where we operate. “Champions Drink Responsibly” The focus for fiscal 2012 was to continue raising awareness of, and garnering publicity for, the campaign Our global flagship responsible drinking program, through local market events involving Rafael Nadal and “Champions Drink Responsibly,” is now in its fourth via the “Champions Drink Responsibly” Web site and year and has completed its first full year with our new Facebook™ page. Global Social Responsibility Ambassador, world tennis champion Rafael Nadal. By the end of fiscal 2012, one year after launching, the campaign Facebook™ page had 240,000 fans and The campaign promotes “The Champions Way,” a set of the dwell time for visitors to the “Champions Drink four key messages for consumers to make every night Responsibly” Web site was significantly above average. out a memorable one: Our target for fiscal 2013 is to reach 500,000 fans on the • Having a plan so everyone has an amazing time. “Champions Drink Responsibly” Facebook™ page. • Taking your time and choosing quality over quantity. • Being a true friend and looking out for each other. www.championsdrinkresponsibly.com • Making sure everyone makes it home safely (don’t www.facebook.com/championsdrinkresponsibly drink and drive). Local events To deliver the “Champions Drink Responsibly” message in local markets, we hosted media events to highlight the campaign in New York, Shanghai and Melbourne to coincide with Rafael Nadal’s tennis schedule. The events combined gained over US$10 million worth of media exposure for the campaign and its responsible drinking message. 31 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Marketplace > Responsible drinking campaigns Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited “Ace Rafa” FacebookTM game A key part of the digital side of the campaign in fiscal 2012 was the “Ace Rafa” Facebook™ game. Developed specially for Facebook™, the game allowed LDA fans to try to ace the tennis champion. Successful players could then enter a prize draw to win the chance to “Ace Rafa” in real life during a trip to the Spanish island of Mallorca, home to Rafael Nadal. The game was a great success with more than 100,000 people playing in 35 countries between mid-November 2011 and the end of March 2012. A total of 20,000 players registered their details to qualify for entry into the prize draw. The opportunity to “Ace Rafa” in real life took place in July 2012 for 20 lucky winners. Responsible drinking programs from around the world U.S.A. GREY GOOSE Memorial Day video As part of its summer consumer engagement campaign, GREY GOOSE Vodka launched a national television and digital campaign encouraging consumers to drink responsibly over the 2011 Memorial Day holiday in May. The campaign featured a commercial delivering the simple, yet powerful, responsibility message of knowing one’s strengths and limits and understanding that they are one and the same thing. Basketball star partners to fight college binge drinking In December 2011, legendary NBA basketball star Shaquille O’Neal visited the Bacardi U.S.A. headquarters in Coral Gables, Florida, to tell employees about his partnership with The Century Council to fight binge drinking on U.S. college campuses. As spokesman for the campaign that runs to 2014, “Shaq” has fronted a series of student-created videos addressing the issue of college binge drinking. www.centurycouncil.org/initiative/unique-partnerships-shaquille-oneal LessThanUThink LessThanUThink (LTUT) is a student-run, anti-binge drinking campaign that uses humor to engage university students about the negative consequences of binge drinking. Originally funded by The Century Council, the project was launched in 2010 by students at the University of Alabama after research showed that students react better to messages when they come from their peers. Following widespread success, the project has spread statewide and by spring 2012 covered six university campuses across Alabama. www.ltut.org 32 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Marketplace > Responsible drinking campaigns Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Mexico “No joke, don’t abuse alcohol” In Mexico, the social aspects organization FISAC, of which Bacardi Mexico is a founding member, has launched a new two-year responsible drinking campaign called “No joke, don’t abuse alcohol.” The campaign features two humorous characters to promote messages against drinking and driving and for consuming alcohol in moderation. A range of campaign videos are being aired during national television news broadcasts and through social media channels. www.alcoholinformate.org.mx (in Spanish) France Slow Drinking In March 2012, Bacardi-Martini France launched “Slow Drinking,” a new concept to promote moderate consumption that emphasizes the philosophy of quality over quantity. It promotes taste at the center of any occasion involving alcoholic drinks and introduces ten principles of Slow Drinking, which include always combining drinks with food and taking your time. A dedicated Web site informs consumers about the best ways to enjoy our products. The project is supported by a team of experts, including a nutritionist, sociologist, behavioral consumption specialist and culinary blogger. www.slowdrinking.com (in French) Netherlands Technology for responsible drinking In the Netherlands, the Dutch Spirits Association (VIP) and Wine Association (KVNW) are using mobile technology to raise awareness of responsible drinking. Jointly, they have developed a mobile app that helps consumers record their alcohol consumption. Users enter alcoholic drinks consumed into the app, which converts these into units of alcohol consumed. This can then be compared to recommended drinking limits for men and women. The app also enables users to keep a drinks diary over time. Supporting the app is a responsible drinking Web site, which provides information about responsible drinking and facts about alcohol in general. www.drinkwijzer.info (in Dutch) 33 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Marketplace > Responsible drinking campaigns Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Germany Driver’s Corner In fiscal 2012, “Driver’s Corner,” Bacardi Germany’s long-running anti-drinking and driving initiative, launched a staff-supported roadshow that traveled to 100 nightclubs and discos all over Germany. The roadshow raised awareness of the benefits of a designated driver using the motto “Wir rocken. Ich fahre.” (“We rock. I drive.”). Over a period of five months, more than 40,000 drivers and passengers received the message of how a designated driver can improve road safety and reduce alcohol-related accidents. Our partners in the project were Coca-Cola, Chevrolet, the Federal Association of German discotheques and clubs and “PRINZ,” a well-known city magazine. www.driverscorner.de (in German) Spain Awards for social responsibility In fiscal 2012, Bacardi Spain won two awards. Noche Madrid, an association of businesses in the hotel, restaurant and catering industry, awarded the “Champions Drink Responsibly” campaign with the Premio Ocio de Calidad 2011 a la Promoción del Consumo Responsable (Quality Award for Promoting Responsible Consumption). The award recognizes excellence in night-life entertainment initiatives. Bacardi Spain also won a Premios Corresponsables award (responsibility award from the Fundación Corresponsables) for its social responsibility employee training. This training explains the importance of responsible promotion and consumption of our products and generates a sense of pride in employees for being part of a company with clear self-regulatory codes. Australia DrinkWise labeling In July 2011, DrinkWise Australia launched a set of on-label messages to help consumers make responsible choices about drinking alcohol. DrinkWise Australia is an independent, not-for-profit organization, and all of its producer members, including Bacardi Lion, will use the messages on their labels, representing 80% by volume of the alcohol sold in Australia. www.drinkwise.org.au 34 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Marketplace > Responsible drinking campaigns Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Working with the on-trade We have successfully worked with the International We continue to be a patron of the Wine & Spirit Bartenders Association (IBA) for five years to help provide Education Trust in the U.K. In 2012, the Trust trained social responsibility training to bartenders working 43,254 people in 52 countries in its wine and spirits towards IBA certification. In fiscal 2013, we will work to diploma, which includes training on responsible serving. refresh the social responsibility training module as the IBA www.wsetglobal.com focuses more on delivering practical workshops and less on running formal training courses. www.iba-world.com Brands and Corporate Responsibility Although many of our brands already incorporate philanthropy or sustainability initiatives into their current activities, we aim to engage them more systematically to develop and embed Corporate Responsibility into their activities. To facilitate this process, we have appointed a Global Brand Category Manager to the Corporate Responsibility leadership team to provide greater insight into the brand function within the Company. In fiscal 2012, we held brand imprint workshops for our BOMBAY SAPPHIRE Gin, DEWAR’s Scotch Whisky and BACARDÍ Rum brands. Each workshop looked into where our Corporate Responsibility activities could support the brand story and which activities would interest the brand’s consumers. We continue to plan future brand imprint workshops for our other global brands. For BOMBAY SAPPHIRE Gin, the workshop explored the potential benefit of highlighting to consumers the brand’s sustainability program. This includes the planned opening of a new state-of-the-art distillery in July 2013, responsible sourcing of the botanicals for BOMBAY SAPPHIRE Gin and educating bartenders through the creation of a dedicated visitor center. 35 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY In this section Clear respect Strategy Targets and progress EHS management Water Energy Greenhouse gases Waste and packaging Safety Our rum bottling plant in Tultitlán, Mexico, which has significantly reduced energy use. Pursuing continual improvement and best practice Our values of Excellence and Caring underpin our aim to achieve best-in-class environmental performance in order to protect the planet’s natural resources. Our employees are crucial to our business and ensuring their safety and wellness is of critical importance to us. We have a responsibility to minimize environmental impacts across our value chain and to keep our people safe at work. These are key business objectives that reduce risk, increase efficiency and make sound business sense. Over the past six years we have reduced water use by half, reduced energy use by one quarter and reduced greenhouse gas emissions by one third. Importantly, we have also reduced our accident rate by 75% across the business. Stuart Lowthian, Global Technical Director Watch video 36 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Environment, Health and Safety > Stuart Lowthian, Global Technical Director Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Stuart Lowthian Global Technical Director We established the baseline for measuring our environmental performance in 2006. Since then, we have been working together across Bacardi to improve our performance. In pursuing this goal, we have made considerable  ww.bacardilimited.com/corporate-responsibility/ w environment-health-safety progress, and have achieved consistent improvements in the environmental performance of our production facilities. Over the past six years we have reduced water use by half, reduced energy use by one quarter and reduced greenhouse gas emissions by one third. Importantly, we have also reduced our accident rate by 75% across the business. We have achieved these results by establishing best practice ways of working. We use the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Specification (OHSAS) management systems and hold certification to ISO 14001 for the environment and OHSAS 14001 for health and safety. This ensures that all our Bacardi facilities around the world use the same best practice and all sites drive for improvement. None of this would be possible without the commitment and work of our employees, who have a passion for sustainability and who are determined to improve our environmental performance. We intend to continue improving and to be best-in-class in our environmental performance. 37 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Environment, Health and Safety > Strategy Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Strategy We have a responsibility to minimize environmental impacts across our value chain and to keep our people safe at work. These are key business objectives that reduce risk, increase efficiency and make sound business sense. Tackling environmental challenges Global environmental challenges are numerous and With these global environmental challenges in mind, multi-faceted. Climate change and increasing water we need to ensure that Bacardi Limited is part of the scarcity around the globe are two challenges that have solution, not only in our direct operations, but also the potential to affect Bacardi Limited, either directly across all stages of our value chain. Considered more at our operations or indirectly through their potential broadly, we recognize that all stakeholders need to work impact on agricultural stability and biodiversity. together to tackle these challenges. Added to this, a growing and increasingly affluent global This approach matches the expectations of our population is consuming more natural resources and customers and consumers, who increasingly feel that producing more waste and pollution, increasing pressure companies should play their part in reducing impacts by on the environment. These pressures have the potential acting to preserve and sustain the environment. to disrupt global ecosystems and food security, and in the future are likely to push up prices for energy and commodities on which our Company relies. Material issues Responsible marketing Responsible drinking The results of our latest materiality assessment from early 2012 support our understanding of INCREASING IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Product responsibility Sustainable agriculture and sourcing Direct environmental customer, consumer and other stakeholder expectations and highlight the importance of managing impacts Local communities Sustainable packaging environmental issues. Responsible supply chain Good governance Responsible employer The assessment ranked the materiality of “direct environmental impacts” as high relative to other Corporate Responsibility issues. Direct environmental impacts is a broad issue that covers water and energy use; carbon footprint; transport; waste; and effluent and emissions. INCREASING IMPACT ON BUSINESS “Sustainable packaging,” covering the type and weight of packaging and its recyclability, ranked as an issue of medium to high materiality relative to other Corporate Responsibility issues. Safety sits View our materiality matrix within the “responsible employer” issue area and was similarly ranked as an issue of medium to high materiality. Stakeholders considered these issues to be relatively less important than some of our other Corporate Responsibility issues and, from a business impact perspective, we consider that both areas are well managed internally. Read more on our materiality process in the materiality section. 38 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Environment, Health and Safety > Strategy Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Environmental sustainability strategy The environmental sustainability strategy is divided into four main areas, each with clear targets for the next five We completed the renewal of our environmental years and beyond: sustainability vision and strategy in fiscal 2012 and aim • We will work with our partners to create a more to launch it across the Company in the coming year. sustainable future – our focus is on sugarcane and A strategy for leadership its products. • We will craft sustainability into our premium spirits The updated strategy primarily focuses on two of the – our focus is on packaging. five pillars of our Corporate Responsibility strategy • We will lead the way in low environmental impact – Environment, Health and Safety and Responsible operations – the emphasis is on our Bacardi Limited Sourcing. The majority of the environmental and social manufacturing operations. impacts of our products are in our supply chain. We • We will support the passion of our people for recognize the need to work both in our own facilities sustainability – we will engage with and support our and with our suppliers to reduce impacts and risks at all people to act on sustainability. stages of our products’ lifecycles. Safety strategy Our vision is for an accident-free Bacardi Limited. We have been working on an upgraded safety strategy that launched in fiscal 2011 with the goal of “working together to create a safer Bacardi.” The strategy aims to deliver health and safety excellence and focuses on four main areas: OPERATIONS COMMERCIAL We will strive for operations that are We will enhance health and safety best-in-class in the spirits industry. initiatives in the commercial (nonmanufacturing) side of our business. WORKING TOGETHER TO CREATE A SAFER LOGISTICS BACARDI CULTURE AND BEHAVIOR We will improve standards within BacardiWe will foster a positive health and safety owned or managed logistics and implement culture and encourage safe behaviors. All loss control standards for third-party manufacturing facilities will have a behaviorlogistics warehouses. based safety program in place by 2015. 39 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Environment, Health and Safety > Targets and progress Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Targets and progress LONG-TERM AMBITION We aim to achieve best-in-class environmental and safety performance in our operations. Most of our products’ environmental impacts are in our supply chain and we will work both in our own facilities and with our suppliers to reduce impacts and risks across our whole value chain. From a safety point of view, we have a long-term vision for an accident-free Bacardi Limited. Targets for fiscal 2012 Progress in FISCAL 2012 Targets for fiscal 2013 Seek continual improvement in GHG emission intensity fell by 6% in fiscal Seek continual improvement in environmental performance, targeting a 2012 and water use efficiency improved environmental performance, targeting 1% reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) by 11% compared to fiscal 2011. a 1% reduction in GHG emission emission intensity and a 1% improvement intensity and a 1% improvement in in water use efficiency. water use efficiency. Complete and launch the environmental We renewed our environmental Launch the environmental sustainability sustainability strategy. sustainability vision and strategy and strategy across Bacardi Limited. aim to launch it across the Company in fiscal 2013. 30% of sites to have a behavior-based We continued to expand our behavior67% of sites to have a behavior-based safety program in place. based safety program at our operations safety program in place by the end of and by the end of fiscal 2012, 56% of our the fiscal year. sites were implementing the program. Expand our EHS programs across the We have successfully started recording Continue to expand our EHS business and include non-manufacturing safety performance at our nonprogram by building an office sites in our safety reporting. manufacturing sites and now report the safety network, providing support lost time accident rate for the whole of from the manufacturing operations Bacardi Limited. organization, establishing information sharing networks, and developing an improvement plan for office safety. Maintain certification of all production All 27 production facilities maintained Maintain certification of all production facilities to the ISO 9001, ISO 14001 certification in fiscal 2012. facilities to the ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 management and OHSAS 18001 management system standards. system standards. Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Target ongoing View all our targets 40 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Environment, Health and Safety > EHS management Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited EHS management Our approach to managing Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) is based on continual improvement and the pursuit of excellence in all of our operations. Global standards for EHS To a large extent, these improvements are due to our Global Standards and Codes of Practice. These Our approach to managing our key environmental created best practice across Bacardi Limited and set the impacts and the safety of our people has been very benchmark for all facilities to achieve. This approach has successful. Since our performance baseline was set in helped all of our facilities deliver strong performance, 2006, we have achieved significant improvements in exceeding our goals. all areas. Management systems We use internationally recognized management systems to deliver continual improvement in our operations. We remain the only major spirits company to hold certification to the International Organization for Standardization’s ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Specification OHSAS 18001 standards for all of our production facilities worldwide. We first achieved this triple certification in fiscal 2010, and it has been maintained through fiscal 2012. Our 27 facilities are covered by a group-wide certification and half of our facilities are audited every 12 months by our external registrar, DNV, meaning that every facility is audited at least once every two years.At plicilibus nus explique cuptationet molum faccus as escilit od essequam, venditaes is sum rempedi ipsa cus et, consequo volenes autempore eum lam ut vollici tatiam, ommolorum, Internal management Strategic direction for EHS is provided by the EHS Supporting the steering team is the EHS core team, steering team, which is made up of senior managers made up of our most experienced EHS managers from from around the Company. The steering team sets longaround the world. This team provides technical advice, and short-term objectives, determines key performance agrees on best practice and develops procedures, plans indicators and allocates the resources to successfully and guidance for use around the Company, as well as deliver our EHS programs. identifies training needs to support success. Both teams meet quarterly. 41 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Environment, Health and Safety > EHS management Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited How we measure our performance Bacardi measures performance in two ways: absolute totals and efficiency metrics. Absolute totals are straightforward – for example, total number of accidents, total volume of water used. Efficiency metrics normalize these absolute totals against an appropriate business output – for example, accidents per one million hours worked or water used per unit of product manufactured. Improving our efficiency metrics In fiscal 2012, we made a minor correction in the formula that we use to calculate our global improvement in energy and water efficiency and greenhouse gas (GHG) intensity. We also worked with several professors from the accounting department at the Poole College of Management at North Carolina State University. They helped us to refine and simplify the method, which is now called the Bacardi Efficiency Index Method (BEIM). The modified method now properly weights our activities and is simpler to apply, allowing us to expand our coverage to include our flavor formulation operation. Flexible budgeting BEIM now uses a common accounting practice – flexible budgeting – to measure the performance in our reporting year against our base year. Flexible budgeting is a technique commonly used in finance and accounting, and Bacardi Limited is the first company to apply it to monitoring environmental metrics. The revised method for calculating efficiency improvements is a simple concept. For each of our metrics – water use, energy use and GHG emissions – we calculate a flexible budget for the reporting year. The flexible budget is the performance that would have been achieved for our Company-wide activities during the year if no improvements in efficiency had been made since our 2006 baseline. Once we know the flexible budget figure, we can compare our actual performance for the reporting year against the flexible budget to show our efficiency improvement since 2006. Finally, we multiply the ratio of the actual performance versus the flexible budget by 100 to provide an efficiency index figure. To obtain the flexible budget for the whole Company, we first have to calculate the individual flexible budgets for each of our operating activities. We do this by taking the 2006 efficiency rates for each of our metrics – for example, water use per unit of production – and applying them to the actual production output in the reporting year. This gives the flexible budget for each individual activity, and we simply add these together to give a total flexible budget for the whole Company. For example, using the 2006 efficiency rates for water use, we might calculate a flexible budget figure of 100 million liters of water – in other words, if we had made no improvement in water use efficiency since 2006, we would have used 100 million liters for the our Company-wide output in the reporting year. If actual water use for the reporting year is 85 million liters, 15 million liters of water have been saved through efficiency improvements implemented since 2006. The water use index for the year would therefore be 85, a 15% improvement in efficiency against the 2006 base year. By measuring efficiency in this way for each activity across our global operations, we more accurately reflect our actual performance. This prevents arbitrary distortions of our Company-wide efficiency that can result from changes in our product mix, sourcing location or merger and acquisition activities. We have applied the revised method described above to our performance data back to 2006, and we present the restated data in this report, noting this in the relevant sections. All restated data points for our efficiency metrics are within 7% variance of the data reported using our previous efficiency calculation method. 42 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Environment, Health and Safety > EHS management Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Spills and releases Fines and prosecutions Bacardi Limited facilities reported a total of 81 minor Bacardi Limited had no significant fines** for releases under our rigorous environmental reporting environmental non-compliance at any of our global system in fiscal 2012. No significant environmental spills operations during fiscal 2012. or releases* were reported. * A significant environmental release is an event that requires reporting to a government authority, attracts public or media attention or otherwise results in observable or quantifiable harm to the local environment. ** Significant fines are defined as those above US$5,000. Green award for Americas building In fiscal 2012, our Bacardi Americas headquarters building in Coral Gables, Florida, was awarded the 2011 Green Building Award in the inaugural “Green Means Green” awards run by the Coral Gables Chamber of Commerce. When it was completed in fiscal 2011, the headquarters building achieved Gold Certification in Commercial Interiors from the Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) program. 43 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Environment, Health and Safety > Water Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Water Water is a key ingredient in our products and in our production processes, including fermentation and distilling. It is also used for cleaning. We recognize that water scarcity is a growing problem around the world, and we try to minimize water use in all aspects of our production. Water that is not in our finished products becomes wastewater, and minimizing the impact of these discharges, by reducing their volume and improving their quality, is among our top priorities. Water use In fiscal 2012, water use at our production facilities remained essentially level, 49.4% with a very small increase of 0.1% over fiscal 2011. In the six years since we set our We have reduced environmental targets, we have cut water use by half (49.4% reduction), saving 1,620 water use by almost million liters in fiscal 2012. The water saved is enough to provide a full glass of water half in the six years for every human on the planet. since 2006. TOTAL WATER USE* (million liters) * Total water use data does not currently include our malt whisky FY12 1,650 distilleries in Scotland. Aside from water used in the distilling and FY11 1,650 production process, these sites use FY10 1,710 a large quantity of water for cooling, which does not come into contact FY09 2,640 with the production process directly and does not create wastewater. FY08 2,750 We are developing a method for measuring this water use separately from water used in production and will include this in our future reporting when complete. Despite the small increase in total water use in fiscal 2012, our water use efficiency – the amount of water we use per unit of output produced – improved by 11% against fiscal 2011 due to increased production volumes for the same amount of water use. In 11% the six years since 2006, we have improved water efficiency by 44.4%*. improvement in water use efficiency compared A combination of better operating discipline, water conservation measures, new to fiscal 2011. water-efficient equipment and advanced water recycling systems has delivered the improved performance. 44 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Environment, Health and Safety > Water Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited WATER USE Efficiency INDEX* (WATER USE PER UNIT OF PRODUCTION) FY12 * Note: data from 2006 to 2012 has 55.6 been restated based on our revised FY11 62.7 method for calculating efficiency metrics for environmental indicators, FY10 68.7 for more details click here. FY09 86.0 FY08 90.5 FY07 96.0 FY06 100.0 WATER SUPPLY PROFILE (1,650 Million liters of water consumed) Public supply 41% Groundwater 57% Surface water 2% Water efficiency at Beaucaire, France Our plant in Beaucaire, France, bottles a wide range of our brands, including ERISTOFF Vodka and NOILLY PRAT Vermouth. Since fiscal 2006, the plant has cut water use per unit of production by half, and in fiscal 2012 achieved a year-on-year improvement of nearly 8%, due to investments in new processes and technology and employees’ heightened awareness and better operational practices. Technical improvements at the site included: • Modifying the cleaning system to reduce the cleaning time and eliminate unnecessary equipment rinsing. • Optimizing the cooling water system to improve water and energy efficiency. • Investing in a new water treatment system that has delivered more purified water while reducing by three-fold reject, or wasted, water. An added benefit of focusing on improved water efficiency is that the site has improved its energy efficiency by 27% over the same six-year period. 45 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Environment, Health and Safety > Water Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Water discharges We seek to continually improve the quality of our wastewater by reducing elements such as biochemical We manage used process water from our facilities in oxygen demand (BOD), a measure of the polluting one of three ways – 1) direct discharges of wastewater potential of wastewater, and total suspended solids to local bodies of water following on-site treatment (TSS), a measure of the amount of solid matter (43%); 2) indirect discharges of wastewater to suspended within the wastewater. Our first priority is municipal treatment facilities (38%); and 3) beneficial with direct wastewater discharges, which are treated onland application including irrigation and fertilizer uses site and then released directly into local bodies of water. to improve crop production (19%). In fiscal 2012, we In fiscal 2012, our direct treated wastewater discharges discharged a total of 1,470 million liters of treated included 3,500 tonnes of BOD and 4,300 tonnes of TSS. wastewater and used 340 million liters of spent process water for beneficial land application. WATER DISCHARGES BY VOLUME (1,660 million LITERS of water discharged) Direct discharges 43% Indirect discharges 38% Beneficial land application 19% 46 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Environment, Health and Safety > Energy Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Energy Energy is essential within our production processes and operations. We use energy from a range of sources, from liquid fuel and gas, to grid electricity and renewable energy sources. Reducing non-renewable energy use The BACARDÍ Rum In fiscal 2012, we changed the focus of our ongoing distillery at Cataño, efforts to decrease energy use. Within our overall goal Puerto Rico is now of lowering total energy use, we began to concentrate – partly powered by two more specifically on reducing the portion of our energy wind turbines with a consumption that is derived from non-renewable total rated capacity sources. This means, in particular, fossil fuels, which are of 500kW. finite and are being depleted around the world. At the same time, we continue to work to increase both Calculating our energy use our energy efficiency – the energy used per unit of Bacardi Limited tracks its energy performance based on production – and the proportion of renewable energy the total primary energy consumed at our production we use, while reducing the proportion of electricity we facilities. Primary energy includes direct energy, which is use supplied by public utilities. the fuel burned directly at our facilities, and an estimate Defining “renewable” of indirect energy, which is the fuel needed to generate Currently, we count all electricity supplied from the power the electricity we purchase. grid as “non-renewable,” even if it contains a significant amount of renewable energy. For example, even though To estimate the fuel needed to generate our purchased most of Brazil’s power is hydro-electricity, we still assume electricity, we assume a 33% efficiency for electricity this is non-renewable. We define as renewable energy generation and transmission. We therefore multiply the only the energy that we produce on-site using renewable electricity we purchase by three to give an estimate of resources (such as wind or biogas) or that we specifically the fuel required to generate the purchased electricity. contract as renewable energy from a third-party provider. We combine this figure with our direct (on-site) fuel use to give our total primary energy use. The one important exception is for electricity which is specifically contracted to be generated by renewable sources, such as from wind, solar and hydro, which is not included in our total primary energy use, as no primary fuel is consumed. 47 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Environment, Health and Safety > Energy Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Understanding our energy mix This approach to energy accounting creates a minor problem when calculating the percentage of renewable energy within our total energy mix. Because renewable 29% reduction in nonenergy sources are excluded from our primary energy total, we will underestimate the renewable energy use renewable energy percentage. To obtain the proper breakdown of our energy mix, since 2006. we calculate an “equivalent” primary energy figure for our renewable electricity. This is an approximate figure equivalent to the fuel that would have been consumed if the electricity came from conventional sources through the power grid. In this way, we can estimate our true energy mix, as shown in the following graph: ENERGY MIX FOR TOTAL EQUIVALENT PRIMARY ENERGY (1,980,000 GIGA-JOULES PRIMARY ENERGY) (includes equivalent primary energy for wind, solar and hydro power) 18% of our primary Fuel oil 29% energy comes from Natural gas 21% renewable sources. Biogas 12% Grid electricity 32% Renewable electricity 6% This chart shows that 18% of our total primary energy is renewable, made up of 6% renewable electricity, provided under exclusive renewable electricity contracts, and 12% renewable fuel (biogas). Looking at electricity and fuel individually, this equates to 16% of our electricity coming from renewable energy contracts and 19% of our total fuel being renewable biogas. Energy improvements in Mexico Our rum bottling plant in Tultitlán, Mexico, has significantly improved its energy efficiency over the past six years and now requires only 45% of the energy previously used to produce one case of product. A major area of focus has been improving the efficiency of the bottling lines and replacing less-efficient equipment to reduce energy use. All lighting throughout the site has also been modernized. Older incandescent and fluorescent fixtures have been replaced with highly efficient LED units and motion detectors now ensure that lights are only used when needed. In addition, solar water heating has been installed to provide hot water for the cafeteria and offices and a site-wide energy conservation awareness program has been implemented. 48 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Environment, Health and Safety > Energy Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Direct Energy Sources Indirect Energy Sources (1,228,000 giga-joules of direct energy) (249,000 giga-joules of indirect energy) Fuel oil 48% Grid electricity 84.1% Natural gas 33% Hydro electricity 15.5% Biogas 19% * Wind electricity 0.4% * Hydro and wind electricity only include electricity from dedicated renewable contracts; grid electricity includes all forms of renewable and non-renewable energy on national grids. Energy performance Over the past seven years, we have tracked our total primary energy consumed. As mentioned above, total primary energy use consists of all fuels (renewable and non-renewable) and the estimated fuel used to generate the electricity we use (excluding power from wind and hydro). Our total energy increased by 7% in fiscal 2012 from the previous year, mainly due to production increases. Since fiscal 2006, however, our total primary energy use has decreased by 24%. The chart shows our total energy use separated into renewable energy and non-renewable energy. Total Primary Energy (Thousand giga-joules) (excludes equivalent energy for wind, solar and hydro electricity) FY12 1,860 FY11 1,740 FY10 1,830 FY09 2,220 Non-renewable energy FY08 2,370 Renewable energy 49 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Environment, Health and Safety > Energy Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Non-renewable energy Our non-renewable energy use increased by 5% in fiscal This improvement has been achieved through better 2012. Despite the year-on-year increase, the six-year operating discipline, conservation measures and trend, since our fiscal 2006 baseline year, shows a 29% installing new, more efficient equipment and energy reduction in non-renewable energy use. recovery systems, in addition to increasing the proportion of renewable energy we use. In terms of energy efficiency, our non-renewable energy efficiency improved by 4%* year-on-year, and we have For fiscal 2012, we estimate that we avoided using 90 achieved a 29%* improvement in non-renewable energy Giga-Joules (GJ) of primary energy through conservation efficiency since fiscal 2006. measures. This is based on a comparison of the actual energy we consumed in fiscal 2012 to the amount that we would have consumed for that level of production had no efficiency improvements been achieved. TOTAL non-renewable energy (Thousand giga-joules) FY12 1,630 FY11 1,550 FY10 1,700 FY09 2,040 FY08 2,210 NON-RENEWABLE ENERGY USE EFFICIENCY INDEX* (Energy use per unit of production) * Note: data from 2006 to 2012 has FY12 58.8 70.7 been restated based on our revised FY11 73.6 66.5 method for calculating efficiency metrics for environmental indicators, FY10 83.8 71.9 for more details click here. FY09 84.4 86.3 FY08 90.0 93.8 FY07 95.8 93.8 FY06 100.0 100 Renewable energy In fiscal 2012, renewable energy use increased by 15%, renewable electricity has increased from zero in 2006 to which has further reduced our dependence on non16% in fiscal 2012. renewable fossil fuels. In total, our primary energy use for fuel and electricity is Since fiscal 2006, we have increased the use of now made up of 18% renewable sources, up from 7% in renewable fuels (mainly biogas) from 10% to 19% of our fiscal 2006. total fuel use, a 90% improvement. Similarly, the use of 50 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Environment, Health and Safety > Greenhouse gases Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Greenhouse gases It is our aim to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our operations by improving energy efficiency and shifting to renewable energy sources or lower-carbon fuels. Greenhouse gas efficiency In fiscal 2012, our total GHG emissions rose by 6% year-on-year to 95,600 tonnes, 32% consistent with our increase in non-renewable energy use. This increase is directly reduction in our GHG linked to the growth in production in fiscal 2012. Around two-thirds of these emissions intensity (emissions are direct emissions from fuel use at our operations and one-third is indirect emissions per unit of production) coming from the electricity we use. since 2006. Compared to our baseline year in fiscal 2006, our total GHG emissions have fallen by 11,923 33%, a reduction of 46,500 tonnes over the six-year period. This decrease equates to taking 11,923 cars off the road*. Reductions in GHG * Source: 2011 Guidelines to DEFRA/DECC GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, assumes 12,000 miles per year, average car, fuel unknown. emissions since 2006 are equivalent to taking 11,923 cars off the road. Greenhouse gas emissions DIRECT AND INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS (Tonnes CO2e) FY12 95,600 Direct emissions FY11 90,300 Indirect emissions FY10 97,500 FY09 120,200 FY08 133,700 51 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Environment, Health and Safety > Greenhouse gases Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Greenhouse gas intensity Unlike total GHG emissions, our GHG intensity – the quantity of GHG emissions per unit of production – showed continued improvement, with a 6% reduction year-on-year. Over six years, we have reduced our GHG intensity by 32%*. GHG INTENSITY INDEX* (ghg EMISSIONS per unit of production) FY12 67.8 58.8 * Note: data from 2006 to 2012 has been restated based on our revised FY11 66.5 71.9 method for calculating efficiency metrics for environmental indicators, FY10 71.9 80.7 for more details click here. FY09 82.2 86.3 FY08 93.5 90.0 FY07 93.2 95.8 FY06 100.0 100 Carbon Trust Standard for U.K. operations Our U.K. operations, which include Bacardi Martini Limited and all operations of John Dewar & Sons Limited, achieved certification to the U.K. Carbon Trust Standard in fiscal 2013. The Standard is a mark of excellence that recognizes companies for measuring, managing and reducing their carbon emissions and committing to ongoing reductions year over year. The independent certification was achieved over a three-year period during which our U.K. operations reduced emissions by nearly 13%. Achieving the Carbon Trust Standard in the U.K. further demonstrates how seriously we take our environmental responsibilities and underlines the effectiveness of our rigorous efforts to reduce carbon emissions on both a regional and global scale. This shows we are at the forefront when it comes to carbon management best practices. Jon Grey, Senior Vice President, Global Operations Group 52 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Environment, Health and Safety > Greenhouse gases Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Broadening our measurement Other air emissions Our primary focus continues to be on our production Our other air emissions, such as sulfur dioxide (SO2) and activities, which are the biggest source of GHG oxides of nitrogen (NOx), come from combustion of fuels emissions. In addition, we are now recording and at our production facilities. We estimate these emissions monitoring GHG emissions from offices and third-party using site-specific emission factors that are set as part of activities over which we have significant influence, our local regulatory requirements. Where no site-specific such as business travel and third-party transport and values are available, we use default factors published by production activities. the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Including electricity use at larger offices (25 people or more), we estimate our total GHG emissions from direct Other air emissions (1,010 tonNEs of emissions) and indirect sources to be 102,700 tonnes. SO2 87% Total direct and indirect ghg emissions NOx 11% (102,700 Tonnes CO2e) Particulates 2% Production: direct emissions (fuels) 62.4% Production: indirect emissions (electricity) 30.7% Offices*: indirect emissions (electricity) 6.8% Production: process emissions 0.1% * Large offices include those over 25 people For third-party activities that we do not directly control, such as business travel and for contract transport, we estimate that 12,000 tonnes of GHG emissions resulted from bulk transport and 10,000 tonnes from business travel by air. Data on emissions from business transport by rail and car and from contract production are not yet available. 53 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Environment, Health and Safety > Waste and packaging Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Waste and packaging Bacardi Limited primarily generates non-hazardous waste, most of which is the residue from the agricultural ingredients we use to make our products. Most of our waste is recycled, reused or recovered for beneficial use, including use as agricultural fertilizer and animal feed. Only a very small proportion of our waste is hazardous waste, much of which is waste alcohol. 98.4% of our waste was Packaging is an integral part of our products, and we work to reduce the impacts of recycled, reused or our packaging, especially its weight. recovered in fiscal 2012. Waste In fiscal 2012, we generated 153,460 tonnes of non-hazardous waste, a 15% increase 7.1% on fiscal 2011. This is the result of increased production, particularly of distilled We have reduced products. Hazardous waste amounted to 35 tonnes in fiscal 2012, equivalent to 0.02% the weight of our of our total waste production. Hazardous waste production was down 5% from 37 packaging by 23,000 tonnes in fiscal 2011. tonnes since 2008, a reduction of 7.1%. WASTE MANAGEMENT METHODS (153,495 tonnes of waste) Recycling/reuse/recovery 98.4% Landfill 1.5% * Incineration/treatment 0.1% 54 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Environment, Health and Safety > Waste and packaging Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Sustainable packaging Right-weighting our packaging In fiscal 2008, we established a packaging weight Around half of the lifetime carbon footprint of our baseline and started to monitor annual packaging products comes from the manufacture of glass used weight reductions against this baseline. In fiscal 2012, in our packaging. Reducing the amount of this glass is, right-weighting projects decreased the weight of our therefore, a main priority in improving the sustainability packaging by just over 6,000 tonnes, equivalent to the of our packaging. weight of compacted trash that would fill over 400 modern trash trucks. We have developed a sustainable packaging manual that outlines how our innovation, packaging and marketing In the four years since we set the baseline in 2008, we teams can incorporate sustainability considerations have reduced total packaging weight by just under into packaging design and manufacture. We continue 23,000 tonnes, mainly by reducing the weight of glass to reduce the weight of our packaging through pack bottles. This is equivalent to a 7.1% decrease in our total redesign and “right-weighting” projects. packaging weight on a like-for-like basis. We calculate that this reduction saves an estimated 9,370 tonnes of CO2 from being emitted each year, equivalent to taking 2,400 cars off the road.* Reducing packaging weight Each year we complete many packaging redesign projects that generate varying levels of weight reduction. The examples below are some of our more significant weight-saving projects. In Europe, we redesigned our 275ml BACARDÍ BREEZER glass bottle, reducing the weight of each bottle by 7.3%, saving a total of 1,350 tonnes of glass and an estimated 1,196 tonnes of CO2 in fiscal 2012. A redesign for ERISTOFF Vodka lowered the bottle weight by 7.7%, saving 724 tonnes of glass and an estimated 525 tonnes of CO2 per year. In the U.S., we changed the 1.75 liter BACARDÍ Classic Cocktail bottle from glass to PET, reducing the bottle weight by over 90%. During fiscal 2012, this redesign saved approximately 790 tonnes of glass and 298 tonnes of CO2. We also redesigned the closure of our BACARDÍ Superior 700ml and 1,000ml glass bottles, which together saves approximately 1,600 tonnes of glass and 1,160 tonnes of CO2 each year. * Source: 2011 Guidelines to DEFRA/DECC GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, assumes 12,000 miles per year, average car, fuel unknown. 55 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Environment, Health and Safety > Safety Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Safety Providing a safe working environment and promoting good health among our people at work and at home is of the highest importance to Bacardi Limited. We have a vision of an accident-free Bacardi Limited, and we believe health and safety is a key factor in our high-performance work culture and in our goal to be a Great Place to Work. 56% of our facilities started to implement a We are saddened to report that a workplace fatality occured at one of our bottling behavior-based safety plants in 2012. We are thoroughly investigating the causes and contributing factors program in fiscal 2012 associated with the incident to learn from it and to prevent a similar event in the against a target of 33%. future, and we are fully cooperating with all relevant governmental authorities in their ongoing investigations. This incident falls outside the time period for this report (to March 31, 2012), and we will report on the outcome of the investigations into this tragic event in our next Corporate Responsibility report for fiscal 2013. Safety performance We continue to reduce accidents that lead to lost time in our production facilities. 75% With a total of 19 lost time accidents during fiscal 2012, we improved our lost time improvement in our accident rate (LTAR) to 3.3 lost time accidents per million worked hours, a 33% lost time accident rate improvement over fiscal year 2011. Since 2006, our baseline year, we have achieved a since 2006. 75% improvement in our LTAR. LOST TIME ACCIDENT RATE (PRODUCTION WORKFORCE) FY12 58.8 3.3 FY11 66.5 4.9 FY10 71.9 5.6 FY09 86.3 6.7 FY08 90.0 9.3 95.8 100.0 56 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Environment, Health and Safety > Safety Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited To continue the development of operational safety, we Safety culture and behavior have created a plant directors’ safety training package, We have established and are rolling out globally a and training will begin in fiscal 2013. We have also behavior-based safety program, which helps facilities developed “leading” performance indicators, which to improve their safety culture – one of the key areas of focus on preventative measures, to add to our “lagging” our safety strategy. By 2015, 100% of our manufacturing indicators, which reflect past performance such as number facilities will have implemented the behavior-based of accidents and LTAR. We expanded our reporting of safety program. leading indicators in fiscal 2012, including the percentage of monthly safety inspections completed and number By the end of fiscal 2012, 56% of our facilities had started of safety non-conformities rectified and those still open. to implement the program, against a target of 33%. Our These metrics help to focus our effort on activities that target for fiscal 2013 is for a 67% implementation rate. improve our working environment and prevent accidents. Although we are still in the initial stages of establishing Non-production facilities our behavior-based safety program across the Company, We have been tracking lost time accidents in production there is anecdotal evidence that the program is supporting facilities since fiscal 2006. In line with our safety strategy, improvements in our LTAR. This is particularly evident which calls for the expansion of our safety program to between fiscal years 2011 and 2012, when our lost time non-production facilities, we began collecting safety accident performance improved by 33% year-on-year. data from all facilities, including offices and distribution centers, in fiscal 2012. Two of our largest operations, our rum distillery in Puerto Rico and our whisky operations in Scotland, have Eight lost time accidents occurred outside our been leaders in implementing the behavior-based safety production facilities in fiscal 2012 – four in offices, two in program. Between fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2011, these traffic accidents and two by logistics employees working operations averaged 11 lost time accidents per year. at customer locations. In fiscal 2012, there were only two lost time accidents across their nine combined locations. By incorporating this performance, we can for the first time report a Company-wide lost time accident rate of 2.3 lost time accidents per million hours worked. 57 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Environment, health and safety > Safety Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Pessione safety day In June 2011, all employees from our Martini facility at Pessione, Italy, took part in a safety day. The launch of the behavior-based safety program was the main focus of the day, along with coverage of some of the site’s key safety priorities. Employees participated in meetings and activities that showed the importance of the behaviorbased safety program to Bacardi Limited and its success in other parts of the business. The session introduced the idea of observing and changing behavior to reduce unsafe situations, and the need to raise awareness and work together to address problems and improve safety performance. Other areas covered by presentations and demonstrations included: • Working with glass. • Explosion hazards. • Working at height. • Working in confined spaces. • Road and forklift safety. • Personal protective equipment (PPE). Safety in logistics Another area highlighted for development in our safety strategy is with Bacardi-owned and third-party logistics operations, including bulk transport and distribution centers. We are beginning to incorporate distribution centers into our OHSAS 18001 safety management system and will continue this in fiscal 2013. During fiscal 2012, we also developed a logistics Code of Practice outlining safety practices specific to distribution and logistics operations, including transport safety, waste handling and fire safety. For fiscal 2013, we are targeting 90% conformance to the new Code within our logistics operations. 58 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Responsible sourcing In this section Clear expectations Strategy Targets and progress Responsible supply chain Working with suppliers and partners Sustainable agriculture and sourcing Improving standards in Fijian sugar mills. Sourcing quality with responsibility We source high-quality ingredients and raw materials from many countries around the world, including those where achieving good workplace standards, environmental protection and sound governance can be complex. Our Responsible Sourcing program works to address these complexities. Our Responsible Sourcing program is based on the Bacardi Limited Responsible Sourcing standards, which are supported by our Supplier Code of Practice. Bacardi Limited is committed to sourcing 100% of its sugarcanederived products from BonsucroTM-certified sources by 2022 and to make sure that evidence of this is externally verified. Dave Howson, Global Sustainability Director Watch video 59 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Responsible Sourcing > Dave Howson, Global Sustainability Director Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Dave Howson Global Sustainability Director Bacardi Limited is committed to sustainably sourcing all of its raw materials and packaging. Our Responsible Sourcing program aims to deliver this vision. Our Responsible Sourcing risk assessment identifies the risk level associated with the raw materials used in our www.bacardilimited.com/corporate-responsibility/ responsible-sourcing products and the suppliers we source from; and we focus first on the areas with the highest risk of environmental and social challenges. For the Company, sugarcane is a key raw material with high risk, as we use a range of ingredients derived from sugarcane. Molasses, for example, is one of the main ingredients in our flagship BACARDÍ Rum brand. With such a strong association with our business, over the past five years, we have focused on improving the sustainability of the sugarcane supply chain. We are an active supporter and founding member of BonsucroTM, the multi-stakeholder forum focused on improving social, environmental and agricultural standards in the sugarcane industry. BonsucroTM covers the whole supply chain from farmer to end user. We have set a target that is an industry first and a first among members of BonsucroTM. Bacardi Limited is committed to sourcing 100% of its sugarcane-derived products from BonsucroTM-certified sources by 2022 and to make sure that evidence of this is externally verified. 60 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Responsible Sourcing > Strategy Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Strategy Our Responsible Sourcing program is based on the Bacardi Limited Responsible Sourcing standards, which are supported by our Supplier Code of Practice. Our Responsible Sourcing standards, which we Our approach developed in 2007, are in turn based on the main Our vision for Responsible Sourcing is for all of our raw International Labor Organization (ILO) Conventions on materials and packaging to come from sustainably freedom of association, the abolition of forced labor, sourced, renewable or recycled materials – reducing equality, and the elimination of child labor, as well as the environmental and social impacts, while maintaining or Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code. They cover the four enhancing the economic status of growers and suppliers. main areas of Responsible Sourcing: labor; health and safety; environment; and business integrity. To achieve this vision, we aim to create long-term sustainable supplier relationships that deliver improved Our Supplier Code of Practice complements the standards and are based on high levels of trust. Responsible Sourcing standards and outlines preferred supplier actions and behavior. In fiscal 2012, we completed the renewal of our environmental sustainability vision and strategy and Read our Responsible Sourcing standards and Supplier aim to launch it across the Company in the coming Code of Practice. year. The strategy is designed to manage and influence our complete value chain, from agriculture through Our Responsible Sourcing program production and packaging to consumption and disposal. continues to be exciting and challenging. As a result, the strategy, which will incorporate our We have made good progress in a number Responsible Sourcing program, has adopted our vision for of areas, such as increasing the percentage all raw materials and packaging to be sustainably sourced. of global point-of-sale suppliers that are The Environment, Health and Safety section contains compliant with our Responsible Sourcing more details on the renewed environmental standards to 70%, an increase of 25%. There sustainability strategy. are still challenges to overcome, but our approach to Responsible Sourcing has real momentum and will stand us in good stead in the future. Michael Hinrichs, Director, Global Procurement, Global Operations Group 61 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Responsible Sourcing > Strategy Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Material issues Responsible marketing Responsible drinking In our latest assessment of the most material Corporate Responsibility issues for Bacardi Limited, INCREASING IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Product responsibility Sustainable agriculture and sourcing Direct environmental which was carried out in early 2012, “sustainable agriculture and sourcing” ranked as an issue of high impacts Local communities Sustainable packaging materiality relative to other Corporate Responsibility issues, and “responsible supply chain” ranked Responsible supply chain Good governance Responsible employer as an issue of medium to high materiality. Sustainable agriculture and sourcing is defined as improving social and environmental standards throughout the entire value chain, while responsible supply chain focuses on the minimum INCREASING IMPACT ON BUSINESS standards required of immediate suppliers to Bacardi Limited. Both of these issues are covered by our Responsible Sourcing program and are covered in this section of our report. View our materiality matrix Read more on our materiality process in the materiality section. Looking ahead With the development of the new environmental Our long-term Responsible Sourcing targets are: sustainability strategy, our Responsible Sourcing • Sourcing 50% of our sugarcane-derived products program has faced a year of changes that was from BonsucroTM certified sources by 2017, and compounded by our global procurement function’s 100% by 2022, and having evidence of this sourcing rolling out a new organizational structure. externally validated. • Establishing socio-economic programs for the Despite these recent changes, we have a clear view of sugarcane-growing communities supplying the where we can improve our approach and processes BACARDÍ distilleries in Puerto Rico and Mexico to help relating to Responsible Sourcing and our targets for mitigate any adverse impacts, starting with Fiji in success in this area. fiscal 2012. • Establishing sustainability in the design and lifecycle During fiscal 2013, we will continue to establish of the POS materials purchased by our global brands Responsible Sourcing as a central way of working within by 2017. our procurement function. This includes: • Encouraging all key direct and global point-of-sale (POS) suppliers to sign up to the Sedex® database, an exchange system for ethical data. • Identify and train facility-based Responsible Sourcing champions. • Set up a locally-managed ethical audit program for suppliers that have a higher risk of non-compliance with our Responsible Sourcing standards. 62 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Responsible Sourcing > Responsible Sourcing standards Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Responsible Sourcing standards The Bacardi Limited Responsible Sourcing standards The standards encompass what we expect from our apply to all suppliers providing goods and/or services suppliers in terms of labor standards, human rights, to Bacardi Limited. We seek to gain agreement on and health and safety, environmental protection and compliance with our Responsible Sourcing standards business integrity. They represent minimum standards, from all our suppliers. and we encourage suppliers who seek to implement higher standards within their operations. Bacardi also Our standards are based on the Ethical Trading applies these standards within its own operations. Initiative (ETI) Base Code, an alliance of companies, non-governmental organizations and trade union Responsible Sourcing standards and organizations. This alliance is committed to working together to identify and promote good practice in the Supplier Code of Practice implementation of codes of labor practice and key Each of the 12 Bacardi Limited Responsible Sourcing international standards including the International standards is supported by examples of the practices Labour Organization’s (ILO) fundamental conventions on that are expected in meeting that standard. These labor standards. examples, outlined below, are available to suppliers in an integrated Code of Practice document, which includes our standards and implementation steps. 1. Employment is freely chosen • There is no forced, bonded or involuntary prison labor. • Workers are not required to lodge deposits or their identity papers with their employer and are free to leave their employer after reasonable notice. 2. Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are respected • Workers, without distinction, have the right to join or form trade unions of their own choosing and to bargain collectively. • The employer adopts an open attitude toward the activities of trade unions and their organizational activities. • Workers’ representatives are not discriminated against and have access to carry out their representative functions in the workplace. • Where the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining is restricted under law, the employer facilitates, and does not hinder, the development of parallel means for independent and free association and bargaining. 3. Working conditions are safe and hygienic • A safe and hygienic working environment shall be provided, bearing in mind the prevailing knowledge of the industry and of any specific hazards. Adequate steps shall be taken to prevent accidents and injury to health arising out of, associated with, or occurring in the course of work, by minimizing, so far as is reasonably practicable, the causes of hazards inherent in the working environment. • Workers shall receive regular and recorded health and safety training, and such training shall be repeated for new or reassigned workers. • Access to clean toilet facilities and to potable (drinking) water, and, if appropriate, sanitary facilities for food storage shall be provided. • Accommodation, where provided, shall be clean, safe, and meet the basic needs of the workers. • Responsibility for health and safety is assigned to a senior management representative. • A health and safety policy is in place. 63 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Responsible Sourcing > Responsible Sourcing standards Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited 4. Child labor shall not be used • A child is defined as a person under 18 years old. The minimum age for employment is defined as the local legal minimum age for employment or the age for completing compulsory education, but in no case lower than 15 for full-time employment and 13 for light, part-time work. (ILO guidelines allow some developing countries whose economy and educational facilities are insufficiently developed to apply to initially set the limits at 14 and 12). • Child labor is defined as work that is harmful to children i.e., work which is exploitative, prevents children from getting an education or jeopardizes their physical, mental or moral well-being. • Suppliers will comply with ILO standards on child labor. • There shall be no new recruitment of child labor. • Suppliers shall develop or participate in and contribute to policies and programs which provide for the transition of any child found to be performing child labor to enable her or him to attend and remain in quality education until no longer a child. • Children and young persons under 18 shall not be employed at night or in hazardous conditions. 5. Fair wages are paid • Wages and benefits paid for a standard working week meet, at a minimum, national legal standards or industry benchmark standards. • All workers shall be provided with written and understandable information about their employment conditions in respect to wages before they enter employment and about the particulars of their wages for the pay period concerned each time that they are paid. • Deductions from wages as a disciplinary measure shall not be permitted nor shall any deductions from wages not provided for by national law be permitted without the expressed permission of the worker concerned. All disciplinary measures should be recorded. 6. Working hours are not excessive • Working hours comply with national laws and benchmark industry standards. • In any event, workers shall not on a regular basis be required to work in excess of 48 hours per week and shall be provided with at least one day off for every seven-day period on average. • Additional overtime shall be voluntary, shall not regularly exceed 12 hours per week, shall not be demanded on a regular basis and shall always be compensated at a premium rate. 7. Discrimination is prohibited • There is no discrimination in hiring, compensation, access to training, promotion, termination or retirement based on race, caste, national origin, religion, age, disability, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, union membership or political affiliation. 8. Temporary workers are treated fairly • Employment of temporary workers must comply with relevant national employment laws. • Workers who are continually employed on a series of temporary contracts are potentially missing out on the benefits of permanent employment such as holiday and sick pay. Suppliers must be able to demonstrate they do not keep temporary employees on a series of short-term contracts to avoid providing them with the benefits of permanent employment. 9. Any harsh or inhumane treatment of employees is prohibited and prevented • Physical abuse or discipline, the threat of physical abuse, sexual or other harassment and verbal abuse or other forms of intimidation shall be prohibited. • A formal disciplinary and grievance appeal procedure with documented records of individual disciplinary hearings exists. Such a procedure will support fair treatment of workers. 64 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Responsible Sourcing > Responsible Sourcing standards Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited 10. Environmental protection • Suppliers carry out their activities in accordance with national laws, regulations, administrative practices and policies relating to the preservation of the environment of the countries in which they operate as well as in accordance with relevant international agreements, principles, objectives, responsibilities and standards with regard to the environment. • There is a documented environmental policy, signed by the Managing Director or equivalent. • The main areas of environmental impact are identified and documented. This should include as a minimum: – The consumption of energy, water and other natural resources; – All significant polluting emissions, discharges and wastes; and – Impacts on biodiversity, for example, from the destruction of natural habitats, the use of agro-chemicals and the use of genetically modified crops (GMOs). • Evidence of controls and programs in place to address environmental impacts is available. • Written confirmation of compliance with local and national environmental regulations is available. 11. Business integrity • Suppliers comply with all applicable laws and regulations. • Policies and processes are in place to conduct business without the payment or receipt of unlawful incentives. • Suppliers do not allow employees to provide or accept excessive or inappropriate entertainment of gifts from customers or suppliers. • Suppliers do not enter into any agreements or understandings with competitors or others that restrict competition, in particular agreements to fix prices, allocate markets or limit sales. • To prevent financial fraud and money laundering, any payment by Bacardi to a vendor, supplier or other third party must be made to a bank account titled in the name of the contracted vendor, supplier or other third party. • Suppliers have a policy and procedure in place to ensure employees avoid a situation where a conflict of interest arises. • Bacardi respects the confidential information of others. We will never seek to obtain or disclose the confidential information of other companies, whether it comes to us directly or from third parties and we expect our suppliers to do likewise. Confidential information includes, for example, customer lists, product information, sales and marketing plans, company business plans and any other sensitive or proprietary information. 12. Responsibility to promote Bacardi Responsible Sourcing standards • Suppliers are expected to promote the policy to their staff and subcontractors. • Suppliers are expected to promote and assess compliance with the Responsible Sourcing standards with their own suppliers. Links The Bacardi Limited Responsible Sourcing standards The Fundamental Conventions of the International are based on the following international principles: Labor Organization (ILO) www.ilo.org The Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) Base Code www.ethicaltrade.org UN Global Compact Principles www.unglobalcompact.org The United Nations (UN) Universal Declaration of Human Rights UN Convention on Biological Diversity www.un.org/en/documents/udhr www.biodiv.org 65 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Responsible Sourcing > Targets and progress Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Targets and progress LONG-TERM AMBITION Our vision for Responsible Sourcing is for all of our raw materials and packaging to come from sustainably sourced, renewable or recycled materials – reducing environmental and social impacts while maintaining or enhancing the economic status of growers and suppliers. Targets for fiscal 2012 Progress in FISCAL 2012 Targets for fiscal 2013 Continue to involve our suppliers in the During a year of change within the On an ongoing basis, 100% of highand Sedex® database, aiming for the following Responsible Sourcing program, we have very high-risk direct suppliers and global in fiscal 2012: decided to restate our targets based POS suppliers to be compliant with • 80% of global packaging suppliers on level of risk, rather than spend by Responsible Sourcing standards either by spend. procurement category. via Sedex® membership or the Bacardi • 60% of global point-of-sale (POS) Limited procurement process. suppliers by spend. Prior to making this change, halfway • 75% of global ingredient and flavor through fiscal 2012, performance against 20% increase in the number of suppliers suppliers by spend. the target for Sedex® membership was: on Sedex® database year-on-year. • 60% of global packaging suppliers by spend. • 40% of global POS suppliers by spend. • 31% of global ingredient and flavor suppliers by spend. Identify and train site-based Responsible The first step toward this was Deliver focused training to develop the Sourcing champions during fiscal 2012 evolution of our Supplier Performance individuals running the SPM tool at our and 2013. Measurement (SPM) tool, which now ten largest sites in fiscal 2013 and the includes a section focusing on suppliers’ remainder to be trained in fiscal 2014. Corporate Responsibility programs, adherence to our Responsible Sourcing standards, membership of Sedex® and environmental credentials. Implement our locally managed supplier We did not start to develop our supplier We will start our local audit program audit program in fiscal 2012 and 2013. audit program in fiscal 2012, however, during fiscal 2013, focusing initially through our participation in the mutual on suppliers with a higher risk of recognition workstream of AIM-Progress, non-compliance. we have gained access to over 40 audits of our suppliers from a bank of 6000+ audits from our AIM-Progress colleagues. Work with our key suppliers to ensure Bacardi’s commitment to BonsucroTM In fiscal 2013, we will develop a sourcing that 100% of our sugarcane-derived remains as strong as ever and we will plan to achieve our interim target to ingredients are certified under the serve on the BonsucroTM Board of source 50% of our sugarcane products BonsucroTM Production Standard within Directors for another year following the from BonsucroTM-certified sources ten years. Board election in February 2012. by 2017. 66 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Responsible Sourcing > Targets and progress Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Targets for fiscal 2012 Progress in FISCAL 2012 Targets for fiscal 2013 Establish a program of socio-economic The community program being run We will work with WWF to develop support for the sugarcane-growing in Fiji by WWF is up and running. We an agreed set of key performance communities supplying Bacardi Limited, source more than 40% of our molasses indicators for the Fiji project that will starting with Fiji in fiscal 2012. from Fiji and one of the key aims of the be reported monthly. program is for the Fiji Sugar Corporation to become compliant with the BonsucroTM A gap analysis of the Labasa sugar mill in production standard. Fiji against the BonsucroTM standard will also be completed in fiscal 2013. Establish sustainability in the design and We continue to review the POS ranges of Establish a sustainability review process lifecycle of the POS ranges for global our global brands. With this review comes for all new POS items developed for our brands by fiscal 2017. the opportunity to reduce the number of global range for the brands BOMBAY items and suppliers we use and to build SAPPHIRE Gin, GREY GOOSE Vodka and relationships with suppliers in which DEWAR’s Scotch Whisky. sustainability and lifecycle management become part of the design criteria. Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Target ongoing View all our targets 67 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Responsible Sourcing > Responsible supply chain Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Responsible supply chain All key direct suppliers – those that provide ingredients or packaging for our products – are required to agree to our Responsible Sourcing standards and we work with them to help them understand our requirements and improve standards throughout our supply chain. Meeting our Responsible Managing Responsible Sourcing standards Sourcing directly Suppliers can meet our Responsible Sourcing standards in Our goal is to embed Responsible Sourcing within our two ways: through the Vendor Qualification Process (VQP) procurement function and to make it a standard way that our procurement teams apply to all new suppliers; or of working across the Company. For suppliers that do through membership of Sedex®, the database for sharing not choose to become members of Sedex®, we use our ethical supply chain data on suppliers. internal procurement system to ensure compliance with our Responsible Sourcing standards. We encourage all suppliers to join Sedex®, but understand that the system may not suit all suppliers Vendor Qualification for a number of reasons, including supplier size, length All new direct suppliers (ingredients and packaging) or nature of the relationship with Bacardi or alternative and global point-of-sale (POS) suppliers that are not approaches to responsible supply chain issues. members of Sedex® must complete the Responsible Sourcing section of our Vendor Qualification Process Whichever way suppliers choose to comply, we always (VQP). VQP includes checks for quality and Responsible aim to make sure that they have a clear understanding of Sourcing standards. For Responsible Sourcing, this our Responsible Sourcing expectations. We confer with takes the form of a self-assessment questionnaire that them as early as possible in our relationship and support is completed and returned to the specific procurement them to make improvements wherever necessary. department responsible for the supplier. A supplier is accepted only after it has satisfactorily completed the self-assessment. Following this, our purchasing managers will begin to engage We select our suppliers based on a range of with suppliers on any areas that are identified for criteria including cost, quality, supply chain and improvement through the self-assessment questionnaire adherence to our Responsible Sourcing standards. to help strengthen supplier standards and align them with our Responsible Sourcing standards. 68 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Responsible Sourcing > Responsible supply chain Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Supplier Performance Management At the beginning of fiscal 2012, we included a new Corporate Responsibility section in our Supplier Performance Measurement (SPM) tool for packaging suppliers, which is 100% We are targeting 100% used to assess suppliers’ performance. of highand very high-risk direct and This further embeds Responsible Sourcing in our standard process for assessing global POS suppliers supplier performance. The new section determines whether a supplier has its own to be compliant with Corporate Responsibility program, if it is compliant with the Bacardi Responsible our Responsible Sourcing standards and whether it is linked to Bacardi in the Sedex® database. Sourcing standards. Other elements recorded are whether the supplier has a contingency plan to maintain supply in the event of a serious issue and whether it has an active approach to environmental management. By including Corporate Responsibility in our SPM tool, we have created a more complete supplier measurement tool. One of the next steps is to include Corporate Responsibility in the ingredients suppliers’ version of SPM. Sedex® A key tool in our Responsible Sourcing program is Sedex®, the Supplier Ethical Data We use the Sedex® Exchange. Sedex® is a collaborative online database through which suppliers’ individual online database production sites can share their ethical performance with buyers, such as Bacardi. to share ethical performance data Bacardi is a member of Sedex®. We encourage all direct suppliers to join Sedex® and on suppliers with complete the Sedex® self-assessment on their approach to responsible supply chain other companies. issues. For all suppliers, we accept Sedex® membership and completion of the selfassessment as an alternative to confirming their compliance with our Responsible Sourcing standards. By the end of fiscal 2012, we had 257 supplier sites registered with Sedex® and linked 257 to Bacardi, an increase of 5.3% over fiscal 2011 (244 suppliers). supplier sites registered with Sedex® and linked In last year’s Corporate Responsibility report, we set a target for Sedex® membership to Bacardi Limited, within our main supplier categories. During a year of change within the Responsible a 5.3% increase over Sourcing program, we have decided to shift the focus of our targets toward the level of fiscal 2011. supplier risk, rather than simply Sedex® membership. This ensures that we are focusing on our high-risk and very high-risk suppliers. 69 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Responsible Sourcing > Responsible supply chain Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited As a result, in fiscal 2013 and on an ongoing basis, we will work to ensure that 100% of high-risk and very high-risk direct suppliers and global POS suppliers are compliant with our Responsible Sourcing standards. This can be achieved either through Sedex® 20% From fiscal 2013, membership or by completion of the Responsible Sourcing section of our VQP. we are targeting a 20% year-on-year The target for Sedex® membership in last year’s Corporate Responsibility report was increase in supplier 80% of global packaging suppliers by spend, 75% of global ingredient and flavor membership of Sedex®. suppliers by spend and 60% of global POS suppliers by spend. By mid-fiscal 2012, when we adopted our change in approach, Sedex® membership stood at 60% of global packaging suppliers by spend, 31% of global ingredient and flavor suppliers by spend and 40% of global POS suppliers by spend. To ensure that we maintain our focus on increasing Sedex® membership among our suppliers, we have set a target to increase supplier membership by 20% year-on-year. supplier sites registered with sedex® and linked to bacardi limited FY12 257 FY11 244 FY10 175 FY09 20 BREAKDOWN OF LINKED SUPPLIER SITES ON sedex® (257 suppliers registered with Sedex®) Packaging 126 Point-of-sale 64 Ingredients 28 Flavors 39 70 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Responsible Sourcing > Working with suppliers and partners Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Working with suppliers and partners Point-of-sale suppliers suppliers, and many will not join Sedex® on the strength of a single order. Similarly, working to improve standards A strong point-of-sale (POS) presence is crucial to directly with suppliers is only really possible with longer supporting our brands in on-trade and off-trade retailing. term supplier relationships. POS items are mainly branded goods, such as glassware, barware, signs and gift and promotional items. Another challenge is that many purchases are made through intermediaries and agents, rather than directly We have a large and complex POS supply chain, and with manufacturers. To address this, our VQP includes a every year we source more than 3,200 different items factory assessment document that requires the information from 700 suppliers globally. With this level of complexity, provided to come from the site of manufacture, rather than applying our Responsible Sourcing standards and the point of purchase. researching the source of each item is time-consuming. Forty-eight of our POS suppliers are considered global Despite these challenges, in fiscal 2012 we continued suppliers of branded items for our “Global POS Webshop,” to encourage POS suppliers to join Sedex® and to use a centralized ordering system for POS items that can be our Vendor Qualification Process for new Global POS used worldwide by our local markets. Webshop suppliers and key suppliers in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Compared to our ingredient and packaging supply chains, POS materials pose a number of additional challenges At the end of fiscal 2012, 60% of our Global POS Webshop to our Responsible Sourcing program. Many POS items suppliers had undergone the VQP, and 40% were are linked to brand campaigns and are, therefore, oneregistered with Sedex® and linked to Bacardi Limited. off orders. This can mean short-term relationships with Driving up supplier standards We feel that our approach to Responsible Sourcing, along with the growing trend for consumer brand companies to adopt more responsible sourcing practices, will encourage suppliers to improve their own practices. The following are examples of how our POS suppliers are making improvements. German POS supplier Point of Promotion™, which produces many of its products at its German factory, has a keen focus on environmental management. The factory generates its own electricity from a cogeneration plant and focuses on reusing and recycling plastics, ink and solvents. This supplier also avoids environmentally damaging materials, such as heavy metals in inks or persistent chemicals, often used in plastics, which remain in the environment for a long time. POS supplier Supremia™ has worked with its Chinese stainless steel manufacturer to implement a water recycling system. The system saved around 20,000 liters of water during production of the BACARDÍ Rum muddler shaker (pictured), a POS item sourced in fiscal 2012. Since installation, the system has saved between 80,000 and 100,000 liters of water in total. 71 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Responsible Sourcing > Working with suppliers and partners Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Working with POS suppliers Bacardi first contacted Van Bavel Business Gifts™, a Belgium-based POS supplier, in fiscal 2010 to introduce our Responsible Sourcing program and encourage the company to join Sedex®. A recent follow-up showed how proactive suppliers can recognize and embrace Responsible Sourcing within their organizations. Not only has Van Bavel Business Gifts™ joined Sedex®, but it also has established a supplier selection process that includes sustainability criteria. Once selected, the predominantly Chinese suppliers undergo an independent social and quality audit that determines whether they qualify to receive a contract and identifies where improvements are needed. Van Bavel Business Gifts™ is also represented on the European Promotional Products Association steering committee responsible for developing a Code of Conduct that will outline social and environmental responsibility norms for the promotional goods industry. Working with partners The aim of AIM-PROGRESS supplier forums is to share with suppliers the importance of Responsible AIM-PROGRESS Sourcing and to provide the opportunity for them to Bacardi Limited is a member of AIM-PROGRESS, a forum ask questions and share experiences. of consumer goods companies working to enable and promote responsible sourcing practices and sustainable At the Mexico City event, an online demonstration of production systems. AIM-PROGRESS is an initiative of the Sedex® ethical performance database, and AIM, the European Brands Association, and GMA, the presentations on compliance with labor and safety Grocery Manufacturers Association. standards and on the importance of suppliers closing gaps after ethical audits provided real-world experience In fiscal 2012, Bacardi Limited sat on a panel of leading to the assembled suppliers. companies, including Nestlé™, Unilever™, PepsiCo™, Coca-Cola™ and Walmart™, at the fifth AIM-PROGRESS A key message delivered at the event was that Responsible Sourcing supplier forum, held in Mexico Responsible Sourcing is not an optional extra for City. Each of the panel members presented its consumer goods companies, but rather is swiftly Responsible Sourcing strategies to an audience of more becoming part of core purchasing practices. The idea than 400 attendees from 160 supplier companies. that Responsible Sourcing offers a new competitive advantage was also part of the discussion. 72 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Responsible Sourcing > Working with suppliers and partners Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Being able to present our Responsible Sourcing program at the AIMPROGRESS supplier forum in Mexico City was a great opportunity to show suppliers how important Responsible Sourcing is to us and how we are making it part of our day-to-day procurement activity. Veronica Lozada, Directs Procurement Manager, Bacardi Mexico Panel members at the AIM-PROGRESS supplier forum in Mexico City. Mutual recognition workstream We are still in the process of establishing our own audit compliance audits of their suppliers. By sharing and program for suppliers considered to be at a higher risk recognizing supplier audit results, the workstream of non-compliance with our standards, based on the aims to reduce duplication of supplier assessments type of products supplied and their country of origin. In and audit fatigue. the interim, our membership in the mutual recognition workstream of AIM-PROGRESS provides access to ethical Our involvement in the workstream has provided audits of some of our suppliers. access to more than 40 audits of our direct suppliers from a bank of over 6,000 audits provided by AIMWithin the mutual recognition workstream, brand PROGRESS members. manufacturers agree to mutual recognition of social The value of supplier dialogue Since 2011, we have been in discussions with Verallia™, one of our biggest global glass suppliers, on our Responsible Sourcing standards. Although Verallia is not currently a member of Sedex®, our engagement with the company has shown that it shares a similar commitment to Responsible Sourcing as does Bacardi Limited and that its level of environmental and social performance meets our Responsible Sourcing standards. In 2011, Verallia™ completed a social audit program, carried out by an independent body, covering all of its production sites throughout the world. The program included questions on working conditions; wages and working hours; health and safety; management systems; and the environment. Two-thirds of the company’s sites scored more than 92% in the audit, and its plant in Dego, Italy, which produces extra flint glass to serve the premium drinks market, achieved a score of 100%. 73 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Responsible Sourcing > Sustainable agriculture and sourcing Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Sustainable agriculture and sourcing The main ingredients in our products are agricultural raw materials, such as sugarcane products, grapes and grains. Sustainable agriculture and responsible sourcing of these ingredients are, therefore, essential to the continuity of our Company and our brands. Sustainable agriculture addresses areas in our supply Within our Responsible Sourcing program, we have two chain with which we do not necessarily have contact and main areas of focus: which we do not control. The issues faced are often at • We are contributing to the development of a the level of our suppliers’ suppliers, descending through sustainable sugarcane industry and will ultimately the supply chain to individual farmers and growers. source and use only sustainably produced sugarcane products in our brands. To be effective in the right places and at the right levels, • We are working to establish socio-economic programs we need to work in partnership with our direct suppliers to support the sugarcane-growing communities that and other local stakeholders and to use our influence as supply our BACARDÍ Rum distilleries in Puerto Rico a major purchaser of agricultural commodities. and Mexico. In broad terms, sustainable agriculture is about improving growing practices for agricultural crops Malted barley is a key to improve yields while minimizing environmental ingredient used to make impacts. At the same time, it is also about maximizing for our Scotch whisky. agricultural communities the socio-economic benefits of producing and trading agricultural commodities. Sustainable sugarcane Why sugarcane? Based on our Responsible Sourcing risk assessment of the products and suppliers we use, sugarcane scores as a high-risk raw material. Added to this, products derived from sugarcane, in particular molasses and cane alcohol, are used in many of our brands, including our global flagship brand, BACARDÍ Rum. Not only do we need to ensure a consistent and sustainable supply of sugarcane products to support our Company and its growth plans, we also need to play our part in raising standards across the whole sugarcane industry to minimize the risks to our Company and our suppliers. The main vehicle we use to develop and promote a sustainable sugarcane industry is BonsucroTM. 74 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Responsible Sourcing > Sustainable agriculture and sourcing Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited BonsucroTM Formerly known as the Better Sugarcane Initiative, At the conference, we delivered a presentation BonsucroTM is a multi-stakeholder forum focused on outlining our experiences with sustainable agriculture improving social, environmental and agricultural and our support for BonsucroTM. We also shared a standards in the sugarcane industry in order for discussion panel with global organizations Cargill™, sugarcane production to become fully sustainable. Unilever™ and WWF, stressing our commitment to work with suppliers to source products derived from Bacardi Limited is a founding member and active BonsucroTM-certified sugarcane. supporter of BonsucroTM. We have been involved in the development of the initiative since it was founded in 2007. We are the first To demonstrate our commitment to Bonsucro and TM BonsucroTM member a sustainable sugarcane industry, we have set a longto set a target to term target to source 50% of our sugarcane-derived source 100% of our products from BonsucroTM-certified sources by 2017 sugarcane-derived and 100% by 2022, and to ensure that evidence of this ingredients from sourcing is externally validated. BonsucroTM certified sources by 2022. In fiscal 2012, we continued our support for BonsucroTM. At the BonsucroTM conference and Annual General Meeting held in Brisbane, Australia, in November 2011, Bacardi Limited was elected to the BonsucroTM Board of Directors for a second year. Bonsucro’s year in review Calendar year 2011 was a productive year for BonsucroTM, with excellent progress in a number of areas: • Membership increased by over 70%, against a target of 25%. As of May 2012, there are 61 members of BonsucroTM. • The Global Producers’ Innovation Network (GPIN) was launched. It is a forum that will create connections between sugarcane farmers and millers to learn from each other and solve common problems. • BonsucroTM certification was achieved by 15 sugar mills, all in Brazil, representing 1.6% of sugarcane production globally. • BonsucroTM-certified production of ethanol from sugarcane gained recognized status by the European Union Renewable Energy Directive. • A new Executive Director was hired in August 2011, succeeding the previous Executive Director, who has retired. Looking ahead, BonsucroTM will focus on the following areas in calendar year 2012: • Implementing a robust chain-of-custody standard for its certified products. • Further developing the GPIN to cover more sugarcane-growing regions of the world. • Increasing the assessment capacity of auditors to ensure more sugarcane mills can achieve certification. 75 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Responsible Sourcing > Sustainable agriculture and sourcing Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Working with sourcing communities in Fiji Our Responsible Sourcing program commits us to Our efforts will have a positive impact on the communities work with the communities from which we source that rely directly or indirectly on the mill. This impact will raw materials, including establishing socio-economic come mainly from improved livelihoods delivered by support programs for the sugarcane-growing the increasing efficiency of sugarcane production and communities supplying Bacardi Limited. We source also from conserving the Great Sea Reef, which provides sugarcane products from three key countries: Fiji, Brazil livelihoods and food for local communities. and Mexico. Our first program working with sugarcane communities has been established in Fiji, a major Program progress sugarcane producer. The early stages of the program in fiscal 2012 have mainly focused on project set-up and engaging the wide range of More than 40% of our molasses comes from Fiji, making stakeholders within the Fiji sugarcane industry, including it one of our largest sourcing countries for sugarcanethe FSC, the Ministry of Sugar and sugarcane farmers. derived products. In 2011, we agreed to support an agriculture and environmental improvement program During the year, a Fiji sugarcane steering committee was run by WWF in Fiji, which focuses on improving established with a remit to: standards in Fijian sugar mills. • Establish model sugarcane farms that demonstrate improved agricultural standards and follow WWF The Fijian sugarcane industry is state-run and, Better Management Practices for sugarcane. although relatively inefficient compared to other • Promote the use of “mill mud” as a bio-fertilizer. national sugarcane industries, it is a leading source of • Establish a water quality sampling program. employment and GDP creation in Fiji. Our program is • Recruit an extension officer to train farmers on better currently focused on the national Fiji Sugar Corporation sugarcane farming practices. (FSC) mill in Labasa, Fiji, and will expand to cover two other FSC mills later. Future plans Developments planned for the Fiji program in fiscal 2013 The two main objectives of the program are: will include: • To improve agronomy and farming practices • Undertake a gap analysis of the Labasa sugar mill around the mill to increase efficiency and to help against the BonsucroTM Standard. the mill become certified to the BonsucroTM • Use a train-the-trainer approach to train local farmers Production Standard. in WWF Better Management Practices for sugar. • To strengthen effluent control and reverse the • Complete a feasibility assessment for creating current situation in which effluent from the mills and renewable energy from bagasse – the fibrous sugarcane plantations is damaging the Great Sea Reef waste material left after sugar has been milled. As off the coast of Fiji. a significant biomass source, the bagasse would be Achieving BonsucroTM certification in Fiji is seen as a burned in a cogeneration unit that produces heat long-term goal. WWF estimates that it will take the FSC for local use and electricity that can be sold to the between five and seven years to achieve certification for consumer electricity grid. all of its mills. 76 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Responsible Sourcing > Sustainable agriculture and sourcing Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited The role of Bacardi Limited In addition to sponsoring the community project, Bacardi Limited helped the project to gain traction in the Fiji sugarcane industry by engaging with key stakeholders. We persuaded our direct molasses supplier in Fiji, United Molasses™, to join BonsucroTM and to support the project. Along with United Molasses™, we also promoted the project to the Fiji Sugar Corporation, leading to an agreement to start the project at its Labasa mill. In line with our target to source all sugarcane-derived products from BonsucroTM-certified sources within ten years, we will be a key buyer for the BonsucroTM certified sugarcane that the project aims to deliver. 77 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited PEOPLE In this section Clearly committed Strategy people Targets and progress Developing our people Engaging our people We believe that outstanding people will deliver excellent results. Outstanding people delivering excellent results It is a fundamental principle of Bacardi Limited that our success is due to great brands and outstanding people achieving excellent results. Our people are the best ambassadors for our brands by demonstrating their commitment to our Company values of Trust, Caring, Passion and Excellence. Our People strategy, launched in fiscal 2011, is built on the belief that outstanding people will deliver excellent results. To Bacardi Limited, outstanding people are talented and engaged employees who are valued for the unique contributions they bring to the Company. Our first-ever Global Employee Engagement Survey took place in January 2012. We found that our people are very proud to work for Bacardi, are proud of our brands and are very proud of our work in the Corporate Responsibility area. John McCusker, Global Head of Talent Management Watch video 78 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility People > John McCusker, Global Head of Talent Management Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited John McCusker Global Head of Talent Management At Bacardi, we aspire to be recognized internally and externally as a Great Place to Work. As part of this, we launched our first ever Global Employee Engagement Survey in January 2012. We designed a straightforward survey for employees to www.bacardilimited.com/corporate-responsibility/people formally express their opinion. We were very pleased that over 90% of our employees across the world took the time to complete this survey. The survey highlighted some good insights. We found that our people are very proud to work for Bacardi, are proud of our brands and are very proud of our work in the Corporate Responsibility area. We also heard from employees that we should put more emphasis on development opportunities. We will be working on this area over the coming months to ensure that our people feel greater clarity about the options for career development, as well as giving greater visibility to the tools to help build their skills; and providing more feedback and coaching from line managers. We have also created employee action teams so that people around the world can get involved in building engagement across Bacardi. We are sure that, over the next 18 months, these action teams will help to drive our levels of engagement to levels that are truly world class by January 2014, when our next survey will take place. 79 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility People > Strategy Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Strategy We believe that outstanding people will deliver excellent results. To Bacardi Limited, outstanding people are talented and engaged employees who are valued for the unique contributions they bring to the Company. Our strategy is designed to bring out these characteristics in all of our employees. Global People strategy Our People strategy sets out a roadmap across five key areas, with the aim of supporting and driving our corporate vision: 1. Unleash the potential of our people. 4. Inspire and engage each person to live our values to achieve We will build an effective development culture and create sustained results. leadership programs that are acknowledged for their quality and We want the Bacardi purpose and values to be an integral part effectiveness in developing Bacardi leaders. of our employees’ lives, influencing individual and corporate behavior. We also aim to become the leader in Corporate 2.Build a high-performance team culture. Responsibility in our industry. We believe that our future success depends on how we work together. We will create a culture of high-performing teams 5.Be globally recognized as a Great Place to Work. among our people. We will benchmark ourselves against other companies and strive to be recognized in Great Place to Work™ or similar rankings. 3.Lead organizational capability and effectiveness. We will create a lean and effective organization to support our business and vision. We will deliver stability by creating a talent pipeline for all key roles that mirrors the diverse societies in which we operate. Material issues Responsible marketing Responsible drinking We completed an updated assessment of our most material Corporate Responsibility issues in April INCREASING IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Product responsibility Sustainable agriculture and sourcing Direct environmental 2012. Being a “responsible employer,” which covers employee rights, health and safety, diversity, impacts Local communities Sustainable packaging and training and development, ranked as an issue of medium to high materiality relative to other Responsible supply chain Good governance Responsible employer Corporate Responsibility issues. This materiality ranking reflects our proactive and successful approach to managing employee issues within Bacardi Limited and also shows that other Corporate Responsibility issues that we are INCREASING IMPACT ON BUSINESS addressing are more front-of-mind for stakeholders. View our materiality matrix The materiality assessment reflects a wide range of issues and the concerns of a wide range of stakeholders. We have gained direct feedback from our people on more detailed employee issues from our first-ever Global Employee Engagement Survey, which was conducted in fiscal 2012. Read more on our materiality process in the materiality section. 80 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility People > Strategy Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Corporate Responsibility and Supporting our people Global employee assistance program our people During fiscal 2012, we rolled out a new global employee We continue to believe that developing a leading assistance program across Bacardi Limited. Available position in Corporate Responsibility will garner the in 22 languages, Bacardi Assist is designed to support respect of our people and those in the external job employees in dealing with ordinary and extraordinary marketplace. There is a strong link between our goal to events in both their personal and professional lives. The be recognized as a Great Place to Work and striving to be program is free to all employees and their families and is a leader in Corporate Responsibility. an important part of our support for employees. Responsible employer All operations implemented the program in fiscal At Bacardi Limited, being a responsible employer means: 2012 and, by the end of the year, Bacardi Assist had • Offering our people opportunities to develop to their provided support to the 167 employees or family fullest potential. members who asked for assistance. The top area for • Listening to and communicating with our employees support concerned “relationship issues”. Other areas to better understand their needs and concerns, and of assistance included “legal advice” and support for responding to these to ensure we provide an excellent managing “work/life balance.” employee experience. • Supporting our employees if they encounter personal Our target for fiscal 2013 is to continue to raise awareness or professional challenges. of the program and, as a result, we anticipate that more We remain convinced that, as a responsible employer, employees will take advantage of the service. we must ensure that everyone in the organization understands how his or her contributions and for your total well-being Caring for Your Total Well-Being performance link to the shortand medium-term sustainable success of Bacardi Limited. To this end, for caregiving concerns When is it time for an older relative to stop driving? What are some fun ways to keep my kids busy this summer? we have spent the last 12 months enhancing our Where can I ﬁnd information about infant car seats? Is there anyone locally who specializes in Alzheimer’s care? for emotional balance With so much up Global Performance Management System to ensure a How can I maintain good relationships during time abroad? What works to prevent panic attacks during air travel? in the air, we’ll help you transparent link between Corporate Responsibility and for well-being at work What advice is there for someone new to management? stay grounded. How do I handle co-workers who will not respond to messages? our leaders’ annual objectives. for everyday matters Is there a ﬂorist who specializes in wedding ﬂowers? Can I get a driver’s license in a foreign country? for a healthy lifestyle Are sugar substitutes suitable for children? What is the best way to treat a bee sting? Do es No tP rin t. Slits. Card For the For the ordinary and Do ordinary and es extraordinary No tP extraordinary challenges in life rin t. challenges in life Slits. Card 81 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility People > Targets and progress Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Targets and progress LONG-TERM AMBITION We will unleash the potential of our people by creating a working environment where every employee can take advantage of the development opportunities Bacardi Limited offers. We will inspire, engage and support our people and intend to become recognized internally and externally as a Great Place to Work. Targets for fiscal 2012 Progress in FISCAL 2012 Targets for fiscal 2013 Continue the roll-out of our Global Roll-out reached 3,800 employees by Enhance the user experience for current Performance Management System to the end of fiscal 2012 and the Global users, making the system more intuitive. cover 4,000 employees by quarter one of Performance Management System is now • Focus on the link between employee fiscal 2012. available in seven languages. performance and Company performance. • Focus on functionality. • Focus on development planning. Continue to build on our Talent Review Talent Review expanded to cover the • Complete the global roll-out of Talent and Succession Planning process to build majority of the top three levels of Reviews across the top three levels of new leaders for the future. Bacardi Limited comprising almost 700 the Company. employees. Filled 70% of open positions • Expansion to deeper levels of the in the top three levels of the Company Company, with a specific focus on our with internal talent. sales function. Launch a range of new leadership Successfully trialed a number of Continue to establish our portfolio of development products. leadership development initiatives, leadership development initiatives including our Step Up and Talent across Bacardi Limited: Exchange programs. • Roll out Step Up and Talent Exchange initiatives. • Pilot a Coaching Certification and Manager Training program. • Launch our leadership fundamentals program for line managers. Launch our first Global Employee Global Employee Engagement Survey Action teams established in fiscal Engagement Survey and action teams in completed with a 92% participation 2013 will identify key improvement fiscal 2012. rate across the Company. Action teams areas and develop plans for delivering made up of local employees will also be improvements over the next 24 months. established to identify and address areas for improvement. 82 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility People > Targets and progress Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Targets for fiscal 2012 Progress in FISCAL 2012 Targets for fiscal 2013 Continue the roll-out of our Women in Focused on organizational engagement • 50% of business units and global Leadership strategy. and awareness raising during the functions to establish a local year and piloted a female maternity three-point Women in Leadership coaching program as well as releasing an action plan. adoption policy as part of our equality of • Run a development course for highopportunity policy. potential women leaders. • Launch recruitment guidelines that provide guidance on recruiting highpotential women. • Establish an internal women’s network in key locations. Roll out the implementation of our new A new operating model that delivers Embed the new operating model operating model. greater resources to our sales and through workshops and launch a marketing functions has been rolled “toolbox for change” that provides all out. In line with our recruiting approach, Bacardi Limited people with advice and 90% of new roles within sales and tips to make our organization more agile marketing were filled internally from and successful in adapting to internal our existing workforce. and external factors. Implement global employee assistance Employee assistance program rolled out Continue to raise awareness of Bacardi program – Bacardi Assist – in all markets. in all markets, support provided in 167 Assist in fiscal 2013. We anticipate cases by the end of fiscal 2012. that this will result in more employees taking advantage of this service during the next fiscal. We will also monitor employee perception of the program and enhance it where appropriate. Develop an employee-giving fund that An employee-giving fund was not N/A contributes and responds to natural developed. It is currently our view that disasters and other good causes. our existing approach is working well and we will respond to natural disasters and other good causes in the same way as we have in the past. We will also continue to involve employees with volunteering, sponsorship and personal donations without setting up a worldwide process to manage this. Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Target ongoing View all our targets 83 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility People > Developing our people Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Developing our people Bacardi people see Bacardi Limited as a place where they can grow their careers and build great brands. We are establishing a development culture at all levels of the Company to meet this expectation. Developing talent In order to develop an effective workforce made up of and is held within our Global Performance Management outstanding people, we need a system that identifies System (GPS). Each plan outlines areas for continued and develops talent across all functions and at all levels personal growth that will also support the growth of of the business. Succession planning, particularly for Bacardi Limited. This process enables us to actively plan management positions, is also crucial to providing for succession within critical roles and ensures that we stability, continuity and, ultimately, our sustainable have a rich talent pipeline across the Company. business success. Coverage We have laid the foundation for development through Although the expansion of the Talent Review process our 70-20-10 framework, which stresses the benefit has not yet reached our top 1,000 employees, which was of experiences that can be gained on-the-job. Within our goal for fiscal 2012, we were able to review nearly the framework, 70% of an employee’s development 700 senior employees, or most of the top three levels of comes from on-the-job experiences; 20% from internal Bacardi Limited. We will complete these top three levels coaching and mentoring; and 10% from formal internal in fiscal 2013. or external training. The Talent Review process has also enabled us to fill 70% Talent Review of open positions in our top three levels with internal Following its launch in fiscal 2011, our Talent Review candidates, strongly supporting our goal to recruit from process continued to be rolled out in fiscal 2012. We within the Company and significantly improving on conducted more talent reviews during the year and, previous years. at the same time, improved the quality of the reviews, delivering greater insight into our talent pool. Based on the findings of the completed Talent Reviews, we will continue to pay close attention to developing the The process maps the performance and potential of our talent we need for effective succession planning in people with our future business needs. For individual fiscal 2013. This will include a formal assessment of employees, a Personal Development Plan containing key progress each quarter using a newly developed Global actions is developed during the Talent Review process Talent Scorecard. 84 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility People > Developing our people Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Leadership development Leadership development follows our 70-20-10 framework We have laid the foundation for development and is closely linked to our Talent Review process and through our 70-20-10 framework, which stresses succession planning. There is a genuine desire for experiences that can be gained on-the-job. development across Bacardi Limited, and this is an area that we have highlighted for improvement. To accomplish Formal training 10 this, we will focus on providing our current and future leaders with a range of talent development programs. Coaching and 20 mentoring In fiscal 2013, we will create a program to improve the On-the-job coaching skills of employees in management positions 70 experiences to help strengthen on-the-job training and coaching for employees. The first step is achieving external coaching certification for our Human Resources function. Following this, we will devise common coaching standards that all internal and external coaches will work to and begin a program of coaching training around the Company, starting with our IT function. Talent development programs Following successful trial periods, several talent development initiatives are now ready to be rolled out across the Company in fiscal 2013. Talent Exchange Talent Exchange is a program that provides short-term geographical, functional or portfolio moves for employees to help fashion well-rounded individuals who can support the future of the Company. Step Up Step Up provides a structured opportunity for employees to hone skills working one level up in a temporary short-term assignment, outside of their comfort zone. 85 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility People > Developing our people Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Leadership fundamentals Our new leadership fundamentals program will be During the year, we also piloted coaching programs for launched in fiscal 2013. In this program, managers women and introduced policies on adoptions and equal pass through a series of modules to enhance their line opportunities. management skills. In fiscal 2013, the program will focus on how to have robust, meaningful performance Looking ahead conversations and how to support effective development To establish the Women in Leadership program across planning. Other elements of the program will be Bacardi Limited, we have set a target for half of our developed in 2014. business units and global functions to have their own local three-point WIL action plan by the end of fiscal Throughout the program, managers are supported by 2013. The remaining half will complete their three-point a series of 44 online tools and study packs created by plans by the end of fiscal 2014. Harvard Business School and available through our Harvard leadership portal. Other targets for fiscal 2013 include: • Running a focused WIL development course for our high-potential women leaders during the year and Global Reflections ensuring all participants have a senior sponsor. We believe that a workforce that reflects the global • Ensuring that gender balance is built into our Talent environment in which we operate will help us deliver Review process and that talent development tools are top performance in a rapidly changing marketplace equally available to male and female employees. and enable us to attain greater business success. We • Launching guidelines for internal and external established the Global Reflections program in 2011 to recruitment that provide guidance on the recruitment support this belief. of high-potential women. • Establishing an internal women’s network in key Women in Leadership locations (Geneva, Shanghai, Miami, London) and As an initial step, the Global Reflections program is identifying suitable external networks and partnerships. focusing on Women in Leadership (WIL) with the • Developing a work environment that offers options for objective of positioning Bacardi Limited as a magnet for work-life flexibility for employees of both genders. talented, high-performing women and unlocking the • Continuing to raise awareness by spotlighting women potential of all women within the Company. leaders on our ONE Bacardi intranet. Following a global survey of 700 Bacardi Limited managers (224 women and 476 men) and a competitor review, the WIL team focused on raising awareness of 50% the benefits of a more gender-diverse workforce in fiscal We are targeting half of 2012, including: our business units and • Increasing the potential pipeline for talent. global functions to have • Benefiting from different leadership styles within a three-point Women in the Company. Leadership action plan • Creating a workforce that better reflects our by the end of fiscal 2013. consumer profile. 86 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility People > Developing our people Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Recruiting internally In line with our focus on developing talent within better. In addition to publicizing open roles internally, Bacardi Limited, we have a target to fill 80% of job the system also allows us to publish them directly on the vacancies with internal candidates by 2015. We have Careers page of www.BacardiLimited.com. worked on this goal throughout fiscal 2012, filling an average of 70% of job openings at management level Alongside our internal recruitment target, we are making and above with internal talent. good progress in developing a standardized, global recruitment process for both internal and external hires. We continue to list local and global job opportunities on We will continue to enhance our approach to recruitment the People Search section of our ONE Bacardi intranet in fiscal 2013 to ensure we are attracting, interviewing, site in order to provide employees with a clear view of hiring and retaining the best talent available. opportunities available across Bacardi Limited. In the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we will begin a pilot of an Internal Search Firm concept in three key markets – 70% U.S., Russia and Switzerland. The Internal Search Firm of job openings at operates by adding a recruitment module into our management level and Global Performance Management System (GPS). This above filled with internal module increases the visibility of our available positions talent in fiscal 2012. across the Company and allows us to track applications Becoming Bacardi Becoming Bacardi is our global orientation program for new employees. It is the primary resource to learn about Bacardi Limited, connecting new hires to our heritage, our brands and our people. The program consists of both experience-based and e-learning elements and, with four languages added in fiscal 2012, the program is now available in 11 languages. Becoming Bacardi is available to all new hires around the world and needs to be completed in their first six months. It is also available to employees who have been with the Company for many years and who want to refresh their knowledge. Overall usage of the program has grown dramatically in fiscal 2012 from a base of 200 users to 1,400 users in the space of a year. This is due to increased visibility of the program, increased technical capability and availability of the program in more languages. We have ambitious plans to continue the development of Becoming Bacardi and will upgrade the program further in fiscal 2013. We will also design a Bacardi Limited immersion program to continue to enrich employee understanding of our brands and heritage. 87 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility People > Developing our people Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Performance management When we have the right talent in the right place, we As part of our performance management, we use a need to provide the right management of employee vision-to-Action process as the main approach for performance, objective-setting and career paths, translating the strategic objectives of the business into aligning an employee’s personal objectives with those personal objectives for employees. At this point, we have of the Company. Our Global Performance Management prepared aligned, transparent vision-to-Action plans for System (GPS) is the tool we use to deliver effective the top two levels of the Company, covering 430 leaders. performance management to employees across Bacardi Limited. The level of alignment that this provides between the Company vision and the individual objectives of our This award-winning system is innovative because it senior leaders is a first for Bacardi Limited. To support aligns our business objectives with employees’ personal this development, the Bacardi senior leadership team objectives, thereby transforming the vision of the has cascaded workshops for senior leaders in the top Company into specific individual actions for all of two levels of the Company to explain the vision-toour people. Action process. GPS roll-out By the end of fiscal 2012, GPS was available in seven languages and was being used by 3,800 employees worldwide, falling just short of our target of 4,000 by the end of the fiscal. Although we plan to improve the user interface of the GPS system in fiscal 2013, employees using the system have provided positive feedback, indicating that they have more clarity on their objectives and Company expectations of them. 88 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility People > Engaging our people Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Engaging our people Global Employee Engagement Survey We aim to be a Great Place to Work and, in fiscal 2011, we won Great Place to Work™ recognition in the U.K., France and Portugal. In fiscal 2012, a landmark year for engaging our employees, we launched our first-ever Global Employee Engagement Survey. In fiscal 2012, we All employees received the survey and, at a 92% employee response rate, our participation launched our firstrate scored at the high end of best-in-class across all industries. The results of the survey ever Global Employee were also encouraging. We achieved an overall employee engagement score of 3.76 out Engagement Survey, of 5. External benchmark figures indicate that best-in-class engagement starts at 4.0. We which achieved an will run the survey again in 2014 and every two years thereafter. excellent response rate of 92%. We We are delighted that our employees have highlighted Corporate Responsibility as the are delighted that most highly rated overall area, with a score of 4.22. Quality and Customer Focus and our employees have Performance Management (for employees) were the next two highest-rated areas, highlighted Corporate scoring 4.19 and 4.12 respectively. Responsibility as the most highly rated As with any canvassing of employees, this survey highlighted a range of areas for overall area, with a improvement. With the high level of survey participation, we are in an excellent score of 4.22 out of 5. position to respond positively to employee concerns. Over the next two years, we will increase our focus on development of our people, in particular by increasing awareness of and enhancing existing talent development opportunities. Making improvements To address areas for improvement, we have designed a grass-roots process that kicks off across the Company in fiscal 2013. Action teams made up of local employees will be asked to volunteer to improve their own work areas. The Human Resources function has provided training for all local Human Resources teams, who in turn are responsible for training local action teams in their countries. Once the action teams have received training, they will lead the improvement process, 3.76 relying on support materials developed for use across Bacardi Limited. Our overall employee engagement score was In fiscal 2013, the action teams will begin to identify key improvement areas and 3.76 out of 5. Bestformulate plans to deliver improvements over the next 24 months. in-class engagement starts at 4.0. 89 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT In this section Clear support Strategy Targets and progress Global activity Local activities Thanksgiving support in the local community. Benefiting communities, engaging employees We operate in many locations around the world and always aim to make a positive contribution to our local communities. Our employees are members of these communities and taking part in community activities generates a strong sense of pride. Bacardi has a more than 150-year history of quality, excellence, ethics and social involvement. These values were important to our founder, Don Facundo Bacardí Massó, and are still important to us as we marked our 150th anniversary in 2012. Our commitment to Corporate Responsibility and philanthropy was started by our founder Don Facundo Bacardí Massó. We are very proud of this legacy and it is especially important this year as the Company came together to celebrate the 150th anniversary of its founding. Rick Wilson, Senior Vice President, Legal & External Affairs, Bacardi U.S.A., Inc. Watch video 90 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Philanthropy and Community Involvement > Rick Wilson, Senior Vice President, Legal & External Affairs, Bacardi U.S.A., Inc. Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Rick Wilson Senior Vice President, Legal & External Affairs, Bacardi U.S.A., Inc. Bacardi operates in many locations around the world and we want to play an active role in contributing to the local communities that support our businesses. Our commitment to Corporate Responsibility and philanthropy was started by our founder Don Facundo www.bacardilimited.com/corporate-responsibility/ philanthropy-and-community-involvement Bacardí Massó. In 1852, Santiago de Cuba, the birthplace of BACARDÍ Rum, was struck by a devastating earthquake. Don Facundo immediately closed his shop to lead relief efforts in the city. This started a legacy of giving back to local communities even before the founding of Bacardi in 1862. We are very proud of this legacy and it is especially important this year as the Company came together to celebrate the 150th anniversary of its founding. We involve our employees as much as we can in community activities and, through their involvement, they raise awareness of the caring nature of our Company. It also makes employees feel good about working for the Company. We support local community initiatives across a range of activities in four broad areas: arts and culture; education; environment; and health and social services. This year, we continued our efforts to support the artistic heritage of Turin; we teamed up with Bat Conservation International for the UN Year of the Bat campaign, raising awareness of the environmental and economic benefits of bats; and, at Thanksgiving, employees in Miami donated a record 5,580 kilograms of food to the Abriendo Puertas food bank. In fiscal 2012, Bacardi companies and brands donated 3.2 million dollars to local communities around the world. Together, we look forward to continuing Don Facundo’s legacy of supporting local initiatives well into the future. 91 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Philanthropy and Community Involvement > Strategy Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Strategy Bacardi has a more than 150-year history of quality, excellence, ethics and social involvement. These values were important to our founder, Don Facundo Bacardí Massó, and are still important to us as we marked our 150th anniversary in 2012. Global focus, local delivery Bacardi Limited has a decentralized approach to The overall aim of our PCI program is to engage our Philanthropy and Community Involvement (PCI), with people in Corporate Responsibility. Our annual our local operations deciding how best to support their flagship event, Corporate Responsibility (CR) Month local communities. (originally developed as CR Week), is intended to involve and engage our global workforce in In line with this approach, our PCI strategy is directional, community activities. rather than prescriptive. This enables our operations to carry out community activities that are relevant locally We direct support into four broad areas: arts and and can assist in meeting community needs. culture; education; environment; and health and social services. We also support disaster relief efforts when significant natural disasters strike in locations linked to our operations. Please visit the section on local activity for more details of our support in these areas. Material issues Responsible marketing Responsible drinking In our latest materiality assessment, completed in early 2012, “local communities” ranked as an issue of INCREASING IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Product responsibility Sustainable agriculture medium to high materiality relative to other Corporate Responsibility issues. The assessment was based and sourcing Direct environmental impacts on the level of stakeholder interest in the issue and the potential impact on the Company. Local communities Sustainable packaging Responsible supply chain Good governance Responsible employer This underlines that our current approach to community involvement, with an annual Company-wide community event and local operations supporting local causes, works well for our stakeholders and for Bacardi Limited. INCREASING IMPACT ON BUSINESS Read more on our materiality process in the materiality section. View our materiality matrix 92 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Philanthropy and Community Involvement > Strategy Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Measuring our impact We joined LBG (formerly London Benchmarking Group) The total value of support given by Bacardi Limited in fiscal 2011 and continued to align our community companies and brands in fiscal 2012 was US$3.23 reporting with the LBG model in fiscal 2012. The LBG million. Click here for more information on our model provides a standardized way of managing and community support as measured using the LBG model. measuring a company’s community involvement. Reporting community activity against the LBG model allows us to measure our overall contribution – not just cash donations, but also time volunteered, in-kind donations and management costs. During the year, we improved the way in which we report community activities and donations into our community database. To ensure accuracy and completeness of community reporting, we have updated and improved the instructions and definitions used by our community ambassadors. 93 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Philanthropy and Community Involvement > Targets and progress Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Targets and progress LONG-TERM AMBITION We aim to involve our employees in our Philanthropy and Community Involvement (PCI) activities and raise their awareness of our approach to Corporate Responsibility through these initiatives. We support local communities in four broad areas: arts and culture; education; environment; and health and social services. Targets for fiscal 2012 Progress in FISCAL 2012 Targets for fiscal 2013 Complete the development of our In line with our assessment of the most Continue to monitor the effectiveness strategic approach to PCI. material Corporate Responsibility issues, of our philanthropy and community we have decided to maintain our existing approach and develop our employees’ approach to community involvement, understanding of and involvement in which incorporates an annual, global community activities. flagship community event and local initiatives managed by local operations that are closer to their communities. Continue to establish the LBG (formerly Reporting into the community database Continue to roll out the LBG model London Benchmarking Group) model has been improved. Instructions and within the business and deliver within the business and deliver definitions for community ambassadors benchmarking feedback in line with LBG. benchmarking feedback in line with LBG. have been made clearer to facilitate more accurate community reporting. Build on the success of CR Week by We planned an expanded CR Month in Successfully deliver the expanded delivering a second flagship event in May 2012, which is at the beginning of CR Month at the beginning of fiscal spring 2012. fiscal 2013 for Bacardi Limited. 2013 and continue planning and refinement to run a global community event annually. Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Target ongoing View all our targets 94 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Philanthropy and Community Involvement > Global activity Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Global activity We aim to involve our employees in our Philanthropy and Community Involvement (PCI) activities and to raise their awareness of our approach to Corporate Responsibility through these initiatives. CR Week to CR Month During fiscal 2012, we planned the expanded CR Month, which occurred in May 2012, at the beginning of fiscal Our flagship global PCI initiative is Corporate 2013. The event continued to be based on the theme of Responsibility (CR) Month. CR Month is designed to Spirit for Life, Caring Together, which links clearly to our engage our people in community activities and to work Company value of Caring and our Company purpose of in a globally coordinated way to give back to our local Spirit for Life. For fiscal 2013, CR Month was also closely communities. aligned to our 150th anniversary celebrations, which culminated in December 2012. First launched in fiscal 2011 as CR Week, the event was a great success, with nearly 65% of employees taking part We will report on CR Month in our 2013 Corporate across 35 countries. CR Week strengthened the concept of Responsibility report. volunteering across the Company and, to encourage this positive response, we expanded the event from one week to one month. We hope this will induce even more people to participate, as it gives employees greater flexibility to fit CR Month activities around other business priorities. 95 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Philanthropy and Community Involvement > Local activities Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Local activities It is in our long-term interest to foster healthy and vibrant communities. Our employees and business partners come from local communities, and respecting and supporting our communities is an important part of our being a trusted partner where we operate. Fiscal 2012 is the second year in which we have reported our community support based on the LBG (formerly London Benchmarking Group) model. The total value US$3.23M Reported giving of of support given by Bacardi companies and brands in Bacardi companies and fiscal 2012 was US$3.23 million. This figure reflects our brands in fiscal 2012 total recorded community investment, including not measured using the only financial support, but also time volunteered, in-kind LBG model. donations and management costs. www.lbg-online.net Cash contributions 53% Value of employee time 1% Management costs 5% In-kind contributions 41% 96 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Philanthropy and Community Involvement > Local activities Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Community activities Following are some examples of activities across our four key areas of Philanthropy and Community Involvement: Arts and culture Italy – Supporting the heritage of Turin, Italy In Italy, we continued to support the artistic heritage of Turin, the birthplace of our MARTINI brand. We are a founding member of the Association for the Development of the Artistic and Cultural Heritage of Turin, a body founded in 1987 to restore, enhance and raise awareness of the artistic and cultural heritage of Turin. The Association is funded by its members, which include private companies and public bodies, and works to restore artworks, statues and buildings requiring urgent attention. Over the last 25 years, more than US$35 million has been invested in 42 development and restoration projects. www.consultaditorino.it/en Bermuda – Bermudian arts and culture As a company headquartered in Bermuda, we actively support arts and culture on the island. In fiscal 2012, our donation of US$15,000 supported the continuation of the Bermuda Festival of the Performing Arts. Employees benefited from free tickets to the festival. We also donated US$37,500 to the Bermuda National Gallery. www.bermudafestival.org www.bermudanationalgallery.com U.S.A. – Supporting gifted musicians In Coral Gables, Florida, home of Bacardi U.S.A., Inc., we supported New World Symphony by donating our products for the Grand Opening Gala of their new Frank Gehry-designed building. New World Symphony is an educational organization which prepares highly gifted graduates of distinguished music programs for leadership roles in orchestras and ensembles around the world. www.nws.edu 97 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Philanthropy and Community Involvement > Local activities Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited EDUCATION France – Focus on high-achieving students Bacardi-Martini France is a long-term supporter of two organizations promoting education in France. Nos Quartiers ont des Talents brings together local companies which provide mentors and coaching for high-achieving students in the area around the BacardiMartini head office. We also partner with MEDEF 93 Ouest, the local branch of the French employers’ federation, which supports highachieving students with financial awards to help with their studies (we support three students each year). www.nosquartiers-talents.com (in French) www.clubs-medef93ouest.com (in French) Spain – Providing scholarships for employees’ children Bacardi Spain continues to support the education of our employees’ children by providing financial support for their studies. A special committee awards scholarships for college and university students, and grants for books and study materials for school-aged children (including kindergarten). In fiscal 2012, 33 scholarships for university and college students were awarded, amounting to nearly US$138,000. Grants totaling US$48,300 were awarded to 274 school-aged children of our employees. U.S.A. – Education through arts and culture In fiscal 2012, Bacardi U.S.A. supported Casita Maria Center for Arts and Education, an organization that aims to create a culture of learning and education for young people by providing high-quality cultural, arts and educational programs. Bacardi U.S.A. supported the New York-based organization with a donation of US$12,500, which paid for one year of after-school programs for 12 students. www.casita.us ENVIRONMENT Bermuda – Supporting employee causes In Bermuda, one of our employees, Michael Brennan, was a founder of the Bermuda Environmental Alliance (BEA), an organization that educates Bermudians on local environmental issues to help foster a culture of care and environmental stewardship. We aim to support employees who are engaged in community activities in their free time. We have financially supported the BEA each year for the past four years. www.bermuda-bea.org Germany – Donations instead of Christmas cards Bacardi Germany continued its support of Viva con Agua, an organization which campaigns for clean drinking water worldwide. In 2011, Bacardi Germany donated $6,000 to the charity instead of sending Christmas cards. www.vivaconagua.co.uk 98 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Philanthropy and Community Involvement > Local activities Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited U.S.A. – Bat conservation To support the UN-backed International Year of the Bat in 2011 to 2012, Bacardi teamed up with Texas-based Bat Conservation International (BCI). There is a strong link between bats and the heritage of Bacardi Limited, dating to the Company’s foundation in 1862 in Santiago de Cuba, where a colony of fruit bats was discovered in the original Bacardi distillery. As bats symbolize good health, family unity and fortune in Cuba, the colony was kept in the distillery and went on to inspire the Bacardi Bat Device that proudly graces every bottle of BACARDÍ Rum. In fiscal 2012, we supported the BCI’s Year of the Bat campaign and partnered to launch a public service video celebrating bats of the world and raising awareness of their environmental and economic benefits. The 15-second video was displayed on a giant electronic billboard in Times Square, New York City, and ran once each hour for 18 hours a day from December 2011 to March 2012. It is estimated that, on New Year’s Eve alone, the video was seen by 300,000–600,000 people celebrating in Times Square. www.batcon.org What a great way to kick-off the International Year of the Bat. We are grateful to Bacardi for this generous gift and we’re certainly excited to see what the coming year will bring. Nina Fascione, Executive Director, Bat Conservation International 99 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Philanthropy and Community Involvement > Local activities Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Health and social services Brazil and Dominican Republic – Supporting children’s heart health in developing countries In Brazil and the Dominican Republic, we continued our support for the International Children’s Heart Foundation (ICHF), which brings skills, technology and knowledge to developing countries to help care for children with congenital heart conditions. In the Dominican Republic we have supported ICHF since 2006, initially with communications to raise awareness and, since 2008, with financial donations of US$180,000. Donations help ICHF to fund missions that bring volunteer doctors to the Dominican Republic. In fiscal 2012, a US$25,000 donation fully funded a trip for ICHF doctors to operate on Dominican children with congenital heart conditions. An additional US$25,000 donation was made to support the construction of a new children’s hospital in Santiago that will treat children with heart disease, as well as train doctors to diagnose and treat congenital heart conditions. Fiscal 2012 was the first year of support for ICHF in Brazil. Along with support from the Alagoas government, a US$45,000 donation from Bacardi Brazil funded an ICHF medical mission to Brazil that provided 18 operations to children with serious heart problems. www.babyheart.org The International Children’s Heart Foundation and Bacardi have a long-standing partnership to improve healthcare for children suffering from congenital heart defects in the developing world. The Company’s donations help provide free surgical care for children, advanced medical equipment and the training of pediatric cardiac surgical staff for better healthcare sustainability. We recognize that Bacardi’s contribution is not only monetary, but their culture of Corporate Responsibility encourages global employees to support causes such as our medical missions. We are forever grateful for Bacardi’s altruism that helps us continue our mission of medical charity throughout the globe. Bryan Artiles, Fundraising, Events/PR Coordinator, ICHF 100 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Philanthropy and Community Involvement > Local activities Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Australia – Employees support chosen charity In Australia, the National Breast Cancer Foundation has been the chosen charity partner of Bacardi Lion since 2008. In fiscal 2012, employees raised a total of US$21,000 for the charity, swelling total donations since our support started to US$70,000. Employees raised vital funds through a series of cocktail nights, sweepstakes, raffles and auctions to raise awareness of breast cancer and the Foundation within the Company. www.nbcf.org.au We are delighted to contribute such a generous amount to this very worthy cause. I am very proud of the Bacardi Lion team for organizing and implementing so many great initiatives throughout the year and getting everyone involved. Colin Rochester, Managing Director, Bacardi Lion U.S.A. – Day of Service: supporting disadvantaged communities In South Florida, Bacardi U.S.A. employees have a history of supporting “Abriendo Puertas,” a community resource center in Miami’s Little Havana community that offers services to disadvantaged families. This support continued with the Bacardi U.S.A. Day of Service in July 2011, which saw more than 100 employees and their families come together at Abriendo Puertas for a day of volunteering. Employees donated almost US$1,000 to the center’s food bank and assembled more than 250 food packs for families in need. In addition, the volunteers worked with children attending summer camp at the center to create more than 30 murals and 75 planters. At Thanksgiving, in November 2011, employees helped to generate holiday cheer by donating a record 11,000 pounds (5,580 kilograms) of food to the Abriendo Puertas food bank. The donated food filled 240 boxes, requiring eight pallets and a large truck to transport it to the Abriendo Puertas canteen. www.abriendopuertasfl.org 101 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Philanthropy and Community Involvement > Local activities Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited U.S.A. – Riding to support Multiple Sclerosis In April 2011, Bacardi U.S.A. supported the National Multiple Sclerosis Society by again entering a team into the Multiple Sclerosis ride to Key Largo. Riders pedaled from the Homestead-Miami Speedway in Florida City to John Pennekamp State Park in Key Largo, totaling 150 miles. The Bacardi team of 300 riders, made up of Bacardi employees, families and friends, raised a record US$175,000, the highest total raised of all teams taking part and surpassing the US$112,000 raised the year before. The team was sponsored by our 42BELOW Vodka brand, which furnished team kits for Bacardi riders and a team tent at the finish line. In addition, 42BELOW sponsored the rider village for all 3,000 participants at the overnight stop-off for the two-day ride. Bacardi U.S.A. also sponsored the VIP tent, which hosts the top fundraisers from the previous year’s ride. www.nationalmssociety.org Netherlands – Fundraising in Amsterdam In fiscal 2012, Bacardi Netherlands supported a fundraising event for Emma Children’s Hospital AMC in Amsterdam, which cares for children with chronic diseases and long-term health problems. The fundraising evening was supported with a cash donation of US$5,000, a product donation of US$15,000 and employee volunteers who staffed the bars. In total, the event raised US$411,000 for the hospital. The money helped fund accommodations for the families of sick children. www.amazingemma.nl (in Dutch) www.steunemma.nl/site/tag/stichting-embrace-emma (in Dutch) China – Support for children in Shanghai Bacardi China ran a fundraising event in December 2011 to support Heart to Heart Shanghai, a non-profit organization supporting poor families whose children are undergoing heart surgery. Employees made cash and non-cash (books, clothes, etc.) donations and were able to buy specially made heart bears (pictured right) to show their support, raising a total of US$4,250. www.heart2heartshanghai.net 102 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited About Bacardi Limited Key statistics 6,270 Bacardi Limited is the largest privately held spirits In fiscal 2012, we had 6,270 employees producer in the world. We produce, market and distribute across the world. a variety of internationally recognized spirits through a network of regional and country level companies. US$ Our brand portfolio includes more than 200 brands and labels with a focus on six core 4,576M Our fiscal 2012 global brands, supported by a strong portfolio of local brands. Our global brands are: net sales less BACARDÍ Rum, BOMBAY SAPPHIRE Gin, DEWAR’s Scotch Whisky, ERISTOFF Vodka, excise taxes were GREY GOOSE Vodka and MARTINI Vermouth and Italian sparkling wines. US$4,576,000,000. Our brands US$ 2,135M Our total net debt was US$2,135,000,000. US$ Our six core brands 5,366M Our total equity was www.bacardilimited.com/Home/OtherBrands US$5,366,000,000 (includes US$93M non-controlling interests). BACARDÍ Rum Martini Vermouth Bombay Sapphire World’s number one selling rum. World’s number one vermouth. Gin US$ 9,375M World’s number one premium gin by value. www.bacardilimited.com/ www.bacardilimited.com/ www.bacardilimited.com/ourour-brands/bacardi-rum our-brands/martini brands/bombay-sapphire-gin Our total assets were US$9,375,000,000. Grey Goose Vodka World leader in super premium vodka. DEWAR’s Scotch Whisky Eristoff Vodka One of the fastest-growing vodka brands in the world. 62.1M World’s most awarded We sold 62,083,000 Scotch whisky. 9-liter cases of our www.bacardilimited.com/ www.bacardilimited.com/ www.bacardilimited.com/ Group brands our-brands/grey-goose-vodka our-brands/dewars-blendedour-brands/eristoff-vodka scotch-whisky in fiscal 2012. 103 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Our operations Headquarters Bacardi Limited is headquartered in Bermuda and incorporated under Bermudian law. Our products are sold in more than 150 markets worldwide by Bacardi companies and third-party distributors. Production  We currently operate 27 production facilities including bottling, distilling and manufacturing facilities located strategically in 16 countries, including the United States, Scotland, Italy, France, Spain, Germany and Mexico. See map below for more information. Distribution  We also operate a global distribution network for our brands and selected third-party agency brands. Our customers are independent distributors, wholesalers and retail outlets worldwide, including major grocers, convenience stores, hotels, restaurants and duty-free shops and stores. Consumers therefore have access to our brands from a variety of distribution channels. Our production sites Production sites Headquarters Geographical regions 104 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited www.bacardilimited.com/our-company/plant-information THE AMERICAS 1 1 CANADA UNITED STATES We have one facility We have one facility in the in Canada located in United States located in Brampton. At this site we Jacksonville. At this site we bottle BACARDÍ Rum and bottle BACARDÍ Rum. blend BACARDÍ BREEZER. 3 1 MEXICO PUERTO RICO We have three facilities We have one facility in in Mexico located in La Puerto Rico located in Galarza, Tultitlán and Cataño. At this site we Arandas. We distill BACARDÍ produce BACARDÍ Rum. Rum at La Galarza and bottle it at Tultitlán. We produce CAZADORES Tequila at Arandas. 1 1 1 CHILE Uruguay BRAZIL We have one facility in We have one facility We have one facility in Brazil Chile located in Santiago. in Uruguay located in located in São Bernardo. At this site we bottle Montevideo. At this site we At this site we bottle MARTINI Vermouth and bottle MARTINI Vermouth BACARDÍ Rum and ERISTOFF Vodka. and ERISTOFF Vodka. MARTINI Vermouth. 105 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited www.bacardilimited.com/our-company/plant-information EUROPE 5 FRANCE We have five facilities in France located in Marseillan, Cognac, Fécamp, Gensac and Beaucaire. At Marseillan we produce NOILLY PRAT Vermouth, at Cognac we produce BARON OTARD Cognac and GASTON DE LAGRANGE Cognac, at Fécamp we produce BENEDICTINE Liqueur, at Gensac we bottle GREY GOOSE Vodka and at Beaucaire we bottle ERISTOFF Vodka. 1 1 1 1 GERMANY ITALY PORTUGAL SPAIN We have one facility We have one facility in Italy We have one facility in We have one facility in Spain in Germany located in located in Pessione. At this Portugal located in Lisbon. located in Mollet. At this Buxtehude. At this site we site we produce MARTINI At this site we bottle site we produce MARTINI bottle BACARDÍ Rum and Vermouth and MARTINI MARTINI Vermouth. Vermouth and bottle produce BACARDÍ BREEZER. sparkling wines. BACARDÍ Rum. ASIA 1 6 1 1 SWITZERLAND UNITED CHINA INDIA We have one facility in We have one facility in We have one facility in India KINGDOM Switzerland located in China located in Shanghai. located in Nanganjud. At We have six facilities in Meyrin. At this site we At this site we bottle this site we produce and Scotland. At our sites produce botanical blends BACARDÍ Rum and produce bottle BACARDÍ Rum. in Aberfeldy, Aultmore, and aromatic extracts for a BACARDÍ BREEZER. Craigellachie, Royal Brackla range of brands. and MacDuff we distill malt whisky. At our site in Glasgow we blend and bottle Scotch whisky. 106 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Our corporate structure Regions Global functions The corporate structure of Bacardi Limited includes Our global functions are Global Operations, Finance, five geographical regions – North America; Europe; Marketing and Sales, and these are supported by Middle East and Africa; Latin America; Asia Pacific – General Management functions, including IT, Legal and and the global functions that support the Company. External Affairs, Communications, Procurement, Business  Development and Human Resources. Each region The operating structure comprises a number consists of a small regional management hub and local of holding companies, trading subsidiaries and markets where Bacardi has its distribution companies or operating units, the ultimate owner of which is sales offices. Bacardi Limited. In total, Bacardi has over 100 companies and sales offices that are wholly owned. Our corporate structure Bacardi senior leadership team NORTH Latin Asia Europe Middle AMERICA America Pacific Covering seven East and Covering three Covering five Covering five business units AFRICA business units business units business units Covering one business unit Global functions Global Operations, Finance, Marketing and Sales supported by IT, Legal and External Affairs, Communications, Procurement, Business Development and Human Resources. Distribution operations A separate business unit distributes our brands through Operating arrangements differ from market to market, the Global Travel Retail network, i.e., airports, cruise ships but include wholly owned, joint venture or third-party and diplomatic channels. distribution. Governance I n smaller markets, area managers work with nominated This organizational structure is overseen by the Bacardi distributors and wholesalers in order to meet local Board of Directors, which has three principal committees demands for our brands. covering Audit, Compensation and Nominations (including oversight of the Company’s corporate I n many markets, formal agency arrangements exist with governance). Further details are given in our GRI index. other brand owners to handle their distribution. 107 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited ABOUT THIS REPORT In this section Targets and progress GRI content index UN Global Compact Key stories Downloads This is the fifth annual Corporate Responsibility report produced by Bacardi Limited, the largest privately held spirits company in the world. It focuses on our work to manage the social and environmental impacts of our business. This report covers the fiscal year ending March 31, 2012 (fiscal 2012) and builds upon our first four annual Corporate Responsibility reports. Our previous Corporate Responsibility report was published in January 2012. This report is not externally assured. For the first time, the Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report has been produced as an online report and as an integral part of our corporate Web site. www.BacardiLimited.com. Global Reporting Initiative In this report, we have followed the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 framework for sustainability reporting for the second time. We self-declare this report to Application Level B. 108 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Report coverage Data has been compiled following the GRI indicator protocols. Data measurement techniques and There were no significant changes to the size, structure assumptions are cited in the relevant sections of or ownership of the Company in fiscal 2012. There were the report. no significant acquisitions or divestments in the year. The WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol was used to Data presented in the People and Philanthropy and compile our GHG emissions data. Community Involvement sections, as well as safety data from the Environment, Health and Safety section, Any reference to “Bacardi” as a company in this report cover our offices and our directly owned and managed refers to Bacardi Limited, one of its subsidiaries or a production facilities. group of Bacardi companies. Data on indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions cover our directly owned and managed production facilities Request for feedback and large offices with 25 people or more. We would like to hear from our stakeholders on our 2012 Corporate Responsibility report. We are particularly All other environmental data cover our directly owned interested in your views on: and managed production facilities. Performance data • The information we have included. from our offices, suppliers, outsourced bottlers and co• Any information we did not include. packers are not included. There have been no significant • The case studies. changes in the scope or boundaries of the data we are • The data reported. reporting this year. • The design of the report. Please use the Contact us form to send us your comments. Any re-statements of data are noted in the relevant sections of this report. Thank you. 109 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > Targets and progress Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Targets and progress The table below shows our progress against targets for fiscal 2012 and our targets for fiscal 2013. Full details of our performance can be found in the sections for each of our Corporate Responsibility pillars. Marketplace – LONG-TERM AMBITION Our ambition is to be best-in-class in promoting responsible drinking and ensuring our marketing is responsible. In order to help reduce alcohol-related harm, we will play an influential role in encouraging responsible decisionmaking by legal drinking age (LDA) consumers and discouraging inappropriate consumption of our products. Targets for fiscal 2012 Progress in FISCAL 2012 Targets for fiscal 2013 Continue the development of our flagship Increased awareness with local market Achieve 500,000 Facebook™ fans by the “Champions Drink Responsibly” consumer events and “Ace Rafa” Facebook™ game end of fiscal 2013. campaign, aiming to generate activity in that was played by 50,000 people in more markets. 35 countries. Launch a global competition to align more clearly the “Champions Drink Achieved 240,000 fans on the “Champions Responsibly” campaign messaging with Drink Responsibly” Facebook™ page in the other brand consumer activity. first year of the campaign. Publish new global guidelines New digital marketing guidelines Update the Bacardi Global Marketing for responsible digital and social published in July 2011, which include a Principles and supporting guidelines media marketing. section on social responsibility. to bring them up-to-date with the new developments with our digital marketing approach. Launch a responsible digital marketing e-book to support our existing e-learning module on responsible marketing and include in the induction of all new employees. Establish one Corporate ResponsibilityBrand imprint workshops run with Include the responsible sourcing of the related initiative for each of our six global DEWAR’s Scotch Whisky, BACARDÍ Rum botanicals for BOMBAY SAPPHIRE Gin as premium brands. and BOMBAY SAPPHIRE Gin. part of the brand story. Include responsible drinking messaging within BACARDÍ Rum consumer party events. 110 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > Targets and progress Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Targets for fiscal 2012 Progress in FISCAL 2012 Targets for fiscal 2013 Further support of the Global Alcohol Global Actions on Harmful Drinking Play a part in developing a five-year Producers Group’s Global Actions on projects continued (27 projects in industry commitment to reducing Harmful Drinking and the World Health 18 countries) and an independent midalcohol-related harm as part of Global Organization Global Strategy to Reduce term evaluation report on progress has Actions on Harmful Drinking. We will the Harmful Use of Alcohol. been completed. support specific activities to prevent packaging appealing to those under Bacardi Limited provided local market LDA and also expand consumer support for projects in Mexico, Russia information on-pack. and China. Continue to build new and Launch of our Slow Drinking program Assist in reforming the Foreign Spirits creative initiatives to combat the harmful in France to build on previous Producers Association in China, use of alcohol at local country levels. educational initiatives. including widening the program of activities on responsible drinking. Continued to play a part in the U.K. Government’s Responsibility Deal. Expand our work with the U.K. Responsibility Deal, in particular increasing consumer choice of lower alcoholic strength drinks as a way to reduce alcohol unit intake and target alcohol-related harm. Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Target ongoing ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY – LONG-TERM AMBITION We aim to achieve best-in-class environmental and safety performance in our operations. Most of our products’ environmental impacts are in our supply chain and we will work both in our own facilities and with our suppliers to reduce impacts and risks across our whole value chain. From a safety point of view, we have a long-term vision for an accident-free Bacardi Limited. Targets for fiscal 2012 Progress in FISCAL 2012 Targets for fiscal 2013 Seek continual improvement in GHG emission intensity fell by 6% in fiscal Seek continual improvement in environmental performance, targeting a 2012 and water use efficiency improved environmental performance, targeting 1% reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) by 11% compared to fiscal 2011. a 1% reduction in GHG emission emission intensity and a 1% improvement intensity and a 1% improvement in in water use efficiency. water use efficiency. Complete and launch the environmental We renewed our environmental Launch the environmental sustainability sustainability strategy. sustainability vision and strategy and strategy across Bacardi Limited. aim to launch it across the Company in fiscal 2013. 30% of sites to have a behavior-based We continued to expand our behavior67% of sites to have a behavior-based safety program in place. based safety program at our operations safety program in place by the end of and by the end of fiscal 2012, 56% of our the fiscal year. sites were implementing the program. 111 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > Targets and progress Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Targets for fiscal 2012 Progress in FISCAL 2012 Targets for fiscal 2013 Expand our EHS programs across the We have successfully started recording Continue to expand our EHS business and include non-manufacturing safety performance at our nonprogram by building an office sites in our safety reporting. manufacturing sites and now report the safety network, providing support lost time accident rate for the whole of from the manufacturing operations Bacardi Limited. organization, establishing information sharing networks, and developing an improvement plan for office safety. Maintain certification of all production All 27 production facilities maintained Maintain certification of all production facilities to the ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and certification in fiscal 2012. facilities to the ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 management OHSAS 18001 management system standards. system standards. Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Target ongoing RESPONSIBLE SOURCING – LONG-TERM AMBITION Our vision for Responsible Sourcing is for all of our raw materials and packaging to come from sustainably sourced, renewable or recycled materials – reducing environmental and social impacts while maintaining or enhancing the economic status of growers and suppliers. Targets for fiscal 2012 Progress in FISCAL 2012 Targets for fiscal 2013 Continue to involve our suppliers in the During a year of change within the On an ongoing basis, 100% of highand Sedex® database, aiming for the following Responsible Sourcing program, we have very high-risk direct suppliers and global in fiscal 2012: decided to restate our targets based POS suppliers to be compliant with • 80% of global packaging suppliers on level of risk, rather than spend by Responsible Sourcing standards either by spend. procurement category. via Sedex® membership or the Bacardi • 60% of global point-of-sale (POS) Limited procurement process. suppliers by spend. Prior to making this change, halfway • 75% of global ingredient and flavor through fiscal 2012, performance against 20% increase in the number of suppliers suppliers by spend. the target for Sedex® membership was: on Sedex® database year-on-year. • 60% of global packaging suppliers by spend. • 40% of global POS suppliers by spend. • 31% of global ingredient and flavor suppliers by spend. Identify and train site-based Responsible The first step toward this was Deliver focused training to develop the Sourcing champions during fiscal 2012 evolution of our Supplier Performance individuals running the SPM tool at our and 2013. Measurement (SPM) tool, which now ten largest sites in fiscal 2013 and the includes a section focusing on suppliers’ remainder to be trained in fiscal 2014. Corporate Responsibility programs, adherence to our Responsible Sourcing standards, membership of Sedex® and environmental credentials. 112 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > Targets and progress Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Targets for fiscal 2012 Progress in FISCAL 2012 Targets for fiscal 2013 Implement our locally managed supplier We did not start to develop our supplier We will start our local audit program audit program in fiscal 2012 and 2013. audit program in fiscal 2012, however, during fiscal 2013, focusing initially through our participation in the mutual on suppliers with a higher risk of recognition workstream of AIM-Progress, non-compliance. we have gained access to over 40 audits of our suppliers from a bank of 6000+ audits from our AIM-Progress colleagues. Work with our key suppliers to ensure Bacardi’s commitment to BonsucroTM In fiscal 2013, we will develop a sourcing that 100% of our sugarcane-derived remains as strong as ever and we will plan to achieve our interim target to ingredients are certified under the serve on the BonsucroTM Board of source 50% of our sugarcane products BonsucroTM Production Standard within Directors for another year following the from BonsucroTM certified sources ten years. Board election in February 2012. by 2017. Establish a program of socio-economic The community program being run We will work with WWF to develop support for the sugarcane-growing in Fiji by WWF is up and running. We an agreed set of key performance communities supplying Bacardi Limited, source more than 40% of our molasses indicators for the Fiji project that will starting with Fiji in fiscal 2012. from Fiji and one of the key aims of the be reported monthly. program is for the Fiji Sugar Corporation to become compliant with the BonsucroTM A gap analysis of the Labasa sugar mill in production standard. Fiji against the BonsucroTM standard will also be completed in fiscal 2013. Establish sustainability in the design and We continue to review the POS ranges of Establish a sustainability review process lifecycle of the POS ranges for global our global brands. With this review comes for all new POS items developed for our brands by fiscal 2017. the opportunity to reduce the number of global range for the brands BOMBAY items and suppliers we use and to build SAPPHIRE Gin, GREY GOOSE Vodka and relationships with suppliers in which DEWAR’s Scotch Whisky. sustainability and lifecycle management become part of the design criteria. Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Target ongoing 113 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > Targets and progress Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited PEOPLE – LONG-TERM AMBITION We will unleash the potential of our people by creating a working environment where every employee can take advantage of the development opportunities Bacardi Limited offers. We will inspire, engage and support our people and intend to become recognized internally and externally as a Great Place to Work. Targets for fiscal 2012 Progress in FISCAL 2012 Targets for fiscal 2013 Continue the roll-out of our Global Roll-out reached 3,800 employees by Enhance the user experience for current Performance Management System to the end of fiscal 2012 and the Global users, making the system more intuitive. cover 4,000 employees by quarter one of Performance Management System is now • Focus on the link between fiscal 2012. available in seven languages. employee performance and Company performance. • Focus on functionality. • Focus on development planning. Continue to build on our Talent Review Talent Review expanded to cover the • Complete the global roll-out of Talent and Succession Planning process to build majority of the top three levels of Reviews across the top three levels of new leaders for the future. Bacardi Limited comprising almost 700 the Company. employees. Filled 70% of open positions • Expansion to deeper levels of the in the top three levels of the Company Company, with a specific focus on our with internal talent. sales function. Launch a range of new leadership Successfully trialed a number of Continue to establish our portfolio of development products. leadership development initiatives, leadership development initiatives including our Step Up and Talent across Bacardi Limited: Exchange programs. • Roll out Step Up and Talent Exchange initiatives. • Pilot a Coaching Certification and Manager Training program. • Launch our leadership fundamentals program for line managers. Launch our first Global Employee Global Employee Engagement Survey Action teams established in fiscal Engagement Survey and action teams in completed with a 92% participation 2013 will identify key improvement fiscal 2012. rate across the Company. Action teams areas and develop plans for delivering made up of local employees will also be improvements over the next 24 months. established to identify and address areas for improvement. 114 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > Targets and progress Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Targets for fiscal 2012 Progress in FISCAL 2012 Targets for fiscal 2013 Continue the roll-out of our Women in Focused on organizational engagement • 50% of business units and global Leadership strategy. and awareness raising during the functions to establish a local year and piloted a female maternity three-point Women in Leadership coaching program as well as releasing an action plan. adoption policy as part of our equality of • Run a development course for highopportunity policy. potential women leaders. • Launch recruitment guidelines that provide guidance on recruiting highpotential women. • Establish an internal women’s network in key locations. Roll out the implementation of our new A new operating model that delivers Embed the new operating model operating model. greater resources to our sales and through workshops and launch a marketing functions has been rolled “toolbox for change” that provides all out. In line with our recruiting approach, Bacardi Limited people with advice and 90% of new roles within sales and tips to make our organization more agile marketing were filled internally from and successful in adapting to internal our existing workforce. and external factors. Implement global employee assistance Employee assistance program rolled out Continue to raise awareness of program – Bacardi Assist – in all markets. in all markets, 167 cases logged by the Bacardi Assist in fiscal 2013. We end of fiscal 2012. anticipate that this will result in more employees taking advantage of this service during the next fiscal. We will also monitor employee perception of the program and enhance it where appropriate. Develop an employee-giving fund that An employee-giving fund was not N/A contributes and responds to natural developed. It is currently our view that disasters and other good causes. our existing approach is working well and we will respond to natural disasters and other good causes in the same way as we have in the past. We will also continue to involve employees with volunteering, sponsorship and personal donations without setting up a world-wide process to manage this. Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Target ongoing 115 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > Targets and progress Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Philanthropy and community involvement – LONG-TERM AMBITION We aim to involve our employees in our Philanthropy and Community Involvement (PCI) activities and raise their awareness of our approach to Corporate Responsibility through these initiatives. We support local communities in four broad areas: arts and culture; education; environment; and health and social services. Targets for fiscal 2012 Progress in FISCAL 2012 Targets for fiscal 2013 Complete the development of our In line with our assessment of the most Continue to monitor the effectiveness strategic approach to PCI. material Corporate Responsibility issues, of our philanthropy and community we have decided to maintain our existing approach and develop our employees’ approach to community involvement, understanding of and involvement in which incorporates an annual, global community activities. flagship community event and local initiatives managed by local operations that are closer to their communities. Continue to establish the LBG (formerly Reporting into the community database Continue to roll out the LBG model London Benchmarking Group) model has been improved. Instructions and within the business and deliver within the business and deliver definitions for community ambassadors benchmarking feedback in line with LBG. benchmarking feedback in line with LBG. have been made clearer to facilitate more accurate community reporting. Build on the success of CR Week by We planned an expanded CR Month in Successfully deliver the expanded delivering a second flagship event in May 2012, which is at the beginning of CR Month at the beginning of fiscal spring 2012. fiscal 2013 for Bacardi Limited. 2013 and continue planning and refinement to run a global community event annually. Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Target ongoing 116 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > GRI content index Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited GRI content index This report has been produced in line with the Global Key Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Fully reported Guidelines and is a self-declared Application Level B report. Not reported Indicator Description Status Link Notes 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision • A welcome from maker of the organization about the our Chairman and relevance of sustainability to the Chief Executive organization and its strategy. Officer • CEO video 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, • A welcome from and opportunities. our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer • Our Corporate Responsibility program • Stakeholders • Materiality • Our impacts 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. • About Bacardi Limited 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. • About Bacardi Limited 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, • About Bacardi including main divisions, operating Limited companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. • About Bacardi Limited 2.5 Number of countries where the • About Bacardi organization operates, and names of Limited countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. • About Bacardi Limited 2.7 Markets served (including geographic • About Bacardi breakdown, sectors served, and types of Limited customers/beneficiaries). 117 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > GRI content index Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Indicator Description Status Link Notes 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization, • About Bacardi including: Limited • Number of employees; • Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations); • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations); and • Quantity of products or services provided. 2.9 Significant changes during the • About this Report reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. • EHS management 3. Report Parameters Report profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) • About this Report for information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). • About this Report 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). • About this Report 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the • About this Report report or its contents. Report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content • Stakeholders • Determining materiality; • Materiality • Prioritizing topics within the report; and • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, • About this Report divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope • About this Report or boundary of the report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, • About this Report subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the • About this Report bases of calculations, including assumptions • EHS management and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 118 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > GRI content index Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Indicator Description Status Link Notes 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re• EHS management statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous • EHS management reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. GRI content index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the • About this Report Standard Disclosures in the report. • GRI content index Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to • About this Report seeking external assurance for the report. 4. Profile Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, The Board of Directors of Bacardi Limited is the including committees under the highest highest governance body within the organization governance body responsible for and consists of 16 members. The Chief Executive specific tasks, such as setting strategy or Officer (CEO) is the only ‘executive’ officer on the organizational oversight. Board. The Directors are elected by our shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and hold their office for a term of one year or until their successors have been duly appointed. The Board of Directors is entrusted with directing and conducting the business, including determining the Company’s strategic direction. Directors The following list presents information concerning our directors in fiscal 2012: Name Position Facundo L. Bacardi(1) Chairman of the Board Adolfo L. Danguillecourt(1) Deputy Chairman of the Board Barry E. Kabalkin Deputy Chairman of the Board Edward D. Shirley(4) President and Chief Executive Officer Victor R. Arellano, Jr.(1) Director Jaime Bergel(2) Director Francisco V. Carrera Justiz(1)(2) Director Robert J. Corti(2)(3) Director Paul M. de Hechavarria(2) Director Ignacio de la Rocha(1) Director Michael J. Dolan(2) Director John S. Galantic(3) Director Melanie Healey(3) Director 119 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > GRI content index Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Indicator Description Status Link Notes Roman Martinez IV(2)(3) Director Philip Shearer(3) Director Theodore C. Walker(3) Director (1) Nominating and Governance Committee member. (2) Audit Committee member. (3) Compensation Committee member. (4) E  dward D. Shirley succeeded Séamus McBride as President and Chief Executive Officer on March 12, 2012. Committees of our Board of Directors The Board of Directors has established three principal committees: the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Nominating and Governance Committee. The Audit Committee’s primary functions are to advise and assist the Board of Directors with respect to the selection of the independent auditors of the Company, the conduct of the external and internal audits of our internal control structure, the external audit of our accounts, financial reporting matters and internal controls over financial matters. It is also responsible for reviewing our consolidated financial statements, the reports of the independent auditors and other financial information. The Compensation Committee assists the Board of Directors in fulfilling its responsibilities in determining the compensation of the Company’s senior executives and Board members. The Compensation Committee has the overall responsibility for approving and evaluating the compensation plans (including perquisites and retirement benefits), policies and programs of the Company with respect to officers, senior executives and directors. The Nominating and Governance Committee assists the Board of Directors in identifying, recruiting and providing candidates who would become nominees for future election to the Board of Directors by the shareholders. It is also responsible for assessing the performance of the Board of Directors and its individual members in coordination with the Chairman of the Board. Additionally, the Nominating and Governance Committee is tasked with oversight of the Company’s corporate governance. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest Bacardi Limited has adopted the practice of separate governance body is also an executive appointments of the Chairman of the Board and the officer (and, if so, their function within the CEO of the Company. organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary Bacardi Limited has a unitary board structure. Only board structure, state the number of the CEO is classified as an ‘executive’ director. All 15 members of the highest governance other directors are classified as ‘non-executive’. The body that are independent and/or Company defines ‘non-executive’ as a director who non-executive members. does not form part of the executive management team. He or she is not an employee of the Company. 120 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > GRI content index Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Indicator Description Status Link Notes 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and Shareholders: employees to provide recommendations or As a private company, which is family-owned by direction to the highest governance body. approximately 500 shareholders, the mechanisms in place for shareholder communication with the Board are as follows: • Letters and other forms of written communication to the Chairman or to the Board directly are reviewed and responded to. • There is a formal shareholder relations department that deals with specific requests and/or complaints from shareholders as and when they arise. In addition to this, the office of the Chairman provides a shareholder relations function with shareholders often discussing issues directly with the Chairman. • There is family representation on the Board from the branches of the family. Often issues are funneled up to the Board via the appropriate family representative. • The Annual General Meeting allows for shareholder queries on specific items as they are presented. There is also the opportunity for general shareholder questions and comments. There is no specific time limit or cap on the number of questions that can be asked. • There is a semi-annual shareholder webcast. Here again, shareholders can ask specific items as topics are covered, however there is also the opportunity for general shareholder questions and comments. Employees: There are a number of mechanisms in place for employees to engage with the CEO and members of his management team. • The CEO holds regular webcasts with staff throughout the year with an open question and answer period. • The CEO and representatives from his senior management team hold regular forums throughout the year, engaging employees on all levels. • The CEO and senior management team regularly engage with employees on the ONE Bacardi global intranet. • In addition, in 1999 the company and employees’ representatives from each of the Member States of the European Economic Area created the Bacardi Martini Forum, an information and consultation forum of management and employees’ representatives who meet to engage in a dialogue on the business performance and prospects for the Bacardi operations within the European Region. 121 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > GRI content index Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Indicator Description Status Link Notes 4.5 Linkage between compensation for The directors are currently paid a fixed fee for each members of the highest governance body, Board and Committee meeting attended, as well as senior managers, and executives (including their expenses incurred in connection with meeting departure arrangements), and the attendance. Unlike many companies (particularly organization’s performance (including social publicly traded companies), the Company does and environmental performance). not provide equity or equity-based compensation to the directors. Bacardi has adopted a pay for performance compensation philosophy. The annual incentive structure is designed to instill shared accountability in achieving the Company’s strategic vision. This design implements a globally consistent structure, revises the financial measures and links performance ratings to compensation decisions. The structure will apply a consistent mix of financial measures and individual performance ratings to all Bacardi executives by level and function or region (subject to local legal constraints) and will have a significant impact on the determination of the annual incentive payout. Our Long-term Cash Incentive Plan (“LTCI Plan”) compensates senior executives with the objective of maximizing the growth of the Company. The amount that is eventually paid from the LTCI Plan is based on a three-year performance period evaluation, based on financial goals and brand health. The measures used in this evaluation reflect both financial and strategic objectives. The awards vest on the third anniversary of their issuance, and are automatically exercised upon vesting. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest Conflicts of interest are handled at the Board level governance body to ensure conflicts of and at the Company level. interest are avoided. At the Board level, during the nomination phase of a director, the current directors’ qualification policy states that nominees for director must not have a conflict of interest as defined by the Company’s Code of Conduct, unless it is waived by the Nominating and Governance Committee following full disclosure of potential conflicts as part of the nomination process. In addition, directors of a Bermuda company have a duty to avoid conflicts of interest. Our bye-laws also provide that a director must disclose any direct or indirect interest in any contract or arrangement with us. At the Company level, the Code of Conduct is monitored by the Compliance Committee which reports to the Audit Committee. 122 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > GRI content index Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Indicator Description Status Link Notes 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications There is a Board policy on the qualifications for and expertise of the members of the nominations to the Board of Directors for which highest governance body for guiding each nominee is reviewed and measured against the organization’s strategy on economic, by the Nominating and Governance Committee, environmental, and social topics. prior to being put forth as a candidate for election to the Board. This policy seeks to ensure that the nominees to the Board meet certain criteria and have the necessary education and experience. Experience is defined as “having experience demonstrating significant management or professional accomplishments with substantial business enterprises and a capacity to understand the material business and financial issues of the Company and to contribute meaningfully to the work of the Board.” The Board receives a report on the Corporate Responsibility program once a year, as well as ad hoc updates from the CEO and from members of the management team. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission The Company’s mission, values and Code of Conduct or values, codes of conduct, and principles are globally applied across the organization to all relevant to economic, environmental, regions, countries, departments and business units. and social performance and the status of They are promoted on the internal Web site and their implementation. through messaging in employee communication, training and development. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance Once a year the Board receives a report on our body for overseeing the organization’s Corporate Responsibility program, which covers all identification and management of initiatives in this area. economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks The Board has appointed a Compliance Committee and opportunities, and adherence or which has, among other things, the responsibility of compliance with internationally agreed overseeing and implementing the Code of Conduct. standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest In May 2011, the Nominating and Governance governance body’s own performance, Committee approved self-assessments for the Board particularly with respect to economic, and its committees. The self-assessment process will environmental, and social performance. eventually tie into the closing of the fiscal year. Commitments to external initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the Our environmental policy adheres to the precautionary approach or principle is Precautionary Principle established by the 1992 addressed by the organization. Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. This states that complete scientific certainty is not necessary before measures are taken to prevent environmental damage. 123 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > GRI content index Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Indicator Description Status Link Notes 4.12 Externally developed economic, UNGC (http://www.unglobalcompact.org/) environmental, and social charters, GRI (https://www.globalreporting.org/) principles, or other initiatives to which the European and national self-regulatory codes on organization subscribes or endorses. responsible marketing ILO Conventions (www.ilo.org) Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code (www.ethicaltrade.org) BonsucroTM (www.bonsucro.com) LBG (http://www.lbg-online.net/) 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as • Tackling alcoholInternational Council for Alcohol Policies (ICAP) industry associations) and/or national/ related harm (www.icap.org/) international advocacy organizations. • Responsible Global Alcohol Producers Group (GAPG) drinking campaigns (http://www.global-actions.org/) • Responsible supply World Federation of Advertisers (WFA) chain (www.wfanet.org) • Working with European Spirits Organisation (CEPS)* suppliers and (www.spirits.eu ) partners European Forum for Responsible Drinking (EFRD)* • Sustainable (www.spirits.eu ) agriculture and Distilled Spirits Council (DISCUS) (www.discus.org) sourcing The Century Council (www.centurycouncil.org) AIM-PROGRESS (http://www.aim-progress.com/) Sedex® (http://www.sedexglobal.com/) BonsucroTM (www.bonsucro.com) Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable (BIER) (http://www.bieroundtable.com/) We are also members of various local trade associations and social aspects organizations in the markets in which we operate. * In November 2012, after the close of fiscal 2012, CEPS and EFRD merged to become spiritsEUROPE. Stakeholder engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by • Stakeholders the organization. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of • Stakeholders stakeholders with whom to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, • Stakeholders including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been • Stakeholders raised through stakeholder engagement, • Materiality and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators Economic performance indicators DMA Disclosures on Management Approach • Responsible supply chain 124 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > GRI content index Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Indicator Description Status Link Notes Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Market presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. (Additional indicator) EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of We select our suppliers on a range of criteria spending on locally-based suppliers at including cost, quality, supply chain and adherence significant locations of operation. to our Responsible Sourcing standards. Although proximity to our operations is not a basis for supplier selection, figures for the location of our suppliers show that a large percentage is local to our plants. We define suppliers as local if they are in the same country as the operation they are supplying. In fiscal 2012, 79% of packaging and ingredient suppliers (329 of a total of 414) were local suppliers. packaging and ingredient suppliers defined as local (%) 71 EMEA* 73 NORTH 84 AMERICA 82 LATIN 96 AMERICA 91 ASIA 81 PACIFIC 100 78 TOTAL 81 Ingredient suppliers Packaging suppliers packaging and ingredient suppliers defined as local (%) Ingredient suppliers Packaging suppliers EMEA* 71 73 North America 84 82 Latin America 96 91 Asia Pacific 81 100 Total 78 81 *Europe, Middle East and Africa EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. 125 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > GRI content index Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Indicator Description Status Link Notes Indirect economic impacts core EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. (Additional indicator) Environmental performance indicators DMA Disclosures on Management Approach • EHS strategy • EHS management Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary • Energy energy source. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by • Energy primary source. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and • Energy efficiency improvements. (Additional indicator) EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. (Additional indicator) EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. (Additional indicator) Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. • Water EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. (Additional indicator) EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. (Additional indicator) Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 126 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > GRI content index Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Indicator Description Status Link Notes EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. (Additional indicator) EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. (Additional indicator) EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. (Additional indicator) Emissions, effluents, and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas • Greenhouse gases emissions by weight. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas • Greenhouse gases emissions by weight. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. (Additional) EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions • Greenhouse gases by type and weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality • Water and destination. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and • Waste and disposal method. packaging EN23 Total number and volume of • EHS management significant spills. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. (Additional indicator) EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. (Additional indicator) Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 127 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > GRI content index Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Indicator Description Status Link Notes EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and • EHS management total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. (Additional indicator) Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. (Additional indicator) Labor practices and decent work performance indicators DMA Disclosures on Management Approach • People • Safety Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, At the close of fiscal 2012, our total workforce numemployment contract, and region. bered 6,721, comprising 6,270 employees and 451 supervised TOTAL TOTAL WORKFORCE WORKFORCE workers. EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES BY BY TYPETYPE OFOFEMPLOYMENT EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT CONTRACT TOTAL WORKFORCE TOTAL WORKFORCE BY TYPE OFBY EMPLOYEESEMPLOYEES EMPLOYMENT TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTCONTRACT Employees Employees6,270 6,270 Temporary Temporary 585585 EmployeesSupervised Supervised 6,270 Employees 451451 workers workers 6,270 TemporaryPermanent Permanent 585 Temporary 5,685 5,685 585 workers 451workers 451 Supervised Supervised Permanent 5,685 Permanent 5,685 PERMANENT PERMANENT EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES EMPLOYMENT BY BY TYPE EMPLOYMENT TYPE WORKFORCE WORKFORCE BY BY REGION REGION PERMANENT PERMANENT EMPLOYEESEMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE WORKFORCE WORKFORCE BY REGION BY REGION Full-time 5,578 Full-time 5,578 North North America America 1,234 1,234 Full-timePart-time 5,578 107 Part-time Full-time 107 5,578 Europe, Europe, North America 1,234 North Middle Middle AmericaEastEast andand 1,234 Africa Africa 3,607 3,607 Part-time 107 Part-time 107 Latin Latin America America Europe, Europe, Middle East Middle and 1,051 1,051 and Africa 3,607 East3,607 Africa Latin AmericaAsia Pacific Pacific AsiaLatin 1,051 829829 America 1,051 Asia Pacific 829 Asia Pacific 829 128 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > GRI content index Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Indicator Description Status Link Notes LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover In fiscal 2012, 785 employees left the Company, by age group, gender, and region. representing a turnover rate of 12.5%. EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY GENDER EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY AGE EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY GENDER EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY AGE Male 479 (7.6%) Over 50 years 198 (3.2%) Male 479 (7.6%) Over 50 years 198 (3.2%) Female 306 (4.9%) 30 to 50 years 433 (6.9%) Female 306 (4.9%) 30 to 50 years 433 (6.9%) Under 30 years 154 (2.4%) Under 30 years 154 (2.4%) EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY REGION EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY REGION North America 112 (1.8%) North America 112 (1.8%) Europe, Middle East and Africa 410 (6.5%) Europe, Middle East and Africa 410 (6.5%) Latin America 162 (2.6%) Latin America 162 (2.6%) Asia Pacific 101 (1.6%) Asia Pacific 101 (1.6%) LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or parttime employees, by major operations. (Additional indicator) Labor/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by In fiscal 2012, 37% of employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. collective bargaining agreements. EMPLOYEES COVERED BY COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Covered by a collective bargaining agreement 2,320 Not covered by a collective bargaining agreement 3,950 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. (Additional indicator) 129 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > GRI content index Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Indicator Description Status Link Notes LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities by region. LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. (Additional indicator) Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee, by employee category. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. (Additional indicator) LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. (Additional indicator) Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. Human rights performance indicators DMA Disclosures on Management Approach • People Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. (Additional indicator) 130 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > GRI content index Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Indicator Description Status Link Notes Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination In fiscal 2012, five separate allegations of employee and actions taken. harassment were brought to the attention of the Compliance Committee. Two complaints were uncorroborated with one case being closed immediately. In the other uncorroborated case, a local remediation plan was put in place. In one of the remaining reported cases, the complaint was discussed with the reported employee and thereafter closed. In another, two employees were dismissed for their behavior. The fifth report was of inappropriate discriminatory behavior by an employee which did not involve any other person. This resulted in the employee being issued with a formal final warning and a remediation plan is now in place to prevent further occurrences. Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child labor HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. Forced and compulsory labor HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Security practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. (Additional indicator) Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. 131 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > GRI content index Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Indicator Description Status Link Notes Society performance indicators DMA Disclosures on Management Approach • Philanthropy Our employee Code of Conduct is based on widely and Community recognized principles of sound governance and Involvement articulates our high standards on issues such as legal compliance, conflicts of interest, financial reporting, competition, anti-corruption practices and social responsibility. Each year our key managers have to certify their compliance with the Code of Conduct and expressly note any exceptions. The certifications are reviewed by our Compliance Committee and the results are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in All Bacardi employees have undertaken a training organization’s anti-corruption policies program on the principles of the Bacardi Limited and procedures. Code of Conduct which includes anti-corruption practices. In addition, the CEO and all members of the Bacardi senior leadership team (BLT) have undertaken specific training on anti-corruption practices. Similar training will be rolled out to all direct reports of BLT members during fiscal 2013. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents In fiscal 2012, ten separate allegations of corruption of corruption. were reported. Eight cases related to inappropriate business practices. In five of these cases, employees were dismissed or disciplined. In one case, a contract with a vendor was terminated. Of the eight cases reported, in four cases there was an internal review of current business practices. In addition there was one allegation of misuse of company assets which resulted in an employee dismissal followed by a review of local internal business practices. There was one allegation of theft of company assets which resulted in an employee dismissal followed by a review of local internal business practices. Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 132 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > GRI content index Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Indicator Description Status Link Notes SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country (Additional indicator) Anti-competitive behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. (Additional indicator) Compliance core SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Product responsibility performance indicators DMA Disclosures on Management Approach • Marketplace Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. (Additional indicator) Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes. (Additional indicator) PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. (Additional indicator) Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, • Responsible and voluntary codes related to marketing marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. 133 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > GRI content index Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited Indicator Description Status Link Notes PR7 Total number of incidents of non• Responsible compliance with regulations and marketing voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. (Additional indicator) Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for We have not received any significant fines for nonnon-compliance with laws and regulations compliance with laws and regulations concerning concerning the provision and use of the provision and use of products and services. products and services. 134 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > UN Global Compact Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited UN Global Compact Communication on Progress As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we are committed to meeting the ten internationally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption in all our global business operations. Signatories to the UNGC are required to publish an annual Communication on Progress. This report, including the GRI content index, provides our Communication on Progress against the principles of the UNGC. UNGC principles Bacardi approach Where to find out more Human Rights Businesses should: Maintaining the health and safety of all our employees Environment, Health and Safety 1. support and respect the protection is a high priority for us. All our manufacturing sites Responsible Sourcing of internationally proclaimed human continue to be certified to the international health and rights; and safety standard OHSAS 18001. 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our suppliers have to meet our Responsible Sourcing standards, which commit them to complying with human rights principles. We have a structured process for engaging suppliers with our standards. This includes supplier selfassessments and on-site inspections. Labor standards Businesses should uphold: We respect the right to freedom of association among Responsible Sourcing 3. the freedom of association and the all of our employees. GRI content index effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Our Responsible Sourcing standards require our 4. the elimination of all forms of forced suppliers to respect freedom of association and the and compulsory labor; right to collective bargaining. 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and We do not use forced or child labor in any of 6. the elimination of discrimination our operations. Our Company Code of Conduct in respect of employment and includes a commitment to equal opportunities and occupation. non-discrimination. We aim to achieve the elimination of all forms of forced labor, child labor and discrimination in our supply chain through our Responsible Sourcing standards. We are also members of industry-wide partnerships such as Bonsucro™, which aims to ensure minimum labor and environmental standards are achieved within the sugarcane growing and processing sector. 135 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility About this Report > UN Global Compact Corporate Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy About Bacardi About this Responsibility Health and Sourcing and Community Limited Report at Bacardi Safety Involvement Limited UNGC principles Bacardi approach Where to find out more Environment Businesses should: Our Group-wide environmental policy adheres to the Environment, Health and Safety 7. support a precautionary approach to precautionary principle. Responsible Sourcing environmental challenges; GRI content index 8. undertake initiatives to promote We aim to drive continuous improvement in our greater environmental responsibility; facilities’ performance through a management systems and approach. All our facilities remain certified to the ISO 9. encourage the development and 14001 international environmental management diffusion of environmentally friendly system standard. technologies. We are actively promoting the wider use of renewable energy sources in our facilities and focusing our effort on reducing the use of non-renewable energy. Our Responsible Sourcing standards require our suppliers to protect the environment as part of business practice. Anti-corruption Businesses should: Our Company Code of Conduct details the behaviors Responsible Sourcing 10. work against corruption in all we expect from our people and it addresses issues of GRI content index its forms, including extortion conflicts of interest and bribery and corruption. and bribery. Our Responsible Sourcing standards state that bribery and corruption are not tolerated. 136 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report 2012 www.bacardilimited.com/Home/CorporateResponsibility
