UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JULY 2013 SLA 27.6.2013 Statement of Continued Support I hereby express our continued support for the UN Global Compact initiative. Since our initial support communication three years ago, the need for the Global Compact initiative has become even more relevant, and we are continuously working to fulfilling the principles of UNGP. As architects designing places of living, working and leisure we have a special focus on the principles regarding the environment. We work continuously with a mindful approach to environmental challenges when designing. As landscape architects and urban consultants SLA provides landscape services and urban planning services to clients who make the final decisions. Given the role as consultants our direct responsibility for decisions concerning construction work, labor, construction materials, etc. are limited. However, we always strive to encourage clients to choose solutions that promote the Global Compact principles. We also collaborate with various partners and suppliers on the development and use of environmentally sound technologies and methods. As architects we have special focus on the UN Global Compact Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. SLA complies with Danish National Legislation, which meets International conventions. All contracts with employees are based on agreements with Danish trade unions. The following pages describe actions and outcomes. This report covers the period from June 2012 to June 2013 Best regards Mette Skjold Managing Director SLA page 3 page 4 page 5 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights SLA STATE OF ART: SLA comply with Danish National Legislation, which meets International conventions. Internally SLA constantly secure that the company live up to the internationally proclaimed human rights with regards to the freedom of religion, the freedom of thought, and the equal rights of all individuals no matter their gender, sexual orientation or race. SLA monitors the outcome of the company’s implementation through regular and extended employee talks and anonymous surveys. Externally SLA works to support and secure that human rights are respected by all our clients and collaborators. INITIATIVES 2011-12 SLA has continually elected company safety representatives and made surveys among all employees about physical and psychical aspects of their work. A fair and open process in hiring new employees has been met, with no regards to the job applicants’ race, sex or religion. Furthermore we have engaged with a physiotherapist to ensure the best possible working conditions for all employees. SLA monitors the outcome of the company’s implementation through regular and extended employee talks, as well as keeping up-to-date with clients and collaborators through the UN Global Compact website and newsletters. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses SLA STATE OF ART: SLA comply with Danish National Legislation, which meets International conventions. When working abroad we constantly strive to secure that no human rights abuses take place by our clients or collaborators. This is acchieved by using official programmes and declarations of the appropriate countries. page 6 LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining SLA STATE OF ART: SLA is upholding such a policy for all employees. All contracts with employees are based on agreements with a Danish trade union. Through its membership of the central Danish Architecture Association, SLA actively promotes the respect and recoignition of the right to collective bargaining for all employees. SLA monitors the outcome of the company’s implementation through regular and extended employee talks and anonymous surveys. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour SLA STATE OF ART At SLA all employees have individual contracts stating terms and conditions of service and stating notice of leave. Through its membership of the central Danish Architecture Association, SLA actively promotes the respect and recoignition of free labour for all employees. SLA monitors the outcome of the company’s implementation through regular and extended employee talks and anonymous surveys. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour SLA STATE OF ART: SLA comply with Danish National Legislation which supports the abolition of child labour. Through its membership of the central Danish Architecture Association, SLA actively promotes the elimination of child labour both at home and abroad. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation SLA STATE OF ART: SLA has a recruitment policy that secures equal employment opportunities based solely upon an assessment of relevant qualifications in relation to the core business of SLA. SLA monitors the outcome of the company’s implementation through regular and extended employee talks and anonymous surveys. page 7 page 8 page 9 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges SLA STATE OF ART: SLA continue to implement and develop the work made by the Danish Minister for Environment in her policy for urban policy concerning environmental sustainability. Initiatives 2012-13: SLA has included environmental consideration in all concepts for competition entries and we have invited experts to give lectures. SLA has published several articles and made interviews about environmental sustainability both at home and abroad. SLA has met with several government officials in several European countries to promote, explain and encourage sustainability and climate issues. SLA has been involved in several development projects with the goal of creating sustainable buildings, landscapes and cities both in Denmark and abroad. SLA has through extensive R&D worked to include innovative environmental solutions, such as cradle-to-cradle method, in all our projects. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility SLA STATE OF THE ART: SLA encourages the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies in all possible projects where this is in the interest of the client. SLA also on its own initiative develops visions for landscape projects with the aim of taking forward the debate about environmental issues. Initiatives 2011-12 As Principle 7. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies SLA STATE OF ART AND INITITIVES: As Principle 7. page 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery SLA STATE OF ART: SLA comply with Danish National Legislation, which meets International conventions. Through our international collaborations we constantly work to seccure that no corruption or other illegal activities take place. page 11 SELECTED OUTCOMES RINGKØBING K | New Ecological City in Denmark Location: Ringkøbing, Denmark Client: Realdania and Ringkøbing K Design phase: 2012-13 Area: 238 ha. Realisation: 2013-25 In Ringkøbing K a CO2-neutral life is supported through new, more enjoyable and healthier ways of living together, where the landscape connects and communicates the social’s network. Ringkøbing K is a new development project on the western boarder of Denmark. We believe that nature must always be present not more than 50m from your doorstep to provide amenity value, supporting healthy lifestyles and tackle environmental challenges. The landscape city will become a social and experimental alternative to the way we normally live and think; an alternative that makes it good to live and simultaneously easy and attractive for individuals to take action against climate change. By condensing the built environment, we achieve more nature and new communities in the built and landscape, gathering energy consuming functions which before belonged to the individual household. BJØRVIKA | Oslo Central Harbour Location: Oslo, Norway Client: Municipality of Oslo Design phase: 2006-12 Area: 18 ha. Realisation: 2012-17 New neighborhoods are often built according to plans in which urban spaces occurs as gap between the buildings. In Bjørvika, Oslo’s largest urban development project, the planning is reversed. In an international competition in 2005 SLA won first prize with the development plan of the harbour of Oslo. SLA’s proposal connects downtown Oslo with the bay and creates a new district where the city and the water unite through sensory elements. Central to the masterplan is the creation of a great and vibrant urban life and place specific allmenninger that creates a clear and cultural identity in the new urban areas. The master plan is completed and the development under way. The individual spaces are now under design and realization. The project is one of SLA’s longest collaborations. MÆRSK BUILIDNG | Landscape for new research facility Location: Copenhagen, Denmark Client: The University of Copenhagen Design phase: 2011-12 Area: 31.000 m2 Realisation: 2013-16 Enzymes are proteins which catalyze chemical reactions. SLA’s landscape for the new Panum landscape will likewise catalyze the relationship between Panum’s many users and the surrounding city. In the task of creating a new landscape for the Panum Complex it is SLA’s ambition to create a unified landscape brand for Panum , creating a clear and unique identity for the site. The landscape brand is based on the particular universe that characterizes Panum’s activities, both as a historical institution with many traditions and as a research capacity that develops world-class bleeding-edge technologies. Simultaneously, the landscape ensure the transition to the general life of Copenhagen, and thus create value for the average citizen in the city. page 12 SLA is dedicated to promote sustainability, eco-friendliness, and healthy living. These principles SLA incorporates in all our projects, wheter it is counseling, city planning or design of landscapes and urban spaces. SLA participates in the national and international debate on the architectural profession’s sustainability and is a leading reference in Denmark on urban climate change, the acclimatization of our cities and future development of the urban context. Through its practise it is SLA’s hope that it will encourage its client, colleagues and competitors to fullfill and promote the values and ideas of the United Nations Global Compact. page 13
