Overview March 2013 United Nations Global Compact – 2013 Communication of Progress. Overview Who we are: National Australia Bank is a financial services organisation with over 12.9 million customers, 43,000 employees, operating more than 1,800 stores and business banking centres and is responsible to more than 480,000 shareholders. While our core franchise is Australian-based, we also have interests in New Zealand, Asia, the United Kingdom and the United States. At the heart of our Group is a belief in the potential of our customers and communities, and in each other. We look for positive, value-creating and sustainable relationships and solutions. This belief also places a high standard for our Our operations interact with a large number of stakeholders across the industries and regions we operate in and we recognise that a bank has a special responsibility. Our Code of Conduct guides behaviours and asks all employees to be authentic how we do business and clearly sets out the standards of responsibility and ethical conduct required and respectful, work together and create value of every employee and everyone working on our behalf – including contractors, consultants and through excellence. directors. Our Corporate Responsibility (CR) Framework outlines our approach to CR across five focus areas: our customers, our people, the communities in which we operate, our suppliers and the environment. Examples of our activities in these areas include: People Customer Community Environment Supply chain Diversity and inclusion, Financial inclusion, hardship, Education, financial and social Areas of focus for our environmental agenda Responsible procurement flexibility, workplace (labour) responsible lending/investment, inclusion, mental health support include climate change, resource efficiency practices, sustainable relations and occupational fees & charges, accessibility, services, community engagement, and natural value. Other key activity areas supply chain management health and safety. customer service including giving and volunteering, supporting include environmental risk management and and supplier diversity and complaints resolution and development of Indigenous project financing – particularly for renewable inclusion. prevention. Australia and measuring our energy. We are signatories to the Equator performance against peers through Principles, the United Nations Environment the London Benchmarking Group Programme Finance Initiative, the Natural methodology. Capital Declaration and the Carbon Disclosure Project. More information on our approach to CR can be found on our website (www.nabgroup.com/cr). Overview About this Communication of Progress: The majority of information included in this Communication is based on NAB’s 2012 Financial Reporting Year: 1 October 2011 – 30 September 2012. However, our environmental information is based on our environmental reporting year – 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2012 (to allow for alignment to relevant regulatory reporting requirements). Where appropriate we have included material updates and items that have occurred between 30 September 2012 and the date of this Communication. References to ‘nab’, ‘NAB’, the ‘National’, ‘National Australia Bank’ or the ‘Company’ are to National Australia Bank Limited ABN 12 004 044 937. The ‘Group’ refers to National Australia Bank Limited and its controlled entities. Human Rights UNGC Principles GRI References Businesses should: DMA HR EC5 1. 2. LA6-9 support and respect the protection make sure that they are HR1-7 of internationally proclaimed not complicit in human SO1 human rights. rights abuses. PR9 When we assess project finance opportunities within high-income OECD countries, Commitment we evaluate them for compliance with the relevant domestic regulatory requirements. The framework for the protection of human rights is formed by our policies, which apply We report our performance publicly in our Customer Dig Deeper paper published across the Group. annually online. In these policies we commit ourselves to international standards of conduct including For projects in all other countries, we apply International Finance Corporation (IFC) the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for and World Bank safeguard policies (as a minimum). We apply these policies – regardless Multinational Enterprises and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. of the monetary value of the project – if there are concerns that, for example, environmental habitats, Indigenous peoples and community rights may be at risk. A range of initiatives and policies help us to meet the requirements of the Human Rights aspects of these commitments. As at 30 September 2012, NAB Group’s project finance portfolio did not include any lending in low-income OECD countries. Policies and Processes Our procurement process clearly informs potential suppliers of our expectations, policies We do not directly operate in areas considered at high risk of human rights abuses, and requirements and outlines our expectation that suppliers we do business with have however we are nonetheless committed to managing human rights along with other sound environmental and social standards in place, including those relating to workplace economic and social governance considerations as part of our risk framework. and human rights practices. Our Group-wide policies and business practices aim to respect and promote human In 2012, we consolidated our existing regional approaches to sustainable supply chain rights. For example, we have extensive programs and initiatives in place to support our management and launched our Group Supplier Sustainability Principles to monitor and commitments in the areas of diversity, equal opportunity, health and safety, indigenous manage sustainability risks, including the protection of human rights, across our supply development, education and financial inclusion. chain. Importantly, this will enable a consistent approach to managing supply chain performance across our regions of operation. We have been signatories to the Equator Principles since 2007, committing ourselves to a voluntary set of standards for determining, assessing and managing social and Our Group Outsourcing Policy specifically states our commitment to supporting fair and environmental risk in all project financing. non-discriminatory employment practices and fair workforce standards for international Human Rights operations. We are committed to upholding the OECD Guidelines for Multi National • Continued to invest in the development of our women and more specifically targeted Enterprises and the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and we require our suppliers activity to increase female representation in leadership positions. The NAB Realise to demonstrate they have operating policies and practices in place that support these Program is tailored to support women to transition into such roles. This group mentoring standards. program aims to help participants develop themselves and their career resiliency skills, develop and build on skills, debate a range of topics and introduce high profile guest Our Group Outsourcing Policy also explains what sustainability in the supply chain speakers to share their experiences. means for us, including understanding what products are made of, where they come from and how they are made. For services this means looking at who is providing the services • Continued to support International Women’s Day (IWD) to help us to connect women and how the services are managed, particularly in relation to workplace practices and around the world, to inspire them to achieve their full potential and support them in human rights. doing so, and also help to create awareness of how NAB supports gender equality. • Launched our Accessibility Action Plan 2012 – 2014 in December 2012. The Accessibility We recognise that a significant human rights issue in Australia is the social and financial Action Plan has five key objectives with supporting actions which aim to improve access exclusion of Indigenous communities. We continue to support the inclusion of Indigenous for all people who have a disability. Australians with specific actions described in our Reconciliation Action Plan in the areas of: financial inclusion, access to real jobs, cultural awareness and building business • Conducted a series of Financial Independence and Social Media events across Australia partnerships. for women and their daughters 14 years+ with the objective to empower women economically. • Developed partnerships with Australian Women’s Chamber of Commerce, Women on Key Achievements in 2012 Boards and Australian Institute of Company Directors to deliver a series of education and • Launched our Group Supplier Sustainability Principles (a consolidation of existing regional personal development workshops focused on improving women’s financial confidence approaches). and independence. • Continued employee education initiatives to engage our people more broadly on environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues, including human rights. Examples of this include our biennial Corporate Responsibility Conference, which brought together over 150 NAB Group employees for presentations, panel discussions and interactive workshops on human rights issues such as diversity and Indigenous inclusion. • Included an ESG module in our employee risk compliance training – compulsory for all employees. To date this training has been completed by over 28,000 employees. • Recognised as an Employer of Choice for Women for the sixth consecutive year running by the Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency (EOWA). Human Rights Key Actions Planned for 2013 Further information • Publish our fifth Reconciliation Action Plan in Australia outlining our continued • Details of our approach to improving the working conditions and operation of commitment to financial inclusion, meaningful employment, cultural understanding organisation for our employees, including details of our approach to diversity and and building business partnerships with Indigenous Australia. inclusion can be found in our 2012 Annual Review and People Dig Deeper paper here. • Finalise a review, commenced in 2012, of our operations against various international • More information on our approach to financial inclusion and responsible lending human rights frameworks, as part of a wider social and governance risk review. (including Equator Principles) can be found here and in our Customer Dig Deeper paper. The scope of this review includes assessing NAB’s compliance with its voluntary • More about our support for Indigenous communities in Australia can be found in our commitments, including how the organisation meets the requirements of the UN Reconciliation Action Plan here. Declaration of Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the UN Guiding Principles for Human Rights. Expected completion of this review is early 2013. • Our Group Supplier Sustainability Principles can be found here and more detail on our approach to the Supply Chain can be found on our website and in our Supply Chain Dig • Development of a supplier assessment framework and tool which will assist us to better Deeper paper. manage the risks and opportunities within our supply chain. Human rights will be incorporated into this framework. • Implement the aligned actions for the first year of the Accessibility Action Plan 2012-2014 and continue to monitor their effectiveness to ensure that improvements to initiatives are sustained over the long term. • Continue to conduct Financial Independence events for women and their daughters 14 years and older. • Announcement and launch of the inaugural NAB Women’s Agenda Leadership Awards. • Continue a series of partnerships to deliver educational and development workshops focussed on improving women’s financial confidence and independence. • Continue to foster a flexible working environment and where appropriate develop new policies and practices that support NAB employees, with a specific focus on empowering women in our workforce. Labour UNGC Principles GRI References Businesses should uphold: DMA LA LA4-5, LA13-14, 3. 4. 5. 6. HR1-7 the freedom of association and the the elimination of all forms of the effective abolition the elimination of discrimination EC7 effective recognition of the right forced and compulsory labour. of child labour. in respect of employment SO5 to collective bargaining. and occupation. Our enterprise behaviours encourage employees to speak up and have open, honest and Commitment constructive conversations, and encourage others to share their ideas and actively listen to, The NAB Group plays a significant role in the lives of over 43,000 employees. Our focus on and respect the ideas of their colleagues. leadership, culture and capability supports our business strategy to become a great place to work and an organisation with which our customers want to do business. We employ an adult professional workforce in all countries in which we operate and do not currently operate in areas considered at high risk of forced or underage labour. We include We’re committed to sustaining an inclusive culture that supports every employee to reach criteria around workplace practices and human rights in our Supplier Sustainability Principles. their full potential throughout the various stages of their lives and careers. This is achieved by recognising ‘diversity of thought’ and valuing differences among our people. In Australia, As discussed in the Human Rights – Policies and Processes section, our Group Outsourcing we have a focus on gender, age, flexibility and disability, with measurable group gender Policy explains what sustainability in the supply chain means for us, particularly in relation diversity targets and we report on our progress annually. to labour standards, workplace practices and human rights. An effective diversity agenda needs to be ‘owned’ and led by the business in order to fully integrate diversity into our culture and all elements of business planning. Responsibility for Policies and Processes this ‘business led and business owned’ framework does not lie solely with senior leadership The NAB Group recognises the rights of employees to join and be represented by a union – it is shared by NAB’s Group Diversity Forum, our Diversity and Inclusion team, and all our without suffering from any form of discrimination or prejudice. We have signed a Global employees. Our commitment to diversity and inclusion underpins our interaction with all Unions Engagement Agreement with the relevant unions in our major areas of operation, our stakeholders, from customers, to our employees, to suppliers, our partners and our recognising employee rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining applying shareholders. to all operations within the NAB Group. We have a number of objectives, targets and measures to enable us to create a fair In these regions our people are represented by the following unions: and open workplace that supports freedom of association and recognition of the right to collective bargaining as aligned with regional laws and regulations. • Australia – Finance Sector Union • New Zealand – First Union • United Kingdom – Unite Labour All NAB Australian and National Wealth Management Services (NWMS) employees are Our commitment to Indigenous Australians is detailed in our Reconciliation Action Plan covered by a collective bargaining agreement (referred to as an “Enterprise Agreement”). (RAP), including building access to valuable, long lasting and meaningful employment This agreement recognises the Finance Sector Union (FSU) as the relevant union to opportunities that are delivered in a sustainable way, through traineeships and full-time represent the interests of NAB Australia’s employees. The agreement outlines the rights of employment. Our RAP also sets out our commitment to improving the financial inclusion employee union representatives, including: a reasonable entitlement to paid leave to attend and supporting greater organisational understanding of and respect for Indigenous to their representational duties and access to induction sessions convened by NAB for new Australians. employees. Our African Australian Inclusion Program is a joint initiative between NAB, Jesuit Social Enterprise Agreements in Australia and New Zealand have delivered a number of workplace Services, and Adult Multicultural Education Service. Lack of work experience in the changes that will drive a flexible and supportive work environment. Australian business sector is the single largest barrier for qualified African-Australians to gain employment. The African Australian Inclusion Program seeks to address this The agreements include Off-shoring Principles in line with our Group Outsourcing Policy by providing commercial experience and opportunities for qualified African-Australians, and commitment to Fair International Workforce Standards. We endeavour to comply with a view to increasing the chances of becoming and retaining sustainable employment with all relevant freedom of association legislation, regulatory requirements and ILO in a chosen field in the Australian workforce. Conventions 87 and 98. From January 2012 all our preferred external recruitment suppliers have needed to Our Group Outsourcing Policy specifically states our commitment to supporting fair and demonstrate that they comply with NAB’s Diversity and Inclusion Policy, have a written non-discriminatory employment practices and fair workforce standards for international diversity policy/framework for their business, and undertake appropriate diversity training operations. We are committed to upholding the OECD Guidelines for Multinational for their people. Enterprises and the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and we require our suppliers to demonstrate they have operating policies and practices in place that support these Furthermore, as the largest Fairtrade accredited workplace in the world (as accredited standards. by the Fairtrade Association of Australia and New Zealand in 2012), we actively make purchasing decisions to support communities in the developing world who can use the We are committed to creating a diverse and inclusive workplace, one in which individual funds to invest in local businesses, hospitals, schools and infrastructure. Fairtrade gives differences are valued and respected, and which reflects the customers we support and farmers, workers and communities improved working conditions and a better quality the communities we live in. Our Group Diversity Policy outlines our approach to creating of life. a more diverse and inclusive workforce and the expectations and behaviours that drive this, including those relating to discrimination. Providing pathways to employment: We also have an important role to play in fostering a more inclusive society and as a significant employer we can do this by enabling pathways to employment for people experiencing disadvantage. Labour Key Actions in 2012 • Completed our second Gender Pay Equity audit in conjunction with the Finance Sector Union Australia – a first for any Australian bank. • Launched our Accessibility Action Plan – detailing our commitments to improving access for all people who have a disability. • Reviewed and updated the Global Unions Engagement Agreement. Key Actions Planned for 2013 • Work with stakeholders to create our next Enterprise Agreement. Our current Enterprise • Continued recognition as the largest Fairtrade accredited workplace in the world by Agreement expires on 31st December 2013. Fairtrade Australia & New Zealand. • Complete a Social Return on Investment study into the impact of our African Australian • Continued to make progress on our Group Gender Diversity targets, for example, and Indigenous employment programs. as 30 September 2012, we have achieved female representation of 30% in Executive Management, the top three layers of the organisation, against target of 33% by 2015. • Continue to progress towards our Group Gender Diversity Targets of 2015. • Continued to support ‘Connecting Women’, an employee led network group set up • Implementation of the Accessibility Action Plan. primarily but not exclusively, for women working at NAB which aims to connect and • Establishment of ‘Nability’ – an employee network for people with disability inspire NAB women by providing opportunities to network and to motivate our people to be recognised and consulted as leaders on women’s career and development issues. • Develop a ‘Realise’ program offering for our community partners and business customers to help the support and development of women to transition into leadership positions. • Continued to support International Women’s Day (IWD) to help us to connect women We aim to work with our networks to help women to develop themselves, their career around the world, to inspire them to achieve their full potential, to support them in doing resiliency skills and form greater connection with our external network of women. so and also help to create awareness of how NAB supports gender equality. • Continued to expand our African Australian Inclusion Program. In 2012 we celebrated our 78th participant through the program. Further Information • Increased the number of Indigenous Australians employed by NAB to 142 in 2012, • More information about our workplace relations can be found here and more and increased the number of trainees who have transitioned to full-time employment information is available in our People Dig Deeper paper. from six in 2011 to 30 in 2012. • More information on our commitment to diversity, including our Group Gender Diversity • Establishment of Pride@nab – NAB’s first LGBTI employee network. targets can be found in our 2012 Annual Financial Report here and in our People Dig Deeper paper. • Recognised as an Employer of Choice for Women for the sixth consecutive year running by the Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency. • Our Accessibility Action Plan is available here. • Continued to support the external ‘Pearls’ program in the UK and ‘WiNA’ Women’s • Information on our Supply chain practices can be found in our 2012 Annual Review and networking Group in Asia and the UN Women Empowerment Principles in New Zealand. Supply Chain Dig Deeper Paper here. • Took part in the annual Stonewall Workplace Equality Index in the UK which benchmarks • Information on our Fairtrade accreditation can be found here. public and private sector organisations to achieve a place in the top 100 employers. In 2012 we were ranked 67. Environment UNGC Principles GRI References Businesses should: 4.11 EN1 to EN23 7. 8. 9. EN26-28 support a precautionary approach undertake initiatives to promote greater encourage the development and diffusion SO5 to environmental challenges. environmental responsibility. of environmentally friendly technologies. Our operational focus in the Australian region has expanded to more explicitly include Commitment initiatives targeted at reducing resource consumption and waste. This is supported by We are committed to managing the impact of our business on the environment. We have reduction targets we have put in place to date in Australia, New Zealand and the UK. a role to play in the long-term sustainability of our planet and its natural resources by reducing the direct and indirect environmental effects of our operations. A sustainable Additionally, we have continued to increase our focus on sustainable supply chain approach to managing our business is important not only for the environment but also management, including the management of environmental impacts. for the long-term growth and resilience of our business. As a provider of capital, we recognise the important role we have to play in helping our We recognise that our planet has limited capacity to continue to provide the ecosystem customers to move towards a lower carbon way of doing business. We have expanded services and natural resources we depend upon. We have responded by expanding our range of environmental finance products and services and continued our support our Environmental Agenda to include three priority areas – climate change, improving of renewable energy development through project finance. resource efficiency and considering natural value (or the valuation of natural capital). Our environmental agenda therefore incorporates strategies covering these areas. NAB embeds risk management as part of our day-to-day business practices. These are described on our Group website. Where environmental challenges are identified and Becoming Carbon Neutral is just one example of our commitment to tackling environmental viewed as material because they are likely to impact on our operations or our credit risk challenges. processes we undertake a risk assessment, wherever practicable, and may modify our policies, processes and procedures to account for these risks. We were the first major Australian corporate to be certified carbon neutral under the Australian government’s National Carbon Offset Standard. We have also published Greenhouse Gas Reduction and ‘Beyond Carbon Neutral’ targets. These outline how Policies and Processes we hope to continue reducing our resource use and waste through to 2013. Our Beyond The NAB Group considers that addressing our environmental impacts and dependencies Carbon Neutral Report for the Australian region identifies future areas of focus for us that is more than just doing the right thing; it is responsible business practice, and therefore, include leveraging our experience to support our customers and suppliers as they address an imperative for our business. their environmental impacts, and monitoring the impact of our operations on biodiversity and ecosystems. Environment Our Environmental Agenda has a number of elements: We are committed to: • Climate Change • being a leading financier of renewable energy development; − Continue to develop products and services to help our customers respond to, • building capability in servicing carbon markets; and and manage the impacts of, climate change. • offering new financial products and services to help our customers, where they are − Continue to develop our understanding of, and manage, climate change risk and responding to environmental challenges and/or regulatory changes, opportunities. Business opportunities, such as the provision of environmental products and services, − Share our carbon neutral experience with others, encouraging their action. are identified and prioritised through the strategic planning process both at the Group − Engage our people and assist them with their personal actions. and business line level. • Resource Efficiency Our environmental product and advisory teams in Australia and New Zealand are providing: − Continue to reduce Greenhouse Gas emissions. • advisory and financing work around Clean Development Mechanism and Carbon Farming − Improve resource efficiency with an increased focus on water, paper and waste. Initiative projects; − Continue to grow employee engagement and develop positive environmental • Kauri bond issues; behaviours. • through Bank of New Zealand, directly providing debt on the back of carbon revenues − Embed sustainability into our purchasing decisions. from forestry; • Natural Value • Environmental Upgrade Agreements (building retrofits to make residential and commercial properties more efficient). − Build NAB’s thought leadership position. More information on our product and service initiatives can be found here. − Consider risks and revenue dependencies. − Review our operational and supplier decisions. − Participate in initiatives to develop business tools and valuation methodologies. Key Actions in 2012 • In Australia, we completed the first two Environmental Upgrade Agreements, energy − Drive awareness and employee engagement. efficiency financing for commercial buildings, in collaboration with Low Carbon Australia − Build product and service responses. and Eureka Funds Management. • Moved to support locally Australian made Forestry Stewardship Council (FSC) certified We recognise that in addition to reducing our own environmental footprint, significant 100% post-consumer recycled office paper – commencing in January 2013. opportunities exist to help our customers as they transition to a lower carbon way of operating, and adapt to, and manage, the risks of climate impacts, natural resource • Switched to a range of recycled paper products including copy paper, paper towels and constraints, biodiversity losses and changing environmental policy and regulatory cups in our Great Western Bank operations in the US. requirements. • Completed a waste audit in New Zealand, which resulted in improved waste sorting processes. Environment • Continued our work as a signatory of the United Nations Environment Programme • Implement water reduction initiatives at a range of Australian regional sites. Finance Initiative Natural Capital Declaration – a statement by global financial institutions • Expand the program of energy efficiency works to our Australian network sites that recognises natural value as an issue that may bring risks and opportunities. (Stores, Business Banking Centres and kiosks). Works undertaken include lighting • Commenced the construction of our new consolidated building at 700 Bourke Street, control and daylight sensors, de-lamping and lamp upgrades, occupancy sensors, Melbourne for occupancy in 2013. Some of the sustainable design features for the new timers on equipment such as vending machines and chilled/hot water units and building are: adjusting room temperature control (broader comfort zone). − A central atrium that will distribute air flow and daylight throughout the building. • Trial PV solar at sites in NSW and SA to determine current viability of this investment. Since NAB last reviewed solar installations, key inputs such as electricity price and unit − High performance façade design to assist with heat load and glare. cost have changed significantly. − 6 Star Green Star base building energy rating. • Trial reflective roof paint at sites in QLD and SA to determine accurate energy savings. − Blackwater treatment plant. − Rainwater harvesting. Further Information • Retained our ISO 14001 certification at Merrion Way, Leeds, UK. • Details of our initiatives to reduce our environmental impact and promote sustainable • Continued support of our voluntary Green Team Community which has grown from 1200 practices can be found in our 2012 Annual Review and Environment Dig Deeper in 2011 to 1500 at 30 June 2012. Completed development of Environmental, Social and paper here. Governance (ESG) Risk Principles to further embed ESG risk considerations into our • Information on our environment and risk governance can be found at here. day-to-day business decision making, and continued to refine our processes and tools for managing ESG risks. • Information on our understanding of Natural Value can be found here. • Information on our environmental targets can be found here. Key Actions Planned for 2013 • Our Group Environment Policy can be found here. • Develop Group environmental performance targets for FY14 – FY16. • Our 2012 Energy Efficiency Opportunities report is available here. • Increase awareness and application of ESG Risk Principles across the Group. • Reduce Group Greenhouse Gas emissions from building-based energy use by 18,900 tCO2-e against a 2010 baseline, by 30 June 2013. • Rollout of new environmental management software across the Group. • Deliver the 2010-2013 resource efficiency targets in water, emissions and paper. • Implement further waste reduction initiatives in Australia including direct measurement via site based weighbridges and third party waste audits. Refresh of waste signage at all commercial sites to industry best practice. Anti-Corruption UNGC Principles GRI References Businesses should: DMA SO SO2-8 10. work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment Policies and Processes We are committed to the active management of all forms of financial crime (such as Our Group Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorism Financing, Sanctions and money-laundering and counter-terrorism; fraud, bribery & corruption; and trading with Embargoes, Anti-Fraud and Anti-Bribery and Corruption policies detail management sanctions/embargoed countries, entities and politically exposed persons (PEPs)) in addition strategies to minimise the risk of opportunities for financial crime. These policies are owned to meeting our regulatory requirements in these areas. by the Group AML, Bribery & Sanctions Compliance Team and apply to all NAB employees, contractors, agents and other people that are acting on behalf of the NAB Group. Good corporate governance is a fundamental part of our culture and business practices in the prevention of financial crime. Our corporate governance framework along with our The policies outline employee’s responsibilities to act honestly and adhere to internal specific financial crime policies and procedures provides for effective decision making about controls and procedures designed to prevent any form of financial crime and to report the affairs of the Group and our customers. such acts should they be identified. We take a proactive stance towards the prevention of financial crime, which also includes not permitting any form of facilitation payment in The Financial Services industry is vulnerable to financial crime including internal and any circumstances, as the bank considers these payments to be bribes. We have effective external fraud. As with any organisation, we are not immune to cases of bribery and processes in place to monitor and report on charitable and political donations and corruption and acknowledge that fraud, corruption and money laundering/terrorist sponsorships. financing are intrinsically linked. As such, we are committed to ensuring that the risk of, and opportunities for, financial crime are reduced. The above referenced policies are supported by a range of policies and guidelines as outlined below: Effective risk management is a key capability of a successful financial services provider. Our approach is based on three lines of defence and the principle that, to be effective, • Group Whistleblower Policy (further information provided below) risk management must be embedded in front line teams and supported by objective • Group Securities Trading Policy insight, appetite and oversight. All incidents of criminal activity are thoroughly investigated by a dedicated team within our Financial Crime Centre of Excellence with oversight and • Group Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing Guidelines advice provided by our Group AML/CTF, Bribery and Sanctions Compliance Team. • Group AML/CTF Program (applicable to Australia only) The Board and Executive Management Committees monitor and oversee the NAB Group’s • Group Sanctions & Embargoes Policy risk management framework and application, which includes the financial crime risks we face. • Group Sanctions and Embargoes Guidelines • Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Guidelines Anti-Corruption • Group Operational Risk Framework All suppliers to NAB Group must comply with all relevant local and national laws and regulations in relation to bribery, corruption and other prohibited business practices. • Group External Auditor Independence Policy • Group Government Contact & Political Donations Policy Serious breaches of Group policy and compliance can result in adverse performance outcomes and/or termination of employment. All incidents of criminal activity (both • Group Compliance Risk Framework internal and external) will be investigated by a dedicated team within our Financial Crime • Group Outsourcing Policy Centre of Excellence. NAB invests in sophisticated customer name and payment scanning, transaction monitoring systems and monitoring, surveillance, prevention and detection • Group Procurement Policy systems and techniques to ensure that the risk of, and opportunities for, money laundering/ • Group Conflicts of Interest Policy terrorism financing, sanctions, bribery, fraud and corruption are minimised. • Gifts and Conflicts of Interest Register We maintain Codes of Conduct for all regions in which we operate. These Codes detail the standards of responsibility and ethical conduct required of every employee and everyone • Group Disclosure and External Communication Policy working on our behalf – including contractors, consultants and directors, with the conduct Key documents that outline our significant commitment to corporate governance include of the Board and each director also governed by the Board charter. our Corporate Governance Statement and Principal Board Charter. The Codes of Conduct cover such areas as: External commitments and activities in financial crime prevention include: • personal conduct • Adoption and commitment to the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) Recommendations, • honesty and integrity a set of recommended policies and processes to combat money laundering and terrorism financing. • conflicts of interest • Adoption and commitment to the Wolfsberg Group AML Principles and Questionnaire • compliance with regulatory obligations which are available from Bankers Almanac. • confidentiality and privacy; and • Maintaining and making publicly available NAB’s Patriot Act – Certification regarding • disclosure. correspondent accounts for Foreign Banks. The Patriot Act Certificate is available to any financial institution that requires a Patriot Act Certificate from the NAB Group. NAB’s Enterprise Behaviours together with the Codes of Conduct take into account our legal obligations and the reasonable expectations of the Group’s stakeholders, and • Full compliance with the AML/CTF Act in Australia. emphasise the practices necessary to maintain confidence in the Group’s integrity. • Adhering to international Sanctions & Embargoes notices and Counter-Terrorism SDN lists Our Enterprise Behaviours and Codes of Conduct are available online. on an ongoing basis. We have a range of training, awareness-raising, monitoring and review activities to support Mitigation of reputational and operational risk is an integral part of our risk management adherence to the Codes of Conduct. NAB employee reward and performance is directly processes. A summary of the Group’s risk processes can be found here. Our approach linked to adherence with the Codes of Conduct and the demonstration of NAB’s Enterprise extends to our supply chain and we include criteria around bribery, corruption and other Behaviours. prohibited business practices in our Supplier Sustainability Principles. Anti-Corruption NAB’s Group Whistleblower Policy is applicable to all employees and subcontractors across Key actions planned for 2013 our operations. The Group Whistleblower Policy complements the normal communication • Embedding the requirements of the new Group Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy channels that exist for raising concerns between people leaders and employees without across the NAB Group. fear of reprisal and a Confidential Alert Line can be accessed to report any suspected criminal activity. • Develop and implement new financial crime role specific training modules. Our Chief Audit Officer, supported by the Internal Audit team, is accountable for • Undertake a review of Agency, Distribution agreements and intermediately contracts governance and implementation of our Group Whistleblower Policy. This is delegated to include provisions regarding compliance with Anti-Bribery and Corruption Laws. authority on behalf of the Principal Board Audit Committee. Day-to-day management • Commenced a review of supplier and third party contracts to incorporate Anti-Bribery of the Policy is undertaken by Whistleblower Protection Officers. and Corruption. Where a disclosure is highly sensitive in nature, or is so important it warrants specific • 2012 – 2013 communication strategy to roll-out and embed the new Anti-Bribery and Board attention, disclosures can be made directly via a special email address to the Corruption Policy and guidance notes. Principal Board Audit Committee or regional equivalents. Further information Key actions in 2012 • Our Corporate Governance Statement can be found here. • Reviewed and updated the Group Anti-Fraud and Corruption Policy to take into account • Our Principal Board Charter can be found at here. the requirements of the UK Bribery Act (2010) and the US Foreign Corruption Practice Act. This resulted in the publication of two new and distinct documents: NAB Group • A summary of our Group Risk processes can be found here. Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and a Group Fraud Policy. • Our Code of Conduct can be found here. • Continued to host community workshops aimed at educating the elderly on financial • Information on our Supplier Sustainability Program can be found here. scams and fraud to prevent financial abuse of the elderly in BNZ. • Our 2012 Annual Review suite of reporting documents can be found here. • Revised and updated the Australian AML/CTF Program and engaged an external consultant to undertake an independent review. • Undertook a maturity evaluation across the NAB Group to gauge the compliance maturity of AML/CTF and Sanctions. ©2013 National Australia Bank Limited ABN 12 004 044 937 AFSL and Australian Credit Licence 230686 A101143-0213
