2 Global Compact 2012 / 2013 Innovation for a sustainable future Foreword by the Executive Board At Messe Frankfurt, the principles of sustainable management have been an integral part of our corporate philosophy for many years. We assume responsibility through a wide range of activities in the fields of environment, social commitment, education and culture. In addition, many of our in-house and guest events are showcases for sustainability-related topics around the world. Innovation always plays a central role in our commitment. Together with our stakeholders, we act as catalysts to promote new developments. Our goal is to continuously develop new initiatives and in this way contribute to a more sustainable future. For example, with the construction of the new Kap Europa congress centre Messe Frankfurt is setting new standards in many respects. For its consistent orientation towards sustainability and environmentally compatible construction, the building has been awarded the DNGB Pre-certificate in Gold. It is the first congress building worldwide to receive this distinction and will therefore serve as a future benchmark for the entire industry. Sustainability is once again a key theme at many of our events this year: for example resource conservation was the top theme at our flagship ISH trade fair. Within the context of Heimtextil we for the first time honoured sustainable up-cycling concepts with the Young Creations Award. In the autumn, the new Ecostyle trade show will open its doors for the first time and present certified sustainable consumer goods. We have been publicly demonstrating our commitment to CSR since May 2010, when we became the first German trade fair company to participate in the UN Global Compact. With this, we officially endorse the ten principles of this initiative in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to upholding these principles and will continue to adhere to them in the future. On the following pages we would like to inform you about our current activities and what we have planned for the future. We wish you a pleasant read. Sincerely yours Wolfgang Marzin President and Chief Executive Officer Messe Frankfurt GmbH 3 Global Compact 2012 / 2013 About Messe Frankfurt Company Trade fairs present platforms for ideas, innovations The Messe Frankfurt Group combines all disciplines and trends across national borders and cultures. of the trade fair business: ownership and operation With events at the home venue in Frankfurt as well of one of the largest exhibition grounds in the world; as around the globe, Messe Frankfurt creates spaces trade fair, convention and event organisation at our in which it brings people together. The face-to-face headquarters and around the world. As a full-service conversations foster personal relationships and trust, provider, Messe Frankfurt also provides extensive which is the best foundation for sustainable business services including logistics, stand construction and relations in the future. catering, as well as training and further education opportunities at the Akademie Messe Frankfurt. With EUR 538* million in sales and 1,891* employees around the world, Messe Frankfurt is Germany’s Messe Frankfurt’s leading international industry largest exhibition corporation. The Messe Frankfurt events in the fields of “Technology & Production”, Group has a global network of 28 subsidiaries and “Consumer Goods & Leisure”, “Textiles & Textile approx. 50 international Sales Partners, giving it a Technologies”, “Mobility & Infrastructure” and presence for its customers in more than 150 countries. “Media & Creation” shape international markets and The company is publicly owned; its stakeholders are trends. Leading industry trade fairs such as Ambiente, the City of Frankfurt with 60 percent, and the state of Automechanika, Light & Building or ISH are among Hesse, which holds 40 percent. the highlights in their respective sectors. (* preliminary figures 2012) 4 Global Compact 2012 / 2013 Our events In 2012, Messe Frankfurt organised 109* trade fairs, Heimtextil we for the first time honoured young of which more than half took place outside Germany. designers for their sustainable up-cycling concepts At our events we welcomed more than 77,000* with the Young Creations Award. At the ISH, exhibitors as well as over 2.9* million visitors. In 2012, resource conservation was the key theme within events “made by Messe Frankfurt” were organised the scope of which our exhibitors showcased their at over 30 venues around the world. solutions for sustainable bathroom, heating and air (* preliminary figures 2012) conditioning technology. These are complemented by our events outside Germany, such as the In our core business of trade fairs, we fulfil our role Canadian Waste & Recycling Expo or the Eco Expo as catalyst for sustainability in close cooperation Asia in the field of environmental protection. with industry communities. Many of our international flagship fairs, both our own and guest events, Messe Frankfurt is also a top address for congress have a focus on energy efficiency, recycling, water business: last year some 112,000 participants management, waste disposal or ecoand social attended a total of 76 events in Frankfurt. textiles. The topic of sustainability is presented Sustainability also features prominently on the and discussed at special shows, conferences or agendas of our conferences. For example in 2013 workshops. the Zukunft Lebensräume (Future Living Spaces) congress and fair as well as the conference of the Sustainability is addressed at our events in many European Wind Energy Association will focus on respects: for example within the context of sustainability issues. 5 Global Compact 2012 / 2013 Sustainability at Messe Frankfurt Our philosophy Our commitment to corporate responsibility and established component of our business culture sustainability is not a new concept, but is based and is reflected in all parts of the company around on the close relationship forged in the course of the globe. New regulations or group-wide activimore than 750 years of trade fair history between ties are adjusted to local parameters and implethe city of Frankfurt and the state of Hesse, which mented decentrally, which demonstrates our strong are also owners of the company today. The local connection with the city and the region not development of Frankfurt into an international just at our headquarters in Frankfurt but all over financial service hub would hardly be conceivable the world. had it not been a thriving trade fair centre over the centuries. Decisions concerning guidelines for our CSR involvement are taken by the Executive Board. At Messe Frankfurt we understand sustainability Concrete resolutions are decided by a CSR as responsible business practices, something that Advisory Committee composed of senior executiencompasses economic, ecological and social ves from all parts of the company which meets factors. In this sense, sustainability is a firmly twice a year. CSR activities worldwide In 2012/2013 Messe Frankfurt Group also implethe NGO “Hong Kong Cancer Fund” (HKCF) and mented new CSR activities outside Frankfurt. thus contributed to the prevention and treatment Through an increasing number of their own of cancer. initiatives, our subsidiaries and branch offices share our CSR involvement around the world. Indexport Messe Frankfurt S.A. in Buenos Aires The initiatives pursued are selected decentrally, is also involved in local projects of its own: ensuring that they target the needs of local together with the fairground operator “La Rural communities. Predio Ferial de Buenos Aires” it supports the NGO “Fundación Compromiso”. Instead of beLast year for example Messe Frankfurt Asia ing disposed of, event materials in good condition Holding Ltd. participated in a number of sporting are donated and made available for workshops events: in the “Jin Mao Vertical Challenge” in that teach people lacking training or qualifications Shanghai the Messe Frankfurt team scaled the 88 woodand metalworking skills. Among other storeys of the Jin Mao Tower in just 13 minutes in things they produce furniture which is subseorder to promote a healthy lifestyle. In Hong Kong quently donated to public institutions such as our colleagues donated 50,000 HK dollars within schools or libraries. the scope of the “Stride for the Cure” event of 6 Global Compact 2012 / 2013 Committed to sustainability Since 2012, the claim “simply sustainable” along with a logo has been used to designate Messe Frankfurt’s diverse CSR activities. With this we are focusing even more strongly on the topic of sustainability and thus increase the awareness of our stakeholders. Credibility and lasting impact are the key criteria for selecting and implementing CSR activities which ideally complement Messe Frankfurt’s portfolio. Our activities are divided into four fields: In the field of Environment/Sustainability we have environment implemented a wide range of resource-conserving sustainability and ecological measures, for instance relating to the energy optimisation of our exhibition grounds. Social Responsibility at Messe Frankfurt involves an obligation to our employees, our stakeholders and society in general. Of emphasis here are the social above-average working conditions at our sites responsibility around the globe and our support for social institutions in the region. In the area of Education/Science, Messe Frankfurt is involved in the region in a targeted way over the long term. The company is proud to sponsor the Chair of International Economic Policy at Frankfurt’s Goethe University as part of its corporate citizenship. Messe Frankfurt‘s Cultural Involvement includes targeted sponsorship of events and organisations, awarding prizes for outstanding achievements in cultural architecture, design and music. involvement 7 Global Compact 2012 / 2013 Innovations 2012 / 2013 Kap Europa congress centre receives DGNB Pre-certificate in Gold Construction on the Kap Europa congress centre With Kap Europa our commitment to sustainability started in 2012 at a central location in the “heart extends far beyond the innovative construction of Frankfurt”, close to the existing exhibition and operating concept of the building: together grounds. With the congress building currently with other experts we have assumed responsibility under construction, we are building one of the and contributed our many years of experience to world’s greenest congress centres. From the developing a new usage profile and international outset, the design has consistently taken various certification system for sustainable congress aspects of sustainability into account. From buildings. The new standard is one of the most planning, construction and operation, the concept stringent certification standards worldwide and covers the entire life cycle of the building through will serve as a benchmark which will have a to deconstruction. “sustainable impact” on the entire industry. With this plethora of sustainable solutions the Our goal is to obtain the DGNB Full Certificate in building sets new benchmarks for congress Gold after completion of the centre. The DGNB centres and is forward-looking in every respect. Certificate is awarded in the levels gold, silver and Kap Europa is the first congress building worldbronze. To obtain a certificate in gold, the criteria wide to receive a pre-certificate in gold based on with respect to ecological, economic, sociocultural the newly developed standard for venues from the and functional quality as well as technical, process German Sustainable Building Council (Deutsche workflows and locational quality must be met to at Gesellschaft für nachhaltiges Bauen e.V. – DGNB) least 80%. during the planning and building phase. Kap Europa is the world’s first congress building to receive gold pre-certification from the German Sustainable Building Council. The new standard was developed on the initiative of Messe Frankfurt. 8 Global Compact 2012 / 2013 Agora plaza in future with LED lighting system At its home venue in Frankfurt, Messe Frankfurt In August 2012 two lighting masts were initially operates one of the largest exhibition centres converted for test purposes to more energy efficiworldwide. Innovative measures aimed at sustainaent LED technology. The test proved successful, the ble development and management of our exhibitechnical and economic performance were convintion grounds therefore enable us to have the cing. Refitting of the remaining secondary reflector greatest environmental impact. We are continuosystems has been successfully implemented. usly working to identify energy-saving potential and develop our exhibition grounds in line with the Use of the state-of-the art LED technology will principles of sustainable management. The latest reduce energy consumption by up to 75% and example of this is the conversion of the lighting save up to 5.5 tonnes of CO2 per year. The actual system on the Agora plaza in the open air area of conversion work is also based on principles of our exhibition grounds, which covers 18,000 sqm. sustainability: existing components will be used wherever possible in order to save material and costs. In the past this space was illuminated by lighting systems based on a secondary reflector principle. New Ecostyle trade fair showcases certified sustainable consumer goods With its new Ecostyle trade fair, Messe Frankfurt is and energy, positive social and cultural impact and introducing its first ever information and order outstanding transparency. Exhibitors must also platform for verified sustainable consumer goods sign the “Ecostyle Commitment”, which obligates for the European retail trade. The new format is them to maintain a sustainable and beneficial geared towards all manufacturers and retailers of corporate culture. sustainable products. The event is being held for the first time at the An independent Advisory Council made up of six Frankfurt exhibition centre in August 2013. Trade nationally and internationally acknowledged visitors can also expect to find a comprehensive experts will be evaluating all exhibitors and their supporting programme that offers many lectures products on the basis of five sustainability criteria: and workshops covering the topic of “Sustainability minimal ecological footprint, a high level of in the Retail Trade”. product quality, efficient utilisation of materials Extension of family service further optimises working conditions At Messe Frankfurt we place great importance In the current reporting period we once again on ensuring optimal working conditions for our extended the services for our employees to employees. One important element in this is include comprehensive information, advice and supporting them in creating an optimum workplacement services related to all aspects of childlife balance. To help them achieve this, the care. The programmes cover a wide range of company has offered its staff back-up childcare topics from placing au pairs or home helps, to or activity programmes during school holidays advice on private tutoring and holiday programmes in cooperation with our partner “pme or support in matters of childcare and parenting. Familienservice”. 9 Global Compact 2012 / 2013 Employee Assistance Programme provides assistance Messe Frankfurt seeks to actively support its staff Topics cover practically all areas of personal and in making the most of opportunities for personal professional life and offer assistance in dealing and professional development. With the “Employee with crises and conflicts at the workplace, psychoAssistance Programme” Messe Frankfurt offers all logical stress, private emergencies and crises, employees an independent consulting service in financial and legal problems. A dedicated expert cooperation with its partner “Insite Interventions”. service is also offered for executive staff, works Experienced experts advise, inform and provide council, company physician and professional immediate assistance with professional and perpersonnel support. sonal questions and problems. Initiatives support work-life balance Through small and larger initiatives Messe Frankfurt participate in Frankfurt. Within the scope of the helps its staff to lead a healthy lifestyle. For the VeggiDay our Intermezzo staff canteen exclusively second time a Health Day was held in the reporserved up vegetarian dishes for a whole day – ting period at which experts informed about a setting a signal for healthy and sustainable nutrition. balanced diet, new sports activities or how to cope successfully with stress situations. Together with the German Red Cross, Messe Frankfurt conducted a blood donation campaign last year in By participating in external initiatives, we also which 62 employees gave blood, 42 of them for enhance public awareness for these important the first time – a result we can be proud of. topics: these include the J.P. Morgan Corporate Challenge Run, in which some 70,000 employees Training informs about anti-corruption measures Messe Frankfurt works proactively to prevent targeted training programmes in cooperation with corruption amongst all group employees. Therefore an independent expert that are mandatory for all we have introduced unambiguous, mandatory rules employees. All new employees additionally take for accepting gifts and favours. If illegal methods part in an interactive training programme designed are suspected, employees have the possibility to to increase awareness of the problem, provide anonymously contact an external ombudsman. concrete information and recommendations for behaviour. Information on this topic is summarised To ensure all staff remain up-to-date with complion the intranet and is accessible to every employee. ance issues, this year Messe Frankfurt is offering 10 Global Compact 2012 / 2013 The UN Global Compacts ten principles Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Messe Frankfurt GmbH Ludwig-Erhard-Anlage 1 60327 Frankfurt am Main, Germany Tel. +49 69 75 75-56 61 Fax +49 69 75 75-66 00 csr@messefrankfurt.com www.messefrankfurt.com V.i.S.d.P. Kai Hattendorf Editor Corinna Züge
