Hilding Anders COP 2012 Date: 15 May 2013 Daniel Oelker SVP Communications & Branding Hilding Anders is the leading bed manufacturer in Europe and Asia, with headquarters in Malmö, Sweden. What started as a family business in 1939, has grown to into a company with almost 7,000 colleagues in over 40 countries. Through selected core brands and private label concepts, we’re able to offer beds and mattresses for all needs, and bring a good night’s sleep to people around the world. hildinganders.com 19 May 2013 Scope of reporting • Includes an explicit statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles • Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights • Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour • Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment • Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption • Includes a measurement of outcomes Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Hilding Anders International reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Anders Pettersson CEO & President Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals 2011 was the year where we have overhauled our entire corporate governance set up including all relevant policies using the Ten Global Compact principles as our starting point. In 2012 we have started a group wide implementation program. Implementation During 2012 we have started the company wide initiative ONE Hilding Anders focusing on Visual Identity, Corporate Governance and Performance Management. The training material includes all headlines of the UN Global Compact, namely Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. The process was kicked off late 2012 and is continuing throughout 2013 in 19 countries Europe, Russia and Asia. 2 19 May 2013 Measurement of outcomes We follow-up with our business regions in the quarterly meetings and in an evaluation report to the Board of Directors of the Group. Labour Assessment, policy and goals 2011 was the year where we have overhauled our entire corporate governance set up including all relevant policies using the Ten Global Compact principles as our starting point. 2012 has been the year where the policies were implemented on Group level. Implementation During 2012 we have installed a Whistleblower system with a third party provider. Measurement of outcomes The Whistleblower system was set up late 2012; so far in May 2013 we have not received any notification through this system. Environment Assessment, policy and goals 2011 has been the year where we have overhauled our entire corporate governance set up including all relevant policies using the Ten Global Compact principles as our starting point. During 2012 we took the next step. Implementation In 2012 we decided to perform an environmental, health & safety due diligence in cooperation with a global third party supplier with the aim of secure compliance, determine status and to set up a prioritized action plan for securing continuous improvement. This work is supported and led by Group Management. Measurement of outcomes We have now reports available from all sites and we are implementing in 2013 the findings. 3 19 May 2013 Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals 2011 was the year where we have overhauled our entire corporate governance set up including all relevant policies using the Ten Global Compact principles as our starting point. 2012 has been the year where we have taken further action. Implementation Regional have signed corporate governance documents including Business Compliance, Delegation Letter, Mutual Compliance Agreement with suppliers. Measurement of outcomes There are two ways of measuring the outcome of our approach: one is that Corporate Governance issues are very much on the agenda of our business meetings and thus get the attention they deserve. Secondly, the Whistleblower system will allow the organisation to challenge management to improve the organisation further. 4
