BG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 Chief Executive’s statement 01 About this year’s report – changes 03 and materiality Material issues in 2012 – an overview 04 Material issues in 2012 – by issue 06 Country profiles 37 Performance data 45 Targets 52 Assurance 55 BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 01 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S There is, too, greater scrutiny of public institutions, and greater expectations of ethical high-profile ocean monitoring project in Brazil1. Improving our personal safety record, in particular contractor safety management in STATEMENT behaviour and transparent and comprehensive reporting. Companies, and particularly resources We advanced programmes to improve Group-wide energy efficiency, explore Queensland, continues to be a priority, with a range of new initiatives put in place during companies, are expected increasingly to set out opportunities for carbon management and the year. We are also focused on process Welcome to our Sustainability Report. Having integration and develop awareness and in detail their responsible approach to working safety and asset integrity performance and taken up the role of Chief Executive at BG knowledge of existing and new technologies in a way that respects the environment and continue to build on the good progress made Group in January 2013, I am proud to for the use of gas. We also continued strategic society, and to demonstrate good governance. It in 2012. introduce this report and to reinforce not investment in communities where we work, makes good business sense to work efficiently only the Group’s, but also my personal, notably in Queensland and in Brazil. In Brazil, Our major investment in Queensland is due to and to conserve resources. CHRIS FINLAYSON commitment to sustainability. we set up a number of key long-term projects come onstream in 2014, while activity in the CHIEF EXECUTIVE Against this context, our Sustainability to build local capacity in science, technology, Santos Basin in Brazil will continue to build Working sustainably has been fundamental to Report sets out our annual targets and our engineering and mathematics (STEM) while towards peak production. Our investment, in BG Group for many years. In the Group’s 2001 achievements against those targets, as well as in Queensland we contributed more than parallel, in communities and wider society is Social and Environment Report, we set out our our commitments for the future. This year’s $17 million in community investment and vital to our future in these and other new Business Principles for the first time. Today, those report is underpinned by more detailed research development projects during the year. markets and opportunities. Building a safe, Business Principles are still the foundation of and provides new information in other key efficient and ethical culture can also help us how we work. Applying them robustly ensures areas, such as socio-economic impact, human We strengthened our approach to human meet the challenges of growth and bring we protect our licence to operate and our ability rights and biodiversity. More broadly, our rights management in 2012, establishing a business benefits. Embedding an energy to generate long-term value for our shareholders. sustainability website sets out our approach, our relationship with the Institute of Human efficiency culture, and building a brand that Business Principles, Policies and Standards, and Rights and Business and piloting indicators attracts and retains the skilled people we In recent years, we have seen a number of key the way we manage key sustainability issues. relating to the Voluntary Principles on Security need to grow, are examples of ways that sustainability issues come to the fore. and Human Rights initiative. We also saw our sustainability can help ensure our future as In 2012 we made good progress in some key areas. sustainability progress recognised externally. well as protecting our licence to operate. Managing climate change has become a We were one of only two oil and gas companies mainstream issue for businesses all over the Notably, we achieved and surpassed the target For the fourth year, this report complies with in the FTSE350 Carbon Disclosure Leadership world, with the landmark Kyoto Protocol in published in 2007 of achieving one million the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting Index for 2012, scored 98% in the FTSE4 Good 2005 and subsequent global commitments. tonnes of sustainable greenhouse gas (GHG) guidelines. BG Group is also a signatory to the index, and were in the top 3% in the Dow Jones Major incidents – like BP Macondo Deepwater emission reductions by 2012. This was due to a UN Global Compact and we remain Sustainability index. Horizon – have, at the same time, raised range of initiatives to reduce emissions and committed to its 10 Principles. We detail how awareness of the importance of managing improve energy efficiency in our operations During the year, we also made notable we fulfil this commitment throughout this major hazard risks. As new unconventional worldwide. We also agreed a new GHG target investments, both financial investments and report and on our website, particularly in the reserves of oil and gas are discovered, the to be effective from 2013 to 2017. This target broader commitments in communities where 'How we manage' pages of the 'Sustainability challenge of producing energy, not only safely, aims to reduce the overall intensity of our GHG we work, particularly in Brazil and in Australia at BG Group' section. but also responsibly and without long-term emissions by 10% (that is, by an average of 2% but also in Trinidad and Tobago and the UK. per year over the five-year period). Our progress with social initiatives in Egypt We have more work to do as we look ahead to consequences for the environment or human and Tunisia was slower, as we still faced 2013. Our commitment to sustainability lies at health, has become critical. We agreed a new water strategy, which sets challenges in the aftermath of the political the heart of the Group and how we operate out our aspiration to achieve excellence in and social changes of 2011. throughout the world. I am convinced that our At the same time, social media has given the water management. As part of this, we will efforts in this area will keep improving as we general public a new voice, resulting in wider 1 An R&D levy requires BG Group to develop local water management plans in all We did not, however, meet our Group total continue to place a strong emphasis, wherever invest 1% of its gross production stakeholder interaction and, in some cases, new our operations with significant water risks. We recordable case frequency (TRCF) safety we operate, on developing and maintaining a revenue from Brazillian fields that social and political freedoms. Human rights have an obligation to pay special made some important investments in target in 2012 as our Queensland broad licence to operate, building on have become a focus of increasing attention participation, on R&D in Brazil. environmental technology for the future, operations, in particular, recorded safety partnerships with all our stakeholders, from since the development of the UN Guiding including our investment in Project Blue, a incidents well above our target for the year. governments to local communities. Principles on Business and Human Rights. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 02 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE’S During September, Committee members visited The debate on the environmental impact of Group has done further work on these issues, STATEMENT Egypt as part of a wider Board visit. We unconventional gas, and in particular the including commissioning a third-party report, discussed safety challenges and some of the management of fugitive emissions, continued and the Committee will return to them in the Sir David Manning successful projects undertaken to improve in 2012. This was a significant factor in the course of 2013. Chairman of the Sustainability Committee safety performance. We also heard from local Committee’s review of related issues, such as 2012 was an active year for the Committee. management about the lessons learnt from the the Group’s approach to climate change and During the Board’s September visit to Cairo, Among our priorities were helping to define country evacuation during the 2011 revolution, carbon management and its shale gas business we were given an update on the social and ensure the application of BG Group’s and the procedures put in place as a result. in the USA. The Group also published in 2012 its investment initiatives underway in Egypt. The Business Principles and contributing to eight operating principles for unconventional Group’s strategy is to develop a mixture of and monitoring our work on stakeholder In October 2012, members of the Committee gas and the Committee will continue to monitor ‘quick win’ and longer-term strategic projects SIR DAVID MANNING engagement. These areas are critical as we and other Board members took part in the progress against those principles in 2013. focused on education and sustainable CHAIRMAN OF THE develop and consolidate our licence to operate. Group’s Major Accident Hazard Awareness livelihoods. The Committee recognised that SUSTAINABILITY programme at Spadeadam in Cumbria. This Licence to operate and new country entry the fluid political situation in Egypt had COMMITTEE Safety course is particularly effective in creating The Committee reviewed and endorsed the inevitably led to some delays but underlined Safety was a key theme during the year. We awareness of major accident hazards, their Group’s overall approach to the range of the importance of this work. It will return to reviewed performance across the Group at causes and effects, and the measures used political, social and environmental issues that these issues in the course of 2013, both in regular intervals, focusing in particular on in BG Group to manage the associated risks. arise when we are considering investment in relation to Egypt and to the Group’s social safety performance in our operations in The Committee was pleased to see that the new countries. In particular, it underlined the investment strategy more broadly. Queensland. The Committee received a programme was subsequently rolled out to importance of early engagement with a broad presentation from the President and Chief other Group operations. range of stakeholders, in order to understand The Committee also reviewed strategies for Operating Officer of Bechtel Corporation, the full range of risks as well as the scrupulous managing risks and developing our licence to the lead contractor for our Queensland Curtis Environment application of our Business Principles. The operate in Brazil and Kazakhstan, and reviewed LNG (QCLNG) project. This presentation The Group set a new GHG emissions target for Committee discussed how we might pursue the Group’s work on ethical conduct, the highlighted steps being taken to counter the the period 2013-2017. The previous target of this approach in a number of possible new importance of which it strongly emphasised. number of contractor incidents and injuries one million tonnes for the period 2007-12 was countries and addressed the social and in Queensland, which affected the Group’s exceeded in the course of 2012. environmental aspects of a possible Key events safety performance during the year. exploration programme in Honduras. The Group participated in the 2012 United After discussion in the Committee the Group Nations Conference on Sustainable The Committee recognised the challenges faced also published, for the first time, a Public In February 2012, I accompanied our then Development, Rio+20. At the conference, we to date but also the work done to improve Position on Climate Change, focusing on Chairman, Sir Robert Wilson, and a fellow announced our support for Project Blue; we performance in the latter part of the year, which energy efficiency. Board and Sustainability Committee member, will be investing $9.5 million in this project to it saw as significant progress. During 2013, the Caio Koch-Weser, on a visit to Tanzania. This develop an ocean observation system for the Committee will continue to monitor the safety As part of its work in the environmental area, gave us the chance to assess at first hand the Santos Basin where we operate. We also initiatives put in place in 2012 and will look the Committee also considered the Group’s new work being done to develop our licence to announced up to $100 million of funding forward to seeing these in action during a water strategy, recognising the importance of operate, while we undertake exploration support for the Brazilian government’s ‘Science planned visit to QGC in late 2013. responsible water management, and received offshore Tanzania with a view to a major LNG without Borders’ initiative, which will promote presentations on the work undertaken in this export project. We were encouraged by the knowledge exchange between Brazil and area in Egypt and in Australia. work done with the local communities in the leading international research institutions1. area where we are present, in the south of 1 An R&D levy requires BG Group to the country. But we were also struck by This report covers these and other invest 1% of its gross production the challenges of capacity building and sustainability issues in more detail. revenue from Brazillian fields that have an obligation to pay special management of the likely macro-economic participation, on R&D in Brazil. impacts of oil and gas development. The BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 03 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue ABOUT THIS REPORT Good practice in sustainability reporting includes identifying and reporting on ‘material’1 sustainability issues. These are environmental, social or governance issues, arising in the reporting year in question, which could have a significant impact on the business in the short or the longer term. We aim to report fully on the material sustainability issues for our business. In 2012, we strengthened our approach to identifying and reporting on these issues, building on improvements made in 2011. We conducted more extensive internal research, including reviewing a range of internal records for the year in question (such as our risk register, the minutes of the Sustainability Committee and our internal announcements). We also interviewed and engaged internal specialists. Externally, DNV Two Tomorrows conducted third-party research which included a media review, a review of feedback from socially responsible investors and interviews with a sample of stakeholders – including investors, and representatives of relevant government departments and non-governmental organisations (NGOs). We reviewed industry sources, material from IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) materials. From this, we were able to build a picture of the key 2012 issues for our industry and the Group. 1 The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) which sets a framework for sustainability reporting, describes material issues as topics that have a direct or indirect impact on an organisation’s ability to create, preserve, or erode economic, environmental, and social value for itself, its stakeholders and society at large. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 04 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue MATERIAL ISSUES Energy efficiency Energy efficiency was a key issue during the Ethical conduct Stakeholders’ expectations of corporate ethical Health and wellbeing Employee health and wellbeing are key issues IN 2012 – AN year, as we focused on creating business as well as environmental benefit from better conduct have increased and tough legislation such as the UK Bribery Act 2010 (which came as the Group grows and moves into new countries across the world. We continued to OVERVIEW efficiency. We continued to carry out projects to reduce our energy consumption and losses into force in July 2011) has been introduced. While we have always had a zero tolerance build our health management resources and strengthen our processes for protecting of energy during fuel use, flaring and venting. approach to corruption, we recognise the employee health, as well as monitoring for Here, we provide a brief summary (in These included initiatives across the business, importance of continued vigilance. occupational illnesses. Where appropriate, alphabetical order) of the material issues for with the greatest savings coming from we invested in projects to facilitate certain BG Group during 2012, which are then projects in Kazakhstan and Tunisia and in our During 2012, we carried out internal audits on community health services, such as the individually reported in more detail. Some of LNG shipping business. In 2012, we set targets how we appoint third parties including agents upgrade to the Nakta Heath Centre in Tunisia. these issues are specific to BG Group and to for our operations to deliver our new GHG and intermediaries who interact with public We re-assessed our key global health risks and 2012 (like Chief Executive succession). Others, target. Operations will prepare energy officials. We looked specifically at ensuring that put into place a health risk management like climate change and safety, are long-term management plans that will formalise their due diligence on these third parties was being programme. We increased the numbers of management issues for all energy companies approach to optimising energy use. We fully and effectively carried out2. dedicated medical practitioners in our and we expect to continue to report on these encouraged a low-carbon culture with operations worldwide and re-launched our on an annual basis. initiatives in our head office in Reading, We conducted an independent review of our Employee Assistance Programme, which in the UK, and elsewhere. fraud management processes, continued to offers our people 24-hour-a-day health, Climate change seek to influence our non-controlled joint counselling and wellbeing support. Climate change remained high on the agenda Environmental impact management ventures to meet high standards of ethical and the subject of increasing regulatory During 2012, we carried out more than 20 conduct, assessed the robustness of our Human rights controls and emission reduction initiatives. best available technique (BAT) assessments to anti-bribery and corruption procedures in Human rights have become a focus of ensure appropriate environmental technology selected operations and continued training our increasing attention for businesses since the In 2012, we achieved and surpassed our target, was selected. Projects reducing GHG people in key areas. We revised and re-issued development of the UN Guiding Principles on published in 2007, of making a sustainable emissions by 400 000 tonnes were achieved our Business Principles employee guide, Business and Human Rights. We strengthened reduction of one million tonnes of greenhouse which delivered the 2007-2012 GHG target. Principles into Practice and launched a our approach to human rights management in gas (GHG) emissions by 2012. We continued We carried out work towards reinstating a handbook on how to test our anti-bribery 2012, establishing a relationship with the work to minimise our own emissions and sulphuric acid plant in Tunisia and managed and corruption procedures. We continued Institute of Human Rights and Business and also set a new target of reducing emissions biodiversity issues in Trinidad and Tobago and to investigate reports made through Speak Up, piloting indicators relating to the Voluntary intensity by 10% between 2013 and 2017. During Australia, where improved dredging minimised our independent service for reporting potential Principles on Security and Human Rights 2012, we prepared for the implementation of impact and saved approximately $20 million. breaches of our Business Principles. initiative. We also played an active role in the new government carbon pricing and trading We increased investment in environmental work of IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry legislation in key markets and collaborated technologies, including making a $9.5 million association for environmental and social with industry partners on important issues investment in Project Blue, a project to issues, to strengthen the oil and gas industry’s 1 A research and development levy such as fugitive emissions. We also engaged develop an ocean monitoring system in Brazil1. approach to human rights. requires BG Group to invest 1% with stakeholders to develop a public position of its gross production revenue We were one of only two oil and gas on climate change, which sets out the six key from Brazilian fields that have an companies in the FTSE350 Carbon Disclosure principles we follow in our approach to climate obligation to pay special participation, Leadership Index for 2012. Our environmental on R&D in Brazil. change. performance also forms part of the external 2 The relevant BG Group Standards assessment of our sustainability performance are the Appointment of Agents, for which we scored 98% in the FTSE4 Good Intermediaries and Political index and were in the top 3 % in the Dow Jones Consultants Standard and our Ethical Conduct Due Diligence Standard. Sustainability index. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 05 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue New country entry and political risk Safety gas installation in Algeria. We provided crisis which we set out in a public position in 2011, management Safety is always our top priority. During 2012, management support in response to a gas and updated in 2012. Key areas of progress Exploration and production opportunities we developed a new safety strategy, which leak on a non-operated North Sea platform, were: community engagement in Queensland, arise in increasingly challenging locations. reflects learning from previous years as well and identified lessons learnt. We reviewed our responsible chemicals use and emissions In 2012, we developed a more rigorous as priorities identified in 2012. It focuses on fraud risk management and information management in the USA, and water framework for assessing new market a number of key themes, including major security arrangements. management in both Queensland and the USA. opportunities and introduced this to the accident hazards, contractor management, Sustainability Committee for endorsement and safety leadership and culture. Socio-economic reporting before it is implemented. This framework Transparent reporting was a much-debated takes into account political, social, corruption We deeply regret that there were two issue in 2012, with the progress of new EU and environmental risks as well as the wider fatalities in our operations in 2012 and our proposals that will require companies to geopolitical context. These risks were occupational safety performance as measured report their taxation payments, as a minimum considered when we assessed a number of by the headline indicator of total recordable on a country-by-country basis and, potentially, potential projects and new activities in 2012. case frequency (TRCF) was disappointing at on a project-by-project basis. We participated In British Columbia, Canada, we engaged 2.26 against our 2012 target of 1.35. Underlying in industry working groups on this issue and extensively with indigenous First Nation this in particular was poor safety performance engaged with the UK government, the peoples. In Tanzania, we continued to build in our largely contracted Queensland European Parliament and EU member states. relationships with a wide range of workforce. While the debate about the best way forward stakeholders and established partnerships continues, this report provides for the first with key non-governmental organisations Improving personal safety performance, time more information on the economic value (NGOs). We also continued work on particularly in Queensland, and strengthening we generate: an initial breakdown of our wage understanding the macro-economic impacts relationships with our contractors were bill, social investment expenditure by country, of oil and gas development. therefore priorities during the year and we put and spending with local suppliers. We a range of initiatives in place to address these. continued our support for the Extractive People and skills for the future Major accident hazards remained a focus: Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) and Ensuring we had the right people for the future we ran a Group-wide campaign to raise provide a summary in this report of EITI was a focus during the year. We announced the awareness of these hazards and continued reporting in countries where we operate. appointment of Chris Finlayson as our new to implement lessons arising from the BP Chief Executive and took a range of steps to Macondo Deepwater Horizon incident. Unconventional gas strengthen our approach to finding and Public debate about the environmental impact developing the people we need at all levels, in Security of unconventional gas (gas trapped in rocks particular future leaders, including a more The risk of terrorism, criminal activity, piracy such as shale) – continued during 2012. We structured approach to identifying and and other security challenges in a range of produce gas from shale in the USA and from developing talent. We developed a more countries continued through 2012 and will, we coal seams in Queensland. During the year, targeted and responsive approach to surveying believe, persist. During 2012, we strengthened we continued to monitor and respond to employees and continued training to help build the protection of our LNG fleet against the stakeholder concerns, particularly in the leadership skills. Recognising the need to risk of piracy and monitored local security communities where we work, while also increase female representation at the senior situations, notably in Egypt, developing working with regulators and industry on leadership level, we developed a diversity appropriate plans and responding to incidents initiatives designed to strengthen the industry’s statement and set an aspiration to increase the as required. We initiated security reviews in framework and reduce its environmental percentage of women in leadership positions our North Africa operations in the light of the impact. We made progress against our eight to 20% by 2020. January 2013 terrorist attack on the In Amenas principles for operating in unconventional gas BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 06 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue Water During the year, we agreed a new Group water strategy, building on the water management plan introduced in 2011. Our operations took a range of actions to improve water management during the year. In Queensland, we made progress with our investment in state-of-the-art reverse osmosis plants to treat the water we produce. We reviewed our water management approach in Egypt, and in the USA, and we ran field trials of new water solutions. We worked with Texas A&M University and other partners to trial new technologies as well as participating in a US Environmental Protection Agency study looking at the potential impacts on drinking water resources from hydraulic fracturing. Working with communities We continued to implement our long-term strategy of managing social impacts and working with and investing in communities. We established a grievance management mechanism in our Queensland operations and are developing one in Tanzania. In Trinidad and Tobago, we delivered a programme to manage our impact on and relationship with fishing communities. We strengthened our work in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education in Brazil and the UK and participated in Rio+20 conference sessions on STEM education partnerships. In Queensland, we launched several new programmes to create long-term employment and business development opportunities for indigenous people and to offset the impacts of our construction work by building affordable housing in Gladstone. In North Africa, implementation of the programmes we designed to respond to the issues and expectations triggered by the Arab Spring was slower than anticipated. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 07 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue MATERIAL ISSUES CLIMATE CHANGE Greenhouse gas reductions by operation IN 2012 – BY ISSUE Overview Climate change remained high on the agenda BG Trinidad and Tobago 83 and the subject of increasing regulatory BG Bolivia 1,082 Here, we report on fourteen material controls and emission reduction initiatives. sustainability issues for BG Group during 2012. BG EPIL 36,333 Material issues are the environmental, social and Comgás SA 43,299 In 2012, we surpassed our target published governance issues that we and our stakeholders Global Shipping 150,236 in 2007, making a sustainable reduction of believe could have a significant impact on the over one million tonnes of greenhouse gas Rashpetco 197,143 business in the short or longer term. (GHG) emissions over the target period. BG Tunisia 307, 085 We continued work to minimise our own KPO 510, 892 For each issue, we set out the goals we set emissions and set a new target of reducing Armada 8,737 ourselves, the challenges we faced during GHG emissions intensity by 10% between 2013 2012, our approach to these, and the and 2017. During 2012, we prepared for the important outcomes and achievements of the implementation of new government carbon year. We focus here on the reporting year in pricing and trading legislation in key markets We expect to achieve this by making a 15% Greenhouse gas target methodology question, although we also look forward and and collaborated with industry partners on GHG emission intensity reduction in our LNG The new target is an intensity-based, rather identify future goals where applicable. key issues such as fugitive emissions. We also liquefaction business and an 8% GHG emission than an absolute, target – that is, it aims to engaged with stakeholders to develop a public intensity reduction in our exploration and reduce our emissions as a percentage of our We provide the longer-term context for these position on climate change, which sets out production business as well as through other total production. This reflects the fact that issues in the Sustainability at BG Group the six key principles we follow in our initiatives and approaches, including: our business is predicted to grow substantially section of this website. For example, we have approach to climate change. over the next five years. reported on climate change as a 2012 material ●● implementing incremental energy efficiency issue here, and provide general background on Our 2007-2012 greenhouse gas target improvement projects: more than 200 Our priority is not just to reduce emissions per how we manage climate change on the Our In 2012, we surpassed our 2007-2012 GHG opportunities with payback periods of less unit of production but to establish a culture of approach to climate change page. reduction target. The target, which has than five years have been identified; energy efficiency;, such a culture aligns stretched the business to achieve reductions, ●● enhancing energy efficiency by promoting business and environmental goals, as gas that has cut 1.2 million tonnes of GHG emissions process improvements: introducing more is not lost through emissions can be sold. while delivering $50 million in annual savings, energy efficient engineering design and from an investment of $20 million. new technology in new developments; As we are not always the sole operator of ●● the replacement of ageing equipment with facilities, our target is set up on an equity Our 2013-2017 greenhouse gas target new, more efficient equipment or technology. share basis, that is, to include emissions We also agreed a new GHG target to be from joint ventures or other partnerships effective from 2013 to 2017. This target aims In 2013, we will start work to deliver against proportionally to our share in those ventures. to reduce the overall intensity of our GHG the target. This will involve embedding We plan to work closely with our partners emissions by 10% (that is, by an average of 2% energy management in our businesses by to improve the energy efficiency of our per year over the five-year period). establishing appropriate key performance non-operated joint ventures, as well as of measures. We will also launch an awarenessour own operations. raising and behavioural change programme to support improved energy efficiency. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 08 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue Managing carbon risk Our actions included: Greenhouse gas emissions reporting Scope 1 emissions Our exposure to climate change policy risk is Reporting of GHG emissions has become Our Scope 1 emissions are those that arise increasing due not only to potential exposure to ●● implementing a strategy to optimise more widespread as more regulation has been directly from sources we own or control. They government carbon pricing or emissions trading compliance under the EU Emissions Trading introduced and public expectations of derive principally from fuel use, flaring, regimes but also in some markets to the Scheme by making use of links to the transparent reporting have increased. We venting, fugitive losses (leaks or other introduction of stringent new regulatory international carbon market have reported for more than a decade using irregular emissions of gases from equipment) controls such as those governing emissions from ●● assessing opportunities to create tradable the global World Resources Institute/World and distribution losses. the oil and gas industry introduced by the US carbon credits from emissions reduction Business Council on Sustainable Development Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in 2012. projects in Brazil (WRI/WBCSD) GHG protocol which sets out In 2012, operations directly under our control We monitor any trends relating to new ●● joining the International Emissions Trading how to measure and account for emissions. emitted 7.7 million tonnes of GHG, an increase carbon-related regulation that might have an Association (IETA) to closely monitor of around 200 000 tonnes, or 3%, compared impact on our business and prepare accordingly. international, regional and national policy We already meet new UK legislation on GHG with 2011. Our equity share emissions were 9.6 developments. reporting which will require all businesses million tonnes of GHG, a decrease of one During 2012, we prepared for the listed on the main market of the London Stock million tonnes, or approximately 10% implementation of new legislation in Australia In the USA, we responded to new EPA reporting Exchange to report their levels of GHG compared with 2011. that places a price on carbon under the Clean and compliance requirements relating to emissions from the start of the next financial Energy Legislative Package. In Kazakhstan, we methane emissions from shale gas (alongside year. We also report our GHG emissions as engaged with the government on their plans local pollutants), which come into effect in 2013 part of the voluntary Carbon Disclosure for an emissions trading scheme. We also and form part of the New Source Performance Project. Although we reported better closely followed developments in the EU Standards. These rules are to be fully reinforced emissions performance in 2012, changes in the 1 For example, the National Resources emissions trading scheme and the by the EPA from 2015 and will require oil and gas scoring methodology resulted in us in Defence Council report, “Leaking announcement to link the EU’s Emissions companies to capture methane as well as receiving a lower ranking in the Carbon Profits” (March 2012) which Trading Scheme to Australia from 2015. pollutant gases from 2015 using specified ‘green Performance Leadership index in 2012. highlights the cost savings as well as completion’ technologies. environmental benefit, available by reducing fugitive emissions. BG Group GHG emissions: by business Fugitive emissions (million tonnes CO2e) 2 ‘Green completion’ is a term used in some markets to describe methods During 2012, we saw an increased focus on the or technologies that reduce methane 12 management of fugitive methane emissions, losses during well completions. When or unintentional releases of methane or a new well is being constructed, it 10 has to be cleaned before it starts to natural gas, from operations. A number of produce – and gas produced during reports into the gas industry in the USA in this process is normally vented to particular, highlighted concerns about levels 8 the atmosphere. Green completions of fugitive emissions1. We took steps to reduce use portable equipment to capture fugitive emissions from our operations by 6 this gas and typically recover more than half of the total gas produced. introducing ‘green completions’2 as standard This gas may then be sold, reused there, minimising the venting of methane 4 or flared. In using this approach, from the completion process. We also investment can typically be recovered participated in a major study to generate within two years. Some US states 2 and cities require green completions more accurate data on levels of methane and some oil and gas companies emissions from natural gas production. 0 already voluntarily use them. The 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 EPA estimates that mandatory green completions in the US will point to Other T&D E&P a cost saving of $11-19 million in 2015 Power LNG shipping when the rules are fully implemented. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 09 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue Scope 2 emissions Scope 3 emissions customers on Scope 3 emissions because we We also engaged with National Grid, the Our only significant source of Scope 2 We also report an estimate of our Scope 3 do not have a retail business and do not sell organisation tasked with the delivery of the emissions (indirect emissions that arise from emissions (indirect emissions associated with directly to end users. framework for a reformed electricity market the consumption of purchased electricity, heat activities outside our direct control). The use in the UK. or steam) is electricity. We calculate indirect by our customers of the oil and gas we Stakeholder engagement on climate change GHG emissions from electricity consumption produce is by far the largest source of our During 2012, we engaged regularly with We contributed to industry submissions to by applying country-specific emission factors Scope 3 emissions and other emissions (for governmental and industry advisory panels the European Directorate General for Energy (reflecting the average GHG emissions per unit example, those associated with employee on the subject of climate change policy and in Brussels, addressing decarbonisation of electricity produced on a country-bytravel) are minor by comparison. We estimate scientific issues. and security of energy supply issues. We country basis) to electricity purchased. that Scope 3 emissions associated with the advocated the multiple benefits of gas as use of the fuel we supply were90 million For example, we shared with the UK government a low-carbon energy source. In 2012, businesses directly under our control tonnes in 2012, compared with 87 million our analysis of the most effective, realistic and purchased electricity that emitted 20 000 tonnes in 2011. low-cost route for the UK to meet its 2020 In the process of developing our public position tonnes of GHG when originally generated at decarbonisation targets. on climate change we engaged with a variety source. This compared with emissions of 19 We are investing in technologies related to of stakeholders including non-governmental 000 tonnes in the previous year1. Overall, our more efficient use of gas – for example, This involved written submissions in response organisations (NGOs), governments, investors total Scope 1 and 2 emissions grew by 3%. investing in how gas can be used more to government policy documents and a series and specialist organisations. effectively in transport and fuel cells to of meetings with Ministers and senior officials develop efficient local sources of electricity in the Prime Minister’s office, HM Treasury and Industry collaboration and heat. We do not engage directly with our the Department of Energy and Climate Change. We also participate in collaborative research with industry bodies in the field of climate change. In 2012, we joined the International Emissions BG Group GHG emissions: by source BG Group operated emissions Trading Association (IETA) and continued our (million tonnes CO2e) (million tonnes CO2e) membership of the IEA GHG programme, 12 8.5 IPIECA, the Carbon Capture and Storage Association in the UK and the Global Carbon 10 Capture and Storage (CCS) Institute. We are 8.0 also a member of the Gulf Coast Carbon 8 Center in the USA, and the Cooperative 7.5 Research Centre for Greenhouse Gas Technologies (CO2 CRC) in Australia. 6 7.0 4 6.5 2 0 6.0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2011 Charter Rashpetco QGC KPO Other BG Tunisia BG Italia 2012 1 See Performance data for detail; shipping Power Distribution losses Flaring the 2011 figure was restated from operations 18 000 reflecting changed IEA Electricity generation Fugitive Decrease Increase emission factors. Fuel use Venting BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 10 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue ENERGY EFFICIENCY Energy efficiency and greenhouse gas emission reduction projects The largest contribution by an individual Overview operation was achieved by our joint-venture Energy efficiency was a key issue during the More than 50 GHG reduction projects in nine operations in Kazakhstan The examples below year, as we focused on creating business as locations were implemented within the 2007 illustrate energy efficiency projects achieved well as environmental benefit from better to 2012 GHG emission reduction target period. in the target period that have saved emissions efficiency. We continued to carry out projects These projects improved energy efficiency by and enhanced production. to reduce our energy consumption and losses reducing the amount of gas flared, consumed BG Group GHG emissions intensity1 of energy during fuel use, flaring and venting. to generate power, or vented. (’000 tonnes/mmboe) These included initiatives across the business, with the greatest savings coming from The cost of the projects was approximately 40 projects in Kazakhstan and Tunisia and in our $20 million, yet these projects are now saving 35 LNG shipping business. In 2012, we set targets the business around $50 million each year by for our operations to deliver our new selling gas previously wasted. 30 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity target. Operations will prepare energy The largest projects between 2007 and 2012 25 management plans that will formalise their included: the recovery of fluids during well 20 approach to optimising energy use. We testing in our Kazakhstan operations encouraged a low-carbon culture with (replacing flaring); the installation of 15 initiatives in our head office in Reading, in the ultrasonic flare metres at the Hannibal 10 UK and elsewhere. plant in Tunisia leading to subsequent improvements in flare management; and the 5 replacement of steam LNG vessels with more efficient tri-fuel LNG ships. In 2012, energy 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 efficiency projects delivered more than 400 000 tonnes of GHG emission reductions. Operated emissions Equity share emissions 1 Emissions intensity is calculated by dividing total emissions for the year by the total barrels of oils equivalent produced in that year.. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 11 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue ENERGY EFFICIENCY CASE STUDY EXAMPLES Tunisia Optimised amine chiller operation Egypt: Additional production at no additional cost We use amine to clean gas before export: the gas is run through the amine which cleans and The Rashid Petroleum Company (Rashpetco) in which we have a 40% shareholding, initiated removes CO2 and sulphur. The amine is then recycled, but needs to be cooled before reuse. a project that reduced its flare purge rates (the rate at which gas is supplied to the flare) by To cool the amine, we use a fin fan cooler – a system that draws air up through the pipework 61% in 2012. Following review by our energy efficiency consultants and our own follow-up through which the amine passes. analysis, we were able to reduce the amount of gas sent to flare. In our onshore gas refining operations in Tunisia, enhancement of the maintenance and As part of this change, we spent time with the local operators whose primary concern was cleaning of the fin fan cooler system identified that air cooling alone was sufficient for to prevent the flare going out, which would be an operational risk; we therefore had to higher ambient temperatures than previously considered. This reduced by two months per explain the approach and build confidence that the new approach was sufficient and safe. year the time that the chillers were required to operate, so reducing the electrical load on the main generators by 1.4 MW. The project resulted in a reduction in emissions of around 1 500 This change led to a decrease in emissions of 60 000 tonnes of GHG, and increased gas sales tonnes per year and also created cost savings. of around 130 000 barrels of oil equivalent each year with a net present value of $35 million over five years. This was done without incurring additional costs and the gas that was flared Optimised sales gas booster compressor increases production and reduces emissions is now sold. We use compressors to achieve the right pressure of gas in the pipelines that take gas from our Tunisian operations to market. We were using a booster compressor as well as a main This initiative has brought increased gas sales not just for BG Group but also for our partners compressor. We undertook a study to review compressor use, and as a result were able to in Rashpetco and for Egypt. improve the balance of compression demand with sales volume in the pipeline. Removing the booster compressor from service delivered a net reduction in electrical power requirement for the compressor motors of 1.4 MW, saving fuel gas and reducing GHG emissions by more than 8 000 tonnes per year, without extra cost. Kazakhstan: Improvements in energy efficient practice and reduced flaring Our (joint-venture) operations in Kazakhstan have set up a comprehensive energy efficiency management programme to enhance their use of energy and reduce their carbon emission exposure to regulatory payments. Success has been achieved by embedding awareness and Australia: LNG plant efficiency ownership for energy management into day-to-day operations. Each year emission reduction Liquefaction plants are energy-intensive parts of the LNG production process. At our opportunities are reviewed, and refreshed in a register. Processes are regularly reviewed by Queensland Curtis LNG plant in Australia, we designed and are building a liquefaction plant senior management and objectives and targets identified annually, providing profile and that uses thermally efficient aero-derivate turbines for refrigeration and for power, to leadership from the top down. The strategy focuses on enhancing operational efficiency by reduce the amount of gas required. The plant will also recover waste heat to eliminate the targeting capital investment on high-return projects. need for furnaces to be used during normal operations. It is a good example of how to use best available techniques to build in measures that reduce GHG emissions to a practicable minimum over the life of the facility. The new design will reduce overall plant emissions by 29% when compared to the project’s base case and by 20% when compared to the previous design. It will generate a saving of approximately 700 000 tonnes per year, and will bring an estimated operational saving of about $20 million per year. In our view, the design has set a benchmark for LNG export plant design that can be used by future projects both within BG Group and in other LNG projects. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 12 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue Engaging with employees Targets for energy efficiency improvements BIODIVERSITY BIODIVERSITY IMPACTS AND INITIATIVES Engaging employees to suggest, and on sites form part of our regular performance participate in, energy efficiency initiatives is monitoring and part of the process for Biodiversity is an increasingly high-profile Most of our operations do not face major essential to building an energy efficiency accreditation of our operations to ISO 14001, issue for resources companies, which often biodiversity challenges, as we do not generally culture. During 2012, we took steps to the international environmental management explore for and develop new reserves in operate in areas considered highly sensitive encourage a low-carbon culture with local systems standard. The standard requires a remote environments where there has been with regard to biodiversity, or specially initiatives. Our headquarters in Reading, in the commitment to continuous improvement. little or no other development. Sensitivity to protected, such as IUCN category areas or UK, for example, gained certification to the the impact that these activities can have on national nature reserves. Carbon Trust Standard in 2012. This required: For 2013, we have set GHG emissions intensity species is therefore of critical importance. targets for most of our operations which will However, we do have some activities near ●● an accurate footprint measurement including lead to increased engagement on energy Our approach to managing biodiversity is set such potentially sensitive areas, notably QGC all required emission sources efficiency issues. out in our Environmental Standard, which is in Australia, Dragon LNG in the UK and our ●● demonstration of an absolute reduction of the aligned with international best practice. activities in Bolivia and in Trinidad and carbon footprint or equivalent relative Tobago. In these instances, in accordance with efficiency improvement ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT The Standard includes a requirement to our environmental Business Principles, we ●● demonstration of good carbon management, carry out environmental impact assessments require our operations to take active measures MANAGEMENT sufficient to meet the needs of the Standard, (EIAs), to take action to avoid, minimise or to manage biodiversity. including carbon governance, accounting, compensate for2 any impacts identified and OVERVIEW reduction methods and targets. to develop biodiversity action plans for all Bolivia activities that may have an impact on critical Our operations in Bolivia are in the Gran During 2012, we carried out more than 20 Certification runs until 2014 when we will be habitats or legally protected areas. The impact Chaco which is one of the largest dry forest best available technique (BAT) assessments to required to undergo a re-certification assessment. assessment process looks at potential impacts natural habitats in South America. We have ensure appropriate environmental technology to, for instance, endangered habitats and developed a local biodiversity action plan to was selected. Projects reducing GHG Our environmental network brings plant and animal species such as those protect and enhance local habitats, including emissions by 400 000 tonnes were achieved environmental champions together to identify included on the IUCN Red List or national restoration of previously cleared areas and which delivered the 2007-2012 GHG target. ways to reduce environmental impact, including conservation lists. We do not collate biodiversity monitoring. The results were We carried out work towards reinstating a actions to save energy and reduce waste. Group-level data on biodiversity; our approach published in a booklet, Wildlife at La Vertiente sulphuric acid plant in Tunisia and managed recognises that biodiversity impacts are highly Gas Plant – Gran Chaco Tarijeño, which aims biodiversity issues in Trinidad and Tobago The network has led to a number of localised, and best handled at the local level. to contribute to biodiversity knowledge and and Australia, where improved dredging awareness-raising initiatives, including awareness. minimised impact and saved $20 million. encouraging individuals to assess their own We are a member of the biodiversity working We increased investment in environmental carbon footprint using the UK government’s group of IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry Dragon LNG technologies, including making a $9.5 million carbon calculator. This is supported by association for environmental and social Our Dragon LNG terminal at Milford Haven investment in Project Blue, a project to communications from senior managers in the develop an ocean monitoring system in issues, which is a valuable way of staying in Wales is near European marine protected Group to promote carbon awareness, abreast of biodiversity issues relevant to the oil areas in Pembrokeshire; however, we have Brazil1. We were one of only two oil and gas including publications as part of World and gas sector. Its work includes monitoring relatively limited activities here and therefore 1 A research and development levy companies in the FTSE350 Carbon Disclosure requires BG Group to invest 1% Environment Day. emerging issues such as ecosystem services limited impacts on the biodiversity of the Leadership Index for 2012. Our environmental of its gross production revenue (the benefits and value provided by natural local area. Nevertheless, we have undertaken from Brazilian fields that have an performance also forms part of the external ecosystems) and emerging practice in relation several projects to enhance biodiversity on obligation to pay special participation, assessment of our sustainability performance to biodiversity offsets. the site, including tree planting to enhance on R&D in Brazil. for which we scored 98% in the FTSE4 Good habitats and biodiversity monitoring. 2 This approach is known as the index and were in the top 3% in the Dow Jones mitigation hierarchy and sets out the Sustainability index. priorities for managing biodiversity. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 13 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue Trinidad and Tobago extensive meadows of sea grass in Gladstone The programme aims to determine areas depressurisation events that could lead to In Trinidad and Tobago, our onshore operation Harbour. Sea grass is important because it of whale and dolphin concentration, using flaring, and using ignition systems that lies partly within a nationally designated provides a habitat and food for protected satellite and radio telemetry to investigate minimise releases to the environment. forest reserve. In this area, our operations animals including the dugong. The key movements, habitat use and behaviour. have significant impact only in relation to the concern is that dredging could increase water Our Environmental Standard mandates Victoria Mayaro Forest Reserve, where we turbidity, reducing the light available for the At the Rio+20 United Nations Conference that no continuous flaring or venting of gas have taken 21 hectares of the forest reserve sea grass to survive. on Sustainable Development in June, we associated with oil or condensate may take for our project infrastructure, during the life announced $9.5 million of support for Project place in new developments, and a flare of operations in the area which is expected to To address these concerns, we established a Blue, a partnership between BG Brasil and mitigation plan shall be developed during the be 30 years. multi-disciplinary team to develop a method Coppe/The Federal University of Rio de Janeiro design stage to minimise flaring during to compare the amount of light reaching the (UFRJ), to develop an ocean monitoring commissioning/early field life. Since 2007, we have been engaged in a sea floor with the minimum required for sea system for the Santos Basin. It will provide key reforestation project in Trinidad and Tobago, grass growth as a way to better control data to help protect the environment and There are, however, cases where flaring is in order to compensate for the use of land for impacts from the dredge plume. This provided improve safety. required as an essential safety feature, to essential drilling and production activities. a more direct assessment of sea grass health depressurise plant or because of the presence We funded a programme to reforest the 21 than conventional turbidity thresholds alone. International of a hazardous component such as hydrogen hectares of degraded secondary forest in This project has resulted in a new method for We have participated for several years in an sulphide which has to be incinerated. order to enhance both biodiversity and local monitoring and regulating dredging in International Association of Oil and Gas Alternatively, flaring may be required during community engagement. The reforestation Queensland and its impacts on sea grasses, Producers (OGP) joint industry project which the well testing phase of production when programme reached a successful conclusion and we understand this method is now being explores the effects of underwater sound infrastructure to capture the gas is not yet in in 2011 and has now been transferred to the considered for other dredging projects in (such as that produced by seismic exploration) place. In Tunisia, for example, where sulphur government Forestry Division in Trinidad and Queensland and Australia. For the QCLNG on sensitive marine species such as whales. must be removed, there needs to be sufficient Tobago for future management. project, the new monitoring method resulted This work continued in 2012. gas supply to keep a pilot alight and to be able in improved dredging efficiency and no to purge the plant if necessary. Where flaring Australia downtime of dredging activities (saving FLARING AND VENTING or venting is necessary, we will flare in In Australia, the environmental impact approximately $20 million from expected preference to venting, which will only be an statement for our Queensland operations is in delay costs compared to traditional methods High flaring rates typically arise when oil option if flaring is not possible or would have the public domain and has been approved by of regulating dredging). Furthermore, evidence companies that cannot distribute or market a more significant impact on the environment. the State and Commonwealth authorities. It suggests that the sea grass meadows have gas, flare off the gas associated with their includes measures we must take relating to recovered vigorously since record flooding in oil production. This can sometimes be a Overall, our flaring-related emissions rose biodiversity, such as detailed habitat and species 2011-12 despite dredging occurring. continuous process and so has a considerable between 2006 and 2010, principally as a result management plans covering terrestrial and environmental impact. of increased drilling and associated well marine areas. Biodiversity is one aspect of our Brazil testing activity and the incineration of acid impact management plan, and one of the issues We continued to participate in a cetacean Our business is focused on getting gas to gas. Flaring declined in 2011 but increased by we consider when assessing potential sites. monitoring programme in the Santos Basin, market and so we capture and sell the gas 11% in 2012 primarily due to increased activity which we sponsor jointly with Chevron. The wherever practical. in Australia and increased well testing. It has Our Queensland operations lie outside the two-year programme is being run by the Federal represented just 5-10% of our total annual Great Barrier Reef Marine Park but are within University of Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS) and the Our policy is to have no continuous flaring GHG emissions in the past five years. the broader area of the Great Barrier Reef Aqualie Institute, a not-for-profit organisation during normal operations and to implement World Heritage Area. Concerns were raised based in the state of Rio de Janeiro, that aims to BAT within facility designs and operations. The OGP measures flaring as a percentage of unit about the impact of coal seam gas promote environmental sustainability through production; we perform well against industry development on the Barrier Reef area and research and education initiatives. This includes developing flare mitigation averages. Reducing flaring is very important to especially the impact of dredging upon the plans, managing facilities to avoid us and forms part of our overall effort to cut BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 14 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue emissions and reduce losses of energy. Many of For this reason, policy makers, regulators and INVESTING IN ENVIRONMENTAL In 2012, our technology hub on carbon our emission reduction projects relate to flaring industry analysts, in particular in the USA, have TECHNOLOGIES management and gas utilisation, created in reduction. become increasingly concerned about managing 2010, continued its work on programmes to and mitigating fugitive emissions. A number of Investing in new technology can help us improve Group-wide energy efficiency, explore In 2012, for example, our joint-venture operations research reports2 analysing best practices for minimise our environmental impact and can opportunities for carbon management and in Egypt carried out a flaring optimisation study the gas industry have pointed to the importance potentially bring significant business benefits. integration (including options for carbon and reduced flaring by 61%. of managing fugitive emissions, and this is also Our Environmental Standard requires our capture and storage and use) and develop the focus of the US Environmental Protection operations to review their practices against awareness and knowledge of existing and FUGITIVE EMISSIONS Agency’s (EPA) New Source Performance best available techniques (BAT) and identify new technologies for the use of gas. Standards3 issued in April 2012. improvement plans if necessary. As unconventional gas activities have developed, fugitive emissions have become During 2012, we took steps to reduce fugitive In 2012, more than 20 BAT assessments were an increasingly high-profile concern. Fugitive emissions from our operations. In particular, carried out which identified opportunities to emissions are unintentional releases or leaks we introduced ‘green completions’4 as optimise performance and increase energy of methane, which escape directly to the standard throughout our operations in the efficiency including at gas plants in Tunisia atmosphere during the oil/gas production USA, recognising that EPA regulation will and Egypt and a future floating production, and distribution process. mandate green completions by 2015. storage and offloading (FPSO) vessel in Norway. Where appropriate, these plans Fugitive emissions typically occur during well We are also one of a number of oil and gas include commitment to projects that development, before the infrastructure is in companies participating in and sponsoring a implement or seek to develop new technology place to capture the gas produced, but they major industry study into fugitive emissions and innovation. can also arise from leakages in pipe work being conducted by the Center for Energy and connections and storage tanks. This is a concern, Environmental Resources at the University of LOWER-CARBON TECHNOLOGIES because methane is a potent GHG and methane Texas at Austin. The objective of the study is from fugitive emissions leaks directly into the to generate more accurate data on current During 2012, we continued work to develop 1 After fracturing, the fluid used to fracture must be pumped out of the well. During this process, gas flows back up the well, trapped in or associated with the fluid. The fluid is typically stored in tanks, and the atmosphere, resulting in a greater short-term levels of methane emissions from natural gas lower-carbon solutions, in particular through methane in the fluid can escape into the atmosphere. Similarly, early gas production has been vented or impact than when it is combusted. production. Industry participants are providing the work of our technology group. flared for the period until the well is hooked up to a pipeline. This means that during development and access to certain production facilities for data completion, emissions are higher if not managed. The scale of unconventional gas resources collection. The study is expected to conclude Our investment in technology is led by 2 For example the March 2012 NRDC report, Leaking Profits, and the International Energy Agency’s May 2012 being developed worldwide has led to with a final report in 2013. technology hubs – centres of expertise publication, Golden Rules for a Golden Age of Gas. concerns about the potential emissions that will lead research and development 3 Under the Clean Air Act, the EPA must set standards (New Source Performance Standards or NSPS) for impact of their development. Unconventional The study, which is also sponsored by the programmes. The hubs will play a key role industrial categories that contribute to air pollution. The EPA is required to review these standards every 8 years. The existing NSPS were issued in 1985, and EPA’s existing air toxics standards for oil and gas gas production typically results in higher Environmental Defense Fund, will be rigorous, in managing investments required to tackle production were issued in 1999. In April 2012, the EPA issued its long-awaited update to the NSPS: final methane emissions at the wellhead with a scientific advisory panel to ensure its multi-functional challenges – such as applied rules to reduce air pollution from oil and natural gas operations, including specifically new federal air (compared to conventional production) during integrity, and planned publication in a carbonate technologies (to increase recovery standards for wells that involve hydraulic fracturing. These rules are to be fully enforced from 2015 and well development and completion (not at peer-reviewed journal. The research rates in carbonate fields) or carbon will require oil and gas companies to capture methane as well as pollutant gases from 2015 using specified ‘green completion technologies (see below for explanation). other stages of the life cycle). This is due in complements work conducted by the management and gas utilisation (to reduce 4 Green completion is a term used in some markets to describe methods or technologies that reduce particular to the impact of the hydraulic American Petroleum Institute and America’s emissions and identify and develop gas methane losses during well completions. When a new well is being constructed, it has to be cleaned fracturing process1. Natural Gas Alliance (ANGA) during 2012. This utilisation technologies). before it starts to produce – and gas produced during this process is normally vented to the atmosphere. study gathered data on key industry activities Green completions use portable equipment to capture this gas and typically recover more than half of the and equipment emission sources – including total gas produced for sale, reuse or flaring. In using this approach, investment can typically be recovered within two years. Some US states and cities require green completions and some oil and gas companies unconventional natural gas production – that already voluntarily use them. The EPA estimates that mandatory green completions in the USA will point are critical to developing credible estimates of to a cost saving of $11-19 million in 2015 when the rules are fully implemented. methane emissions. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 15 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue Carbon management and gas utilisation We also set up an energy efficiency Environmental Management System technology hub programme, with the aim of delivering a step certification change in our energy utilisation through We are committed to ensuring that the partnership with Brazilian and international Environmental Management Systems EMS at institutions, original equipment all our major operated businesses are manufacturers, and spin-off companies. As effective at managing their environmental part of the programme, we will explore risks. Our Environmental Standard requires all technology options for improving waste heat the businesses we operate to gain ISO 14001 GAS FUTURES recovery and options for low-carbon power certification within two years of start-up or New and alternative generation in particular. acquisition. At the end of 2012, 100% (11 out of uses for gas 11) of our major operated interests were WATER INVESTMENTS certified to ISO 14001 (80% in 2011) and 50% (two out of four) of our joint-operated joint We are also making significant investments in ventures were ISO 14001 certified (33% in 2011), CARBON MANAGEMENT water-related projects, especially in Queensland. for a combined total of 87% (13 out of 15). & GAS UTILISATION ENERGY TECHNOLOGY CARBON Read about water technology in the Water In 2012, we certified our Reading head office, EFFICIENCY HUB MANAGEMENT section and in our QGC case study in the UK, our UK Dragon LNG terminal in Milford Haven, Wales, and our operations in Improving CO2 abatement, SULPHUR REDUCTION Queensland, Australia. Dragon LNG performance for reinjection & storage specifically designed its EMS to cover various our operations In 2012, we carried out substantial technical operations, including import, storage and work and pilot trials to examine the potential regasification of LNG. Our Queensland for a major sulphuric acid plant that would operations created an EMS with a scope to Our priority is to reduce the carbon intensity Read about our Global Technology Centre and lead to a sizeable reduction in sulphur dioxide cover well development, power stations, associated with our operations, as well as Science without Borders in our Brazil case study (SO2) emissions from our operations in Tunisia. water treatment, camps and offices near examining product characteristics to identify The gas from our Miskar field in Tunisia has Brisbane and Chinchilla. Our Reading head novel uses of gas in areas such as One example of our work in 2012 was very high hydrogen sulphide content, and the office was our first office-based operation to transportation and infrastructure. collaboration with the São Paolo Research sulphur is currently incinerated, releasing on achieve ISO 14001 certification and gained Foundation in Brazil to explore research and average 40% of our total SO2 emissions. We OHSAS 18001 certification at the same time. We are sponsoring a number of projects and development priorities for gas utilisation in carried out field trials on a sulphuric acid plant We plan to extend this to other offices in 2013. initiatives to enhance our understanding of Brazil and elsewhere. This resulted in originally commissioned in 2009, which will the critical success factors for fuel cells in the identifying nine priority research themes for convert this to saleable sulphuric acid. Group HSSE audits also examine the operation of Brazilian market, as well as in other markets of potential development, including low-carbon Detailed designs are now under consideration. EMSs. In 2012, we conducted audits at our interest to us globally. power generation (including fuel cells), fuel This project is being fast tracked, with the aim businesses in Aberdeen, Scotland, Australia, Egypt, substitution and transport (including the of delivering a reinstated plant by 2015. India, Kazakhstan, Trinidad and Tobago, and Our technology approach emphasises decarbonisation of gas networks), new Tunisia, and also in our Global Shipping business. engagement with external organisations and applications for gas, and work on policy and ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE research bodies. We have been particularly gas infrastructure (including smart energy active in forming such relationships in Brazil, grids). We continue to work with the This section sets out the main environmental where we are building our Global Technology Foundation to formalise these initial proposals data for the year 2012, with context and Centre, and will coordinate our Group-wide and develop them into robust projects. explanation where required. We report this data 1 BG Group is required to invest 1% of technology activities1. annually; for comparative figures from previous its gross production revenue from years read our historic sustainability reports. Brazilian fields on R&D in Brazil. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 16 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue Non-greenhouse gas air emissions SOx emissions to atmosphere Hydrocarbon spills Total volume of hydrocarbon spills to sea Our activities generate air emissions including (’000 tonnes) In 2012, the total amount of oil spilled fell by (barrels) nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulphur dioxide 79% from 285 barrels to 61 barrels. There were 35 700 (SO2) from the burning of fuel and from 209 hydrocarbon spill incidents reported flaring. Smaller volumes of carbon monoxide 30 during the year compared with 164 in the 600 (CO) and volatile organic compounds (VOCs) previous year. There were 17 hydrocarbon spills are also emitted. 25 to sea, totalling one barrel; no individual spill 500 to sea was a barrel or greater in volume. 20 400 NOx emissions to atmosphere (’000 tonnes) The largest individual spill to land was at our 15 300 operations in Queensland, Australia. During 35 refuelling activities as a drilling camp, 1.3 m3 10 200 30 of diesel was released when a pump was not 5 turned off after completion. Immediate 100 25 corrective measures were put in place, 0 including signage and a beacon light 0 20 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 indicating when the pump is running. No 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 hydrocarbon spills in 2012 from our operations 15 Sulphur dioxide Sea had a significant environmental impact. Water spills 10 During 2012, SO2 emissions totalled 24 000 Number of hydrocarbon spills While we aim to contain the water produced tonnes, an increase of 14% compared with (of one barrel or more) by our operations so that it is safely stored, 5 2011, due largely to increased oil used for fuel transported and disposed of, there have been 20 0 in our shipping operations. Total emissions per incidents of uncontrolled release of saline and 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 unit of throughput increased by 14% between desalinated water. It should be noted, 2011 and 2012. Around 40% of the Group’s SO2 however, that the water produced from coal Nitrogen oxide 15 emissions arise from Miskar in Tunisia, where seam gas typically has a salt concentration of the reservoir gas has very high hydrogen 2 000-6 000 parts per million (ppm). By way During 2012, NOx emissions totalled 32 000 sulphide content. Sulphur is currently of comparison, seawater has an average salt tonnes, an increase of 10% compared with incinerated but plans for a plant to address 10 concentration of around 35 000 ppm. 2011. Total NOx emissions per unit of this are being fast tracked, with delivery throughput increased by 12% between 2011 targeted for 2015. The total number of water spills in 2012 was and 2012. This increase in 2012 came 5 25, with a total of 170 cubic metres of water predominately from increased activity and Spills spilled. This compared with 36 spills in 2011, use of oil as fuel in our shipping operations Our business involves storing and totalling 1030 cubic metres. and the ramp up of activity in Australia. The transporting liquids, including oil, diesel, 0 last six years have also seen an increase in drilling muds and chemicals. Our equipment, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 The biggest single incident involved 105 m3 of NOx aligned mainly with the increased activity policies and training aim to prevent any fresh water containing sediments spilled from Sea Land in shipping. unplanned release of solid or liquid material to a trench over 30m2 of land and into a surface land or water. watercourse. The creek was cleared using netting and the trench was reinforced. Tool box talks were updated to include the risk of environmental incidents. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 17 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue Waste Waste disposal ETHICAL CONDUCT zero tolerance of corruption. However, Waste represents an environmental burden, (’000 tonnes) managing the risk is getting tougher as new financial cost and potential reputational Overview regulations and legislation (such as the UK 120 liability. Conversely, waste minimisation Stakeholders’ expectations of corporate Bribery Act 2010, which came into force in July provides opportunities to reduce costs and ethical conduct have increased and legislation 2011) are introduced in an environment where 100 improve efficiencies. We have committed to such as the UK Bribery Act 2010 (which came prosecuting authorities are increasingly minimising resource use and reducing the into force in July 2011) has been introduced. active, cooperating across jurisdictions and volume and hazardous nature of wastes by 80 While we have always had a zero tolerance levying record-breaking fines. applying the waste hierarchy1 and adopting best approach to corruption, we recognise the available techniques, wherever practicable. 60 importance of continued vigilance. In 2012, we continued to build on and strengthen our procedures for managing Our activities generate waste streams, including 40 During 2012, we carried out internal audits on ethical conduct risk. We examined how to metals, hazardous waste, cuttings, and other how we appoint third parties, including agents maximise our influence in non-controlled joint material classified as general waste. Information 20 and intermediaries who interact with public ventures and conducted an independent about the total weight of waste disposed, by officials. We looked specifically at ensuring that review of our fraud management processes waste type, is shown in the graph to the right. 0 due diligence on these third parties was being across the Group. A number of actions were 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 fully and effectively carried out2. identified, some of which were implemented The disposal method is determined by our in 2012 and others will be implemented during Hazardous General Environmental Standard and the BG Group HSSE We conducted an independent review of our 2013 and beyond. Metals Cuttings Performance Monitoring and Reporting Standard. fraud management processes, continued to seek to influence our non-controlled joint Due diligence Offshore controlled discharges BG Group reported an increase of 190% in ventures to meet high standards of ethical We carry out corruption risk assessments of Our offshore gas exploration and production total waste disposal from 39 000 tonnes in conduct, assessed the robustness of our territories/countries that we are considering processes also result in water discharges that 2011 to 113 000 tonnes in 2012. This increase is anti-bribery and corruption procedures in entering as well as due diligence into the contain oil – known as ‘controlled discharges’. primarily as a result of the availability and selected operations and continued training ethical conduct track record of potential joint In 2012, the amount of oil in process water inclusion of data from our Australian activities our people in key areas. We revised and venture partners and providers of materials discharged from our operations increased by and US shale gas operations. Excluding these re-issued our Business Principles employee and services. approximately 12 tonnes (10%) from 120 tonnes new additions to the Group figures, our total guide, Principles into Practice, and launched a in 2011 to 132 tonnes. The total quantity of oil in waste increased 5% on a like-for-like basis. handbook on how to test our anti-bribery and In 2012, we revised our Ethical Conduct Due drill cuttings discharged offshore in 2012 corruption procedures. We continued to Diligence Standard to bring greater alignment increased by 164 tonnes to 239 tonnes. Cuttings waste decreased from 10 000 to 7 investigate reports made through Speak Up, with the new Contracts and Procurement 000 tonnes, primarily due to the nature of our independent service for reporting Standard which was issued in 2012 and states onshore drilling activity during the year: potential breaches of our Business Principles. how to source a contract and manage it after different geologies will result in different contract award. The challenge is to balance a waste levels. Anti-corruption, bribery and fraud quick and efficient contracting process with Like other international oil and gas companies, sufficient and proportionate due diligence. 1 The waste hierarchy classifies waste management options in In 2012, 35% of our total waste was sent for we face the challenge of working in territories The Ethical Conduct Due Diligence Standard order of environmental impact, re-use or recycling; this includes 54% of our where the perceived or actual risk of was also revised to bring greater clarity and such as: reduction, reuse, recycling hazardous waste. The majority of general corruption and bribery is high and where we direction over the due diligence required when and recovery. waste was sent to authorised landfill. do not necessarily have a controlling interest considering potential social investment 2 The relevant BG Group Standards in all of our joint ventures. We have a policy of partners and technology partners. are the Appointment of Agents, Intermediaries and Political Consultants Standard and our Ethical Conduct Due Diligence Standard. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 18 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue Guiding and training those who work for 2 000 employees and individual contractors, During 2012, 120 cases were reported under Speak Of the Speak Up cases closed in 2012 there BG Group mostly new starters, completed this training Up (compared with 134 in 2011 and 151 in 2010). were no cases in which employees were We continued to provide guidance on in 2012 (in 2011, its first full year of use, nearly dismissed or disciplined for corruption or managing ethical conduct risk in 2012. We 7 000 employees and individual contractors, More detail about the cases is given below: fraud. There was one case where two revised and re-issued Principles into Practice both new starters and existing employees and employees of a contractor company were our internal guide to our Business Principles contractors, completed this training). ●● 37% related to reported malpractice (including dismissed as a result of fraud. (including Ethical Conduct). We took particular allegations of breaches of the Group’s Ethical care to provide guidance on our approach to Auditing and assurance Conduct Policy and Standards, including gifts and hospitality, ensuring employees During 2012, we launched a handbook (the corruption) HEALTH AND WELLBEING giving or receiving hospitality during the 2012 Adequate Procedures toolkit) on how to test ●● 33% related to general workplace concerns London Olympics and Paralympics followed the robustness of our anti-bribery and (including allegations of harassment, Overview our Standards. corruption procedures. We monitored actively discrimination, unfair hiring practices and Employee health and wellbeing are key issues the implementation of our anti-bribery and unfair treatment) as the Group grows and moves into new We recognise that senior-level commitment corruption procedures using this toolkit, ●● 18% related to fraud (including allegations of countries across the world. We continued to is vital to effective ethical conduct risk working with Good Corporation (an theft or misuse of funds) build our health management resources and management. During the year, we enhanced independent assessor) to test them in our ●● 12% related to health, safety, security and the strengthen our processes for protecting our leaders’ self-assessment checklist on businesses in China, India, Italy and Tanzania. environment. employee health, as well as monitoring for ethical conduct, anti-corruption and bribery. occupational illnesses. Where appropriate, This spells out what senior level commitment In-house teams visited other Group businesses In 2012, investigations into 18 cases resulted in we invested in projects to facilitate certain should look like in practice and is designed to during the year, and worked with local actions recommended against individuals, community health services, such as the be a practical guide for our people in leadership to help them manage bribery and employees or contractors, ranging from upgrade to the Nakta Heath Centre in Tunisia. leadership positions. corruption challenges. Our goal is to ensure that training or disciplinary action to contract We re-assessed our key global health risks and all our businesses have a plan of continuous termination or other appropriate action. A put into place a health risk management In 2012, we released an advanced e-learning improvement to manage ethical conduct risk. further 22 cases resulted in follow-up actions programme. We increased the number of course on anti-bribery and corruption, which Our internal audit programme for 2012 focused such as changes to procedures and to dedicated medical practitioners in our complements the mandatory fraud and bribery on auditing compliance with the Ethical organisational controls. operations worldwide and re-launched our e-learning launched in previous years. It gives a Conduct Due Diligence Standard and the Employee Assistance Programme, which detailed understanding of relevant UK and USA Agents, Intermediaries and Political Consultants As far as we are aware there were no cases offers our people 24-hour-a-day health, legislation, and is especially useful for those Standard. Internal audit identified areas for in 2012 where a law enforcement authority counselling and wellbeing support. working in areas where they may be exposed to improvement in the ways that our businesses made an evidence-based corruption allegation the risk of corruption, such as procurement. A are complying with these standards. against a BG Group employee. Occupational health and wellbeing second annual workshop for local compliance During 2012, we conducted a series of health officers reviewed working arrangements with Speak Up We note that in 2012 the Brindisi court issued risk assessment baseline reviews to our Ethical Conduct Compliance Unit and Speak Up is our policy that requires our its verdict on criminal charges in relation to understand our risks in more detail. We now discussed future developments. employees and individual contractors to the Brindisi project and further information have a global risk matrix which means we can report any situation where they have reason on this is set out in Note 24 E of Notes to the target our resources, for instance where to We provided training in 2012 through our to suspect that there has been a breach or accounts – legal proceedings in the Annual focus the work of our occupational hygienist fraud and bribery e-learning, which is potential breach of our Business Principles, Report and Accounts 20121 . (recruited in 2012) to drive down those risks. mandatory and encourages individuals to be Policies, or any laws or regulations. We also alert to risks and possible instances of fraud encourage third parties to raise concerns In one of the Speak Up cases closed in 2012, We place particular emphasis on full 1 Please see Note 24 E in the Notes and bribery and to report concerns. More than about whether we are working in accordance we terminated the contract with a contractor protection of our people from carcinogens in to the Accounts section of the BG Group Annual Report & Accounts for with our Business Principles. company due to an incident of corruption. the workplace. We recognise the importance a full statement on Brindisi and other legal proceedings. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 19 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue of focusing not just on reported health Employee health and wellbeing Information on occupational illness frequency is a key performance indicator in the Group incidents, but on protection from longer-term In 2012, we continued to develop health quarterly HSSE scorecard. We continue to take action to address the issue of under-reporting. health risks. management expertise at our businesses around the world. A health representative is OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS FREQUENCY 1 We also reviewed our processes for tracking now in post in every business, often supported Number of Number of our people travelling to countries with by a specialist occupational health adviser. Description incidents people particular risks, such as Tanzania where Africa, Central & Food-borne illness 8 15 malaria is a risk, and reviewed the products We increased the number of dedicated medical South Asia Contact dermatitis 2 5 we provide, such as antibiotics for travel to practitioners within individual locations and America & Europe Heat stress 1 1 North Africa. appointed dedicated medical practitioners in Australia & East Asia Heat stress 1 1 Tanzania and in the UK Upstream. Musculo-skeletal 1 1 During the year, we developed a health guide GEMS 0 0 to entering new countries, which we expect to We also re-launched our Employee Assistance TVP Work-related stress 2 2 launch in 2013. This emphasises the Programme in 2012, which offers our people importance of considering health issues as 24-hour-a-day access to psychological part of the planning process. assistance, face-to-face counselling if We launched new e-learning modules on work of IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry required, and access to online health and occupational illness, food safety and fatigue in association for environmental and social Community health and wellbeing wellbeing support, worldwide. 2012, which are made available globally on the issues, to strengthen the oil and gas industry’s Our revised Social Performance Standard BG Group Learning Management System. This approach to human rights. includes a clause on community health, safety Occupational illness reporting initiative was supported by promotional and security. This requires social performance We continued to work to encourage increased activities. Simple diagnostic health checks Collaboration and projects professional staff to work more closely with reporting of health incidents. This enables us to under our new global well-being programme During 2012, we continued to work with their health, safety, security and environment identify new risks and any gaps or breakdown were also provided, which sought to improve industry peers through IPIECA to improve (HSSE) colleagues to ensure that health, safety in our management system. We identified that every employee’s engagement with their own human rights practices and share learning. We and security risks in the community are reporting of illness was low, compared with personal health. Recent campaigns have played an active role in two particular IPIECA effectively managed. lost time injuries, and sought to address this. focused on sun awareness and physical fitness initiatives. We co-chaired the IPIECA Grievance This effort has had some success: for example, and more initiatives are planned for 2013. Mechanism Sub-Group which has among its For example, in Tunisia (working with the we have raised awareness of food-borne objectives developing practical guidance to Tunisian national oil company ETAP and local illnesses, launching e-learning and putting help companies implement grievance and national government partners) we invested safety management systems in place. Our HUMAN RIGHTS mechanisms. In support of this work, we are in a project to upgrade the Nakta Health Centre. operations in India won an award in the health developing a grievance mechanism consistent We and ETAP will contribute approximately category of our 2012 Chairman’s Awards (given Overview with international good practice at our port $730,000 towards better healthcare provision for excellence in environment, health, safety Human rights have become a focus of facility in Mtwara, Tanzania. for more than 20 000 people. This involves and social performance), for their approach to increasing attention for businesses since the improving consultation and emergency services, managing this issue. development of the UN Guiding Principles on We also played an active role in the IPIECA and providing better X-ray facilities and a Business and Human Rights. We strengthened Human Rights and Social Responsibility Task dedicated ambulance. The new facilities will We have also seen improved management of our approach to human rights management in Force and participated in the IPIECA Voluntary mean that common health emergencies and heat stress in Queensland in particular, with 11 2012, establishing a relationship with the Principles Task Force which aims to provide a other problems, such as heart attacks, can be incidents reported in 2011 and one in 2012, Institute of Human Rights and Business and forum for the exchange of industry good treated locally; this greatly improves an after we took action to raise awareness and piloting indicators relating to the Voluntary practices as well as communicating industry individual’s chance of successful recovery. introduce better work rest breaks. Principles on Security and Human Rights progress externally. initiative. We also played an active role in the 1 Reported cases only. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 20 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue Relationship with the Institute of Human NEW COUNTRY ENTRY assessments. The framework also seeks to Social impacts Rights and Business AND POLITICAL RISK ensure that our investments are diversified, We look at a range of ways in which we might During the year, we entered into a three-year that we put in place plans to build broadly affect people living in areas where we plan to MANAGEMENT relationship with the Institute of Human based stakeholder support, and that our operate including: Rights and Business (IHRB). IHRB is a presence is seen as positive both by those in Overview non-governmental organisation that the country, and by external observers. ●● whether indigenous people or other Exploration and production opportunities operates as a global centre of excellence vulnerable groups could be affected arise in increasingly challenging locations. and expertise on the relationship between Social and community issues are included at ●● if concerns over land use and ownership are In 2012, we developed a more rigorous business and internationally proclaimed the highest level of decision making when we likely to arise (recognising the importance of framework for assessing new market human rights standards. enter a new market: we consider the potential understanding traditional or customary land opportunities and introduced this to the impact of our operations on society, on the ownership) Sustainability Committee for endorsement Introduction of Voluntary Principles key environment and on human health. ●● whether, as well as affecting people living before it is implemented. This framework performance indicators close to our operations, we might also affect takes into account political, social, corruption We have agreed to pilot key performance Political risk management other groups in a broader area, including at and environmental risks as well as the wider indicators (KPIs) relating to our implementation As we look at new markets, we look beyond regional and national levels geopolitical context. These risks were of the Voluntary Principles on Security and commercial factors, aiming to assess wider ●● if high levels of poverty exist considered when we assessed a number of Human Rights (the Principles). These KPIs cover environmental, social and governance issues ●● if the potential for conflict or protest exists if potential projects and new activities in 2012. both corporate commitments and countryincluding: we fail to meet community expectations In British Columbia, Canada, we engaged level implementation. Two Tomorrows DNV ●● if legacy issues exist from previous or extensively with indigenous First Nation will provide assurance, interviewing key people ●● geo-political risk (from international factors neighbouring developments peoples. In Tanzania, we continued to build at Group level and in selected operations. The – conflict, trade war or sanctions, or political ●● if environmental impacts may have a social relationships with a wide range of KPIs cover areas such as the senior team’s pressure from neighbouring states) aspect stakeholders and established partnerships commitment to the Principles, the policy for ●● the internal political stability of the ●● if there are many communities, and whether with key non-governmental organisations implementing the Principles, how this is government (including potential policy they are fragmented or ethnically complex (NGOs). We also continued work on assured, how human rights allegations are changes from any change of government, ●● if there is a high level of stakeholder activism understanding the macro-economic impacts reported, how the Principles are implemented whether through democratic process or more in the area. of oil and gas development. with the security providers we use and how disruptive change) incidents are handled. ●● the risk of either fiscal changes or forced In certain countries, where the development New country entry renegotiation of contracts leading to increased of oil and gas is likely to have a significant In 2012, we developed a more integrated ‘total government take’ social and economic impact, we may conduct framework for assessing new market ●● the strength of the legal system and socio-economic analysis to cover issues of opportunities. This takes into account the predictability of regulatory regimes corruption, transparency, resource risks and geopolitical context of a new ●● political factors around the energy sector, management and institutional capacity. market, and how these may affect our licence to operate. including the role of the national oil company. Increasingly, governments are requiring investors to make formal and quantified We also identify key stakeholders such as commitments to the country’s social The new framework stresses the importance relevant government departments, development objectives. We aim to do this of ensuring that we consider, when looking at community leaders, think tanks, and industry where possible, making our commitments and new markets, whether we can operate there associations who may have influence. our governance approach explicit, so that we in a way that is consistent with our Business can maintain control over how they are Principles. This is particularly important in subsequently implemented. regimes where corruption is known to be an issue and so we carry out corruption risk BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 21 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue Environmental and health impacts First Nation peoples – as project critical. As a Tanzania. The report outlines some of the Appointment of new Chief Executive We also consider potential environmental result, we established a strong governance challenges and opportunities for the country, At the end of 2012, we announced the impacts, for example, considering sensitive framework to manage these issues from the and implications for the industry, in appointment of our new Chief Executive, Chris or protected areas and reviewing how outset. This included establishing an overall developing a gas export sector. It highlights Finlayson who took over from Sir Frank Chapman environmental constraints or regulations internal governance and consultative group issues that a large LNG project would present on 1 January 2013. This followed an extensive might apply to any future development. We which included representatives from our to public policy: challenges for macro-fiscal search process to replace Sir Frank, whose plans also identify issues of water availability and Social Performance, Environment, policy and in developing skills, such as those to retire in 2013 were confirmed in 2011. disposal, and waste management and other Commercial, Legal, Engineering, and Policy needed for LNG plant construction. It also environmental infrastructure, and take a view and Corporate Affairs functions. Social highlights actions that would help Tanzanian Chris Finlayson joined BG Group from Royal on the associated risks. performance experts supported the industry link with the oil and gas supply chain. Dutch Shell plc (Shell) in August 2010 and was engineering team during the site selection appointed to the Board on 15 November 2011. We look at our potential impact on the health process and an expert was seconded to the We have had discussions with key stakeholders Before being appointed Chief Executive he held of local people and our own employees and project for a year, helping to develop the from the Tanzanian government, the World two senior positions in BG Group and a number contractors in the context of the general health strategy. From an early stage, we held Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the of senior posts at Shell. He has more than 35 provisions in the country. We also consider meetings with First Nation community group Africa Development Bank on the report’s years’ experience in the oil and gas industry. threats to the well-being of our employees and leaders to discuss the project and its impact findings. In addition to providing information contractors when visiting the country and on local groups, including potential benefits. about the project, the meetings have paved the People for the future identify and assess any security risks. way for a process under the leadership of the Across the Group during 2012, we focused on Case study: Tanzania Tanzanian government where the key issues understanding our future skills requirements We conduct due diligence to understand We became operator of a major offshore and measures can be considered. and how we can meet them, whether by human rights risks in new country entries. This project in Tanzania in 2011. Since then, we developing our own people or recruiting is especially relevant in countries or regions have set up a significant presence within the externally. We were able to make good with a poor human rights record, or where the country, establishing relationships with a wide PEOPLE AND SKILLS FOR progress against our recruiting targets but see risk of conflict is high or expected to endure. In range of stakeholders. Our offshore ongoing challenges associated with obtaining THE FUTURE these cases, a dedicated human rights impact exploration and the creation of a supply base and retaining skilled professionals. assessment may be required. Assessments also at Mtwara made it possible to recruit many Overview consider risks from corruption, or a lack of Tanzanians, and provide support to We anticipate strong competition for certain Ensuring we have the right people for the transparency and good governance. communities located near our operations. skill sets we need, such as well engineering, future was a focus during the year. We project managers, reservoir engineers and announced the appointment of Chris Finlayson Actions in 2012 During 2012, we continued work on geologists. We identified Australia and as our new Chief Executive and took a range of In the course of 2012, we looked at a number understanding the macro-economic impacts of Kazakhstan as two main areas where we steps to strengthen our approach to finding of prospective new countries, addressing oil and gas development. A major development, expect it to be difficult to hire and retain and developing the people we need at all many of the issues identified earlier. such as an LNG project, would have a qualified individuals. levels, in particular future leaders, including a transformational effect on the country. While more structured approach to identifying and Case study: British Columbia this offers opportunities, it also creates During 2012, to address this, we identified developing talent. We developed a more An example of our approach was our challenges. We recognise how important it is to where around the Group we had people with targeted and responsive approach to surveying engagement with First Nation communities ensure that these challenges and opportunities these skill sets to help us identify where critical employees and continued training to help in British Columbia, Canada, where we were are well understood by all the key parties. roles around the world could be sourced. build leadership skills. Recognising the need to conducting feasibility studies into a possible increase female representation at the senior liquefaction facility and pipeline development. In 2011, we commissioned Oxford Policy leadership level, we introduced a diversity Here, external consultants identified both Management to assess the potential statement and set an aspiration to increase environmental and social issues – including magnitude and associated impact of a the percentage of women in leadership the need to engage with Canada’s indigenous hypothetical LNG project on the economy of positions to 20% by 2020. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 22 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue We took other actions, including leveraging Development programmes To read more on our approach to career “We believe that we will deliver better and social media and other recruitment channels, In November 2011, we introduced our management and leadership, see How we more sustainable results if we have a culture and increasing our visibility at recognised Emerging Leaders programme aimed at senior manage people where different perspectives are encouraged industry events and universities. This work and middle managers identified as having and considered. To achieve this, we aim to will continue in 2013 and beyond. high potential by the talent review process. Succession planning build a workforce that is diverse – in ethnicity, During 2012, 14 people completed this In 2012, we significantly strengthened our gender, background and approach. We aspire We conducted market studies in areas where programme, which focused on leadership, approach to succession planning. We put in to increase the proportion of women in we identified skills gaps, to help us better commercial insight, networking with key place succession plans for around 70 of our most leadership positions to 20% by 2020.” understand demographics, staffing dynamics senior stakeholders, and joint venture senior positions and critical technical roles. and the generation of talent pools from partners. It included the opportunity to work The statement was formally approved in mainstream universities. We also participated on specific projects aimed at driving cultural We developed a framework for succession January 2013 and progress against it will be in industry surveys that provide an external change in the Group. Attendees were planning designed to identify potential monitored and measured regularly. We plan to view of global demands and market trends in identified through a three-day development successors to senior Group executive roles, take specific actions including: involving more relation to attrition, retirement and current exercise, where they were given feedback on extend the pool of these successors and female employees in our graduate recruitment and future key skills shortages. their strengths and areas for development. accelerate the development of leaders activities; ensuring all female employees in the throughout the business. This framework senior and emerging talent pools have an Talent review Course modules took place at Reading in the categorises successors into those who are appropriate mentor; and reviewing the Group’s We also did work to improve the ways in UK, Brisbane in Australia and Rio de Janeiro in immediately available, those who will be flexible working policies. which we identify and develop employees Brazil. Delegates had the opportunity to meet ready in one to two years, and those who will with potential. our joint-venture partner, Petrobras in Rio and be ready in three to five years. It also identifies Through our improved talent management a landowner in Brisbane, as well as working roles where we need to look externally. and succession planning process (see In 2012, we introduced a more structured with a number of other companies, such as ‘Succession planning’), we achieved a 6% talent review process across the business; Rio Tinto and AstraZeneca, to increase their Recruitment increase in females within our senior and we will conduct these annually as part of network and commercial understanding. We continued our effort to attract candidates emerging talent pools in 2012. the talent and succession cycle. Delegates have gone on to collaborate with and retain our employees. We further other organisations such as Rolls Royce to developed our employee value proposition We will also continue to review our practices In doing this, we assessed both performance develop networks to consider issues such as (which helps us articulate what working for against best practice diversity programmes and potential, using a proprietary model global leadership challenges. BG Group means). and initiatives. thatfocuses on five key indicators of potential. Using this model has brought more objectivity We ran a number of other development We also reviewed our approach to graduate Employee engagement and consistency to talent identification and programmes during the year. More than 230 recruitment, to introduce more consistency in our During 2012, we responded to discussion and enabled us to identify four key talent pools: of our people attended our core leadership approach and assessment procedures worldwide. focus groups at Group level and in our emerging, senior, functional and core talent. courses (Management Essentials, businesses, for example: Performance Through People and We plan to introduce new systems to be used By applying this model, we achieved a 21% Organisational Leadership) in 2012. Courses throughout the resourcing process – from ●● In Australia, feedback enabled the increase in non-UK employees and a 6% took place in Australia, Egypt, Trinidad and search to recruitment to appointment. We are management team to further develop their increase in female employees identified as Tobago, Tunisia, the UK and the USA. We also further developing the key performance programme for fostering our Group having the potential to take on senior roles in provided a nine-month accredited internal indicators we use to measure how Behaviours and to tailor their employee our organisation. coaching programme to increase our internal recruitment is being managed. offering to retain employees. capability and so support development in a cost effective way. Diversity During 2012, recognising the need to increase female representation at the senior leadership level, we developed a new diversity statement: BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 23 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue ●● At Group level and in selected operations SAFETY working on a construction activity was struck ●● In Queensland, a strong focus on driving safety (including Brazil, Egypt and Australia) we by a reversing vehicle. We participated in has continued. An approach has been built asked focus groups about their Overview thorough investigations conducted into these around three key elements: the driver, the vehicle understanding of our strategy. The response Safety is always our top priority. During 2012, incidents and reviewed recommendations and the journey. Drivers receive training, are drug was positive but the groups asked for more we developed a new safety strategy, which developed to address the root causes. Any and alcohol tested and are monitored through an clarification and for more visibility of senior reflects learning from previous years as well incident of this nature is deeply regrettable in-vehicle monitoring system. Vehicles must leadership. We responded to this in a as priorities identified in 2012. It focuses on a and every effort is made to ensure that the meet standards and are fitted with monitoring communication from the new Chief number of key themes, including major lessons are effectively communicated to the systems and other safety features. A key feature Executive and this was well received. accident hazards, contractor management, relevant areas of the organisation. Both of our driving approach in our pipeline operations ●● We also did work to develop our employee and safety leadership and culture. incidents highlighted the importance of is the Journey Management Centre, which value proposition (how we attract and ensuring that procedures are clearly explained, provides 24-hour communication with drivers retain top talent). Employees commented We deeply regret that there were two fatalities well understood and put into practice. and monitors weather and roads. on our proposed approach, allowing us to in our operations in 2012 and our occupational tailor materials. safety performance as measured by the Driving safely Total recordable case frequency headline indicator of total recordable case Driving is one of the key risks to our people at Our occupational safety performance as Following our 2010 Group-wide employee frequency (TRCF) was disappointing at 2.26 work. During 2012, many of our operations measured by the headline indicator of total survey and our response to this in 2011, we against our 2012 target of 1.35. Underlying this focused on improving driving safety. Among recordable case frequency (TRCF)1, was took the decision to review our survey process. in particular was poor safety performance in these were: disappointing at 2.26 against our 2012 During 2012, we developed a new approach to our largely contracted Queensland workforce. target of 1.35. measuring employee engagement called ‘Your ●● Our operations in Kazakhstan ran a contractor Voice’. We plan to implement this in 2013 and Improving personal safety performance, road safety forum and developed a range of Total recordable case frequency(a) to incorporate a quarterly survey and a particularly in Queensland, and strengthening road safety plans, as well as holding weekly (per million work hours) bi-annual quantitative employee opinion relationships with our contractors were safety meetings and winter and summer 2.5 survey, as well as qualitative discussion and therefore priorities during the year and we put safety stand-downs. They also implemented 2.26 focus group input from around the world on a range of initiatives in place to address these. local road safety projects, such as installing 2.0 1.92 key areas of local interest. Major accident hazards also remained a focus: new signage. 1.74 1.59 we ran a Group-wide campaign to raise ●● Our operations in Tunisia launched a road 1.5 The quarterly surveys will ask three targeted awareness of these hazards and continued safety campaign, including a dedicated week 1.34 0.94 1.25 questions to give immediate feedback on to implement lessons arising from the BP covering instruction; training in defensive 1.0 1.02 employees’ overall levels of loyalty and Macondo Deepwater Horizon incident. driving, road safety alerts, journey 0.75 0.5 commitment as well as on line managers’ management, and in-vehicle monitoring effectiveness. This survey will cover around 2012 safety performance systems; and reinforcing positive behaviours 0 25% of employees, rather than the whole through driving awards. The campaign 2008 2010 2012 employee population. In 2013, we plan to run Fatalities featured international driving experts and three targeted surveys and one in-depth Tragically, there were two fatalities in our speakers sharing their knowledge and BG Group BG Group, excluding QGC survey. We also introduced new technology operations in 2012. A crew member of a experience with our Tunisia personnel, (a) Includes employees and contractors working on operated assets. that will enable us analyse the survey results support vessel was crushed while conducting contractors and partners. much more quickly and so enable us to ad hoc painting repairs while the vessel was ●● Our head office in Reading, in the UK, ran a respond to any issues in a timely way. moored in Aberdeen bay in Scotland. In our campaign focused on highlighting how driving Underlying this result, in particular, was our operations in Pennsylvania, USA, a contractor is intrinsically linked to HSSE and ultimately to safety performance in Queensland, Australia. productivity. Over a month, a range of events TRCF performance here did improve 1 TRCF measures the total number took place, including tyre and vision checks, significantly in 2012, down from 8.06 in 2011 to of recordable safety incidents per driving-related talks, and a driving exhibition. 6.39 (a reduction of 21%) and the severity of million hours worked. injuries arising was reduced. However, it still fell short of the internal target of 5.0. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 24 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue Our ability to ensure the largely contractor The TRCF in our joint-venture unconventional Following a positive response to the training, distribution assets and were due to third-party workforce operated consistently to the high gas business in the USA reduced significantly we replicated it at the Queensland Combined damage of pipe networks. There were 45 Tier 2 safety standards we expect was challenged by from 6.8 in 2011 to 3.2 in 2012 but did not have Emergency Response Academy at Whyte incidents, all of which were either in a shortage of contractors with experience in a material impact on the Group TRCF due to Island, Brisbane in Queensland, where transmission and distribution or unconventional working to oil and gas industry standards. This the reduced work activity level in this part of approximately 70 people were trained during gas operations which have a lower risk potential was due in particular to the ramp-up of the business (from 5.3 million man hours in 2012. We continue to hold regular sessions at than conventional operations. activity in the state with three LNG projects 2011 to 3.9 million man hours in 2012). both Spadeadam and Whyte Island. (including ours) being constructed on Curtis Response to the BP Macondo Deepwater Island and significant growth in both We also have Group leadership safety We also ran a Group-wide campaign to raise Horizon incident upstream drilling activity and pipeline indicators, which are designed to reflect the awareness of MAH, sponsored by the Chief In 2010, in the wake of the BP Macondo construction work. engagement of senior management in safety. Financial Officer. This campaign resulted in Deepwater Horizon incident, we set up a These indicators measure activities led or several initiatives in our operations around task force to review our Group systems for Therefore, while safety in Queensland did supported by management, for example, the world, such as: preventing a similar incident. improve compared with the previous year, its management tours, self-audits and contractor TRCF remained significantly higher than the review meetings. All these indicators were ●● Our operations in Kazakhstan and the USA In 2012, we continued to implement the rest of the Group. In response to this, we ahead of target in 2012. developed new training material for recommendations from the review conducted have unified our approach to contractor subsequent use in local workshops. The by the task force in 2011. Specific actions were: management and safety leadership across our Major accident hazard training management in Kazakhstan also attended a Queensland activities with increased focus on During 2012, we worked on a specially dedicated session. ●● embedding our blow-out risk assessment our basic safety requirements through a developed innovative programme to raise ●● Our Trinidad and Tobago operations produced process, introduced in early 2011 high-profile communications campaign. There awareness of major accident hazards (MAHs). an e-learning module which was made ●● improving communications and behaviours on has been improvement in performance but it This includes taking people to a dedicated available to all personnel via the Learning facilities, and improving the performance of is recognised that the required behavioural site, Spadeadem in Cumbria. The programme Management System. drilling and service contractors shifts will take time to take effect and impact includes technical presentations, ●● Our business in India ran a series of workshops ●● Implementing a contractual change that the headline TRCF indicator. demonstrations of various scenarios and the that focused on behavioural aspects and used empowers and requires the rig contractor to dramatisation of an actual major accident. a live delivery of the dramatisation from the cease operations if it considers conditions to The TRCF in our joint-venture unconventional To date, more than 350 personnel have programme to stimulate discussions. be abnormally hazardous gas business in the USA reduced significantly participated in this training, including the ●● Our head office in Reading, in the UK, ran a ●● reviewing our crisis communications as part from 6.8 in 2011 to 3.2 in 2012 but did not have most senior management. In 2012, Nontheatre-based workshop around a of a review of crisis management capabilities a material impact on the Group TRCF due to Executive Directors and members of the dramatisation of the major accident hazard ●● increasing technical and non-technical focus on the reduced work activity level in this part of Sustainability Committee participated in a awareness programme; this was also presented partner-operated activities, including enhanced the business (from 5.2 million man hours in course to heighten their awareness of major to graduates at their induction in 2013. assurance of operators’ well plans and thorough 2011 to 3.9 million man hours in 2012). accident risk. The Chairman of the Committee, review of contractual frameworks, including Sir David Manning, noted that it was an Major loss of primary containment incidents insurance, to assess and reduce potential Excluding our operations in Queensland, the excellent initiative and all Directors who had in 2012 liabilities in the event of an incident rest of the Group met its TRCF target in 2012, attended agreed that the course was an A loss of primary containment (LOPC) incident is ●● revising a number of our well engineering achieving a TRCF of 1.02.This would be top effective way to deepen understanding of an incident involving an unintentional release of Standards and Guidelines to ensure they are quartile performance as measured by the the importance of MAH awareness. gas or liquid, for example through leakage or embedded, and observed. latest International Association of Oil and Gas corrosion. These incidents are classified by 1 API RP 754 Process Safety Producers (OGP) benchmarking data. This severity, in line with industry1 classifications, Performance Indicators for the performance underlines the strong with Tier 1 being the most severe. In 2012, we refining and petrochemical commitment to improving performance and recorded 18 Tier 1 incidents. All but two of the industries; www.api.org (Tier 1 >1 500kg; Tier 2 >50kg <1 500kg to embedding a strong safety culture. Tier 1 incidents were in transmission and for transmission and distribution operations). BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 25 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue As in 2011, we conducted joint audits with For further information on these industry Working with contractors jobs. We publicise the achievements of the MARTIN HOUSTON drilling contractors to assure they are working to initiatives, please see: Working safely with contractors has become a winners and also make a donation of $1 000 on CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER our requirements and in compliance with their key issue for the oil and gas industry in recent behalf of each winner to a chosen local charity. own safety management systems. One such http://www.ipieca.org years. Contractors are a significant percentage “I’ve been really pleased audit identified gaps in training plans and http://oilspillresponseproject.org of the industry’s workforce and often perform Key contracts to see how the One Team emergency response procedures and these http://subseawellresponse.com highrisk activities. Like many other companies in During 2012, we introduced a new Contracts message is resonating in our issues were addressed by the drilling contractor. http://www.ogp.org.uk/committees/wells our sector, we face the challenge of making sure and Procurement Standard. This sets organisation. It is a simple our contractor workforce is fully aligned with minimum requirements associated with concept but a powerful one Participation in industry initiatives Competence assurance our own safety standards. In 2012, the total contractor selection and management and that captures the essence of We continued to participate in cross-industry A key element of managing major accident tracked hours worked for BG Group was 119.7 introduces a particular focus on key (high risk) our shared responsibility for initiatives including the International Oil and risk is ensuring levels of competence. Our million. Of those hours, 11.7 million were worked contracts, providing more clarity on roles and safety. When I see our team Gas Producers Association (OGP) three-year Competence Assurance Management System by BG Group employees (equating to our 2012 accountabilities in managing such contracts. at work in our operations joint industry project on oil spill response. (CAMS) provides a systematic approach to workforce of approximately 5 700 employees1). and in the field, I do not We are a funding participant, and sit on the establishing and developing competency We revised and simplified a number of tools distinguish between project governance committee and a number levels of those in operational roles at a facility. The remainder of the hours were worked by and protocols and provided clear guidance on contractor and employee – of the technical workgroups. direct BG Group contractors and joint-venture how to identify and manage key contracts. my expectations for Since 2010, we have introduced CAMS across employees and contractors as well as everyone are the same: work A BG Group representative chaired the OGP 11 of our operations, including some of our non-operated businesses where we have The new Standard places particular emphasis on safely, work together.” Human Factors Task Force of the Wells Expert joint ventures. At the end of 2012, 92% of the an influence and therefore track safety. the importance of monitoring contractors’ HSSE Committee during 2012. The Task Force operational facilities were on target against performance through regular reviews. It includes recommended improvements to current well their planned completion programmes for the The balance of these figures illustrates the core HSSE key performance indicators that can control training, and to the examination and assessment of safety critical tasks. significance of working safely in partnership be aggregated across operations, enabling us certification processes. It also proposed with others. to discuss and compare performance. It also related approaches that could be adopted This amounts to more than 57 000 individual requires all key contracts to have a contract throughout the industry to improve well assessments having been completed across all The One Team approach management plan, to ensure risks are managed control preparedness and performance. areas of our activity, including our exploration The One Team concept was introduced by our throughout the contract period. and production, LNG and shipping operations. Chief Operating Officer in 2012 to address the We continued to be involved in the Subsea challenge of contractor safety. One Team asks We are working to review the contract Well Response Project, an industry initiative Assessments and re-assessments of everyone working for and with BG Group to terms and conditions, including the HSSE set up in 2011 to design equipment to control competence continue at defined intervals for think of themselves as a team with a single requirements of a number of generic (model) a major well blow-out. During 2013, this all safety critical tasks for as long as a facility purpose: to deliver our business plan safely. It contracts, to ensure these are appropriate to initiative aims to deliver four globally is in operation. The CAMS programme has is a way of thinking how we work with others the scope of activity and reflect the key HSSE deployable well capping devices and two provided increased awareness of safety inclusively and particularly how we can work obligations of the contractor. subsea dispersant toolboxes for use by the critical tasks being performed and more more closely and more effectively in wider industry. visibility of the associated training needs partnership with contractors. leading to structured training plans that Our own task force is no longer in place as the support individual development. We also introduced the Gold Hard Hat ongoing activities are now established where award scheme, a recognition programme appropriate within the business in the relevant for individuals who made outstanding Group technical functions or in our operations. contributions to safety. In 2012, there were 26 winners across the organisation, both employees and contractors, in a wide range of 1 5 700 is the number of employees at year end. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 26 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue A number of our operations held contractor Piracy Information security Transparency “By adopting greater forum sessions in 2012. These involved Our LNG vessels regularly pass through the Gulf In common with many other organisations, Global companies, and particularly resources corporate transparency – a significant number of contractor of Aden, where there is a serious threat of piracy. our information systems face security threats companies, are increasingly asked to provide publicly reporting on organisations in discussion on HSSE issues, Following a detailed threat and risk assessment, from criminals, hackers and other information on the revenues they generate activities and operations – with the aim of sharing learning and in 2012 we introduced vessel protection teams perpetrators. Our Information Management in a particular country. Publishing this companies provide the developing closer relationships. on board ships transiting the area. The teams and Security Steering Committee regularly information makes governments more necessary information for act as a visible deterrent to piracy, respond to reviews cyber and other information threats accountable to citizens for how they use investors, journalists, Safety leadership and culture incidents and provide security advice to ships’ to ensure the mitigating measures we have income from vital national resources. activists and citizens to During 2012, we developed our approach to masters. This is a defensive measure also taken put in place are fit for purpose. monitor their behaviour.” safety leadership, in recognition of the changes by several other companies; we have not had We support transparency of this kind and at senior level as we have expanded. We have any incidences of piracy to date. The vessel Fraud risk management follow regulatory and other developments (Transparency in Corporate developed materials appropriate to each level protection team approach builds on our physical In 2012, we conducted a review of fraud risk closely. In Transparency International’s report, Reporting, Transparency of the organisation to support leaders in vessel-hardening measures, crew training and management across the Group which resulted Transparency in Corporate Reporting: International 2012) developing the skills they need to be successful. co-ordination with the naval forces in the region. in a number of recommendations. A steering Assessing the World’s Largest Companies, we group was set up to examine these gained maximum scores in two of the three In July 2012, we held a Global Safety Week Crisis management recommendations, for example in the area of indices (anti-corruption programmes and to review progress against individual safety Our crisis management plan was activated in internal reporting structures, and to ensure organisational structure) although, like many commitments made at the end of 2011 and to April 2012, in response to an incident in the that appropriate and timely action is taken. of our peers, we do not report on a countrydevelop new personal commitments. Senior Total-operated Elgin Franklin field in the UK by-country basis and so scored less well in this executives championed the global event and North Sea. This involved the uncontrolled SOCIO-ECONOMIC area. We were ranked joint fifth overall out of local operations ran a range of events, often release to the sea and atmosphere of 3 465 105 major publicly-listed companies. REPORTING with their contractor partners, reinforcing tonnes of gas condensate. The incident was topics such as driving safety and intervention. handled by Total as operator but our crisis 2012 saw the trend towards more detailed Overview management team provided technical reporting – in particular tax reporting – Transparent reporting was a much-debated issue support and monitored the situation continue with a prospective requirement under SECURITY in 2012, with the progress of new EU proposals throughout. A post-event review confirmed the USA Dodd-Frank regulation and likely EU that will require companies to report their that our crisis management plan worked legislation for more detailed reporting of Overview taxation payments as a minimum on a countrywell but lessons were learnt, for example, project revenues. As the Group is not a The risk of terrorism, criminal activity, piracy by-country basis and, potentially, on a project-byregarding training and availability of SEC-registered company in the USA, we will not and other security challenges in a range of project basis. We participated in industry working additional staff to enhance the resilience be directly affected by this provision of the countries continued through 2012 and will, we groups on this issue and engaged with the UK of incident management teams. Dodd-Frank Act, but EU legislation is relevant believe, persist. During 2012, we strengthened government, the European Parliament and EU and we closely followed the debate in 2012. the protection of our LNG fleet against the member states. While the debate about the best Crisis management preparedness has been risk of piracy and monitored local security way forward continues, this report provides for situations, notably in Egypt, developing strengthened in the past two years and has the first time more information on the economic We were involved in industry working groups involved an annual crisis simulation exercise on this issue and engaged with the European appropriate plans and responding to incidents value we generate: an initial breakdown of our at our operations. We also trained and Commission, the European Parliament, EU as required. We initiated security reviews in wage bill, social investment expenditure by exercised three new Group-level teams in member state governments (particularly the our North Africa operations in light of the country, and spending with local suppliers. We 2012, and conducted a joint exercise involving British government) and civil society organisations January 2013 terrorist attack on the In Amenas continued our support for the Extractive Group, regional and operational levels. on the scope of the relevant draft European gas installation in Algeria. We provided crisis Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) and Directive (Chapter 9 of the Accountancy Directive). management support in response to a gas provide a summary in this report of EITI reporting During 2012, we also participated at a workshop leak on a non-operated North Sea platform, in countries where BG Group operates. on contract transparency in Johannesburg. This and identified lessons learnt. We reviewed our was set up to launch a work stream to develop an fraud risk management and information security arrangements. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 27 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue integrated programme around contract As a corporation, the main way we contribute transparency. We also held an internal workshop to EITI is to support its process in a particular EITI REPORTING IN 2012 ($) Government to review options for future reporting. country. This process, including reporting, is EITI report BG data BG disclosure disclosure of published available in of total taxes total taxes driven by EITI and not individual companies. Country in 2012? report? paid received Notes We advocate revenue transparency provisions Once EITI has set up in a particular country Kazakhstan that identify both the payer (that is, the we, like other supporting companies, provide (2010) Yes a Yes 360 012 063 h 360 012 063 h company) and the recipient (that is, the level our data to EITI and this is reconciled and Kazakhstan of government at which taxes are paid). We published. Once this data has been published, (2011) Yesb Yes 663 523 132i 663 523 132i believe this will produce clear and meaningful we can also provide this information in our Madagascar Yesc No N/A N/A information that can be used to hold Sustainability Report. Nigeria Nod N/A N/A N/A governments to account for how revenue is Report covers 2010. Discrepancy paid. We do not support approaches that Currently, we have interests in six EITI Norway Yese Yes (15 930) (14 721) of 1 2641 resolved would require the provision of project-level implementing countries: Kazakhstan, Covers period up to June 2010 Tanzania Yesf No N/A N/A before BG entered the country data, which we believe would put companies Madagascar, Nigeria, Norway, Tanzania, and Trinidad required to disclose at a competitive Trinidad and Tobago. However, we have no and Tobago Nog N/A N/A N/A disadvantage. We also believe the data would operations in Madagascar, which is currently be difficult to interpret and so would not lead suspended from the EITI process. a See Appendix 2, p22, 6th National Report, About Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative implementation in the Republic of to improved transparency1. Kazakhstan for 2010, published 20 July 2012 b See appendix 2, p24, 7th National Report, About Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative implementation in the Republic of In Kazakhstan, we helped to establish EITI Kazakhstan in 2011, published 20 July 2012 We will await the final outcome of the through contributing to the drafting of the c http://eiti.org/Madagascar European Directive before taking any further memorandum of understanding and d http://eiti.org/report/nigeria/2008 steps to publish further information on our representing industry on the multie See p35, p37, p41, p42 at http://eiti.org/files/Norway-2011-EITI-Report-Norwegian.pdf f http://eiti.org/report/tanzania/2010 taxes paid. Once the Directive is published, it stakeholder group. We provide data to the g http://eiti.org/TrinidadandTobago will be clearer what changes we need to make country process on an annual basis. h KZT 53 720 700 000 to our reporting systems, in order to comply. i KZT 94 010 518 000 In Nigeria and Norway, we provide our data to j NK -852 503 k NK -787 830 Extractive Industries Transparency the country processes and have re-published l NK 67 673 Initiative (EITI) this data on our website. Since we entered EITI is an international standard that asks Tanzania in 2010, we have worked with the companies and governments to disclose oil Tanzania EITI Secretariat to understand the and gas revenues. We have supported EITI reporting requirements. since its inception; we make a financial contribution to the EITI Secretariat in Oslo. In Trinidad and Tobago, we are represented We contributed $60 000 to EITI in 2012 and on the EITI Steering Committee and our chair the Transparency Task Force of the representative also chairs the Legal and Tenders International Association of Oil and Gas Sub-Committee, assisting with the review of Producers (OGP). relevant proposed legislation and contracts. 1 See the letter to the Financial Times signed by BG Group among other companies: ‘Project-by-project reporting will not allow citizens to “follow the money”’, Letters to the Editor FT, 6 June 2012. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 28 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue Our economic contribution Employment teams1 were employed on local terms and In this year’s report, for the first time, as well The jobs that we provide represent a conditions. This compares with 51% in 2011 as providing a global overview of our economic fundamental part of our economic and 50% in 2010. 32% of country management contribution, we provide new information on contribution in the communities and countries teams were nationals from non-OECD employment, social investment and local where we work. It is our policy to create countries in 2012, compared with 32% in 2011 content on a country-by-country basis. employment and development opportunities and 24% in 2010. The table below shows the for people from local communities and the split between local and non-local employees The direct economic value we generated Group’s Human Resources Policy supports across our operations. and distributed in 2012 and previous years equality and diversity. We now have interests is shown in the table below. in over 20 countries, and employees drawn from 72 nationalities; this diversity is a growing See our Financial Statements for more source of strength for the Group. information. In 2012, 58% of our country management DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED ($ MILLION) 2012 2011a 2010a 2009a 2008a Revenue and other operating income 19 200 17 849 13 710 13 167 20 503 Total operating profit 6 191 6 977 4 879 5 202 9 603 Operating costs (11 358) (10 458) (8 498) (7 751) (10 859) Finance costs (114) (9) (29) (96) 211 Dividends paid 847 760 684 633 667 Taxation (3 057) (3 141) (2 009) (2 298) (4 313) Employee costs (1 338) (1 222) (1 126) (955) (956) Social investment 27.2 11.5 6 3.6 4 a Certain income statement items have been restated in respect of the presentation of discontinued operations. For further information see the 2012 BG Group annual Report and Accounts. 1 Management team includes all direct reports to the country manager excluding administrative and support staff. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 29 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue 2012 BG GROUP WORKFORCE COMPOSITION BY COUNTRY Trinidad Australia Bolivia Brazil China Egypt India Kazakhstan Norway Singapore Tanzania Thailand and Tobago Tunisia UK USA Globala Othersb Group Total Local employees c 929 72 169 15 181 301 59 57 28 24 13 408 383 1 359 334 0 602 4 934 Local employees 31 4 25 3 14 51 7 12 3 0 1 31 16 435 82 64 0 779 on international assignment Group total 960 76 194 18 195 352 66 69 31 24 14 439 399 1 794 416 64 602 5 713 a Employees on global contracts with no fixed location. b This includes employees on contracts in locations not hosted on the central data system in 2012Gaza (4), Italy (19), Chile and Uruguay (4), and subsidiary Gujarat Gas (575). c Local employees are nationals of the country in question who are based in the country. Infrastructure investments Social investment1 SOCIAL INVESTMENT SPEND BY CATEGORY We focus on building capability, rather than Our strategy for investing in communities and Breakdown by category ($000) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 physical infrastructure. Investing in physical societies where we work is to aim to focus on Charitable donations/ assets where we work can present challenges, as long-term investments, particularly large, philanthropy 1 142 3 436 1 211 1 670 3 239 these assets must not only be built, but staffed, multi-year projects and partnerships. We also Local community investment 12 927 4 949 3 613 2 365 3 088 maintained and developed, and this requires aim to concentrate investment in three areas of Regional development 5 606 2 617 1 030 828 632 a significant local commitment. If we build strategic importance for us and the countries Miscellaneous 5 757 481 474 712 1 211 capability, we leave a legacy that is independent where we work: education, especially science Sub-total voluntary of our own physical presence. We do, however, technology, engineering and mathematics contributions a 25 432 11 484 6 328 5 575 8 170 invest in public infrastructure when this is (STEM) education, skills development, and Total mandatory social required by our activities, for instance where improving people’s livelihoods. Excluding investment b, c 1 800 1 819 2 006 3 113 1 115 a project needs a local access road. Such Australia, where a large proportion of our social Total social investment contributions 27 232 13 303 c 8 334 8 668 9 285 investment not only mitigates any impact we investment spend is governed by our Social might have on existing infrastructure but may Impact Management Plan, 65% of our social a These figures include reported social investments in Tanzania and Thailand. While these operations are not wholly owned by also create a long-term benefit. investment spend was in these three areas. BG Group, the social investments were 100% BG Group investments and so reported on this basis. b In previous reports, we reported ‘contractual obligations through production-sharing agreements.’ This included mandatory For example, in Queensland, we have an A$9.3 In 2012, our total social investment spend social payments to governments, over which the company had no meaningful control. This year, we have narrowed the reporting million road infrastructure agreement (mandatory and voluntary) was $27.2 million, criteria to ‘mandatory social investment.’ Whilst is mandatory, the group has full control over how such funds are spent. covering roads used by QCLNG project traffic. compared with $13.3 million in 20112. Our c Spend under Kazakhstan contractual obligations (Kazakhstan Social Fund) was included in 2011 but has been excluded in 2012 voluntary social investment spend was due to the redefinition of this indicator (see footnote b above). On the 2011 basis, the 2012 figure would have been $15.3 million. Also during 2012, our partner EXCO Resources approximately $25.4 million, compared with worked with other local organisations to $11.5 million in 2011, an increase of 121%. A major improve both roads and road infrastructure, part of this is due to the high social investment including a traffic warning device in Lycoming spend in Australia, which accounted for 68% of County, Pennsylvania, where we operate. We our total voluntary social investment spend. also selectively invest in infrastructure that is unrelated to our own operations, through our 1 Social investment is investment social investment programmes. directed at communities affected by our operations and/or disadvantaged groups in wider society. 2 See footnote b under table. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 30 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue The majority of investment in 2012, as in the previous year, was in local community regional development and we supported both shorter-term Our operations in Queensland have spent and long-term development projects. As in previous years, the smallest part of our social investment spend was on charitable donations, less substantial amounts with local suppliers. than 5%, as we continue to focus our social investment on theme-based spend and increasing our voluntary spend. Our six-monthly report to the Queensland regulator, published in November 2012, See more examples of our social investment projects. showed that since the start of 2010 we had invested more than $11 billion with about 76% SOCIAL INVESTMENT SPEND BY COUNTRY of it going to Australian firms and about 61% Social investment spend ($) by country to Queensland firms. Trinidad Australia Brazil Egypt Kazakhstan Tanzania and Tobago Tunisia UK Other Total Overall, it is estimated that the Queensland Voluntary a 17 330 885 1 815 871 207 884 733 966 845 671 925 023 1 232 300 1 423 568 916 555 25 431 723 Curtis LNG (QCLNG) project could boost the Mandatory b, c 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 800 000 1 800 000 state economy by $33 billion over a 10-year Total 17 330 885 1 815 871 207 884 733 966 845 671 925 023 1 232 300 1 423 568 2 716 555 25 231 723 period. It will create an average of 5000 jobs over the construction period and will employ a These figures include reported social investments in Tanzania and Thailand. While these operations are not wholly owned by BG Group, the social investments were 100% BG Group investments around 1 000 permanent staff for operations. and so reported on this basis. b In previous reports, we reported ‘contractual obligations through production-sharing agreements.’ This included mandatory social payments to governments, over which the company had no We are creating opportunities for local meaningful control. This year, we have narrowed the reporting criteria to ‘mandatory social investment.’ Whilst is mandatory, the group has full control over how such funds are spent. employment and economic development c Spend under Kazakhstan contractual obligations (Kazakhstan Social Fund) was included in 2011 but has been excluded in 2012 due to the redefinition of this indicator (see footnote b above). On the 2011 basis, the 2012 figure would have been $15.3 million. through a variety of programmes, including connecting local suppliers and contractors through business expositions and supplier Local Content directly with those suppliers. The data includes The significant spend we incur in relation briefings, creating pathways for school Using local goods and services (‘local content’) spend incurred on behalf of our joint-venture to non-operated or joint-venture Upstream students into the coal seam gas/LNG rather than importing these is an important way partners in those assets where our interests are operations where we do not control the industries through a partnership with the in which we can support the development of less than 100%. Suppliers are classified as either procurement process, in particular in Brazil, Queensland Minerals and Energy Academy, countries where we work, and governments local or foreign (to that particular operation) and Egypt, Kazakhstan, Thailand and the UK, is and educating local businesses about QCLNG granting us licences may make it a requirement the identification of spend associated with each excluded. Spend in relation to the majority of project standards and processes. that we use a certain percentage of local content. classification has been derived from vendor our LNG and transmission and distribution request forms completed by our operations businesses is also excluded. The invoiced gross We also work with indigenous businesses in The table below sets out our invoiced gross when they contract with a supplier. Local spend data reproduced below is therefore not Queensland to build business capacity to spend with first-tier suppliers primarily in our suppliers include locally registered operations comprehensive and has not been audited. On participate in the QCLNG supply chain. operated Upstream1 operations where we of international companies. this basis, we spent approximately $7.3 billion control the procurement process and contract with local suppliers in 2012, compared with 1 During 2012, BG Group reorganised approximately $5.7 billion in 2011. its business segments. E&P segment was combined with the liquefaction operations associated with integrated 2012 GROSS EXPENDITURE WITH SUPPLIERS, BY COUNTRY ($ BILLION) LNG projects, previously included in (primarily BG Group-operated upstream operations only) the LNG segment. These now form Trinidad the Upstream business segment. The Australia Brazil India Norway and Tobago Tunisia UK USA Other a Total remaining businesses comprising the Payments 6.1 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.2 1.5 0.3 0.6 9.6 LNG segment, primarily encompassing to suppliers the marketing and optimisation Of which, 4.9 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.1 1.0 0.2 0.3 7.3 of LNG, and including interests in local suppliers regasification plants, have been renamed ‘LNG Shipping & Marketing’. a Other includes: Algeria, Bolivia, Canada, China, Egypt, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Norway, Singapore, Tanzania, and Thailand BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 31 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue UNCONVENTIONAL GAS These principles reflected research and WATER The strategy aims to ensure that we develop stakeholder consultation and were mapped appropriate local water management plans. Overview against a number of reports identifying Overview It requires all our operations with potential Public debate about the environmental impact principles for responsible working.1 They set out During the year, we agreed a new Group water water management issues to carry out water of unconventional gas (gas trapped in rocks such key areas for future progress. During 2012, we strategy, building on the water management risk assessments covering factors such as as shale) – continued during 2012. We produce took action in a number of these areas and plan introduced in 2011. Our operations took a water scarcity, water quality, disposal options, gas from shale in the USA and from coal seams reported this in an update to the Public Position. range of actions to improve water volumes of water required, potential impacts in Queensland. During the year, we continued to management during the year. on other water users, and the potential monitor and respond to stakeholder concerns, Key areas of progress in 2012 were: impacts on operations as a result of local particularly in the communities where we work, In Queensland, we made progress with our water availability and quality. while also working with regulators and industry ●● community engagement in Queensland, investment in state-of-the-art reverse osmosis on initiatives designed to strengthen the where the business secured approval for its plants to treat the water we produce. We Operations with significant water risks are industry’s framework and reduce its Social Impact Management Plan, opened new reviewed our water management approach in required to develop water management plans environmental impact. We made progress regional information centres and invested Egypt, and in the USA, and we ran field trials of which assess the risks and describe how against our eight principles for operating in in a wide range of community projects new water solutions. We worked with Texas they will mitigate them. Specific water unconventional gas which we set out in a public ●● responsible chemicals use in the USA, where A&M University and other partners to trial new management requirements for our operations position in 2011, and updated in 2012. Key areas the Group started market and field research technologies as well as participating in a US will be included in the next update to the of progress were: community engagement in into environmentally preferable solutions for Environmental Protection Agency study Group Environmental Standard. Our water Queensland, responsible chemicals use and hydraulic fracturing looking at the potential impacts on drinking specialists have developed guidance that emissions management in the USA, and water ●● water management in Queensland and the water resources from hydraulic fracturing. outlines how local teams should implement management in both Queensland and the USA. USA; in Queensland we progressed work on the requirements of the water strategy. three state-of-the-art reverse osmosis plants Water strategy Public Position which will treat up to 97% of produced water. During 2012, we continued to take action on Reducing the impact of fracturing chemicals We recognise we can only be successful in In the USA, we invested US$320 000 in field water management as reported in 2011. We Hydraulic fracturing – a technology we use to producing shale and coal seam gas if, as well trials of water treatment technologies also finalised our Group water strategy which extract natural gas from shale, coal seams or as achieving commercial goals, we fulfil the ●● emissions management: in the USA we was approved by the Board in July 2012 (and other rock formations – uses chemicals for social and environmental expectations of introduced ‘green completion’ technology as was developed from the water management various purposes, such as reducing bacteria regulation and of stakeholders, in particular standard for all wells and started work with plan launched in 2011). growth in the well. We have a goal of the local communities where we operate. partners on a major University of Texas minimising the potential impact of hydraulic study to provide reliable estimates of leakage This strategy sets out our aspiration to fracturing chemicals and have been working In February 2011, we became one of the first rates during unconventional gas production, achieve excellence in water management, with suppliers to seek solutions that are still companies to publish our approach to as well as setting up an internal energy supported by initiatives in three areas: effective but have a lower potential developing and producing unconventional efficiency and emissions study to look at environmental impact. gas, when we posted our eight key principles fugitive emissions from pipelines. ●● investing in people and skills development to for responsible working on our website. ensure water issues are effectively managed During 2012, we started market and field research ●● improving water management through new to this end. One aim is to discover alternatives to technology, using best available techniques the traditional biocides that are used to kill and better risk management and reporting bacteria in water. In Texas and Louisiana, our joint 1 For instance, the US Secretary of ●● engaging with stakeholders at asset and venture partner EXCO Resources conducted field Energy’s Advisory Board 90 Day strategic levels. trials, financed by our Technology Fund, which Report, the International Energy used chlorine dioxide (essentially the same Agency’s “Golden Rules for a Golden Age of Gas” and the US Investors’ chemical used in water treatment plants) instead Environmental Health Network’s of traditional biocides. This is an equally effective “Extracting the Facts”. approach to killing bacteria. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 32 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue We disclose information on the chemicals we In 2012, we participated in a technical round Available Techniques (BAT) and won one of WORKING WITH COMMUNITIES use on FracFocus, the hydraulic fracturing table that formed part of an Environmental the BG Group Chairman’s Awards – annual chemical registry website: htttp://fracfocus.org Protection Agency research initiative into awards given for excellence in health, safety, Overview water management for shale gas. environment and social performance. We continued to implement our long-term Recycling produced water strategy of managing social impacts and In Pennsylvania, we are examining treatment During 2012, we were also one of a group of Queensland working with and investing in communities. technologies for the large volumes of fluid companies that are working together to Water is a vitally important resource in We established a grievance management (typically water) produced during the understand water-related risks better. An Queensland, where agriculture is a major mechanism in our Queensland operations and hydraulic fracturing process. The volumes initial research phase will identify gaps and contributor to the economy. Managing the are developing one in Tanzania. In Trinidad and of this ‘produced’ water can be significant opportunities for improvement in current water produced during the coal seam gas Tobago, we delivered a programme to manage and can contain fluids and minerals from operational practices in the USA, after which process responsibly is critical for our future our impact on and relationship with fishing underground that must be managed or it is expected that the project will expand and licence to operate. communities. We strengthened our work in disposed of responsibly. While this water can involve external stakeholders. Further work science, technology, engineering and be safely trucked off site for disposal, being will be planned for 2013. Egypt mathematics (STEM) education in Brazil and able to recycle or reuse it – and so save Managing the risks associated with the the UK and participated informal Rio+20 resources and cost – is increasingly being Other water investments and technology disposal of produced water from our conference sessions on STEM education seen as best practice. We are seeking to minimise the impact of operations in Egypt is a major challenge. partnerships. In Queensland, we launched our operations on water in other regions. several new programmes to create long-term At present, our joint-venture operations in Field trials designed to reduce the amount of At present, we truck waste water produced employment and business development Pennsylvania reuse 100% of the water initially oil in the water we discharge were conducted by our offshore operations to an onshore opportunities for indigenous people and to produced after fracturing.1 offshore India in 2012 and a technology treatment site. During 2012, we looked at offset the impacts of our construction work project looking at water quality objectives for ways to minimise the risk and impact by building affordable housing in Gladstone. Technologies for water treatment overboard discharges in Trinidad and Tobago associated with trucking, including improving In North Africa, implementation of the We are also working with Texas A&M began during the year. our trucking contract or outsourcing. programmes we designed to respond to the University and various technology providers issues and expectations triggered by the Arab to examine and trial technology options, such We are also investing in eight nanotechnology We also looked at longer-term alternatives for Spring was slower than anticipated. as microfiltration, and the use of membrane research projects that are focused principally managing waste water and are considering technologies and ozone precipitation water on water management. The research will five options: biological treatment; the use of SOCIAL INVESTMENT treatment technology. All these technologies include work on topics such as cleaning heated ponds; water injection; evaporation; were trialled where we work in Pennsylvania. produced water, reducing the use of biocides and enhancing and continuing trucking of In 2012, we invested a total of $27.2 million and treating organic contaminants. The water. We expect to make a decision on the in social projects across the world, where These are well-known methods of water initiative is a joint effort involving Brazilian chosen option in 2013. possible focusing on investments related to treatment, but their application is highly and American researchers, established vocational training, livelihoods development dependent on the specific location and the through a research agreement between RICE USA and education, especially STEM education. level of water quality that needs to be University in Houston and the University of In the USA, we develop and produce shale gas achieved and they had not been trialled in Santa Catarina in Brazil. It will continue over in two regions: in Pennsylvania and West this geography or with this water type before. the next four years. Virginia, and in Texas and Louisiana. The trials were concluded during 2012. In Thailand, investments have created a water Read more about hydraulic fracturing and water: Understanding water risks treatment and re-injection facility which 1 These operations are not operated We are also participating in a US results in zero disposal of produced water http://www.bg-group.com/ by BG Group but by our jointEnvironmental Protection Agency study overboard. The project provides a good OurBusiness/OurBusiness/Pages/ venture partner, EXCO Resources. Figures are therefore not included in looking at the potential impacts on drinking demonstration of the application of Best UnconventionalGasResources_shalegas.aspx Group figures. water resources from hydraulic fracturing. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 33 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue North Africa skills and livelihoods development. In 2012, In our 2011 Sustainability Report we we strengthened our social investment Tunisia recognised the far-reaching significance of strategy in both countries to respond to two We are the largest producer of gas in Tunisia, supplying more than 60% of the country’s the Arab Spring and more specifically the inter-related underlying drivers of unrest: domestic gas production. We operate offshore and have onshore facilities on the Tunisian revolutions in Egypt and Tunisia. While the high local unemployment and an absence coast between La Skhira and Sfax. initial impact of the Arab Spring subsided in of the skills that would make local people 2012, political and social instability persisted employable in industry. Unemployment in Sfax is high, with near-subsistence agriculture and fishing providing few in these countries and presented challenges opportunities for young people. Local demand for employment with us far outstrips the jobs for our business and social investment plans. However, during 2012, implementation of our available and this can lead to tensions. We recognised this was an important issue to address strategy was slower than anticipated in both and in 2009, set up our Sustainable Livelihoods programme to help local people find new Our social investment strategy in Egypt and countries, largely due to external factors and ways of supporting themselves. Tunisia focuses on vocational training, and interruptions at the local community level. In 2011, the Arab Spring brought further social unrest. At the height of the crisis, local people picketed outside our plant and held protests over labour and community concerns. Egypt We produce gas offshore the Nile Delta and have a share in the Egyptian LNG facilities, Micro-finance located at the LNG port facility at Idku, on Egypt’s Mediterranean coast. Our Sustainable Livelihoods programme provides micro-finance loans and vocational training for local people. However, we have temporarily stopped our micro-credit The community where we work in Idku has become increasingly concerned about local programme since the revolution due to payback rates falling close to zero. This was largely benefits and long-term legacy issues. Securing and maintaining a social licence to operate due to the fact that in March 2011, a key governance control requiring loan applications to is an important objective for us and other companies working in the area. be backed by a guarantor was waived. As a result, shortly before the uprisings in Egypt, we and our joint-venture partners set up a Vocational training social performance collaboration forum to ensure a joint social investment and community Since the beginning of the project in 2010, we have placed 170 students in vocational approach. We run the forum which is attended by the chief executives or managing training; of these, 20 had graduated by end 2012. directors of the participating companies. For 2013, the target is to enrol 70 new students in the programme. In 2013, we will monitor Our social investment strategy in Egypt is to build a portfolio of complementary projects the first batch of students who graduated in 2012, to determine if they secure full-time to develop skills for employment and enhance livelihoods. It aims to deliver programmes, employment, continue vocational training on the four-year course, or do not find targeted at three priority stakeholder groups (unemployed youth in Idku, fishermen and employment or training. their families, and small-scale farmers). These programmes will be delivered through partnerships with experienced international and local development organisations with Graduate entrepreneurship a track record of delivery and a long operating history in Egypt. Through much of 2012, we continued to implement our graduate entrepreneurship programme. This is an initiative through which we support local graduates, via the Sfax However, progress in executing the strategy has been slow. The government demanded a business centre, to set up small and medium-sized businesses, providing funding and halt on community engagement activities in Idku for several months into 2012, preventing technical support. The Tunisian Solidarity Bank also provides a capital sum to the graduates. companies from implementing any social investment project until April. The development of partnership agreements also took longer than envisaged. The programme was launched in November 2011. The Tunisian Solidarity Bank will grant viable projects a loan and we will cover the entrepreneurs’ deposits. We have also In December 2012, the Idku forum finalised a three-year partnership with ACDI/VOCA, a committed to providing general technical assistance to the project, including putting leading agribusiness non-governmental organisation (NGO), to run a sustainable livelihoods together a database on the available education in the region. programme targeting the poorest segments of the Idku population and those affected by gas industry operations in the area. Implementation of this programme is due to start with The targets for the whole period (over three years) are: $350 000 of loans disbursed, 240 a pilot project in 2013. graduates enrolled and 60 loans disbursed. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 34 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue In addition, we are developing plans to build capacity at the Sfax Business Centre, working STEM in the UK with a suitable international partner. We are committed to supporting STEM education in the UK and the many countries where we do business. In partnership with recognised STEM delivery organisations, we contribute Community infrastructure to building a STEM-educated workforce and provide opportunities for students from We signed a memorandum of understanding with the local government on a community under-represented backgrounds. infrastructure programme targeted at upgrading the Nakta Health Centre and improving facilities in five schools in the Gargour region, near to Sfax. Both projects were designed We chose the UK as an initial focus country for our STEM education work (along with Brazil), throughout 2012 with input from community consultation programmes and will be reflecting our business presence in the UK, the work undertaken in this area by certain implemented in 2013. leading UK educational institutes and the opportunities to leverage the UK STEM programme to benefit our international business. Charitable donations In 2013, our social investment programme will continue to support small-scale charitable In 2012, we spent approximately $1.8 million on STEM programmes in the UK. Two key donations, including a local health programme, and donations of school supplies to pupils achievements are summarised below. in the communities around our Hannibal plant. Geo and marine science summer school – achievements in 2012 We ran our first BG Group summer school, in partnership with Exscitec, Imperial College and the National Oceanography Centre Southampton (NOCS) at the University of Southampton. Science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) The five-day residential summer school provided 60 students from maintained schools with STEM is one of three social investment themes for BG Group. In 2012, we made progress a practical science experience in the fields of geoscience and marine biology. with key STEM investments in Brazil, and the UK. This project was supported by recent research evidence from the Sutton Trust (an organisation that aims to improve educational opportunities for young people from STEM in Brazil non-privileged backgrounds and to increase social mobility). This research highlights Our Brazil sustainability strategy, launched in 2011, aims to ensure our long-term contribution residential summer schools as a key approach to inspire students to study STEM subjects to Brazilian society and to the economy. During the year, we launched a major programme and broaden their educational and career horizons. of social investment, focused on STEM, a particularly important theme in Brazil and a key element of our sustainability strategy and social investment. We are investing $1.7 million to A key element of our summer school was the opportunity for hands-on experience of geo support STEM education right through the education system and into vocational training. and marine science, including a trip on the NOCS marine research vessel and a geology field trip to the Isle of Wight – a highlight for many of the students who had not previously had the chance to experience practical science in the natural environment. Partnership with the Science Museum, London In 2012, we agreed a new partnership for STEM education and employee engagement with the Science Museum, London. The core of the partnership is the Building Bridges project that builds on the Museum’s extensive experience in engaging with young people, teachers and parents. The project will initially be delivered in 20 state maintained schools in London, to build scientific literacy amongst Year 7 students and help them understand how science shapes their lives. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 35 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue The project engages students, parents and teachers through school-based outreach, Science Social programmes in Australia, Tanzania and Trinidad and Tobago Museum visits, workshops and a family celebration event at the Museum. The impact of this During 2012, we continued to run a range of community programmes in Queensland, Australia, multi-dimensional approach will be monitored through research collaboration with the Sheffield in partnership with local organisations. These included programmes aimed at building Hallam University Centre for Science Education. This relationship brings a number of opportunities indigenous employment, skills development and business capability.We have eight indigenous for our employees to volunteer as well as the direct benefits for schools and young people. land use agreements with fifteen traditional owners in our area of operations in Queensland. These commit us to developing and implementing an indigenous employment and training Employee engagement strategy and programme with these owners and the broader Aboriginal community. Our STEM-related employee engagement and volunteering grew in 2012. We have more than 20 BG Group STEM ambassadors now registered and over 50 people are signed up to our Indigenous employment with QGC and QGC contractors increased 365% in 2012, in online STEM community, which was established in September 2012. entry-level and professional roles with QGC and QGC contractors largely in the fields of drilling, construction, civil construction, security, camp management and corporate services. During 2012, we launched the BG Group Energy Islands Programme; this programme is being delivered through Exscitec and is targeted at 100 Year 9/Key Stage 3 pupils and their science In Tanzania, we continued to develop our social investment programme, which links training teachers from 10 state-maintained schools (5 London and 5 Reading schools). Over the and skills development with employment. It focuses on education, vocational training, course of 6 months, the programme will deliver a series of after-school science club livelihoods and marine conservation. activities focusing on energy efficiency and CO2 emissions reduction related questions. In Trinidad and Tobago, we continued to work to manage our impact on fishing communities Our portfolio of activities and our work with the partner schools is now generating targeted affected by our offshore operations, aiming to help compensate for any impact on their livelihoods. opportunities for involvement. An Energetic Gas module developed for the Energy Islands programme, an afterschool science programme, will soon also be made available for our ambassadors to use in their individual engagements in STEM outreach work. Australia Our Social Impact Management Plan (SIMP) sets the framework for how we work in Queensland. Staff communication has stepped up through our internal magazine and intranet. We also It makes around 90 commitments to communities from the Surat Basin to Gladstone, including produced information covering STEM activities in the UK. investing $153 million. The areas we support include: indigenous participation; housing; community health, safety and social infrastructure; land use management; employment and UK-Brazil STEM visit economic development; and road and marine traffic management. In October 2012, BG Group hosted a UK-Brazil STEM education exchange visit in London, in partnership with the Science Learning Centre London. We invited Brazilian STEM education Implementation progressed well during 2012 as we worked with local partners and practitioners and researchers – many of them partners in our Brazilian STEM education programme. organisations across the region. We contributed more than $17 million in community investment and development projects in total. The objective of the visit was to allow sharing of experiences and to build connections between UK and Brazilian STEM education practitioners and researchers, through a combination of presentations, discussion sessions, and external visits. This programme gave a good overview of the challenges and opportunities in UK and Brazilian STEM education sectors and encouraged discussion of collaboration opportunities. The exchange visit was well received by Brazilian and UK participants and follow-up collaborations are being explored. It highlights the opportunity for further international information sharing and collaboration across our STEM education portfolio. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 36 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue Trinidad and Tobago Social investment strategy We explore for and produce gas in the East and North Coast Marine Areas off the coast of Our social investment strategy in Tanzania is based on contributing to the country’s Trinidad and Tobago. When we are exploring for and producing gas, we routinely collect development goals and building wide support for the development of an LNG project. marine seismic data to be able to understand the sub-sea environment. This has raised concerns among local fishing communities over exclusion zones and the potential impact The social investment programme we have in place links training and skills development with of the gas business on their livelihoods. employment. It focuses on education, vocational training, livelihoods and marine conservation. During 2011, we conducted a social impact assessment on the east coast to look at the Our approach is based on clearly defined criteria and objectives. It combines long-term impact of our activity on fishing and on communities. We did this by working and consulting community development and capacity-building projects (which represents most of what with the local communities. As a result of this work, in 2012 we were able to strengthen our we will spend in Mtwara), with charitable donations in Mtwara and Dar es Salaam. All relationships with communities, providing financial compensation to those affected and our long-term projects (summarised below) are undertaken with local, national and also exploring options for other kinds of compensation – for instance, helping to improve international organisations, and in consultation with local government. Support for local safety at sea for fishermen. We also worked with state agencies to develop a communityand national capacity-building is built into the partnerships we establish with international based fisheries management model for the east coast of the island and with other operators organisations. Our charitable donations have supported a road safety initiative in Mtwara in and the Ministry of Energy and Energy Affairs to finalise seismic compensatory guidelines. partnership with the National Institute for Transport; the provision of 600 school desks to local primary schools, and the distribution of school books in Mtwara and Dar es Salaam. Support for higher education Through the British Council, we funded two scholarships for Tanzanian students to study Tanzania for MSc degrees in geosciences, petroleum or mechanical engineering at UK universities. We entered Tanzania in 2010 and operate three blocks offshore. We are acutely conscious The programme will continue to support the development of a cadre of highly qualified of the importance of managing our presence in this relatively new market in a way that will scientists and engineers. The first two students began their studies at the Universities of ensure long-term benefit, not just for our business but for the country. In Tanzania, there Newcastle and Dundee in September 2012. have been high expectations of the contribution that the development of natural resources will bring in building the country’s future. We aim to make a positive contribution while We have donated education and technical equipment to the University of Dar es Salaam’s managing expectations to realistic levels. Department of Geology and the University of Dodoma’s Department of Petroleum and Energy Engineering. We are also funding four scholarships for Tanzanian students wishing In 2012, we built on our early work with communities in Mtwara (where our supply base is to study to Masters or PhD level at the Nelson Mandela Arusha Institute of Science and located) and in Dar es Salaam by expanding our community relations team, and working to Technology. We are in discussion with the African Development Bank to lead an oil and gas establish partnerships focusing on developing skills, livelihoods and conservation. We have tried sector pilot project as part of their higher education programme. to ensure communities, local government and other stakeholders have access to information about our activities and that we can participate effectively in the local community. Vocational training in Mtwara In July 2012, we launched a project with the Vocational Education Training Authority (VETA) We also began socio-economic mapping in relation to a potential LNG development on the and Voluntary Services Overseas (VSO) to improve the employability of young people in the southern coast. Our work has allowed us to gain valuable experience in interacting with local Mtwara region, focusing on the oil and gas industry and related services. The three-year, government, and community, donor and NGO groups. We have tested impact management $1.05m project will improve vocational training skills and help young people become more strategies and developed social investment programmes that address local priorities. employable by raising standards for craftsmanship skills and by promoting VETA Mtwara as a centre of excellence for training. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 37 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue It is expected to benefit at least 280 students, who will earn internationally recognised certificates in their trades by 2014. Qualified VSO volunteers are coaching VETA trainers on a one-to-one basis to qualify as UK university accredited and certified tutors. English language training has been provided by the British Council. The UK-based Leicester College is also providing quality assurance and supporting the international accreditation process. Marine conservation and coastal livelihoods We support the Mnazi Bay Ruvuma Estuary Marine Park, which is located south of Mtwara Town. In 2011, we donated a glass bottom boat to the Park to help it generate income and we supported programmes to replace illegal fishing nets and improve park monitoring. In 2012, we developed our relationship by establishing a partnership with the Aga Khan Foundation in Tanzania to develop a long-term livelihoods and conservation programme. Community relations and a grievance mechanism in Mtwara In 2012, we began work to establish a grievance mechanism so that the community can air concerns with the Group in a way that gives them confidence their concerns will be addressed. The mechanism will allow us to establish whether an issue is related to us, one of our suppliers, or another company altogether. It will enable us to investigate and respond to grievances in a timely, transparent and fair way, in line with industry good practice. An international expert, supported by IPIECA, is helping develop our approach. In 2013, we plan to open a community relations office in Mtwara and will continue to engage with local stakeholders. Partnerships We continued to foster active partnerships with organisations that share our approach to responsible social performance. These included the Centre for Social Responsibility in Mining at the University of Queensland and the International Business Leaders Forum. We also forged a new partnership with the London Science Museum. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 38 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue COUNTRY Petrobras is the developer and operator for all the Brazilian acreage in which we have interests We defined sustainability as an integral part of our business in Brazil from the outset, and, in result in health, safety, security and environment (HSSE) benefits. Similarly, PROFILES but we cooperate closely on development, engineering and production. In 2012, Petrobras’ 2011, put in place a formal sustainability strategy designed to ensure the business would provide our investment in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) research and development specialists and our enduring benefit to Brazilian society. This education will provide skilled people to enter BRAZIL: BUILDING AN technology centre signed a technology strategy, endorsed by the Board, was drawn up the local labour market thus creating a ENDURING LEGACY cooperation agreement to facilitate projects after extensive consultation to support national virtuous circle. By partnering with local in well engineering. priorities. It has four goals or pillars: companies on technology projects, We were one of the first foreign companies to meanwhile, we can promote knowledge take an interest in Brazil, entering the Our sustainability strategy in Brazil ●● social investment transfer and local capability development. country in 1994 to help build a $2 billion gas The Brazilian government has clearly set out ●● environment and safety We work to ensure our sustainability and our pipeline between Bolivia and Brazil. its objective of ensuring that profits from oil ●● technology technology strategies are integrated in Brazil, and gas are used to develop an internationally ●● local content. to help us capture this type of benefit. Today, our investment in Brazil is significant, competitive knowledge-based economy, with in scale and strategic importance, for our investments in high-quality jobs, and science These four areas mutually support each other Local content future portfolio: Brazil offers significant and technology and related businesses. We to create an integrated sustainability approach, Building local content – increasing the supply reserves and ease of access to world crude recognise our role in supporting the country’s as can be seen in the diagram below. of internationally competitive, locally produced markets. We have already invested more than long-term objectives and contributing to products and services to the oil and gas $5 billion in Brazil and have a multi-billion durable success. A research and development Brazil sustainability strategy industry’s capital projects – is a focus for our dollar investment programme in place. (R&D) levy requires BG Group to invest 1% of sustainability strategy. There are a number of its gross production revenue from Brazilian opportunities to develop new businesses linked We also expect to play an important role in SOCIAL INVESTMENT fields that have an obligation to pay special to new technologies. For example, composite Brazil’s development. By the end of 2013, we participation, on R&D in Brazil. risers – using lighter, easier and cheaper STEM education expect to be the second largest company by leveraging innovation materials – are being developed in Brazil for and job generation production after Petrobras, the Brazilian state We aim to ensure our investment delivers use by companies operating locally. Our oil company, and expect to be the largest value not just for us and our shareholders but adoption of the CaDFor system, which pulls foreign investor in the country by 2025. also for our partners in Brazil, the Brazilian together information on domestic suppliers for ENVIRONMENT LOCAL CONTENT government and for those communities AND SAFETY the oil and gas industry, is proving valuable by Our interests in Brazil lie in the Santos Basin, directly affected by our developments. promoting the exchange of vendor information Safety technology where we work in partnership with Petrobras and environmental Skilled labour creation on capability and resources – of use not only to management and other companies through joint-operating Ensuring that our developments are Technologies that lead us but to the sector as a whole. agreements. The fields in the Santos Basin lie sustainable and meet the needs of to competitiveness and innovation in deep water of approximately 2 100 metres stakeholders has been a priority since We are also investing in skills and in vocational and a further 4 000 metres below the sea our first entry into the Brazilian market. TECHNOLOGY training in the regions where the local bed. The fields are due to come on stream shipyards are building our floating production, progressively over the period to 2018. As a key foreign investor active in Brazil, it is storage and offloading (FPSO) vessels and vital that we build effective relationships with working with the local municipality, Petrobras In the third quarter of 2012, the Group local stakeholders, as well as Petrobras, ANP For instance, the oil and gas research we and others to make sure there is not only received independent certification of the (the national oil and gas agency), the federal support and manage can lead to new business training but also the possibility of jobs. reserves and resources of its five major Santos and state governments and oil and gas ideas, increased competitiveness and the Basin discoveries to be between 4 and 8 billion industry associations. growth of small and medium-sized barrels of oil equivalent. Our first commercial businesses. Some of these ideas may also production in Brazil began in October 2010, when the Lula field came onstream. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 39 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue Global Technology Centre by organising and funding scholarships Open innovation Rio de Janeiro, we have set up education Research and development is central to our and exchanges between Brazilian and We have adopted an open innovation model projects. We are also providing vocational sustainability strategy in Brazil. In view of this, international researchers. This flagship (working with partners and sharing ideas) training – focusing on technical skills that are and our significant investment in Brazil, we initiative aims to send 100 000 Brazilian when engaging with Brazilian universities. A in high demand – to people from local and took the decision to build a Global Technology fellows to world-class international recent workshop with the São Paolo Research disadvantaged communities. These initiatives Centre in the country. While BG Group universities over the next four years.2 Foundation (FAPESP) explored possibilities for are being managed in close coordination with Technology has been based in Brazil since innovative gas technologies, and resulted in contractors and local government to 2011, this new purpose-built centre will We are supporting Science without Borders by plans to launch an open tender for research maximise job opportunities. coordinate our global technology research and sponsoring selected students working on projects in the field of gas utilisation. Similar development activities. Construction of the projects relevant to our business, through our initiatives have been planned in the area of Over time, this investment in schools and centre is underway and is expected to be own Fellowship programme. At the Rio+20 energy efficiency. public education should result in a larger and completed in 2014. Conference in June 2012, we announced better-prepared pool of people seeking science funding support for this Fellowship Supporting science, technology, engineering or research-related jobs and so contribute to The aim of the centre – which will be located programme of up to $100 million for and mathematics education (STEM) broader social and economic development. near the Rio de Janeiro Federal University – is scholarships that will fund doctoral and A key theme of our social investment strategy to be a world-class centre for oil and gas post-doctoral students for up to four years in is furthering STEM education. To date, STEM investments have been made in research, leveraging local technology prestigious foreign educational institutions. Rio Grande and Angra dos Reis, where the two capability and also attracting technology skills STEM in Brazil is an important part of this main shipyards constructing and assembling to Brazil. It will coordinate research and Through the Fellowship programme, we worldwide support and is the focus of our work our FPSOs are located. By working in development investments to address BG will collaborate with Science without Borders to support local communities. In June 2012, we partnership with Brazilian institutes, Group technology challenges, in partnership to fund PhD students and post-doctoral hosted a major public debate on science and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and with universities and other organisations with researchers to work with first-rate universities education at Rio+20, attended by many of the training agencies to implement STEM an interest in technology development. We around the world to develop world-class leading figures in this field in Brazil. programmes, we aim to align our approach expect to invest $1.5-2 billion in research and research in support of our technology strategy. with the official Brazilian STEM curriculum. development by 2025.1 It should also drive new enterprises and help The objective of our STEM investment is to Brazil’s growth and internationalisation. support Brazil’s goal of strengthening STEM We are also promoting STEM educational We are already helping to promote Students benefiting from the project must capabilities right through the public education improvements with neighbouring international partnerships with Brazilian return to Brazil so that the connections and system, from early schooling through to communities in the region where the Global universities such as a partnership between experience they have gained flow back into the vocational training, to prepare individuals for Technology Centre will be located by engaging the Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul local economy. work, in particular with the job opportunities with science researchers and public schools, (UFRGS) and Aberdeen University in Scotland, offered by the oil and gas industry. building on existing science museums and set up and facilitated by BG Group. For Commenting on the launch of the fellowships, research and development facilities. example, at UFRGS, a seismic interpretation Nelson Silva, President of BG Brasil said: The STEM initiative starts by targeting young project to study the Campos and Santos “These extraordinary fellowships will harness children through the provision of an basins was undertaken in 2012. Brazil’s best technical talent and create innovative methodology and training for international scientific research which will coaches. At primary school level, partnerships 1 A research and development (R&D) levy requires us to invest 1% Science without Borders bring benefits not only to the academic with local governments to promote STEM of our gross production revenue The Science without Borders programme community but to businesses and the wider education at selected municipal schools have from Brazilian fields that have an is a Brazilian government initiative that Brazilian society. This is about building a established a base for evaluation and could be obligation to pay special participation, promotes the consolidation, expansion long-term knowledge economy in Brazil adopted as a model for future initiatives. At on R&D in Brazil. Investments like the GTC and the Science Without and internationalisation of science and that will continue to attract international secondary level, with the state government of Borders programme will contribute to technology, innovation and competitiveness investment and grow sustainably.” fulfilling the levy obligation. 2 See footnote 1. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 40 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue STEM projects being supported include: ●● A professional training programme in Rio Project Blue is expected significantly to The project will also bring business benefits, Grande do Sul aimed at the oil and gas extend the knowledge of the Santos Basin, as data on water conditions will help us and ●● A partnership with the NGO Alfa e Beto industry is helping to meet the demand for providing information that can help protect the oil and gas industry to plan and build Institute to develop a programme to create qualified local labour. This was developed in this rich and largely unexplored marine facilities that are designed to withstand, for mentors in infant education. Its aim is to partnership with SENAI – the National Service environment. The project will use state-ofexample, varying currents. The project can improve the quality of teaching for children up for Industrial Apprenticeship. More than 160 the-art technology (such as gliders, drifters bring similar benefits for other marine to the age of six. In 2013, teachers from public people have undergone training, and courses and profilers) which will be based in water businesses, including fishi ng and coastguard schools will be given training in various are being expanded to involve a total of and will transmit data by satellite for analysis and rescue operations. municipalities of Rio de Janeiro and Rio Grande approximately 390 participants, who will be by Coppe. do Sul states. The target is to form a large trained during the first half of 2013. The Commenting on the partnership at Rio, contingent of teachers who are properly initiative is founded on a partnership with the The project will establish a valuable Professor Luiz Landau from Coppe, said: qualified to interact with this age range and government and local private sector shipyards, baseline of information to enable detailed to provide guidance to new teachers. reinforcing the commitment to employability. environmental monitoring. It is the first “We will determine the baseline conditions in time that the region’s ocean currents and the Santos Basin so in the future we will be ●● We are working in partnership with the Project Blue oceanographic parameters have been studied able to determine the actual environmental NGO The Sangari Institute to support In 2012, we and our partners launched Project at this depth. The initiative will be integrated impacts from operations in the region. This implementation of their Science and Blue, a ground-breaking, oceanographic with other systems already existent in Europe project will make a tremendous contribution Technology with Creativity programme. The monitoring project that will study conditions and in the USA. to science. A wide range of studies can be programme helps public schools to develop a in the Santos Basin offshore Brazil, where we developed from the resulting data.” new investigative approach to teaching are exploring for and producing oil and gas. Data from the project will be collected over science, which involves experiments in the three years and will populate a database that classroom. It currently benefits around 2 000 Launched at Rio+20 in June 2012, Project Blue will be open to universities and research centres students at grades 1 to 9 from three schools in will be the first project in Brazil to study the to use. An important aspect of the project is Rio Grande and approximately 800 students at ocean at this depth in a systematic way and that the data is being made freely and publicly grades 1 to 5 from six schools in Angra dos Reis. will give valuable new and public information available. Universities, research organisations, about ocean currents, water temperature, and and companies will be able to use it and it is ●● Through the SuperAção Jovem programme in other features such as salinity, pH, water expected to play a role, for instance, in granting partnership with the Ayrton Senna Institute, colour and organic matter. local environmental licences. we are encouraging secondary public school students from Rio de Janeiro state to nurture Project Blue is a partnership between BG The output from Project Blue should also their entrepreneurial capabilities. The aim is to Brasil, Coppe (a post-graduate programme in contribute to a safer working environment, encourage these students to gain positive engineering linked to The Federal University minimising potential environmental impacts experience of problem solving at school, in the of Rio de Janeiro) and Prooceano (an from oil and gas and other operations in the community and in the learning process itself, oceanographic consulting company).The Santos Basin. In the event of an oil spill or thereby helping to reduce truancy. The project is our biggest research investment in other incident, the industry will have much programme is training 132 teachers and is the country: an investment of $9.5 million more detailed information about the area and benefiting approximately 10 000 students over three years.1 will be better able to avoid environmental from 28 schools. damage. Better knowledge of the environment can also save lives in the event of accidents with helicopters and vessels. 1 BG Group is required to invest 1% of its gross production revenue from Brazilian fields on R&D in Brazil. Project Blue will contribute to fulfilling the levy obligation. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 41 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue QGC: SUSTAINABLE WORKING SAFETY AND CONTRACTOR 2012 personal safety performance In response to this, we and our contractor IN QUEENSLAND MANAGEMENT Safety performance in 2012 improved. By the partners recognised and addressed the need end of 2012 the total recorded case frequency for a stronger safety culture and leadership MILESTONES IN 2012 CONTEXT (TRCF) had reduced from 8.06 in 2011 to 6.39 at the worksite. We also identified a need to (a reduction of 21%) and the severity of injuries better train, monitor and supervise new Our largest-ever operated capital project, Queensland’s expanding coal seam gas (CSG) arising was reduced. However, this still fell personnel and to ensure our standards and the Queensland Curtis LNG (QCLNG) project, industry presents the state with a significant short of the internal target of 5.0. expectations are understood and embedded, involves exploring for and producing gas in opportunity but also with an employment particularly in the early stages when workers the gas fields of the Surat Basin, constructing and skills challenge. This skills challenge has 2012: issues identified are still relatively inexperienced. a major LNG plant on Curtis Island near been recognised by the Queensland In 2012, we continued to analyse reasons Gladstone and building a 540-kilometre government1, which has invested in training behind the high level of incidents and to pipeline network to take gas from the gas to meet the industry’s future needs2, and implement specific measures to address fields to Gladstone. The project, which is by industry bodies3. them, focusing on three key areas: personal central to the Group’s growth plans, safety behaviour, systems and leadership, represents an expected investment of around The construction of three major LNG projects and working with contractors. $20 billion between 2011 and 2014. It is in Queensland is seen as having a particularly expected to create more than 5 000 full-time significant impact on the local employment PERSONAL SAFETY BEHAVIOUR jobs on average during construction until market. Together these projects are expected to 2014, and up to 1 000 during operation, and generate more than A$45 billion ($46 billion) in During the year, rapid growth in our activities is expected to add about A$32 billion to the capital expenditure and produce 28.8 million meant we had a growing recruitment need, in Queensland economy in its first 10 years. tonnes per annum (mtpa) of LNG.4 As well, there the context of a shortage of workers with is rapid expansion of exploration, production and industry experience. During 2012, we passed a significant milestone gas distribution activity in the Surat Basin, in on the route to first LNG in 2014 as the first order to secure and transport gas reserves for A key challenge during 2012 (for us and our pre-fabricated modules for the plant, assembled domestic use and for export. Economic studies main contractors) was the large pool of new entrants to the Queensland oil and gas 1 In his address at the 2011 APIA Convention, Federal Minister for Resources and Energy Martin Ferguson by Bechtel in Thailand, arrived in Gladstone. indicate that a mid-range 28 mtpa industry is said that on the east coast of Australia, Queensland’s CSG industry could generate as many as 18 000 expected to generate over 18 000 jobs in industry on whom we and our competitors jobs. “While job creation is good for the nation, it is also creating sectoral pressures in terms of wages and 2012 sustainability activity and developments Queensland and increase gross state product are now drawing. During the year, our activity labour given our very low level of unemployment,” he said. We will only be successful in Queensland if we by over A$3 billion ($3 billion).5 Competition for ramped up, with the total number of people 2 The Queensland government has established a funding programme to support training for the CSG/ achieve social and environmental objectives labour and skills in the industry is strong and working on the project reaching 9 000. We LNG industry in Queensland. The government intends committing up to $5 million over two years on set in consultation with regulators and local labour costs relatively high, leading some recognised that a large percentage of this the understanding that industry will support the investment in training on a dollar-for-dollar basis (that is, government will provide a subsidy of 50% of the cost of specified training). The programme will be communities, as well as our commercial goals. companies to import labour, or consider building workforce were unfamiliar with the high directed towards developing the specific skills, identified in the Workforce & Competency Development plant overseas.6 In this context, our priority safety standards and expectations of the oil Strategy Plan for the Queensland Coal Seam Gas/Liquefied Natural Gas Industry, as being needed for the This report focuses on safety and contractor remains to attract and retain appropriately skilled and gas industry. This lack of familiarity with operation of the CSG/LNG process. management, water, and community relations employees and to embed a strong safety culture, our expectations put more intense demand 3 Skills Queensland, the industry-led statutory body that focuses on meeting skills needs, identifies the as areas that are central to our success. including long-term safety behaviours. on our systems for inducting, bringing on challenge in its report, Work for Queensland: Resources, Skills and Employment Plan. See also: board and supervising people. Workforce Planning for the Queensland CSG/LNG industry (http://www.business.qld.gov.au/industry/csgWe recognise that these issues are often lng-industry/csg-lng-skills-workforce-development inter-related: a robust approach to safety Energy Skills Queensland presentation http://www.energyskillsqld.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2011/12/ underlies protection of the environment, csglng-workforce-planning-presentation.pdf while we can only engage successfully with 4 http://www.industry.qld.gov.au/lng/projects-queensland.html local communities if they have confidence in 5 http://www.industry.qld.gov.au/lng/projects-queensland.html our approach – and our contractor partners’ 6 http://www.theaustralian.com.au/business/mining-energy/lng-industry-faces-skills-crunch-says-totalapproach – to safety and the environment. chief/story-e6frg9df-1226390494208 BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 42 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue In 2012, we took the following actions: STRENGTHENING SYSTEMS AND WORKING WITH CONTRACTORS Looking ahead LEADERSHIP We believe these are the right approaches to ●● We introduced behaviour-based safety The third and related challenge that we address the complex and inter-related issues programmes encouraging workers to look A second challenge for us during the year was recognised was the complexity of consistently underlying our safety performance but out for each other to prevent injuries. the scale and diversity of our work in selecting and managing a wide range of recognise it will take time before changes of ●● We launched the Sure Foot programme – Queensland, where we are constructing contractor companies across our diverse this kind result in operational improvement. which used walking as a means to build safety upstream facilities, an LNG plant and a major operations to achieve high standards of We are committed to achieving our goal of awareness. It was designed by one of our pipeline as well as our fast-expanding drilling safety. This requires investing time in building zero injuries and will continue to work to employees to respond to people twisting operations in onshore gas fields. The rapid relationships, aligning values and address the challenges we face and improve ankles and tripping on sites and focused on growth in each of these diverse and collaborating to achieve the strong safety our safety performance. teaching people how to walk safely on uneven geographically widespread operations culture and behaviours we expect. surfaces. It has been successful in turning highlighted the need for a unified safety In 2013, we will be delivering further round performance and has been adopted by management framework combined with In 2012, we took the following actions: improvement in a number of areas through: other coal seam gas companies in the area. strengthened safety leadership at all levels to The employee who developed and embed a consistent safety approach. ●● We developed a QGC contract management ●● implementing changes in the HSSE implemented the programme was awarded a standard for how we select and manage organisation, building consistency and Gold Hard Hat Award as part of our employee In 2012, we took the following actions: contractors, in line with the improved BG alignment across our operations and putting safety recognition programme. Group Standard. more people on the ground, at the point of risk ●● We reviewed our induction programmes ●● We developed and began to implement a ●● We held a one-day safety workshop for us and ●● upgrading our induction scheme to achieve to improve alignment with Group unified safety management system across all our contractors, across all our operations, greater consistency across our operations expectations, with a focus on highrisk our Queensland operations to encompass involving the BG Group Chief Operating ●● completing the identification, appointment activities and driving risk. minimum standards and procedures. Officer. The purpose was to build engagement and training of site safety managers ●● We strengthened the leadership and on-site ●● With our contractor programmes, we and commitment. ●● delivering front-line supervision training across supervision skills and engagement of our identified that we needed to build the safety ●● We identified and trained ‘demand the organisation main contractor. leadership of front-line supervisors and started managers’– managers with specific ●● arranging additional workshops with our key ●● We enhanced analysis and follow-up on to develop programmes to address this. responsibility for contractor safety contractors driving monitoring data to recognise ●● We re-launched our Health, Safety, Security performance. ●● further full business stand-downs to listen to outstanding behaviours but also apply and Environment (HSSE) Committee. This ●● We intervened with contractors who did not our workforce accountability more consistently for Committee is the key HSSE leadership and meet our safety expectations, including ●● issuing safety cases for MAH facilities. unsafe driving. decision-making body and is chaired by the changing site management. ●● We conducted a full business stand down to Operations Director. ●● We established programmes to encourage For more information on our safety approach listen to our workforce. ●● We started reviewing the effectiveness of active intervention at the worksite. in Queensland, please visit QGC’s website: critical controls and raised awareness of significant risk areas, such as major accident Pipeline safety: http://www.qgc.com.au/ hazards (MAHs) and Life Savers, including our working-safely/pipeline-safety.aspx Driving Life Saver. LNG plant safety: http://www.qgc.com.au/ working-safely/lng-plant-safety.aspx Shipping safety: http://www.qgc.com.au/ working-safely/shipping-safety.aspx BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 43 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue WATER State and federal legislation Drilling of dedicated groundwater monitoring These two large water treatment plants will Our Queensland operations have drawn up a wells and installation of monitoring have a combined capacity to treat about 200 CONTEXT range of detailed plans for managing water instrumentation is already underway and in 2012, ML a day – or about 200 Olympic-sized that comply with more than 200 state and we continued work on constructing this network swimming pools – during peak production. Water is a vitally important resource in federal government water-related approvals. which will ultimately span the entire area of our These facilities, in addition to one smaller Queensland, where agriculture is a major Surat Basin activities. It is scheduled to be in water treatment plant, are located across our contributor to the economy. Periodic drought On 21 December 2012, we received approval place before we start our main extraction of project’s three major gas production areas. and flooding have made water supplies from the federal government for our key water water from the coal seams in late 2013. unpredictable. Ensuring we manage our impact monitoring and management plan (the Stage 2 The reverse osmosis treatment process will on water is critical to ensuring co-existence CSG Water Monitoring and Management Plan). We have thoroughly modelled the impact our convert almost 97% of produced water into with rural communities in Queensland. This made QGC the first CSG company to be operations could have on aquifers and we are treated water which can be used. The granted such approval. This plan provides a working with the Commonwealth Scientific remaining 3% makes up the brine stream In our Surat Basin coal seams, the natural complete overview of QGC’s planned water and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO), which will be managed separately. gas is held in place by the pressure of infrastructure, surface water and groundwater Australia’s national science agency, to produce groundwater (water located beneath the monitoring programmes and data gathering, regional models. Our modelling results, which QGC has already commissioned two smaller earth’s surface). To produce the gas, the analysis and interpretation. have been independently confirmed, show water treatment plants. The Windibri plant groundwater is pumped to the surface, minimal impact to aquifers above and below provides treated water for industrial use and relieving this pressure and allowing gas to We are committed to monitoring and the coal seams. The monitoring network we the Kenya Re-locatable plant provides treated flow and be collected. In our Queensland mitigating any impact we have on local water are installing provides baseline information on water to irrigators. The two larger plants are operations, water produced from the gas quality and supplies and will invest more than the groundwater systems and allows early due to become operational by mid-2013 and fields is saline and generally not suitable for A$1 billion ($1 billion) by 2014 on water-related identification of changes in those. We are 2014 respectively. domestic use without treatment. treatment facilities, research, modelling, feeding data from the groundwater monitoring and management. monitoring wells into the models we have This treated water will provide a significant Water production from our fields in generated to ensure the models use the most benefit during the life of the project as farmers Queensland is expected to peak at between 2012 ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES up-to-date and accurate data possible. will have access to a more reliable supply of 150 and 190 megalitres (ML) a day in 2014, with water while we are operating in the area. average production over the next 20 years of Water monitoring Water treatment around 50 ML per day. For comparison, the We are setting up a comprehensive Our water management strategy in total water extraction from the Great groundwater monitoring network to measure Queensland is to treat the water we produce Artesian Basin is estimated to be in excess and record groundwater pressure and quality and make it available for use by local of 50 ML per day. and help us to understand and manage any landholders, industry and communities. impact associated with our activities. We are committed to monitoring This network, which complies with state By 2014, we will have invested more than groundwater quality and water levels where regulatory requirements, currently involves A$1 billion ($1 billion) in new water treatment we operate, and to making good any impact a A$79 million ($82 million) programme plants and associated water infrastructure. our operations may have on existing water to install and monitor 45 groundwater In particular, we are investing in two large users. During 2012, we made progress with our monitoring bores between 2011 and 2013. state-ofthe-art water treatment plants plans for monitoring, managing and making which use reverse osmosis to treat the water good any impacts. produced from coal seams. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 44 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue Salt treatment STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT We continued to invest in communications in ●● Western Downs: in the largely agricultural The reverse osmosis water treatment process 2012, providing updates on the progress of our community where we explore for and produce results in the production of brine. This is Relationships with stakeholders and water management activities at community gas, the primary issues for landowners are further processed to limit the volume to about particularly local landowners and committee meetings and also through water protection and land access. They are 3% of the water produced in our operations. communities are critical to the success of our one-on-one meetings with landholders. A new concerned that CSG does not disrupt their This concentrated brine will be temporarily work in Queensland. Completion of the A$1 million ($1 million) community centre was business and way of life. For residents in the stored in dedicated ponds close to the two QCLNG project requires more than 2,000 land opened in Chinchilla, the heart of our towns, the main concern is the impact of the water treatment plants on our land. use agreements with landholders and Queensland upstream gas operations. The industry on housing supply and affordability. indigenous land use agreements with centre, staffed with people who live and work Landowners in the areas where the pipeline is Our Queensland operations will generate traditional custodians. in the community, is providing information being constructed are concerned about the about 4 million tonnes of salt from this and allowing local people to ask questions and timing of pipeline construction and the brine by 2040. We are currently working in We are committed to working with raise issues directly with the Group. management of potential restrictions on their collaboration with Australia Pacific LNG and landowners and, in line with regulation, ability to run their businesses. Arrow Energy to assess the technical and have a commitment to make good any WORKING WITH commercial feasibility of processing the brine impact our operations have on existing water COMMUNITIES 2012 ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES to separate its main components, so they users. A next step will be to enter make good can be used commercially. The results from agreements1 with landholders identified Engagement CONTEXT technical trials in Australia, France, Germany in the Queensland Water Commission’s During 2012, we extended engagement and and the USA are expected in 2013. Underground Water Impact Report for the communication with all our Queensland Coal seam gas is a major new industry for Surat Cumulative Management Area. communities. An important change in the Queensland. Its success depends on working If this process is not commercially feasible, Western Downs was the introduction of with local communities and integrating into the brine will be crystallised and stored in a We have already identified the users we will regional engagement co-ordinators based in the local economy in the short and long term. dedicated facility, as set out in our project or might impact and have begun to work three information centres across the region This means understanding and responding to environmental impact statement. to develop these agreements with them. instead of a single centre in Chinchilla. This local concerns. Agreements are agreed on a case-by-case change, including the opening of an office in Aquifer injection basis with landholders: make good measures Wandoan, the most northerly town in the Communities near our exploration and During 2012, we also advanced plans to trial are outlined in the Water Act 2000 and can area, has enabled us to be much more active production operations in the Western Downs, aquifer injection of treated coal seam water include deepening existing water bores, across the whole Western Downs region. along the gas pipeline route, and in Gladstone into targeted underground aquifers; these drilling new water bores or constructing where the LNG plant is being constructed, trials are required by the federal government. alternative surface water supplies. Engagement through information centres, have distinct characteristics and interests. 1 Make good agreements or Aquifer injection means putting treated water community events and dedicated arrangements are agreements into suitable aquifers and work has started on During 2012, we continued to foster communication with landowners and other between a CSG company and a ●● Gladstone: the port city where our QCLNG establishing groundwater properties with the relationships with landowners and the wider community members has generated greater landholder to address any impact of plant is being constructed on Curtis Island has water extraction by a CSG operation injection trial scheduled for 2013 and a trial public on water management. Increased an industrial heritage and the gas industry is acceptance of the industry’s willingness to on an existing water bore. Under with treated CSG water scheduled for 2014. investment in explaining our approach to water discuss and work alongside landowners. widely accepted. Concerns are focused on the Queensland legislation, if water management has made it possible to build extraction by a CSG operation is potential drain of development on the town’s wider acceptance that we are operating affecting an existing water bore, resources – particularly housing supply or then the responsible CSG company responsibly. CSG continues to have detractors, labour and skills – and on the much-used must restore the bore’s capacity to but local communities appear more widely Gladstone harbour from the potential impact supply water, or provide the owner accepting of the industry in Queensland, while with an alternative water supply. The of dredging associated with port development. still having concerns about the potential impact bore owner and CSG company may of CSG extraction on their own water supply. also agree to a monetary settlement. See: http://www.ehp.qld.gov.au/ factsheets/pdf/water/w194.pdf BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 45 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue A particular focus of engagement has been our We have also been able to empower local Investment progressed well during 2012 as we REPORTING AND MONITORING water management plans. We have sought to organisations and people to find solutions. worked with hundreds of local partners across show how investment in water treatment can The process or supply companies that bid for the region and invested more than $17.3 During the year, we reported regularly to our provide a supply of local water while gas is work with us can build their skills and capacity million in community projects in total. regional community consultative committees. being produced, while the commitment to and reinvest that experience in other ways, These committees were set up to provide regular make good any impact, and the monitoring of for instance in a family business. Key achievements during 2012 included: representation of community views to QGC and and reporting on water supply and quality a forum for information exchange between the provide additional reassurance. We also continued to engage landowners ●● developing an integrated housing strategy for company and community representatives. Each along the pipeline being constructed from the Gladstone and the Western Downs, investing committee represents a cross-section of the We continue to seek to demonstrate that the gas fields to Gladstone, informing them of in affordable housing in the region and community. We also partnered with the gas industry can coexist with other landholders. plans and how long work will take, and contributing more than A$6 million to local University of Queensland’s Centre for Social This means minimising impact on properties, working with them to minimise disruption. housing schemes and trusts Responsibility in Mining to achieve best practice modifying plans in line with development plans, ●● strengthening local workforces by in meeting our social responsibilities. With the minimising interruptions to work and providing Over time, we are becoming more embedded supporting apprentices and trainees in centre, and our regional committees, we opportunities for landholders to continue to in our Queensland communities as people non-CSG skills to address the draw of local developed sustainability indicators to measure earn income from the gas industry. Our goal is more generally accept the gas industry’s labour to the gas industry our direct impact and contribution to the to continue to be seen as a positive contributor benefits and recognise that the industry and ●● more than 100 apprentices and trainees are communities where we operate. to the rural environment and to provide an the local community can work to solve enrolled in the programme overall benefit to the community. This can be problems together. ●● support for community projects aimed at Investing in local businesses is central to our achieved by a continued effort to listen and enhancing liveability and community cohesion approach in Queensland. A six-monthly report respond to local concerns. SOCIAL INVESTMENT in the communities in which we operate to the Queensland Coordinator-General on through the QGC Sustainable Communities Australian industry participation, published in In Gladstone, we have seen good progress in The framework within which we invest in Fund. The fund is investing up to A$6 million November 2012, showed that since the start of building relationships in the town through communities where we work is the Social by 2014 and has already supported 110 2010 we had invested more than A$11 billion ($11 local partnerships as well as more informal Impact Management Plan (SIMP). This plan, community projects, spending A$3.4 million billion), with about 76% of this going to Australian engagement and communication. approved by the Queensland Department ($3.5 million) during the period since its launch companies and about 61% of that to Queensland of Infrastructure and Planning in April 2012, in February 2011 companies. More than 90 000 Australian A key area of engagement here has been commits up to A$150 million to communities ●● investing in a dialysis unit for Gladstone businesses have registered an interest in providing safety, where the message has gone beyond from the Surat Basin to Gladstone by 2014. hospital, contribution to a new aero-medical goods and services to our Queensland operations. our workforce into the community. evacuation service for Western Downs and Community safety events including an event The SIMP addresses potential impacts from supporting a range of other health initiatives on safe driving saw high attendance from our work in Queensland. It details about 94 ●● building local business capacity and supporting employees and their families and helped commitments across six themes: indigenous local businesses and creating pathways for reinforce the message to workers to stay safe. participation; housing; community health, safety school students into the gas industry The positive impact we can have by bringing and social infrastructure; land use management; ●● investing in initiatives to maintain Gladstone external expertise on safety into the employment and economic development; and harbour as a local amenity, including buying a community is winning recognition and having road and marine traffic management. rescue boat and working with Info Fish Australia a noticeable impact on local culture. to promote sustainable recreational fishing We report to the regulator on progress against ●● developing a strategy to create long-term this plan. In 2012, we published a report QGC opportunities for indigenous people and Sustainable Communities Program which sets building capacity for indigenous businesses out our social investment achievements and to participate in our supply chain. outcomes in detail. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 46 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue PERFORMANCE DATA PERFORMANCE TABLES People 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Employees worldwide (average for year) 6 569 6 472 6 171 6 079 5 395 – of which employed outside of UK (average for year) 4 703 4 496 4 211 4 163 3 639 Employees working away from home country 775 679 646 623 623 Employee turnover a 13.8 11% 11% 7% 9% Women in workforce a 28% 29% 28% 28% 25% Percentage of women on senior management a 12% 10% 10% 10% 10% Percentage of non UK/US nationals on senior managment team a 24% 23% 21% 19% 16% Speak Up/whistleblowing cases 120 134 151 125 70 Number of reported cases with actions against individuals following Speak Up investigations b 18 28 24 15 n/a a Data not available for Comgás and Gujarat Gas businesses, representing approximately 25% of employees. b In 2010, the reporting methodology for actions as a result of Speak Up investigations was changed. 2009 reported cases only included cases where disciplinary action was taken. 2010 and 2011 data includes reported cases where actions ranged from training requirements to disciplinary action. Safety, Health & Security 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Fatalities – employees 0 0 0 0 0 Fatalities – contractors 2 3 2 2 3 Total recordable case frequency – employees (per million work hours) 0.53 0.67 0.63 0.84 0.88 a Total recordable case frequency – contractors (per million work hours) 2.73 2.35 1.04 1.83 1.98 a Total recordable case frequency – total workforce (per million work hours) 2.26 1.92 0.94 1.59 1.74 Reported occupational-related illness frequency 0.21 0.49 0.56 0.22 0.14 a Employee/contractor split not reported in prior years, and therefore not subject to assurance. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 47 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue Social performance SOCIAL INVESTMENT ($000) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Charitable donations/philanthropy 1 142 3 436 1 211 1 670 3 239 Local community investment 12 927 4 949 3 613 2 365 3 088 Regional development 5 606 2 617 1 030 828 632 Miscellaneous 5 757 481 474 712 1 211 Total voluntary a 25 432 11 484 6 328 5 575 8 170 Total mandatory b 1 800 1 819 2 006 3 113 1 115 Total social investment 27 232 13 303 c 8 334 8 668 9 285 a These figures include reported social investments in Tanzania and Thailand. While these operations are not wholly owned by BG Group, the social investments were 100% BG Group investments and so reported on this basis. b In previous reports, we reported ‘contractual obligations through production-sharing agreements.’ This included mandatory social payments to governments, over which the company had no meaningful control. This year, we have narrowed the reporting criteria to ‘mandatory social investment.’ Whilst is mandatory, the group has full control over how such funds are spent. c Spend under Kazakhstan contractual obligations (Kazakhstan Social Fund) was included in 2011 but has been excluded in 2012 due to the redefinition of this indicator (see footnote b above). On the 2011 basis, the 2012 figure would have been $15.3 million. Environment NON-GHG EMISSIONS (‘000 TONNES) Electricity Distribution Venting Fugitive b Flaring Fuel Use generation losses Carbon monoxide – – 2 14 0 – Nitrogen oxides – – 1 29 2 – Sulphur dioxide – – 11 13 0 – Volatile organic compounds 5 2 1 2 0 1 NON-GHG EMISSIONS (‘000 TONNES) Total Total Total Total Total t/mmboe t/mmboe t/mmboe t/mmboe t/mmboe 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Carbon monoxide 16 14 12 10 9 38 33 28 22 21 Nitrogen oxides 32 29 21 19 17 76 68 48 43 40 Sulphur dioxide 24 21 23 29 31 57 50 52 66 72 Volatile organic compounds 11 12 12 11 11 25 27 27 25 24 BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 48 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue ENERGY USE (GWHrs) Total Total Total Total Total Gas Electricity Oil 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Energy use 25,443 34 3,948 29,425 28,556 31,014 36,505 36,001 WASTE DISPOSED (‘000 TONNES) Waste by Disposal Route 2012 Authorised In situ Treatment/ Reuse/ On-site Total Total Total Total Total landfill Incineration disposal discharge Recycling storage 2012 c 2011 c 2010 2009 2008 Cuttings 6 1 7 10 7 16 40 Metal 0 1 0 1 1 2 1 2 General 36 1 0 0 3 115 40 13 7 11 16 Hazardous 5 1 24 0 35 1 65 15 24 19 8 Total 47 2 25 0 39 116 113 39 40 47 66 WATER DISPOSAL (‘000 TONNES) d Groundwater/ Reused/recycled reinjection by third party to to nonInland Inland Coastal Open freshwater freshwater sewerage surface Soil water/ Nonwater Marine aquifer aquifer system water irrigation Evaporation Freshwater freshwater Produced water – 5,473 – 243 91 8 6 1,100 – – Oil in produced water – 0 – 0 0 0 – – – – Process water 2 11 – 58 156 – 3 – – – Oil in process water – – – – 0 – – – – – Other waste oily water – 6 – 8 – 0 – – – – Oil in other waste oily water – 0 – 0 – 0 – – – – Associated water – – – – – 39 – 3,724 795 Total oil – 0 – 0 0 0 – – – – Total water 2 5,490 – 309 247 47 9 4,824 – 795 BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 49 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue WATER DISPOSAL (‘000 TONNES) d Total Total Total Total Total 2012 2011 e 2010 2009 2008 Produced water 6921 6090 – – – Oil in produced water 0 0 – – – Process water f 230 287 9386 7335 3945 Oil in process water 0 0 0 0 0 Other waste oily water 14 8 – – – Oil in other waste oily water 0 0 – – – Associated water 4558 3272 – – – Total oil 0 0 0 0 0 Total water 11723 9657 9386 7335 3945 Climate change GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (‘000 tonnes CO2e) FROM ASSETS UNDER BG GROUP CONTROL Total Total Total Total Total 2012 2011 a 2010 a 2009 2008 Scope 1 7,740 7,507 8,716 9,897 9,673 Scope 2 20 19 24 30 Total gross controlled emissions 7,760 7,526 8,740 9,927 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS INTENSITY (SCOPE 1 & 2) (‘000 tonnes CO2e/mmboe) Total Total Total Total 2012 2011 2010 2009 E&P 14 13 13 12 Global Shipping 27 26 22 27 T&D 3 3 10 10 Power 700 671 724 700 BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 50 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue SCOPE 1 Greenhouse gas emissions (‘000 tonnes CO2e) By source 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Venting 595 676 643 634 599 Fugitive 45 a 19 6 5 8 Flaring 620 559 795 706 705 Fuel use 5,276 4,623 3,902 4,101 3,658 Electricity generation 1,114 1,526 2,614 3,683 3,944 Distribution losses 90 104 756 768 759 Total GHG 7,740 7,507 8,716 9,897 9,673 By GHG (in ‘000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Carbon dioxide 7,306 7,064 7,665 8,836 8,644 Methane 368 381 985 981 948 Nitrous oxide 66 62 66 80 81 Total GHG 7,740 7,507 8,716 9,897 9,673 By business segment 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 E&P 4,250 3,852 3,723 3,417 3,202 Global Shipping 2,271 2,007 1,605 2,015 1,739 T&D 102 118 770 778 771 Power 1,114 1,526 2,614 3,684 3,944 Other 3 4 4 3 17 Total GHG 7,740 7,507 8,716 9,897 9,673 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity (‘000 tonnes CO2e/mmboe) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 E&P 14 13 13 12 12 Global Shipping 27 26 22 27 28 T&D 3 3 10 10 9 Power 699 671 723 697 690 Total 18 18 20 22 22 BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 51 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue SCOPE 2 Greenhouse gas emissions (‘000 tonnes CO2e) By source (CO2e) 2012 2011 a 2010 a 2009 Purchased electricity 20 19 24 30 By business segment E&P 12 11 9 8 Global Shipping – – – – T&D 3 4 5 5 Power 1 0 5 13 Other 4 4 5 4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity ('tonnes CO2e/mmboe) E&P 38 35 34 27 Global Shipping – – – – T&D 125 92 61 63 Power 334 201 1460 2416 EQUITY SHARE GHG EMISSIONS 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 GHG emissions ('000 tonnes) 9,608 10,611 12,232 13,862 13,839 Equity share ('000 tonnes GHG/mmboe) 26 28 33 37 37 WATER WITHDRAWAL (‘000 TONNES) g Desalinated Desalinated Municipal associated ground Ground Desalinated water Rain Reused/ Surface Waste water water water water seawater Seawater supplies water recycled water (third party) Freshwater use – 2 249 47 – 491 1 55 979 – Non-freshwater use – – – 20 36 – – 18 – Total – 2 249 67 36 491 1 73 979 – 2012 g 2011 g 2010 2009 Freshwater use 1824 1904 1857 2190 Non-freshwater use 74 107 – – Total 1898 2,011 1,857 2,190 BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 52 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue CONTROLLED DISCHARGES (‘000 TONNES) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Drill cuttings 13 10 15 29 45 Oil in cuttings 0 0 0 1 2 Muds 14 13 15 25 62 Total 27 23 30 55 109 SPILLS TO THE ENVIRONMENT 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Number of hydrocarbon spills to land 192 140 37 14 14 Number of hydrocarbon spills to sea 17 24 17 43 17 Number of hydrocarbon Spills 209 164 54 57 31 Number of hydrocarbon spills to land (of one barrel or more) 11 12 5 1 7 Number of hydrocarbon spills to sea (of one barrel or more) 0 6 6 9 3 Number of hydrocarbon spills (of one barrel or more) 11 18 11 10 10 Total volume of hydrocarbon spills to land 60 203 42 9 58 Total volume of hydrocarbon Spills to sea 1 82 617 170 6 Total volume (bbls) of hydrocarbon spills 61 285 659 179 64 Number of produced water spills to land 25 36 40 38 – Number of produced water spills to land (of one barrel or more) 16 25 25 6 – Total volume of water spills to land (m3) 170 1030 774 – a CO2 emission factors for electricity purchased updated (2010/2011 data) using latest IEA factors. b Fugitive Emissions reported from Marcellus (USA) in 2012. This data was not available for reporting in 2011. c Waste data does not include TGGT (JOJV-acquired 2011). d Water disposal data not currently captured from Charter Shipping operations. e 2011 Water disposal figures from Australia operations corrected. f Produced & Process water was reported as ‘process water’ prior to 2011. g Water withdrawal does not include TGGT. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 53 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue TARGETS Environment OUR TARGETS IN 2012 ACTIONS TAKEN IN 2012 OUR TARGETS IN 2013 Develop and roll out Group Water Management Standard and Water Ongoing All businesses with water risks to develop Water Management Plans. Risk Management Guideline, for use in BG Group operations and Water Management Standard and Guideline have been developed projects, as appropriate to the level of risk from water-related issues. and are to be rolled out in 2013. Develop 2013-17 Group environment strategy. Completed New strategy developed with emphasis on energy efficiency and water management. Achieve one million tonnes GHG reduction target. Completed All businesses to develop enhanced Energy Management Plans New five-year emissions intensity (GHG per unit production) target detailing how reduction projects and behavioural change will deliver developed – a 10% reduction in equity share emissions intensity for the new GHG target. our combined upstream and LNG operations. Keep emissions intensity constant with 2012 levels. New Reduce Group-wide operated sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions by 35% from 2012 levels by 2015 through process improvements in Tunisia. Ethical conduct OUR TARGETS IN 2012 ACTIONS TAKEN IN 2012 OUR TARGETS IN 2013 Refresh and re-launch the BG Group Principles into Practice booklet. Completed Roll out the Advanced Anti-Bribery and Corruption e-learning to Completed high-risk groups. Use the ‘Adequate Procedures’ toolkit (to test the effectiveness of Completed Continue to have asset visits by the Ethical Conduct Compliance Unit procedures to prevent bribery) in the business. to monitor compliance. New Ensure all key operations have refreshed their risk assessments and, as necessary, developed action plans identifying initiatives to improve their management of ethical conduct risk. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 54 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue People OUR TARGETS IN 2012 ACTIONS TAKEN IN 2012 OUR TARGETS IN 2013 Finalise the succession and development plans for key leadership Ongoing Establish and improve the succession planning process and positions, in preparation for a new Chief Executive. Succession plans are now in place for approximately 70 senior roles in philosophy. the business and for critical functional roles. Critical gaps have been identified and an external market mapping exercise is underway. Articulate and develop our Employee Value Proposition Ongoing Work on our key differentiation factors (relative to competitors Work done to test global consistency of employee experience, for talent). including a common tone, style and look and feel, during recruitment Develop a way of bringing our values and beliefs to life to deepen and first 90 days. employee pride and sense of belonging. This work will continue throughout 2013. Complete reviews of global resourcing needs, talent management, Completed Introduce new resourcing systems. graduate development and the leadership model. New planning systems introduced to provide a clearer long-term view Increase the level of leadership capability. of future resourcing needs. Review, refine and implement key performance indicators for Consistent and objective talent reviews and succession planning Resourcing Talent Management, Development and Leadership. framework and process introduced. Introduce capability framework across business to identify current Four key talent pools and four development centres set up. and future capability strengths and gaps. Emerging leader programme completed, external leadership programmes run. Internal coaching programme set up. New Develop a detailed diversity strategy with accompanying targets and implementation plan. Safety, Health & Security OUR TARGETS IN 2012 ACTIONS TAKEN IN 2012 OUR TARGETS IN 2013 Total Recordable Case Frequency (TRCF) per million work hours of 1.35. Target not met TRCF per million work hours of 1.75. TRCF of 2.26 achieved. 90% of all high-risk contractors’ safety performance to be tracked Target not met Key performance indicator amended in 2013 to percentage of key through the PerforMIS system. 76% achieved. contracts actively managed, with higher standards than tracking of performance but also requiring active planning and management of HSSE contract risks. Target in 2013 is 95%. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 55 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue Social performance OUR TARGETS IN 2012 ACTIONS TAKEN IN 2012 OUR TARGETS IN 2013 Initiate work stream to investigate how to report on BG Group’s wider Completed socio-economic contributions. Commissioned an external expert to inform our approach to reporting socio-economic contribution. Conduct IBLF accredited partnership training in a minimum of four Ongoing Continue an active work programme on partnerships with IBLF operations. IBLF training conducted for PCA managers at corporate level. and other organisations to support a broader strategy on external engagement. Establish five new social investment projects across the Group, Completed Continue to expand our social investment partnerships in the areas consistent with Group-wide themes of education, skills development Vocational Education and Training (VET) partnerships: of STEM ducation, vocational education and training, and livelihood and livelihoods enhancement. • Tanzania: Voluntary Services Organisation (VSO) & VETA enhancement. • Brazil: Senai in Angra • Brazil: in coastal areas of Rio de Janeiro • Egypt: ACDI & VOCA STEM education partnerships: • Brazil: Geo-Sciences Museum at the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro • Brazil: in Rio Grande du Sal • UK: Science Museum • UK: Aberdeen City Councils Develop guidelines on grievance mechanisms in line with the UN Completed Conduct a human rights impact assessment. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and update Grievance mechanisms guidelines developed. grievance mechanisms accordingly in at least two operations. Updated grievance mechanism in QGC. Grievance mechanism in development in our business in Tanzania. Increase year-on-year social investment spend in the majority of BG Completed Continue to increase our Group-wide social investment spend in line Group-operated businesses. Increased social investment spend in the majority of businesses. with an increased spend target by 2014. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 56 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue INDEPENDENT We used the BG Group’s Data Methodology Responsibilities of the directors of BG Group Our conclusions ASSURANCE STATEMENT Appendix which sets out how the and of the assurance providers On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing sustainability performance data are The Directors of BG Group have sole came to our attention to suggest that: Our scope measured, recorded and reported, as the basis responsibility for the preparation of the BG Group commissioned DNV Two Tomorrows of the Reporting Criteria for undertaking our Sustainability Report 2012. In performing our ●● the sustainability performance data for the Limited (Two Tomorrows) to undertake assurance work. We also used the GRI Quality assurance work, our responsibility is to the year ended 31 December 2012, as published independent assurance of its Sustainability of Information Principles to evaluate the management of BG Group, however our in the Performance data section, are not Report 2012 as published at www.bg-group.com performance data. statement represents our independent prepared in all material respects with the for the following areas: opinion and is intended to inform all of Reporting Criteria; and Basis of our opinion BG Group’s stakeholders including its ●● BG Group’s self-declared GRI application level ●● sustainability performance data for the year A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability management. We were not involved in the of A+ of the GRI “G3.1” Guidelines as published ended 31 December 2012, as published in and assurance specialists performed work at preparation of any part of the Report. in the GRI index section is not fairly stated in the Performance Data section; and Group and asset level. Our assurance work However, having reviewed and provided all material respects. ●● BG Group’s self-declared Global Reporting included the following: feedback on drafts of the Report (including Initiative (GRI) application level of A+ of the the Data Methodology Appendix), in a Our key observations and recommendations GRI “G3.1” Guidelines as published in the ●● interviewing senior management number of instances changes were made We have provided a confidential Management GRI index section. responsible for the management of to the final version. Letter containing our observations and sustainability, the Sustainability Report recommendations made during the course of Our approach 2012 and data reporting systems; We provided two additional services to BG our work to BG Group management. Without We performed our work using Two ●● visiting a sample of two BG Group assets (QGC, Group in 2012: an independent report review affecting our assurance opinion, our key Tomorrows’ assurance methodology which Australia and BG Trinidad & Tobago) to review exercise which included, report benchmark, observations and recommendations are is based on our professional experience and the systems and processes used at the asset stakeholder interviews, media review and summarised below: international assurance standards, including head office level to collect and report the materiality review (using BG Group’s the International Standard on Assurance sustainability performance data to Group level; methodology); and an independent review of We note BG Group’s progress during 2012 and Engagements 3000 (Revised) – ‘Assurance ●● reviewing and sample checking the BG Group’s implementation of the Voluntary have agreed with BG Group that the company Engagements Other Than Audits and Reviews sustainability performance data Principles on Security and Human Rights. We will consider the following related issues of Historical Financial Information’. measurement, collection and reporting have not been involved in the implementation during the year ahead: processes at Group level; of any of the recommendations made during We planned and performed our work to obtain ●● reviewing how the sustainability performance the course of these reviews. ●● Creation of the Sustainability Report Project the evidence we considered necessary to data was represented in the Performance and Editorial Boards contributed towards BG provide a basis for our assurance conclusions. Data section and within the relevant Our core team comprised Jon Woodhead, Kate Group’s increased coverage in the Sustainability We are providing a ‘limited level’ of assurance. Performance sections of the report; Martin, Richard Dalley, Gareth Manning and Report of longer term strategic risks. We A ‘reasonable level’ of assurance would have ●● assessing the GRI index for compliance with Samantha Parsons. Further information, recommend that BG Group should review key required additional work at Group and site level the GRI application level requirements for A+. including individual competencies relating to the sustainability performance data to ensure they to gain further evidence to support the basis of team can be found at: www.twotomorrows.com continue to reflect BG Group’s most material our assurance conclusions. issues and performance indicators used internally; and further develop appropriate medium and long term targets across a broad range of sustainability subject areas; BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 57 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue ●● BG Group increased coverage in the ●● Occupational illness: we note a number of – Social investment: we noted improved Sustainability Report on contractor initiatives have been introduced to counter internal review and validation of social management. Improvements are needed to occupational illnesses such as heat stress. investment spend at the asset level. This data collection and management systems to Our interviews suggested that occupational year we recommend: the Group data enable better reporting of contractor numbers illnesses are underreported, we therefore collection system should be improved and hours worked; and recommend that additional measures are with greater automation and ●● BG Group’s responsiveness to issues raised taken to encourage a positive culture of standardisation; and increased guidance through the 2012 stakeholder engagement reporting and increased focus on health should be given to the assets. and materiality review was evidenced in this risks that have a significant impact on the year’s Sustainability Report, including greater health employees; coverage of biodiversity, contractor ●● Diversity: BG Group reports a new objective to for DNV Two Tomorrows Limited management, revenue and tax transparency, develop a diversity strategy, including detailed London socio-economic impacts and fraud targets and an implementation plan. Progress 28th March 2013 management. We recommend that BG Group against this objective should be included in should continue to refine the approach to next year’s report; and reporting on these areas during 2013. ●● Data collection and reporting systems: we observed well developed systems and Our key recommendations relating to specific processes for the collection and reporting of Jon Woodhead issues and functions are: the sustainability performance data at Group Director ●● Climate change: BG Group launched new and asset level. Our work this year highlighted five-year greenhouse gas emissions intensity the following opportunities for improvement: and sulphur dioxide targets and the – Hours worked: in our statement last year DNV Two Tomorrows Limited is part of DNV, a global Sustainability Report includes data on scope 3 we made a recommendation relating to provider of services for managing risk, helping customers to achieve sustainable business emissions for the first time. We recommend hours worked at asset level. This year we performance. www.twotomorrows.com that progress against the new five-year recommend that Group should continue greenhouse gas emissions intensity and sulphur to enhance the guidance provided to dioxide targets should be reported next year; assets on data collection, reporting and ●● Safety: the Sustainability Report describes review processes for hours worked of increased efforts to manage health and employees and contractors. safety, in particular at assets such as QGC where safety performance is significantly different to operations elsewhere in the Group. We recommend a continued focus on improving safety performance (employees and contractors); BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 58 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue LEARNING FROM OUR ASSURANCE AREAS FOR IMPROVEMENT IDENTIFIED IN 2011 ASSURANCE PROCESS STATUS OUR PROGRESS IN 2012 S  trategic oversight of the Group’s overall approach, Ongoing ●● Strategic oversight , direction setting, longer-term strategic risks and opportunities, integration between functions including direction setting, integration between functions related to sustainability on an ongoing During 2012, we developed an overarching concept of sustainability which is set out in the Chief Executive’s introduction to our basis, coverage of longer-term strategic risks and sustainability web pages. opportunities, and the development of short and long-term targets This concept was endorsed by the Board Sustainability Committee (SC) and the SC’s Terms of Reference have been amended accordingly. This concept is applied in existing countries of operation through licence to operate strategies developed by our teams on the ground in consultation with the Policy and Corporate Affairs (PCA) function. That work is based on an assessment of: the political and social context in which we operate; the views of a wide range of stakeholder groups; and the risks to our business that context gives rise to. It involves the development of integrated plans to ensure that we are aligned with the interests of our stakeholders in a way that manages those risks, and that progress is measurable. Most strategies have now been drawn up. They will be updated on an annual basis. They are reviewed by our Group Executive Committee (GEC) and, in the most significant cases, by the SC. The Group’s concept of sustainability is also routinely applied to exploration or other business opportunities in new countries. In that regard, the GEC and SC have underlined the importance of: • ensuring that our investments are diversified by both country and region, and based on a careful assessment of geopolitical risks • drawing up plans for all new countries, setting out how we plan to build broadly based stakeholder support for our future operations • working to ensure that our presence is seen by external observers and civil society as a net positive on issues of human rights and environmental stewardship. Both the GEC and the SC are regularly briefed about the different opportunities under consideration. Longer-term strategic risks and opportunities During the year, we also developed a more rigorous framework for assessing new market opportunities which takes into account the political, social, corruption and environmental risks as well as the wider geopolitical context. This framework stresses the importance of assuring that we consider, in any new market, whether we can operate in a way consistent with our Business Principles. Target setting We improved target setting by individual functions this year, with targets in this report that are SMARTer than before. At Group level, we put in place a new greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction target, to run to 2017. A new aspiration was introduced in 2012, to have 20% women in senior roles by 2020. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 59 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue Learning from our assurance continued AREAS FOR IMPROVEMENT IDENTIFIED IN 2011 ASSURANCE PROCESS STATUS OUR PROGRESS IN 2012 A greater forward-looking focus in future Ongoing Forward-looking focus sustainability reports and additional detail The 2012 Sustainability Report has been structured around material issues, many of which are long-term challenges for which we have to on the BG Group employee and contractor plan (for instance climate change, safety, unconventional gas and human resourcing). This means our report is by definition forward-looking. profile and management approach Another example in the 2012 report is the section on our socio-economic impact. This section looks ahead to our future approach to reporting our socio-economic impact by country, recognising the trend to more detailed and transparent reporting. Completed The report also includes country profiles of BG Group operations in two areas of long-term strategic importance for the Group: Brazil and Australia. These profiles set out initiatives and plans in these countries which will be of importance to the Group and its stakeholders for many years to come. Contractor and employee profile and management approach This year’s report provides more detail on our workforce profile, by providing information on the number and type of employees and contractors at our facilities and offices across the world and discussing the issues of workforce composition, local recruitment and future resource requirements. The report also provides specific information on our One Team approach to the management of employees and contractors. It sets out in detail our approach to working with contractors, particularly in the area of safety. We have also provided a detailed study of safety in QGC which includes contractor management topics. BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 60 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue Learning from our assurance continued AREAS FOR IMPROVEMENT IDENTIFIED IN 2011 ASSURANCE PROCESS STATUS OUR PROGRESS IN 2012 How to capitalise on improvements in Ongoing Improvements in materiality and stakeholder engagement stakeholder engagement and materiality review We took further steps to strengthen our approach to materiality in 2012, building on the changes we introduced in 2011 when we began to by further refining these processes in 2012, and formalise the report preparation process and introduced formal consultation with external stakeholders. In 2012, we carried out more using the outputs to inform the consideration of extensive research into the issues that have arisen in the year, undertook more external stakeholder consultation, and strengthened our the overall approach to sustainability and future internal processes for developing the report’s content. reporting Future reporting We created a cross-functional Sustainability Report Editorial Board, which was engaged throughout the report preparation process. We also set up a Sustainability Report Project Board, chaired by a member of the GEC, and involving several heads of functions to oversee the report preparation process. The Project Board met at key times throughout the process to review progress and provide guidance on the report’s content. The cross-functional group that made up the Editorial Board plans to meet monthly through the year to discuss sustainability issues and how these will be reflected in future reporting. In 2013, we plan to: • hold a half-day offsite to review the report process and potential improvements • review the materiality research and stakeholder engagement process • in particular, look at how to build our engagement of local community stakeholders through our own operations globally, aiming to extend reporting on local issues and capture feedback where possible • conduct a best practice review • hold a half-day offsite to plan the 2013 report • provide feedback from this process to the GEC and the SC, when appropriate. Greenhouse gas target Completed Greenhouse gas target We understand that work is on-going by BG Group A new target has been set to reduce GHG emissions intensity by 10% by 2017; this is reported on fully in the Sustainability Report. To drive to develop a new GHG target beyond 2012. BG change within our operations, each facility has a GHG intensity target for 2013 and further targets will be developed for subsequent years. Group is considering a range of options for the new In 2013, facilities must also develop Energy Management Plans which describe the energy efficiency opportunities in each asset and how target, including absolute and normalised targets, the asset will contribute to achieving the five-year target. Energy Management Plans will be reviewed and endorsed by the Head of coverage of Scope 3 emissions and setting baseline Environment in order to ensure adequate and consistent quality. and stretch targets. In developing the new GHG target we analysed the lessons learnt from the previous target and the different types of targets we could adopt, including absolute targets, against the back-drop of BG Group’s underlying forecast growth in production and changing portfolio. To reflect this, a new target based on an emissions-intensity metric was chosen which allows us to continue to improve our performance whilst we grow. This, coupled with the delivery tools above, will help us to embed this across the company. As part of the analysis, an external review was conducted by DNV Two Tomorrows. This showed that setting an intensity-based target was good practice for a growing company where operational emissions were forecast to rise. Read about Scope 3 emissions in the Report BG Group Sustainability Report 2012 61 Chief Executive’s About this report Material issues in 2012 – Material issues in 2012 – Country profiles Performance data Targets Assurance statement an overview by issue Learning from our assurance continued AREAS FOR IMPROVEMENT IDENTIFIED IN 2011 ASSURANCE PROCESS STATUS OUR PROGRESS IN 2012 Biodiversity, diversity and inclusion Completed Biodiversity We recommend that BG Group should consider In 2012, we revised the Environmental Standard and now require Biodiversity Action Plans to be reviewed and endorsed by the Head of the development of a Group-wide approach Environment in order to ensure adequate and consistent quality. to biodiversity, and also to employee diversity and inclusion. Diversity and inclusion We reviewed diversity in detail and developed a new diversity statement, including an aspiration, in relation to gender diversity, to have 20% women in leadership positions by 2020. Our Employee Support Standard and the Unacceptable Behaviour Standard promote an inclusive working environment.  ata collection and reporting D Completed In 2012, we reviewed processes for reporting hours. We worked closely with those Group operations where questions had been raised, to We recommend that BG Group should enhance ensure their systems for reporting hours were as accurate as practicable. We checked the way hours were captured during a number of guidance provided to assets on data collection, HSSE audits of assets, to assure ourselves that the processes were robust. We are confident that the margin of error in reporting does not reporting and review processes for hours worked materially affect the total recordable case frequency (TRCF) figures reported. via the appropriate HSSE Standard. Social investment Completed We increased the accountability at the asset level and supervision from Group. All the social investment data had to be signed off by the We recommend improvements to the data Head of PCA or equivalent member of the asset management team, authenticating that they had cross-checked the data and were collection, record keeping and review processes signing off on its accuracy. at asset level. X Signifies completed We worked on this target in 2012 and completed all the associated tasks. Y Signifies ongoing We made some progress on this target but did not complete all the associated tasks.
