CSR REPORT 2013 Report on Corporate Social Responsibility Activities IEditorial Policy IReliability Toppan prepares this corporate social responsibility (CSR) report in the hopes of KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. provides independent assurance for this report. encouraging dialogues with many people, especially those who have an interest As a testament to the reliability of the sustainability information presented in the or stake in Toppan’s CSR activities. Toppan reports its activities in line with the report, Toppan is authorized to attach the following mark. Any report bearing this seven core subjects set under the International Organization for Standardization mark meets the Sustainability Reporting Assurance and Registration Criteria estab(ISO) 26000, an international standard on social responsibility formulated by lished by The Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability ­multiple global stakeholders. Information (http://www.j-sus.org/). IPeriod Covered This report mainly covers activities in fiscal 2012 (from April 2012 to March 2013), though information on prior and later years is also included in parts. IEye-friendliness and Readability IScope and Boundary of this Report This report considers eye-friendliness and readability in accordance with Toppan’s In principle, this report covers the CSR activities of Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (“the in-house guidelines. It also incorporates universal-design displays for as many difCompany”) and Group entities consolidated for accounting purposes. Most of the ferent types of people as possible, regardless of individual differences in color perinformation on personnel applies to personnel within Toppan Printing Co., Ltd., ception. The universal design in this report has been reviewed and certified by the the parent company. The scope of the environmental performance data on pages Color Universal Design Organization (CUDO), a nonprofit organization, on entrust34-41 includes Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. and 20 domestic manufacturing subsidment by Toppan. iaries covered within the Company’s environmental targets. These subsidiaries share important roles in the Company’s environmental conservation efforts. IURLs for Relevant Information The environmental performance data of the Toppan Group, including the over•CSR information: http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/csr/ seas subsidiaries, are reported in CSR Report 2013: Detailed Data. (If erroneous entries or misprints are found after CSR reports are issued, the related information will be shown here.) ICSR Report 2013: Detailed Data •IR information: http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/ir/ A PDF file with detailed and reference data not shown in this report is download•Corporate governance reports: http://www.tse.or.jp/listing/corpgov/ able from Toppan’s CSR website: http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/csr/. (in Japanese) •Financial statements: http://info.edinet-fsa.go.jp/ (in Japanese) ISelecting the Information Presented in this Report In choosing the information for this report, Toppan assesses the “materiality” of Publication Dates the information for society and the Company itself. Toppan considers the following Previous report: October 2012 points in particular: Opinions gleaned from dialogues; information from NPOs, Current report: October 2013 NGOs, CSR-related organizations, and news agencies; responses to its CSR Next report: October 2014 (planned) report questionnaires; and questionnaire topics from third-party organizations. Contact Information IGuidelines and Standards Considered CSR Promotion Department, Legal Affairs Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. •The United Nations Global Compact (Tokyo, Japan) •ISO 26000 Email: csr@toppan.co.jp •Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 •Environmental Reporting Guidelines (fiscal year 2012 version) from the Ministry of the Environment of Japan The United Nations Global Compact sets forth 10 principles in the four areas of human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. Toppan supports and implements the 10 principles as a socially responsible corporation. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. CONTENTS Executive Message 2 Group Business Outline 4 Special Report 1: D esigning the “Smart Community,” an Environmentally Friendly City for Comfortable Lifestyles 6 Special Report 2: A Mechanically Recycled PET Packaging Material for a Recycling-oriented Society 8 Results in Fiscal 2012 and Future Measures 10 Toppan’s CSR Activities 12 Initiatives at Toppan and the Seven Core Subjects under ISO 26000 14 Organizational Governance 15 Human Rights 18 Labor Practices 20 Fair Operating Practices 24 Consumer Issues 28 Community Involvement and Development 32 The Environment Toppan’s Environmental Activities 34 Environmental Management Activities 35 Toppan’s Environmental Burden and Environmental Impact 36 Eco-protection Activities 37 Eco-creativity Activities / Environmental Communication Activities 41 Independent Assurance 42 Independent Assurance Report 43 Group Business Structure 44 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 1 Executive Message Contributing to Fulfilling Lifestyles To Offer New Value azines to enlighten the public and give momentum to the establishment of the modern state. The Toppan Group was established in 1900 by a team of Since its foundation, the Toppan Group has offered socifive founders. Most of them were former engineers from ety new value by playing important roles in the advancethe Ministry of Finance Printing Bureau, now the National ment of information culture “as a mainstay of information Printing Bureau. According to the Toppan charter, the and culture” through business with printing technology at Japanese public at the time was deprived of the many its core. benefits of letterpress printing, an inexpensive printing technique that was capable of producing exquisite plates but Now, more than 110 years since our foundation, we find had thus far been used only by the Printing Bureau. The ourselves in an age where digital information streams every Toppan founders wanted to start a business using the letwhich way, from server to server, from smartphone to terpress skills they acquired in the bureau. smartphone, over a global network. My role, as President Europeans flocked to the international exhibition in Paris & Representative Director of Toppan Printing, is to find the the very same year. Japan was steadily building up its modvalue we can offer society as we build fresh foundations ern industries following the Meiji Restoration. The printing for the Toppan Group in this era. industry contributed to society significantly in three main The management slogan I coined at the beginning of areas in this era: the printing of banknotes, bonds, and 2013 stresses innovation. To make innovation a reality, the securities, important instruments for the establishment people of Toppan must understand the dizzying trends of modern capitalism; the publication of newspapers, a reshaping our market and management environments. medium for public discussion and the advancement of culLooking to these trends as opportunities, I have established ture; and the publication of translations, novels, and magthree management challenges to help Toppan build a new engine of growth for the Group. The first challenge is to advance our Group-wide structural reform for our organizational, business, and cost structures to ensure that we stay profitable in today’s dramatically changing markets and enhance the value of our corporation and businesses. The second is to create new businesses and new markets by developing business models that meet the demands of today’s rapidly changing age using the printing technologies we have cultivated since our founding. The third is to accelerate global business expansion for swift operations by taking advantage of business alliances and M&As and by restructuring our sales and production structures mainly in Asia and other growing markets. To Be a Robust Group of Companies Trusted and Respected by Society TOPPAN VISION 21 is positioned as the foundation for all of our corporate activities. This vision consists of a Corporate Structure (the Corporate Philosophy, the Corporate Creed, and a set of Conduct Guidelines defining the values 2 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 and standards we should respect) and five Business Fields has been providing society with functional products for based on the Corporate Structure. solar cells and lithium-ion batteries. Backed by the operaTo make TOPPAN VISION 21 a reality, I am convinced tional know-how we have cultivated over the years, we will that it will be vital for us to accomplish the three managealso offer new value to the “smart community,” a new conment challenges and fulfill our social responsibility as a cept you will surely be hearing more about in the future. corporation. A company must develop steadily in step with In the realm of resource recycling, Toppan has been all of society. We will be creating new growth engines to making efforts to use recycled polyethylene terephthalate help solve social issues and drive our growth in step with (PET) film as a packaging material by applying a mechanthe sustainable development of society. As we do, we ical recycling method. Recycled PET used to be difficult to would like to establish ourselves as a robust company use as a plastic film due to high costs and quality issues. group that society broadly trusts and respects. Toppan’s mechanically recycled PET film has a high recycling rate and reduces CO2 emissions by about 24% in the pre-manufacturing stage, compared with conventional To Enhance Our CSR Management petroleum-based films. Toppan has participated in a PET bottle recycling project in collaboration with partners along The United Nations Global Compact is an invaluable guidethe value chain to help create a recycling-oriented society line for us as we undertake our journey towards this end. and facilitate sustainable resource use. Toppan has been participating in the United Nations Global We will continue to offer society new value by proposing Compact and supporting the 10 principles of the Global total solutions based on our broad-ranging know-how, Compact on human rights, labour, environment, and antiresources, and technologies. corruption since September 2006. I will continue espousing the United Nations Global Compact and shaping our corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities accordingly. With Our Stakeholders The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility (international At Toppan we would like to continue disclosing information standard for organizations) was formulated through the through this CSR report, one of our most valuable tools for involvement of multiple stakeholders from more than 100 communicating with our stakeholders. I am eager to hear countries, many of them developing. The standard conyour candid opinions about this report. denses various social issues to be solved. From my perWe will keep up our work towards the creation of fulfillspective, it also guides our own measures to implement ing lifestyles in a sustainable world. We rely on your ongothe United Nations Global Compact. We incorporated ISO ing support and guidance. 26000 in our CSR management practices in fiscal 2011 and have been pushing forward with CSR activities by piecJuly 2013 ing together a clear picture of the social issues we should help solve and the social responsibilities we should fulfill. Shingo Kaneko President & Representative Director Towards a Sustainable Society Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. The challenges confronting the environment are among the most important social issues we face. Energy saving has been all the more pressing in Japan since the Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011. In the realm of energy, Toppan TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 3 Group Business Outline Corporate Profile Group Profile Corporate name Number of employees The Toppan Group comprises Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. and 197 related Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (nonconsolidated) companies (167 subsidiaries and 30 affiliates) engaged in manifold busiHead office 8,587 (as of the end of March 2013) nesses in three main fields: Information & Networks, Living Environment, 1, Kanda Izumi-cho, Chiyoda-ku, Number of employees and Electronics. Tokyo 101-0024, Japan (consolidated) The positioning of Toppan and related companies in these fields is outPhone +81-3-3835-5111 48,878 (as of the end of March 2013) lined on page 44. Established Capital (nonconsolidated) January 17, 1900 104.9 billion yen President & Representative Director Shingo Kaneko Business Fields Information & Networks Providing solutions to increase the value of information and effectively deliver information for customers who require smooth communication Securities and Cards Commercial Printing Publications Printing Living Environment Providing customers around the world with products and services optimal for creating fulfilling lifestyles in fields such as medicine, food, and housing Packaging Functional Product and Energy Interior Décor Materials Related Electronics Personal Service Next-generation Products Ball SAW sensors Fuel cell Display Related Semiconductor Related Shufoo!—an online mall for digital components flyers (in Japanese) Working with leading-edge technologies to provide electronic components Providing consumers with Toppan’s Providing high-performance industrial with strong potential to be adopted as de facto standards original brand of innovative informamaterials with links to the next gention services and devices to enrich eration by developing fields of busithe links between people and ness with growth potential goods * To create new businesses by responding promptly and flexibly to today’s changing markets, Toppan established a new Material Solutions Division by integrating the Electronics Division and Functional Product Division on April 1, 2013. 4 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 Net Sales Operating Income or Loss Net Income or Loss (billion yen) Q Consolidated Q Nonconsolidated (billion yen) Q Consolidated Q Nonconsolidated (billion yen) Q Consolidated Q Nonconsolidated 2,000 60 32 1,617.3 45 45.0 24 1,500 1,506.7 1,556.4 1,510.4 1,502.3 38.2 18.5 30 29.1 31.5 32.0 16 15.1 1,000 967.6 11.7 12.4 12.1 885.9 895.5 849.2 819.9 15 15.3 8 5.8 7.8 6.6 3.0 500 4.4 0 0 0.5 0 –15 –7.1 –8 –7.7 –3.2 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (fiscal year) (fiscal year) (fiscal year) Number of Employees Number of Employees by Business Field (consolidated) Q Consolidated Q Nonconsolidated 50,000 Electronics Company-wide 47,522 47,650 48,197 47,872 48,878 7,497 positions 991 40,000 30,000 20,000 11,548 10,000 8,769 8,633 8,508 8,587 0 Living Environment Information & Networks 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 10,861 29,529 (fiscal year) Net Sales by Business Field Capital Expenditure Total Assets & Return on Assets (ROA) (billion yen) (billion yen) (billion yen) (%) Electronics 100 2,000 3.0 235.1 (16%) 92.0 1,681.7 1,665.6 1,694.3 1,633.0 80 76.8 1,586.8 1,000 2.0 68.0 65.0 66.8 60 1.2 1,000 1.0 0.7 0.7 40 0.2 500 0 20 0 -0.4 Living Environment Information & Networks 0 –1.0 384.0 (25%) 883.1 (59%) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (fiscal year) (fiscal year) Net Sales by Region R&D Expenses Net Assets & Return on Equity (ROE) (billion yen) (billion yen) (billion yen) (%) Asia, excluding Other regions 35 1,000 8.0 Japan 49.7 (3%) 888.4 867.7 874.0 864.0 866.2 179.3 (12%) 28 28.7 800 6.0 24.4 23.4 21 21.4 20.6 600 4.0 2.5 14 400 1.6 1.6 2.0 –1.0 0.4 7 200 0 0 0 –2.0 Japan 1,273.1 (85%) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (fiscal year) (fiscal year) Notes: 1. Net sales do not include consumption taxes. 2. The number of employees is the number of employees working at the Group. The number of non-regular employees for fiscal 2012 stood at 7,890 on a consolidated basis (the average number of employees throughout the fiscal year, including part-time workers but excluding temporary staff). TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 5 Special Report Designing the “Smart Community,” an Environmentally 1 Friendly City for Comfortable Lifestyles A smart community is a town where people can efficiently use energy and enjoy higher standards of comfort in daily life. Toppan has been developing information-intensive foundations for the creation of smart communities in fields where it has specialized know-how. The Smart Community: see nothing more than statistics on household power conAn Environmentally Friendly City Designed sumption on device displays. Graphical displays of motion for Comfortable Living sensor information on energy use and how energy is wasted room by room (figure 1) are convincing enough to change A smart community is a social system designed to accompeople’s behavior. Toppan researchers also developed a recmodate the total lifestyles of the people living in a community. ommendation-delivery system to encourage people to go out The people in the smart community live comfortably while using shopping or pursue other out-of-home activities during peak energy in more efficient ways to optimize the supply-demand power-consumption hours in summer. If presented with wellbalance. The scope of the smart community vision is no longer timed messages about special limited-time sales at shops, confined to energy-related areas. The vision encompasses the people can be persuaded to turn off their household electriccreation of towns designed for comfortable lifestyles with a focus ity and leave their homes. The system saves energy at homes on areas such as health, transportation, community exchange, and vitalizes regional economy by augmenting sales at retailand the harmonious coexistence of humans with nature. ers. Toppan’s new information delivery system demonstrates how ­Toppan can spur energyand Toppan’s Creative Contributions to the power-saving actions through accesSmart Community sible, easy-to-understand communi—People embrace new lifestyles if the lifestyles are fun— cation. Toppan expects to see this system integrated into a coming When people are asked to sacrifice lifestyle conveniences in generation refrigerators and other the name of energy and power efficiency, their satisfaction smart home appliances designed to tends to decline. Yet people will readily change their behavior enable people to save energy withif new living becomes spontaneous, comfortable, and fun. out sacrificing comfort (figure 2). Toppan focuses closely on the information to be circulated Figure 1: W  astefulness in a smart community from the perspectives of its people. visualized Information packaged and delivered in meaningful and useful (in Japanese) forms for people can facilitate the adoption of new behaviors spontaneously. Toppan will help materialize a smart community using its printing technologies, especially its technologies for processing, managing, and delivering information in three fields: 1) communication, 2) business process outsourcing (BPO), and 3) security. Figure 2: S  mart home elecReducing household power conCommunication trical appliances sumption by attracting people into shops during peak powerToppan will be using its communication know-how to clearly consumption hours express and deliver information tailored to the diversified lifeUnderstanding power consumption in detail styles of individuals. Toppan knows, for example, that people and using electricity are unlikely to adopt energyand power-saving habits if they smartly Shopping centers and streets Residences, offices, and plants Reducing household power conCommunities sumption by bringing people together outside of their homes Image of the Smart Community 6 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 Business Process Outsourcing Toppan will offer full-fledged support for the management and administration of smart communities using its know-how in advertising campaigns and other services that Toppan manages for client companies. Toppan will provide support for the introduction of solar panels, storage batteries, home energy management systems (HEMS), and similar energy-related devices on client premises, from procurement to installation. The Company will also support client companies with various Figure 3: S hufoo! screenshot (online Figure 4: E co-coupon mall for digital flyers; in (in Japanese) local information services related to shopping, healthcare, and Japanese) the like. Toppan has brought about a change in public behavior Security using a communication tool designed based on consumer The smart community requires a high-level security environbehavior analysis techniques developed by Toppan through ment to protect the personal information of community memthe operation of the digital flyer portal site, Shufoo! (figure 3). bers. Toppan will be using its know-how in the development The Company issued eco-coupons redeemable only during and handling of smart cards for the financial industry to ensure peak power-consumption hours in summer (figure 4) as a trial the protection of personal information and data on household service to draw people out of their homes to commercial areas. energy consumption in the smart community. People, the environment, and the regional economy all benefited from this experiment. The project experiments verified Practical Test in Kitakyushu City that direct communication matched to personal attributes, preferences, and lifestyles can motivate people to turn off their Toppan took part in the Kitakyushu Smart Community Creation household electricity and leave their homes. Project in Fukuoka Prefecture in fiscal 2012. The experiment Toppan will continue participating in Kitakyushu City’s is being conducted in Higashida, Yahatahigashi Ward, a region experiment and various other test projects to ­provide safe, where locally consumed electric power is generated using a secure, and pleasant lifestyles for the community and its solar, wind, hydrogen, and other renewable energies in com­residents. Communication, BPO, and security are all indispenbination with a natural-gas cogeneration system. Power sable for the creation of a smart community. Toppan will play demand and supply in Higashida is tracked and controlled at an active role in realizing smart communities in the years to a regional power-saving station installed at the relay point of come. an IT network linking power-generating facilities with residences, offices, and plants. A Flag-bearer for the Smart Community Creation Project Mr. Taihei Shibata Director, Office for Environmental *Photo of the regional power-saving station Future City Promotion, Environment Bureau, in Kitakyushu City, Fukuoka Prefecture City of Kitakyushu The Kitakyushu Smart Community Creation Project aims to convert residents and businesses from one-way energy consumers to productive consumers through proactive energy-saving actions and the installation of solar and other renewable power generation devices. The project facilitates the participation of both residents and businesses. Smart energy initiatives such as the consolidation and visualization of local energyTracking and controlling power demand related information and the “dynamic pricing” of electricity power rates and supply via an IT network linking powbased on demand-and-supply profiles activate proactive thinking and Control er-generating facilities with residences, the participation of residents, companies, and organizations. We are center offices, and plants building a mechanism by which actions beneficial to residents and businesses bring benefits to the local energy system at the same time. This mechanism will be built into the whole social system and structure in our target communities. The more the mechanism revitalizes the regional economy, the more independent and long-lasting it will be. I hope Toppan becomes a flag-bearer for the smart community by building workable models. Generating electricity using renewable power, such as solar and wind power Transportation facilities Natural Increasing the use of eco-vehienergy cles, such as fuel-cell vehicles powered by hydrogen energy TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 7 Special Report A Mechanically Recycled PET Packaging 2 Material for a Recycling-oriented Society Toppan has developed Japan’s first environmentally friendly laminated packaging material made from recycled polyethylene terephthalate (PET) film. This new PET film matches the performance of petroleum-based films in terms of both safety and cost. Toppan will help build up a recycling-oriented society by facilitating the use of this new packaging material. Sustainable Resource Utilization Required ins that have limited usage and cannot be easily made into for Packaging Materials films. Society needs to use resources sustainably in order to mitigate A Laminated Packaging Material Made global warming and to cure its excessive reliance on exhaustfrom Mechanically Recycled PET Film ible resources such as petroleum. Packaging and container designers have long been Mechanical recycling is a method to obtain a high-quality exploring ways to reduce or lighten packaging materials and reproduced resin by eliminating impurities from a materially develop containers that are refillable or easier to recycle. recycled resin through processes such as heat treatment and More packaging and containers nowadays are produced from decompression. Mechanical recycling is more cost-competitive recycled materials or renewable biomass resources. than chemical recycling and produces a superior recycled resin by eliminating impurities. This method is already being applied PET Bottle Recycling and Related to produce recycled PET bottles and labels. The mechanical Challenges recycling method used to be a suboptimal choice for manufacturing thin PET films for lamination with films made from PET bottle collection and recycling have long been promoted, other materials. It was once impossible, for example, to use but chemical recycling (chemical decomposition of collected recycled PET films for laminated packaging materials such PET bottles into a plastic resin) is expensive and material recyas pouches. cling (the crushing and cleaning of PET bottles) produces a Toppan worked together with Toyobo Co., Ltd. to overcome recycled resin interfused with impurities. Chemical recycling this constraint. Through joint development, the two companies produces costly resins, while material recycling produces resUsing laminated packaging mateCustomers rials for toiletry, food, medical, and (client other products companies) Toppan Manufacturing mechanically recycled PET film Manufacturing laminated packfrom recycled resins aging materials using mechanically recycled PET films Toyobo Beverage manufacturers PET bottle manufacturers Sugarcane PET resin manufacturers Petroleum Kyoei Manufacturing recycled Industry resins from collected (recycling PET bottles company) Circulation of Mechanically Recycled PET Film 8 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 have produced a mechanically recycled PET film for a laminated packaging material. The recycled PET film is made from a high ratio of recycled resin, up to 80%. CO2 emissions in the film production stages up to final manufacturing are reduced by about 24% compared with conventional petroleum-based PET films. Early in May 2012, Toppan started to sell this laminated packaging material mainly for refill standing pouches for toiletry products and packaging materials for food and medical products. Toppan’s processing technologies ensure that the impact strength, tensile strength, laminating strength, and other physical properties of this laminated packaging material match the properties of conventional petroleum-based PET films. Contributing to the Establishment of a PET Laminated packaging materials made from the mechanically recycled pet film Resource Circulation System Used PET bottles have been collected for many years at storeproduction of PET bottles by container and beverage manufronts and via the channels prescribed under the Containers facturers. and Packaging Recycling Law of Japan. More recently, a coaThe recycling ratio of bottle-to-bottle recycling still falls short lition of private companies has been forming a new resource of 100%. For recycled PET resins inconvertible to new botcirculation route for used PET bottles covering the stages from tles, Toppan has been taking part in a project to establish a collection to recycling. bottle-to-packaging recycling process in which these resins Under this recent scheme, reward points and other incenare used for the laminated packaging material. Through this tives can motivate consumers to bring in well-rinsed PET approach and several other systems like it, Toppan is helping ­bottles to dedicated PET bottle collection boxes installed at to build up a recycling-oriented society by efficiently reusing supermarkets and convenience stores, through collaboration plentiful resources across Japan. between recycling companies and retailers. In a cycle called “bottle-to-bottle recycling,” recycling companies convert the collected PET bottles back into recycled resins usable for the Toiletry, food,  ottle-to-packaging recycling promoted by B medical, and Toppan other products Effective Resource Extraction Bottle-to-bottle recycling from the “Urban Oilfield” with Partners along the Value Chain Mr. Eiichi Furusawa Representative Director Kyoei Industry Co., Ltd. Distributors Kyoei Industry thinks of discarded PET bottles and other waste plastics in Japan as a valuable resource, an “urban oilfield” of sorts. The Urban Oilfield Development Project is our effort to make maximum use of this resource with various recycling technologies. For resource extraction we have developed Japan’s first mechanical recycling technology that enables bottle-tobottle recycling from used PET bottles. The bottle-to-bottle recycling method was first introduced by Suntory Beverage & Food Limited, a major producer of bottled beverages. Other major beverage manuConsumers facturers in Japan have also adopted bottle-to-bottle recycling in recent years. We are certain that Toppan’s bottle-to-packaging recycling system, a complement to bottle-to-bottle recycling, will enhance the effective Heat recovery use of plastic resources in the urban oilfield. We are now working with Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. and other entities to establish collection Recovering and routes from PET bottle collection boxes (automatic collection units) inusing heat energy stalled at retailer storefronts. This is a social infrastructure that can help generated from Collection supply sufficient materials to bottle-to-packaging recycling systems. incineration boxes Collecting used PET bottles TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 9 Results in Fiscal 2012 and Future Measures Seven Core Subjects Action Points and Targets for Fiscal 2012 Main Measures in Fiscal 2012 • Promote an understanding of ISO 26000 throughout Toppan and implement Developing CSR management based on ISO 26000 CSR management at Group companies in Japan •Implement BCM at all divisions and main Group companies in Japan (by Organizational formulating an action procedure manual and organizing training) Formulating business continuity plans (BCPs) across the Group governance and facilitating business continuity management (BCM) on an •Prepare to acquire certification under the “ISO 22301:2012, Societal security— ongoing basis Business continuity management systems (BCMS)” standard and establish Toppan’s own training, evaluation, and audit methods •Organize various educational training sessions to nurture businesspeople guided Raising awareness of respect for basic human rights by the concept of respect for people • Facilitate the hiring of human assets with latent faculties and aspirations suitable Providing an open environment and information for recruitment for a global business environment Proactively appointing female employees to higher positions • Leverage female talent through positive action Human rights • Continue using the Challenging Job System (for the self-determination of career Working for equal opportunity in individual career development paths) in order to appoint at least 20% of employee applicants to the departand helping employees pursue their own career paths ments or divisions where they would like to work •Use the Senior Reemployment System as a tool for leveraging the knowledge, Supporting second careers for retired employees experience, and expertise of veteran employees •Diligently facilitate the hiring of persons with disabilities in cooperation with local Promoting the employment of persons with disabilities public job-placement offices in Japan •Rearrange working conditions and personnel systems to enhance the Company’s Operating personnel treatment systems properly capacity to respond to environmental changes in business; introduce and examine new systems and schemes •Make use of various working systems, including the multi-shift working system Supporting work-life balance 1) ➞ Shortening total working hours •Facilitate close supervision of working hours by adopting a new employment management system Supporting work-life balance 2) • Continue convening labor-management committees for the creation of a working ➞C  reating a working environment where employees can strike a environment amenable to enhanced job satisfaction balance between working and raising children • Continue informing employees of various childcare-leave-related systems • Increase opportunities for opinion exchanges between labor and management, including various council meetings and tripartite conferences Creating a better working environment through partnerships • Modify clauses on liability in the Company’s collective labor agreement and between labor and management conclude individual collective labor agreements at manufacturing subsidiaries, etc. • Continue holding and gingering up recreational events jointly organized by labor and management •Continue operating touring Anzen Dojo facilities at operational sites across Japan Ensuring occupational safety and health and begin operating the dojo at manufacturing subsidiaries Labour practices •Open the Safety and Monotsukuri Library •Install Company-wide task force functions in Tokyo and the Kansai region in Japan •F ormulate a structure to implement initial actions at each operational site; prepare a Reinforcing countermeasures against fires and disasters management system at each division (comprehensive disaster-preparedness drills, installation of emergency communication hardware, full-scale operation of a safety confirmation system, stockpiling of supplies for use during earthquake disasters) •Reduce the number of employees with health risks associated with metabolic Promoting healthcare and health enhancement syndrome through preventive measures against lifestyle-related diseases • Give employees opportunities to take part in Art Salon or consult with counselors Arranging measures for mental healthcare over a wider geographic area in Japan Fostering self-reliant employees based on “conduct of high •Enhance employee skills in communication and networking and introduce value,” a key concept in human asset development at Toppan practical programs to address business challenges The environment See page 34 •Expand the roles of Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders and reinforce Heightening awareness of laws, regulations, and the Conduct measures to prevent improper conduct Guidelines •Implement the Conduct Guidelines in overseas Group companies Fair operating practices •C  ontinue organizing training on compliance with the Subcontract Law of Japan for Complying with transaction-related laws employees in production control departments of Toppan and Group companies and continue interviews to check how subcontract transactions are being handled •Review the CSR Procurement Guidelines with an eye to ISO 26000 Promoting CSR initiatives in the supply chain •Establish operational rules accommodating global procurement •Continue product safety management activities in the food packaging and filling/ packing businesses Ensuring consumer safety through the strict prevention of •Execute priority measures, including steps to prevent the admixture of different quality-related accidents products and foreign substances in any type of packaging manufactured •Continue managing chemical substances in products based on Green Procurement Standards at each division Consumer issues •Establish and operate a promotion structure to disseminate the carbon footprint of products (CFP) scheme throughout the divisions in Japan Applying environmental impact assessment •Revise the CFP verification method from a product-by-product certification to a system certification • Instruct 48 areas designated for the handling of personal information on conformance with the new criteria for the installation of the tightly secured areas Establishing an information security management structure and re-qualify them based on the new criteria towards the complete elimination of information-related accidents • Facilitate cooperation among Group companies to take countermeasures against IT risks (antivirus measures, related education) •Continue carrying out medium-term recovery assistance measures for the areas Community involvement Arranging social contribution programs to help solve social issues stricken by the Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011 (continuous activities of the and development Book Wagon mobile libraries) •Sponsor the sixth series of Toppan Charity Concerts 10 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 Results in Fiscal 2012 Self Evaluation Action Points, Targets, and Main Measures for Fiscal 2013 • Deepened the understanding of ISO 26000 via e-learning-based, Company• Implement e-learning-based, Company-wide basic education on CSR manageA wide basic education for Toppan and Group company employees ment at more Group companies •Formulated a basic plan and action procedure manual, implemented and operat• Implement BCM at the regional divisions, Group companies, etc. that have yet to ed BCM, organized simulation training, conducted other related activities at the formulate BCPs (by formulating a basic plan and action procedure manual, main sites of the divisions and main Group companies A organizing simulated training, and conducting related activities) •Acquired the Business Continuity Advancement Organization (BCAO) Business • Organize BCPand BCM-related education and develop human assets to Continuity Specialist Grade I and II certifications engage in BCPs and BCM •Organized education on conduct practices guided by the respect-for-people concept through rank-based training, Company-wide basic education on CSR, • Continue organizing various educational training sessions to nurture businessA training for Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders, and so on people guided by the concept of respect for people •H  eld company orientation sessions to brief recruits on Toppan’s policy of hiring human • Promote the diligent hiring of human assets with latent faculties and aspirations assets with latent faculties and aspirations suitable for a global business environment A suitable for a global business environment •Attained a 5.1% ratio of females among managerial and supervisory staff (as of • Appoint more female employees to higher positions and leverage female talent; April 1, 2013) A create working environments where employees can strike a balance between working and raising children • Use the Challenging Job System as a tool to deploy human assets based on • Appointed 227 employee applicants (17.7% of all applicants) to the departments individual capabilities and aspirations and to appoint at least 20% of employee or divisions where they wished to work (as of April 2013) B applicants to the departments or divisions where they would like to work • Arrange rotations and training to provide employees opportunities to develop their capabilities • Introduced a new Senior Reemployment System on April 1, 2013 in line with the • Use the new Senior Reemployment System as a tool for leveraging the amendment to the Law concerning Stabilization of Employment of Older Persons of Japan A knowledge, experience, and expertise of veteran employees •Attained a 2.13% ratio of employees with disabilities in the total workforce (as of June 1, 2013) • Develop new job positions for employees with disabilities; strengthen support A •Appointed employees with disabilities to sections that had not previously hired systems to hire more persons with disabilities employees with disabilities •Introduced a new Second Career Support System, an early retirement support •R  earrange working conditions and personnel systems to enhance the Company’s system, and handled processes from informing eligible people about the system A capacity to respond to environmental changes in business; introduce new systems to retirement procedures and schemes and examine support plans for individual career development •Launched the operation of a new employment management system at the • Create new ways of working based on job specifications, work styles, and the like Company in August 2012 and introduced the system to Group manufacturing by adopting a new personnel treatment system in sales and planning departments subsidiaries in January 2013 A • Hold opinion-exchange discussions on ways to encourage employees to take •Reduced the average hours of overtime worked per month by 0.9 hours leave, including the creation of more accommodating workplace climates compared with the fiscal 2011 level •Removed the limit to the number of half-days employee can take as leave (previously limited to 20 half-days per year) • Consider the introduction of a teleworking system for employees who want to A come to the office but are prevented from doing so by childcare obligations •H  eld the Hagukumi (bringing up) Art Salon for employees on childcare leave and their children • Increase opportunities for opinion exchanges between labor and management, • Held negotiations and conferences between labor union and management on 45 including division tripartite conferences, business councils at individual divisions, separate occasions to exchange opinions and provide information and labor-management committees for the creation of a working environment A amenable to enhanced job satisfaction • Held a large-scale sports festival jointly organized by labor and management (attended by about 3,500 participants, including employees and their families) • Continue holding and gingering up recreational events jointly organized by labor and management • Achieved 98% participation (more than 10,000 employees) in the Japan-wide • Introduce risk assessment on a full scale in a bid to make machines and equipment Anzen Dojo facility tour (since the tour launch in October of 2011); failed, however, intrinsically safer to reduce occupational accidents B • Switch to less hazardous cleansing agents at the workplaces that use organic •O  pened the Safety and Monotsukuri Library with a collection of more than 1,200 documents solvents for offset printing and like processes • Installed a Company-wide task force at the head office in Tokyo; held a startup •Install Company-wide task force functions in the Kansai region in Japan drill using satellite-based mobile phones, communication radios, and other emergency communication hardware •Share information about stockpiled emergency supplies and management ledgers A for the supplies at individual operational sites • Held a trial run for the safety confirmation system at all divisions in Japan •Continue organizing initial action drills; perform checks • Maintained emergency supplies in storage and carried out walk-home drills • Attained a regular medical check-up ratio of 54.8% for the dependents of employees (surpassing the targeted ratio of 50%) • Offer systematic healthcare guidance for employees with health risks associated A with metabolic syndrome (healthcare guidance on the preemption of lifestyle-related • Offered scheduled healthcare guidance for employees with health risks diseases, lifestyle improvement programs) associated with metabolic syndrome •O  perated Art Salon at 16 regional sites across Japan (5 more sites than in fiscal 2011) • Engaged three counselors, including one with official qualification in industrial •Continue conducting mental health training and providing employees with A opportunities to consult with counselors counseling, to give employees the opportunity to consult with counselors over a wider geographic area in Japan • Introduced and enriched new and existing programs to strengthen the foundations for employee capabilities and programs to nurture next-generation leaders • Upgrade practical programs to address business challenges and programs to • Strengthened the development of human assets with the skills and aspirations A nurture leaders; strengthen the fosterage of human assets with the skills and necessary to work in a global business environment by newly dispatching aspirations necessary to work in a global business environment employees to business schools overseas and arranging other programs •Held 73 training sessions for 1,235 Leaders from Toppan and Group companies •Reinforce measures to prevent improper conduct by enhancing the activities of • Delivered 37 lectures for 1,722 managerial staff on the prevention of improper conduct Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders A • Carried out an e-learning-based program to train 22,389 employees on the •Implement the Conduct Guidelines in overseas Group companies prevention of improper conduct • Held 23 training sessions for 584 employees in sales offices and interviewed •Ensure proper subcontract transactions and build proper relationships with employees at 12 operational sites across Japan A business partners • Reviewed the current CSR Procurement Guidelines, organized the requirements •Establish new CSR Procurement Guidelines with CSR procurement criteria based for compliance, and drew up an outline of operational procedures for newly B on internationally accepted auditing standards and notify business partners about established guidelines the new guidelines • Conducted audits for the food filling/packing business and primary food packaging production at a cumulative total of 26 sites inside and outside the Company •Support activities to visualize and quantify risks in business process outsourcing • Acquired the Food Safety System Certification (FSSC) 22000 for food packaging (BPO) operations production plants at all plants in the Living Environment Division and six plants in •Upgrade the quality assurance system for businesses related to packaging for Group manufacturing subsidiaries A food, medical, and pharmaceutical products • Revised Green Procurement Standards at each division to meet the requirements •Continue disseminating information on Ver. 3.1 of the Toppan Group’s Standards under Ver. 3.1 of the Toppan Group’s Standards for the Management of Chemical for the Management of Chemical Components of Raw Materials Components of Raw Materials • Operate the internal CFP system (monthly progress meetings, management • Built up an internal CFP system at four Tokyo-based plants in the Information and reviews, regular audits) Communication Division A • Nurture human assets to engage in CFP operations such as CFP quantification and • Acquired CFP system certification verification • Completed qualification examinations for 63 areas, including several newly •Instruct 63 tightly secured areas designated for the handling of personal information qualified areas on conformance with the revised criteria • Unified countermeasures against IT risks between Toppan and Group companies; A •Organize education for all types of employee on the proper handling of personal organized 318 training sessions (for employees in Japan, including Group information and carry out internal audits for all departments in Japan company employees) •Carried out the second-stage of activities from June to December 2012: 14,869 people visited Book Wagon, 8,620 people borrowed books, and 25,874 volumes • Sponsor the seventh series of Toppan Charity Concerts were borrowed (totals of the first and second stages combined) A • Consider social contribution programs in which Toppan employees take part •Sponsored the concerts for two days as scheduled and donated 2.15 million yen to the Asia-Pacific Cultural Centre for UNESCO Evaluation criteria: S, Results achieved far surpass the targets; A, Targets achieved; B, Activities fully carried out, but targets unachieved; C, Activities insufficient TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 11 Toppan’s CSR Activities Toppan’s Ideal “Corporate Structure” C  orporate Philosophy, Corporate Creed, and TOPPAN VISION 21 sets forth the basic concept and direction­Conduct Guidelines ality for the continual growth of the Toppan Group in harmony The Corporate Structure is made up of three elements: Toppan’s with society and the global environment. Corporate Philosophy, the Corporate Creed, and the Conduct The vision consists of a “Corporate Structure” and a set Guidelines. These elements specify a complete set of values, of “Business Fields.” The Corporate Structure specifies ideals standards, and guidelines for the operations of the Toppan and important values and concepts for the Group. Group. Toppan believes that endeavors to realize the Corporate Toppan established the Corporate Philosophy, the top Structure will support the sustainable development of the concept underpinning all of Toppan’s corporate activities, to Group and society as a whole. promote Toppan’s continual development as a socially valuable corporation. The Corporate Creed expresses the standards to be kept foremost in mind when performing business operations. Built on the Corporate Philosophy and Corporate Creed, the Conduct Guidelines set out the basic concepts and behavioral norms for Toppan employees both as businesspeople and as members of society. Toppan’s Ideal “Corporate Structure” Corporate Philosophy Corporate Creed Conduct Guidelines Each of us shall To build our customers’ trust though Chapter 1: Basic Principles sincerity, enthusiasm, and creativity in 1. Respecting basic human rights reciprocate our customers’ all our corporate endeavors. 2. Having high ethical standards continued trust, and acting as a responsible member of society create dedicated products by To strive for total innovation from 3. Complying with laws and harnessing our vibrant knowledge a global perspective by conducting company rules and conducting marketing and technological fair business operations and technology, development rich in originality. 4. Avoiding all links with antisocial and contribute to a fulfilling lifestyle as groups 5. Striving to improve quality a mainstay of information and culture. To conduct fair and open business and providing creations operations while acknowledging our that contribute to customer satisfaction social responsibilities and aspiring for 6. Recognizing the importance of Established in June 2000 harmony with our global environment. information related to business and managing it appropriately To create a positive working 7. Proactively undertaking conservation of the global environment by maximizing our environment individual talents and strengths 8. Embracing change and taking as a team. on new challenges 9. Building trust from society TOPPAN VISION 21 through social contribution To enhance our corporate activities and appropriate http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/corporateinfo/ vision/corp_image/rinen.html standing and promote the continual disclosure of information development of the Toppan Group 10. Bringing together individual through the exploration of new strengths to fully exploit the integrated strength of the group possibilities. Established in June 2000; revised in November 2010 See page 27 for Chapter 2: Specific Conduct Established in June 2000 Guidelines. 12 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 CSR Activities Dialogues with Stakeholders Corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities are prominent Toppan has recognized categories of stakeholders who are among Toppan’s many endeavors to realize the ideal Corporate either vital for its business operations or potentially impacted Structure the Group envisions. As measures seeking to incorby them: customers (client companies, consumers), busiporate social demands into business operations, CSR activities ness partners, communities, shareholders/investors, and are vital for Toppan’s growth as a corporation in harmony with employees. society and the global environment. To shape CSR activities satisfactory to all stakeholders, In designing concrete activities, Toppan closely refers to the Toppan attaches great importance to stakeholder dialogues ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility, an international and reflects stakeholder opinions in its activities. standard formulated through the consensus of diverse stakeAlong with the regular dialogues with its stakeholders in the holders around the world. Various types of organizations and course of daily business, Toppan has been holding meetings entities have engaged in the standard-making process. This with representatives from each stakeholder category and with standard therefore typifies demands from society at present. experts and organizations deeply knowledgeable on social ISO 26000 provides guidance on the principles of social issues since fiscal 2004. From fiscal 2011, Toppan has been responsibility—what it means and how it applies to organizataking part in the ISO 26000 Working Group organized by tions. Any type of organization of any size can use it. Unlike Global Compact Network Japan and carrying on dialogues other standards on quality or environmental management, this with experts and NGOs on topics to do with the environment, guidance standard focuses on stakeholder opinions: no certihuman rights, community involvement, fair operating practices, fication is granted by third-party organizations. and labour practices. Toppan will promote CSR activities with this guidance in mind and disclose the results via this CSR report in line with the seven core subjects of social responsibility defined under ISO 26000. Toppan’s Stakeholders and Seven Core Subjects Customers (client companies, Employees consumers) TOPPAN Labour practices Corporate Human rights Structure Community The environment involvement and development Organizational governance Fair operating Consumer issues practices Business partners Shareholders and investors Stakeholders Communities Seven core subjects Dialogues TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 13 Initiatives at Toppan and the Seven Core Subjects under ISO 26000 ISO 26000 Seven Core Subjects Issues For Details Subjects Organizational Organizational governance I Corporate Governance P. 15− I CSR Initiatives governance I Risk Management Structure I Business Continuity Management Human rights Issue 1: Due diligence I Respecting Basic Human Rights P. 18− Issue 2: Human rights risk situations I Collective Labor Agreement Issue 3: Avoidance of complicity I Working for Equal Opportunity and Issue 4: Resolving grievances ­Eliminating Discrimination Issue 5: Discrimination and vulnerable groups Issue 6: Civil and political rights Issue 7: Economic, social and cultural rights Issue 8: Fundamental principles and rights at work Labour practices Issue 1: Employment and employment relationships I Basic Concept of Human Assets P. 20− Issue 2: Conditions of work and social protection I Labor-Management Partnership Issue 3: Social dialogue I Supporting Work-Life Balance Issue 4: Health and safety at work I Occupational Safety and Health Issue 5: Human development and training in the I Measures for Mental Healthcare workplace I Developing and Fostering Human Assets The environment Issue 1: Prevention of pollution I Toppan’s Environmental Activities P. 34− Issue 2: Sustainable resource use I Environmental Management Activities Issue 3: Climate change mitigation and adaptation I Toppan’s Environmental Burden and Issue 4: Protection of the environment, biodiversity Environmental Impact and restoration of natural habitats I Eco-protection Activities I Eco-creativity Activities I Environmental Communication Activities Fair operating Issue 1: Anti-corruption I Disseminating the Conduct Guidelines P. 24− Issue 2: Responsible political involvement I Toppan Group Helpline ­practices Issue 3: Fair competition I Implementing the Conduct Guidelines in Issue 4: P  romoting social responsibility in the value Overseas Group Companies chain I Compliance Education Issue 5: Respect for property rights I Promoting CSR Procurement Consumer issues Issue 1: F  air marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices I Assuring Product Safety and Quality P. 28− I Universal Design Initiatives Issue 2: Protecting consumers’ health and safety I Protecting Personal Information Issue 3: Sustainable consumption I Contributing to Sustainable Consumption Issue 4: Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution Issue 5: Consumer data protection and privacy Issue 6: Access to essential services Issue 7: Education and awareness Community Issue 1: Community involvement I Community Involvement and Development P. 32− Issue 2: Education and culture I Cooperating with International ­involvement and Communities to Address Social Issues Issue 3: Employment creation and skills development development Issue 4: Technology development and access Issue 5: Wealth and income creation Issue 6: Health Issue 7: Social investment 14 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 Organizational Governance  oppan has strengthened its governance structure through the establishment of a Management Audit Office, T Points Compliance Department, and Ecology Center under the purview of a Board of Corporate Auditors according to the Companies Act of Japan. Toppan develops governance aimed at maximizing the corporate value of the entire Group under the Related Company Administration Regulations. Corporate Governance C  orporate Auditors, Board of Corporate Auditors, Corporate governance provides the foundation for addressing and Audit Firm the seven core subjects. As of the end of March 2013, Toppan has five corporate audiToppan has strengthened its governance structure through tors, including three external auditors, of whom two are indethe establishment of a Management Audit Office, Compliance pendent officers. Along with their own board meetings, the Department, and Ecology Center under the purview of a Board corporate auditors attend meetings of the Board of Directors of Corporate Auditors according to the Companies Act of and Management Committee and important meetings on risk Japan. Toppan develops governance aimed at maximizing the management. They systematically carry out audits for operacorporate value of the entire Group under the Related Comtional sites and related companies in close cooperation with pany Administration Regulations prescribed for the advancethe audit firm and internal audit-related departments of the ment of fair management for the Group. Company. Through these tasks, they audit and advise the Company from a preventive perspective to ensure the legality T  he Directors, Board of Directors, and of the operations of the directors and departments and smooth Various Meetings and appropriate corporate management in line with company Toppan has 25 directors, including two outside directors, on policies and regulations. They also regularly convene a board its board (as of the end of March 2013). Board meetings are of corporate auditors of related companies to improve the held monthly and whenever a pressing matter requires action effectiveness of the audits by the corporate auditors across or deliberation. Especially important management themes the Group. are deliberated beforehand by the Management Committee, Toppan has had KPMG AZSA LLC verify the propriety of the a body made up of directors selected by the President & RepCompany’s accounts through audits to enhance the reliability resentative Director. The goal is to lay weight on managerial and transparency of the Company’s financial information. efficiency in business decision making. Organizational Governance Corporate Governance Structure Meeting of Shareholders Appointing or dismissing Appointing or dismissing Appointing or dismissing Board of Directors Auditing Auditing Supervising Selecting or dismissing Special Committee (for defending against takeover bids) Advising and counseling Crisis Management Committee President & Representative Director Management Committee Responds to Considers issues prior to board emergencies of directors’ meetings (Board of) Corporate Auditors Directors in charge Auditing Investigates and audits the legality and Auditing Observing Management Audit Office appropriateness of operational activities Business divisions and guiding Promotes, monitors, and verifies the strict Audit firm Group companies observance of business-related laws and Compliance Department regulations and the establishment of Reporting Independently check, evaluate, ethical business practices and make improvements under Corporate Auditors Office the direction of departments Coordinates, supervises, and verifies responsible for laws and Ecology Center Toppan’s environmental activities regulations Guiding Instructing National Conduct Guidelines Assisting Promotion Supervisors Other organizations for control Chief information Safety and Health Committee security manager National Eco-protection Committee TPM National Conference Working together TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 15 Strengthening Audit Functions Remuneration to Directors and Corporate Auditors The Management Audit Office is a body established indeIn fiscal 2012, the total annual remuneration to directors was pendently from the business divisions. Working from legal and 1,057 million yen and the total annual remuneration to corrational viewpoints, the office conducts fair and objective audits porate auditors was 108 million yen. Please refer to the secon the administrative and operational systems and practical tion on corporate governance, etc. in the securities report status of the Company’s management activities. The office (in Japanese) for details on the method used to determine provides feedback to the relevant departments on problems, remunerations and remuneration-related information. proposes measures for improvement, and reports the audit results to the President & Representative Director, directors CSR Initiatives in charge of relevant departments, and corporate auditors. In Promotion Mechanism fiscal 2012, the office carried out 25 management and operaUnder the President & Representative Director and the Direction audits. It also conducted maintenance and operational tor in charge of CSR, the divisions of the head office work in evaluations of internal controls over financial reporting for all collaboration with each other to promote CSR activities. business divisions and main subsidiaries. These directors and divisions devise action plans every year The Compliance Department in the Legal Affairs Division and carry out measures based on shared information on their spearheads the Company’s initiatives to ensure the strict progress and the issues they tackle. From fiscal 2013, Toppan observance of laws and regulations and to firmly establish will engage in more intensive dialogues with experts and stakeethical business practices. The department facilitates the holders outside the Company to form a clearer picture of the complete awareness of the Conduct Guidelines, organizes social issues Toppan should address and what society expects employee education on compliance with applicable laws, and from a company’s CSR initiatives in general. Toppan will conimplements internal audits on information security (➞PP. 24, tinuously upgrade its CSR activities with a perpetually evolving 30). The Ecology Center in the Manufacturing Management recognition of social issues and expectations. Organizational Governance Division supervises environmental activities, conducts internal audits at operational sites, and monitors the progress of improvements (➞P. 34). Risk to Be Managed and the Relevant Head Office Divisions in Charge Risk to Be Managed Accidents involving products or Accidents or complaints related to products (Manufacturing product liability Management Div.) Accidents related to main systems (ICT Div.) CSR Promotion Structure Occupational accidents, traffic accidents, or other accidents involving employees (Personnel & Labor Relations Div.) President & Representative Director Incidents related to notes or accounts receivable (Finance & Accounting Div.) Accidents or disasters related to Legal problems with orders received (Legal Affairs Div.) Director in charge of CSR company operations Leakage of personal information, internal confidential information, etc. (Legal Affairs Div.) Accidents or disasters related to fires or explosions (Manufacturing CSR promotion departments Management Div.) Administration Illegal activities related to the storage of solvents, management of dangerous chemicals, etc. (Manufacturing Management Div.) Legal Affairs Division Damage to the company’s internal computer system due to cyber terrorism, illegal access or use of company information, leakage of Defamation, slander, or other personal information, internal information, etc. (ICT Div.) Secretary Office criminal damages Acts of violence against the company (threats, kidnapping, robbery) (Personnel & Labor Relations Div.) Unreasonable demands from antisocial organizations, transactions Public Relations Division Relationships with antisocial conducted between business partners and antisocial organizations organizations (Legal Affairs Div.) Corporate Planning Material losses or personal accidents suffered by customers or the Division company due to earthquakes, wind or water damage, lightning, etc. Natural disasters (Personnel & Labor Relations Div.) Personnel & Labor Operational shutdowns due to large-scale earthquakes or other Relations Division unexpected events (Legal Affairs Div.) Risk in business management Shareholder derivative lawsuits, hostile takeovers (Legal Affairs Div.) Finance & Accounting Unlawful activities related to Violations of the Subcontract Law of Japan, illegal transactions with Division external contracts business partners (Manufacturing Management Div.) Infringement of intellectual Manufacturing Infringements of patents, trademarks, or copyrights (Legal Affairs Div.) property Management Division Violations of environmental laws or standards, illegal disposal of Environmental problems industrial waste (Manufacturing Management Div.) Business Development Product accidents, environmental problems, fires or natural disasters, & Research Division Risk in overseas business damage to human or physical resources caused by international activities conflicts or terrorism, etc. (Corporate Planning Div.) 16 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 Risk Management Structure Business Continuity Management Toppan manages risk comprehensively to avoid risk and miniAs a preparation for the contingency of operational shutdowns, mize the losses incurred when events at risk occur. Toppan began formulating business continuity plans (BCPs) in The Rules on Risk Management have been established to fiscal 2010 to enable the resumption of business operations as address matters regarding risk avoidance and the minimization rapidly as possible. In anticipation of large-scale earthquakes of loss when an event at risk occurs. In accordance with these as a risk to be managed, the Group formulated BCPs at the rules, the Company has set up a risk management structure main operational sites in the Tokyo metropolitan district. From under which the responsibilities for risk management are allotfiscal 2011, Toppan has been laying down BCPs throughout ted to specific divisions in the head office based on the types the whole Group, including regional sites and Group compaof risk involved. Under this structure, the directors in charge nies, to prepare for the contingency of large-scale earthquakes of each relevant division are responsible for taking measures throughout all of Japan. to prevent, avoid, and correct each type of risk. To give concrete form to BCPs, Toppan instituted compreToppan reviews risks to be managed once a year and examhensive activities for business continuity management (BCM) ines countermeasures to be taken in line with the rules. The in fiscal 2012. The Group, for example, continued supplier surCompany also holds a regular Risk Management Liaison Meetveys to assess suppliers’ business continuity capabilities and ing for the persons in charge of risk management in the head formulated purchasing strategies based on the survey results. office divisions in order to share information on a continuous To keep every employee informed of BCM, Toppan organized basis and respond to risk practically. Company-wide education programs via the e-learning system and other channels (with 22,294 participants), in-house seminars by outside professionals (with 133 participants), lectures at training sessions for new employees (with 236 participants), and other measures. Organizational Governance Through these ongoing BCM activities, Toppan seeks to Countermeasures against Disasters secure Group-wide competence for business continuity while coexisting with communities as a social benefactor. Toppan has carried out comprehensive disaster-preparedness measures throughout its operational sites under a basic plan for countermeasures against disasters. The foremost aims of the countermeasures against disasters at the Group are to ensure the safety of all Toppan employees and their families and to provide aid for affected people in general. A safety confirmation system composed of multiple communication channels such as email and mobile phone has been in place since 2011 as a tool to allow employees to immediately confirm their safety in the event of a wide-scale disaster. Every operational site has organized its own safety confirmation drills since the introduction of the system. All operational sites reserve stockpiles of food and other requisites for commuters who have no means to return to their homes. The Group has also been preparing proceEducation text for employees throughout the Large-scale earthquake simulation drill dures to minimize damage to business whole Company (in Japanese) (Fukuoka Plant) ­operations, preserve company assets, and provide assistance to customers and disaster-affected people and areas in cooperation with companies and residents in the community as a socially responsible corporation. In parallel with these disaster-preparedness measures, steps are also being taken to raise awareness of disaster-mitigation procedures among individual employees. Through the regular repetition of evacuation drills, walk-home drills, and other drills for disaster-preparedness, every employee will have the know-how to deal with emergency situations quickly and properly. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 17 Human Rights B  ased on the concept of respect for people, Toppan is committed to respecting basic human rights inside and Points outside the Company. Toppan has been participating in global policy initiatives such as the United Nations Global Compact and engaging in dialogues on human rights. In fiscal 2012, Toppan employed more persons with disabilities and improved its systems to support them. Respecting Basic Human Rights Collective Labor Agreements Toppan operates business under the foundational concept of The Toppan Printing Labour Union and the Company’s manrespect for people. The Conduct Guidelines, which set out agement have concluded a collective labor agreement in order behavioral norms for Toppan personnel, call for respecting to stabilize labor-management relations, maintain and improve basic human rights (respecting personal qualities and individuworking conditions, and secure the corporate concord. The ality; prohibiting discrimination and harassment; prohibiting agreement sets forth a fundamental policy between labor and child labor and forced labor; and so on [➞P. 27]). Based on The management, the rules governing union activities and laborToppan Group Declaration on the Global Environment and the management negotiations, and employment conditions such Basic Policy on Biodiversity, Toppan promotes environmental as wages and working hours. conservation initiatives to avoid negative impacts on the lives As a fundamental policy between labor and management, of people living near its operational sites (➞P. 34). Article 1 of the collective labor agreement, the General PrinThe Group has been carrying out education on human rights ciples, stipulates that the Company and union shall contribute in rank-based training for employees to prevent issues from to society through business operations and collectively work arising. To disseminate initiatives for respecting human rights for the benefit of the Company and long-term stability of the throughout the entire supply chain, Toppan sets forth an article employees’ livelihood. Labor and management both uphold on respecting basic human rights in the CSR Procurement these as common goals. Article 2 of the agreement specifies Guidelines of the Group and requires Group companies and that the Company shall respect the union’s rights to organize business partners to comply with this article. and collectively bargain and act. It clearly states that the union Toppan has set up dual hotlines through which employhas all the rights established by law. ees and business partners can promptly report inappropriate The Toppan Printing Labour Union is run by members from actions. 12 Toppan Group companies. In fiscal 2012, the union and the Company concluded a revised labor agreement to impose a Human Rights uniform set of liability-related clauses (rules governing union activities and labor-management negotiations) on all 12 Group companies. Initiatives for Respecting Basic Human Rights Participating in the United Nations Global Compact Toppan participates in the global policy initiative and respects basic human rights in a proactive manner with other business participants. Respect for people A universal concept highly valued by Toppan Establishing and disseminating Working for equal opportunity Organizing training the Conduct Guidelines and eliminating discrimination and education ( PP. 24, 27) Toppan specifies respect for basic human rights in the Conduct Toppan respects personal Toppan organizes training sessions Guidelines—its listing of behavioral qualities and individuality, and hires for new employees to educate them norms for employees—and disseminates and treats employees without about respect for basic human rights this principle across the Group. discrimination of any kind. in easy-to-understand lessons. Promoting CSR procurement Operating hotlines Contributing to society ( P. 26) ( PP. 24, 26) ( P. 32) Toppan cites respect for basic Toppan supports people’s livelihood human rights as a guiding principle in Toppan operates dual hotlines through educational cooperation in the CSR Procurement Guidelines and through which both employees and developing countries and the requires business partners to comply business partners can report donation and supply of money and with the guidelines. inappropriate actions. goods throughout the world. In fiscal 2012, Toppan took part in a series of human rights due diligence workshops undertaken by Caux Round Table Japan and worked to clarify significant human rights issues specific to different industries through dialogues with NGOs. http://www.crt-japan.jp/EN/ 18 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 Working for Equal Opportunity and Employment of Persons with Disabilities Eliminating Discrimination Toppan promotes the hiring of persons with disabilities in colPositive Action laboration with a special subsidiary, Tokyo Metropolitan GovToppan has promoted positive action focused on the hiring ernment (T.M.G.) Prepress Toppan Co., Ltd. In fiscal 2012 of diverse human assets with wide-ranging aptitudes and the Toppan launched a project team for hiring persons with creation of positive working environments in order to bring ­disabilities and encouraged departments to create new job out the full potential of individual employees, regardless of categories. Toppan also set up an in-house consultation servgender. The Company continues to appoint female employees ice to further improve the Company’s systems to support to managerial positions based on their skills and motivation. In employees with disabilities. These efforts allowed more departtotal, 197 female managerial and supervisory staff members ments in the Company to hire persons with disabilities. As of were deployed as of April 2013. June 1, 2013, the percentage of Toppan employees with disabilities rose to 2.13% out of the total Toppan workforce. Self-determination on the Career Path / Second Careers Toppan has established the Challenging Job System, a proProviding an Open Environment for Recruitment gram to encourage employees to consider their own work Toppan hires persons of both genders and of many nationaliexperience, official qualifications, and the departments and ties, ages, and levels of physical ability through three recruitdivisions to which they would like to be transferred. Employees ment channels: regular hiring of new graduates from universities think carefully about their own medium-to-long-term career and high schools, mid-career hiring of experienced personnel, development and the skill-enhancement plans necessary to and hiring of persons with disabilities. Toppan offers various move them on track. The system cultivates a problem-solving, employment opportunities through job-specific screenings in can-do mindset that kicks in when employees reach the new Japan and the recruitment of global personnel all over the positions to which they aspire. For retired employees in their world. Toppan also runs internship programs to boost student Human Rights second careers in company life, the system offers working awareness about the working world. About 130 students took options matched to their career aspirations and the knowlpart in six-day practical training sessions in fiscal 2012. edge, experience, and skills they have acquired through long years of service. Fifty of 69 employees who retired in fiscal 2012 were reemployed and now remain with the Company. Female Managerial and Supervisory Staff Number of Recruits Q Female supervisory staff Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Q Female managerial staff (as of April) 200 Sales, Male 51 60 80 197 Regular 176 recruitment of administration, etc. Female 23 24 39 161 new university 150 149 Male 83 105 70 graduates and post-graduates Technical Female 22 26 30 150 100 133 115 124 New graduates from high schools Male 3 0 4 and colleges of technology Female 13 11 14 50 Total number of regular recruits 195 226 237 37 43 47 (percent female) (29.7%) (27.0%) (35.0%) 34 0 Mid-career recruitment of Male 2 16 — 2010 2011 2012 2013 (year) experienced personnel Female 3 8 — Employment of Persons with Disabilities 2011 2012 2013 Employees 199 197 221 Percentage of total 1.97% 1.91% 2.13% workforce* *The percentage is calculated based on the total number of regular employees (as of June 1) as a denominator. The total number was presented in the Disabled Persons Employment Report in accordance with Article 8 of the Law for Employment Promotion, etc. of the Disabled of Japan. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 19 Labor Practices  oppan recognizes how deeply it depends on employees and encourages them to work vigorously and earnestly T Points with strong motivation. Toppan’s labor union and management engage in dialogues at business councils and various committees. T  oppan has been undertaking initiatives to shorten working hours as a means of achieving better work-life balance and maintaining employee health. Basic Concept of Human Assets Labor-Management Partnership Toppan values its employees as precious company assets, as As partners with shared ideals, Toppan’s labor union and “human assets,” and recognizes how deeply it depends on management have trust in each other and respect for each them. From this perspective, the Company supports the motiother’s positions. Together they work on various issues on an vated, vigorous, and earnest work of the Toppan workforce. equal footing and hold recreational activities for employees The Company keenly understands the importance of the motiand a host of other activities. In fiscal 2012 they organized vation to take on new challenges, the drive to work vigorously a large-scale sports festival attended by some 3,500 particiwith a healthy body and mind, and an earnest commitment pants (including Toppan employees and their families) on the to follow through on tasks to completion. When employees grounds of Toshimaen amusement park in Tokyo. Employees are vigorous, earnest, and have strong motivation, Toppan is from ­Toppan operational sites all around Japan competed convinced that they show their true abilities to the full. against each other in team events. Toppan strives to improve the abilities of every employee Business councils are convened as Company-wide and through the stages of hiring, appointment, training, and treatoperational site forums to discuss wide-ranging managerial ment and to bring these abilities together to strengthen the issues. Several special committees are also convened to deliborganization as a whole. To do so, Toppan places high priority erate pertinent issues of the day. Standing committees meet to on communication in a spirit of mutual trust, career progress discuss longstanding issues such as working hour reductions, in the directions in which employees envision, clearly defined wages, and safety and health. Individual committees meet when rewards and penalties, and the establishment of an open and necessary to discuss specially designated subjects such as the fair working environment. Through these efforts, Toppan will creation of a working environment amenable to enhanced job invigorate human resources and the organizations they form, satisfaction. In the committee convened to deliberate working and foster more talented individuals who can create new hour reductions in fiscal 2012, labor and management disengines of further growth for the Group as a whole. cussed ways to shorten extended overtime work and a new Labor Practices shift work system based on work sharing. The new shift work system was introduced in October 2012. Toppan has adopted a union shop system. In principle, all non-managerial employees belong to the labor union as members. Number of Personnel (as of March 31) Management Total Average Average Sum Total Part-time Temporary Directors Supervisors Class Employees Tenure Age Employees Workers Staff Male 26 1,686 1,800 7,512 14.4 40.7 Fiscal 2010 8,633 647 47 Female 0 33 114 1,121 8,7 32.2 Male 26 1,687 1,749 7,363 14.9 41.3 Fiscal 2011 8,508 730 68 Female 0 39 121 1,145 9.2 32.8 Male 25 1,769 1,790 7,417 15.0 41.8 Fiscal 2012 8,587 708 75 Female 0 41 133 1,170 9.6 33.3 Reasons for Leaving*1 Annual Paid Leave Used Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Personal reasons 116 (38) 131 (48) 180 (53)*2 Average paid 7.8 8.2 8.1 leave used (days) Retirement 89 ( 0) 80 ( 1) 69 ( 2) Average ratio* 3 40.7% 42.4% 41.9% Requested by the 0 ( 0) 0 ( 0) 0 ( 0) company *3 Average ratio = average paid leave used / average paid leave granted Other 60 ( 2) 84 ( 1) 83 ( 4) Employees Taking Maternity or Childcare Leave Total 265 (40) 295 (50) 332 (59) Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Turnover rate 3.0% 3.4% 3.7% Employees taking 72 58 68 *1 T he number of female employees who left the company is shown in maternity leave parentheses. Employees taking *2 Twenty-seven males and two females took advantage of Toppan’s sup94 (1) 114 (2) 114 (3) childcare leave*4 port system for employees pursuing second careers. *4 T  he number of male employees who took childcare leave is shown in parentheses. Average Annual Salary Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Total 6,680,897 yen 6,397,624 yen 6,414,340 yen 20 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 Supporting Work-Life Balance Efforts to Foster the Next Generation  fforts to Shorten Working Hours E Toppan has striven to create a working environment in which The special demands of the printing industry have made it a employees can achieve better work-life balance. It does so significant challenge for Toppan to reduce the excessive overby providing systems for childcare and nursing care leave, time hours worked by employees. Toppan has been instituting reduced working hours, higher family allowances for dependCompany-wide measures to eradicate extended overtime work ents, and employee benefits of other forms. Under the rehiring as a means of achieving better work-life balance and maintainsystem for employees who resign from the Company to deliver ing employee health. and bring up children, 24 resigning employees have registered Senior management, managers, and employees jointly for future rehiring as of April 2013. undertake initiatives to improve operating effectiveness by Toppan has also made institutional improvements for the reviewing the ways individuals work and the ways management childcare leave system. For parents, for example, the Company administrates; to equalize overtime hours by adjusting operahas extended the period of childcare leave up to the first March tions within the departments; and to introduce new working 31 after the employee’s child reaches the age of 12 months, systems such as flextime and irregular working schedules. a point in time beyond the requirements of the applicable law At the ongoing business councils and labor-management in Japan. This change eases difficulties parents face in Japan, committees, labor and management exchange opinions and where entry to daycare services is often impossible midway deliberate on measures to further shorten overtime workingthrough the year. Meanwhile, the eligibility period for reduced hours and to comply with the revised Labor Standards Act of working hours for employees with childcare responsibilities is Japan. They also analyze the actual overtime practices and set to continue up to the end of the child’s third year of elemenreview the use of the newly introduced working systems. tary school (again surpassing legal requirements in Japan), Toppan renewed its employment management system in even in households where the employee’s spouse has time to fiscal 2012 to enable departments to manage working hours devote to childcare. Annual paid leave has been reviewed to Labor Practices in a more timely and detailed fashion. enable employees to take leave for purposes such as childAs a result of these initiatives, the number of employees care, nursing care, or fosterage of the next generation. In April who worked long hours was reduced by 95% in fiscal 2012 2013, Toppan removed the limit to the number of half-days compared with fiscal 2007, the year before the measures employees can take as leave. were introduced. The average hours of overtime worked also decreased by more than 20%. Main Leave Systems / Measures to Support Work-Life Balance and Foster the Next Generation Stock Leave Employees can accumulate up to 50 days of annual paid leave (exercisable within two years from the date the days are granted). Employees are eligible to use their stock leave for medical treatment for themselves or their dependents, healthcare or nursing care for their families, recovery-work in the aftermath of unexpected disasters, and so on. Childcare Leave Both mothers and fathers are eligible for fulltime childcare leave consecutively up until the first March 31 after their child reaches the age of 12 months (sixteen male employees have taken childcare leave so far, on a cumulative basis). Employees on leave receive 10% of their regular salaries from the Company (until their child reaches the age of 18 months) and subsidies of 30,000 yen a month from the Toppan Group Fraternal Benefit Society. They can also work for shorter hours (maximum reduction of two hours per day) or select a flextime or irregular working schedule from the date of their return to the job until their child completes the third year of elementary school. The Company subsidizes certain childcare costs and provides childcare-related information through a consultation office. Rehiring of Employees Rehiring is guaranteed for an employee who resigns to deliver and raise a child, provided that the employee has worked for who Leave the Company Toppan for more than three consecutive years up to the date of resignation. A resigned employee who meets this condition to Raise Children will remain eligible for rehiring until May 1 of the year when the child enters elementary school. Nursing Care Leave Employees are entitled to take leave for nursing care. The maximum consecutive leave and maximum reduction in a working day are one year and two hours, respectively, for every family member requiring nursing care. The Toppan Group Fraternal Benefit Society pays a 30,000-yen subsidy per month as assistance during the leave. The Company subsidizes certain nursing care costs and provides nursing care-related information. Leave for Child Employees can take up to 10 days of leave a year, regardless of the number of children they are raising. These days can be Healthcare taken in half-day allotments when necessary. Volunteer Leave In principle, employees can take volunteer leave to engage in socially beneficial activities for a maximum of one year. Employees on volunteer leave receive an allowance. Staggered Work-hours An employee can adjust daily working hours upward or downward by up to one hour to avoid rush-hour commutes during pregnancy and by up to two hours for childcare (until his or her child completes the third year of elementary school). Dependent Family For employees with children, the Company pays a monthly allowance of 20,000 yen for each child. This allowance is discontinued Allowance on the first April 1 to arrive after the child’s 18th birthday. (No limit for the number of children is applied.) Partial Subsidization of The Toppan Group Fraternal Benefit Society subsidizes 50% of babysitter expenses (up to 5,000 yen per day) for up to 90 Babysitter Expenses days a year. Other Systems The Toppan Group Health Insurance Union offers a supplementary allowance in addition to a lump-sum allowance for childbearing and childrearing. It also provides one-year free subscriptions to the monthly childrearing magazine Baby and Mommy and runs a consultation office for employees with questions about the health of the body and mind. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 21 Occupational Safety and Health Measures for Mental Healthcare Toppan affirmed that safety should take top priority in busiLabor and management regard the maintenance of employee ness operations under its Basic Policy on Health and Safety health as a shared mission vital for the corporate activities at formulated in 2010. Each operational site has taken the Toppan and have regularly met to exchange frank views on actions clarified under the policy for the complete elimination mental healthcare measures. of occupational accidents. The number of accidents has been Based on the opinions exchanged, several rules have been gradually reduced since this affirmation was announced. The appended to the employment regulations to help the Comsafety promotion team at the head office and safety promopany provide a working environment to which employees can tion leaders at operational sites will work together to continue more readily return from mental healthcare leave. These rules organizing safety education and upgrading the intrinsic safety define a clear set of criteria for deciding when an employee of machines and equipment. should return to work, measures to prevent the recurrence of In fiscal 2012, Toppan enriched the education content of leave, and programs to support employees once they return the Anzen Dojo, a safety training facility in Kawaguchi, Saitama to work. To prevent mental illness or promptly detect and treat Prefecture, and opened the facility to both Toppan employees it, Toppan also holds regular mental health check-ups for all and external parties. More than 10,000 people have experiemployees and arranges rank-based mental healthcare trainenced accident simulations using specialized simulation harding. Toppan has also concluded advisory agreements with ware installed at the dojo so far. About the same number, more mental healthcare specialists and encourages employees to than 10,000 employees (including part-time workers and other take advantage of the counseling rooms established in all of non-regular employees), have also tried out a danger simulathe regions where Toppan operates. tor, a mobile device conveyed to operational sites throughout In a project jointly arranged by a Group company called Japan. The danger simulator has been very effective in impartInstitute of the Formative Art Co., Ltd., Toppan operates Art ing a steady awareness of occupational safety to the Toppan Salon, an art session to refresh employee minds and bodLabor Practices employees who try it. ies through the creative work of painting. Art Salon sessions Moving forward, Toppan will undertake full-fledged risk are held in regions all around Japan. In fiscal 2012, Toppan assessment activities for accident prevention across the and the institute also opened the Hagukumi (bringing up) Art Group. All operational sites will work in concert to completely Salon, an art session widely appreciated by employees on eliminate occupational accidents. childcare leave and their children, the participants for which it was established. Occupational Safety and Health Overview of the Mental Healthcare System 2010 2011 2012 Steps to Prevent Primary Secondary Medical Recurrence: Deaths from Prevention: Prevention: Treatment: Support for returning occupational 0 0 0 Proactive measures Early detection Early recovery employees (fresh starts) accidents Frequency rate*1 0.00 0.10 0.05 Regular mental health check-ups, Contracts with mental healthcare specialists 0.00 0.004 0.00 including stress checks Severity rate*2 *1 N umber of occupational accidents requiring Mental health Cooperation with medical and counseling institutions outside Toppan employee leave, per million working hours training (reflects the frequency of occupational acI In rank-based Guidance and information about • A clear set of criteria training for deciding when cidents) consultants outside Toppan an employee on *2 Number of workdays lost as a consequence I Incorporation (contracted with the Toppan Group leave should return of occupational accidents, per thousand into optional Health Insurance Union) •Rules for preventing (group) the recurrence of working hours (reflects the severity of ocmental healthcare training cupational accidents) leave Programs to support employees Response to Biliary Cancer returning from mental healthcare leave Toppan will handle organic solvents at Counseling rooms manufacturing workplaces by thoroughly controlling them in observance of the reguArt Salon, an art session for employees lations under the Industrial Safety and Health Act of Japan. These workplaces will Appointment and Steps to allay deployment of a anxiety after steadily switch from the organic solvents resignation person to take they now use to alternative substances not Financial assistance charge of mental from the Toppan Group subject to restrictions under the act. health enhancement Fraternal Benefit Society at every operational and similar sources for fixed periods after site resignation 22 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 Developing and Fostering Human Assets round. A cumulative total of 199,739 employees took part in  oncept of Human Asset Development and Fosterage C fiscal 2012. Mindful of how deeply it depends on employees, Toppan fosters human assets with ambition and integrity. Toppan would F  ostering Human Assets with Ideal Working Skills like to contribute to society as a corporation blessed with and Aspirations for a Global Business Environment excellent human assets. The Company has set up human Toppan has set up an overseas study system to develop asset development programs systematically around a simple human assets who can play active roles in global businesses. platform, the Toppan University. This in-house virtual univerThe Company has also been operating a trainee system to sity supports life-long learning, skill improvement, and career provide employees with practical training in day-to-day busienhancement for all Toppan employees while striving to foster ness activities overseas since fiscal 2011. Twenty employees top leaders. have been deployed as trainees under the system, as of the end of fiscal 2012. Various Education Systems The selective training on globalization launched in fiscal The head office organizes rank-based and department-based 2010 has supported a cumulative total of 332 candidates for training and enriches selective training courses planned out overseas assignments so far. to foster leaders of tomorrow. For new employees, Toppan regards the first three years after recruitment as a Company trengthening the Environment to Develop Human S wide development period (the “early career planning” period). Assets To help new employees acquire necessary skills, Toppan Toppan has established training centers in Kawaguchi, Saitama organizes Company-wide training and on-the-job training (OJT) Prefecture and Yugawara, Kanagawa Prefecture to nurture with help from the new employees’ immediate superiors, the individuals who will shape Toppan’s future. These centers are “Brothers” or “Sisters.” venues for various training sessions and interchanges among Labor Practices The Toppan Business School, meanwhile, offers self-develToppan personnel. opment training for employees via optional courses (group The Company runs an intranet to help employees enhance training) and correspondence learning courses (the Challenge their abilities and skills online. Employees visit the intranet to School). A cumulative total of 9,712 employees participated read posts on human asset development programs and review in fiscal 2012. Employees also have ready access to basic, the records on their own training. Company-wide education via the e-learning system year Systematic Human Asset Development Programs “Conduct of High Value” Based on the Corporate Philosophy and Corporate Creed Earning the trust of Strengthening business Fulfilling corporate Strengthening Improving customers foundations social responsibility organization corporate value “Abilities and Skills” for “Conduct of High Value” Knowledge and Ability to identify and Ability to Techniques and Skills in communication information skills formulate tasks accomplish tasks know-how and fostering subordinates Rank-based Training Department-based Training I New division manager training I New employee Company-wide I Selective training for section I Training for employees in I New department manager training training managers in sales departments production control departments I New manager training I Early career planning I Program to strengthen sales I Training for new supervisors in I New supervisor training I OJT brother/sister training departments technology departments I Training for new section managers I Individual department-based training in technology and manufacturing (Purchasing, secretary, personnel & departments labor relations, technology & research, etc.) Basic Company-wide Education (e-learning) Training for Globalized Businesses Training by the Divisions Toppan Business School I Basic education on TOPPAN I MBA abroad training I Training in each division and each I Optional training VISION 21 I Study abroad program for workplace I Challenge School I Basic education on CSR engineers I Video library I Basic education on the environment I IT training in India Selective Training I Education on profit creation in I Short-term overseas study I Executive business school business I Selective training on globalization I Training to nurture industry-leading talent I Basic education on globalization I Program to develop human assets who can create new businesses and markets *Operated together with Toppan Mind Wellness Co., Ltd. (in the Toppan Group), an education consultation company entrusted with training projects inside and outside the Company. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 23 Fair Operating Practices T  he Toppan Group began drawing up a Conduct Guidelines Casebook for overseas. Points Toppan provided training on the prevention of corruption, embezzlement, and other forms of improper conduct. Toppan has been monitoring the supply chain to ensure that paper suppliers legally obtain the lumber they use as a raw material for paper production. Disseminating the Conduct Guidelines  issemination Activities by the Conduct Guidelines D In June of the year 2000, the centennial of Toppan Printing Promotion Leaders Co., Ltd., Toppan established the Conduct Guidelines, a set The Leaders formulate action plans tailored to the details of of normal standards of behavior based on the Corporate Phibusiness operations and conditions, staff compositions, and losophy and the spirit of compliance with laws and regulations. other individual factors at the workplaces where they serve. In November 2010, Toppan completely revised the Conduct The Leaders organize Conduct Guideline read-throughs and Guidelines as a set of common principles that all Group comfacilitate discussion using concrete cases to enhance complipanies around the world are required to observe for the assurance awareness among their colleagues. ance of total Group-wide compliance. Tools to Promote the Conduct Guidelines Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leader System Toppan gives every employee a Conduct Guidelines CaseToppan operates a Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leader book, a Q&A style casebook describing actual situations that system. In this system, every Group operational site assigns can arise in daily work. The Company uses the casebook for a Conduct Guidelines Promotion Supervisor (the “Supervisor”) rank-based education and the Leaders use it to disseminate and Leaders (the “Leaders”) for disseminating the Conduct the guidelines at their workplaces. Toppan also posts reguGuidelines and ensuring full guideline compliance. Supervisors lar Conduct Guideline Notifications on topics relevant to the and Leaders implement ongoing activities directly connected guidelines, in order to heighten employee awareness and call with their daily business operations. Seven hundred and ninetyattention to compliance-related issues. The notifications pubtwo Leaders were deployed across the Group in fiscal 2012, lished in fiscal 2012 covered topics such as power harassment, including 60 women (7.6% of the Leaders). A cumulative total information leakage, and unlawful conduct. of 5,295 employees have worked as Leaders since the system was launched in 2004. Toppan will continue with measures to Toppan Group Helpline Fair Operating Practices deploy many more Leaders and to resolutely foster and assign When an employee discovers a legal violation or improper more female Leaders. conduct somewhere in the Toppan Group, he or she is to report it to his/her superior for deliberation, in principle. If the employee’s superior fails to resolve the problem, the employee is encouraged to call the Toppan Group Helpline, the Group’s Structure to Promote the Conduct Guidelines President & Representative Director Director in charge of Conduct Guidelines Promotion Compliance Department, Legal Affairs Division Divisions in the Company Divisions of the head office Division heads Conduct Guidelines Promotion Supervisor Conduct Guidelines Promotion Supervisors Senior General Manager Person in charge of management: Business Strategy Department GM of Legal Affairs Division Person in charge of education: General Affairs Department GM Conduct Guidelines Conduct Guidelines Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders Promotion Leaders Promotion Leaders Conduct Guidelines in sales and planning in administrative in manufacturing Promotion Leaders departments departments departments Sales promotion Managers or supervisors Managers or supervisors Educational leaders managers, etc. from each department from each department Employees Employees 24 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 internal reporting system. The helpline is kept open for use In these sessions, Toppan devises ways to enhance the by all Group employees, including temporary staff and parteffectiveness of training through activities such as group distime workers. cussions using case methods describing actual incidents and The helpline was used in eight cases in fiscal 2012. The accidents. incidents reported involved power harassment and other inappropriate actions. All eight cases were strictly investigated and Training to Prevent Improper Conduct properly handled, and necessary countermeasures were taken Toppan provided training on actual cases of corruption, embezto prevent recurrence. zlement, and other forms of improper conduct that have taken place at other companies. A total of 22,389 employees took Implementing the Conduct Guidelines in the course via the e-learning system, and 1,722 managerial Overseas Group Companies staff took the course via group training. In fiscal 2012, the Toppan Group began drawing up a Conduct Guidelines Casebook for overseas. The casebook is based on  ducation on Compliance with Transaction-related E a wholly updated edition of the Group-wide Conduct GuideLaws and Regulations lines Casebook issued in fiscal 2011. As soon as the casebook To ensure compliance with the Subcontract Law of Japan and is completed, the Group will hold briefing sessions in every prevent improper export and import trade, Toppan regularly country and region to ensure full compliance with the guideoffers special training courses and checks and audits how lines at overseas Group companies. transactions are being handled. In fiscal 2012, the Company trained 376 employees on compliance with the Subcontract Compliance Education Law and trained 421 employees in group sessions focused on export controls under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Training for Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders Trade Act of Japan. As many as 4,358 employees took the As in previous years, Toppan held group training for Conduct Fair Operating Practices course on export controls via the e-learning system. Guidelines Promotion Leaders in fiscal 2012. The training was scheduled in two phases. In the first, 677 Leaders were trained Briefing on Compliance in 39 sessions across Japan from May to September 2012. Toppan was not involved in any serious accidents or violations In the second, 558 Leaders were trained in 34 sessions from of laws or regulations in the course of business in fiscal 2012. November 2012 to March 2013. Toppan Group Helpline Communicator When the problem remains unresolved Any Group employee Reporting and consultation Reporting on Superior progress and results, follow-up communication Internal reporting (emails or sealed documents sent Training for Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders (Niigata Plant) with an employee’s name) Approach to Intellectual Property Receiver Protection and management of intellectual property is a crucial issue for President & Representative Director Toppan, a company engaged in planning and development in the diverse or Senior Corporate Auditor business fields of Information & Networks, Living Environment, ElectronToppan Printing Co., Ltd. ics, Personal Service, and Next-generation Products. The Company devotes strict attention to measures to prevent the infringement of copyInstructions Reporting rights, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights of third parties while obtaining patents for its own technologies and business models. Along with special training for employees, planning departments regularly hold training sessions for business partners. Participants in Department responsible for these sessions acquire basic knowledge of laws on intellectual propinvestigation and countermeasures erty rights by reviewing actual cases involving problems in design work and the like. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 25 Promoting CSR Procurement In fiscal 2012, Toppan surveyed 61 sites of 58 business The Toppan Group implements CSR initiatives in cooperapartners from which the Company purchases paper around tion and collaboration with business partners throughout the the world. Toppan asked the 58 partners to fill out questionentire supply chain. The CSR Procurement Guidelines are a naires. Whenever the questionnaire results revealed a need set of principles the Group observes to drive this endeavor. for detailed onsite inspections, Toppan visited the sites to These guidelines consist of the Basic Procurement Policy, a check the sources of the lumber the partners procured, the conceptual framework to be closely observed by every Toppan certifications or permits they acquired, the traceability manemployee involved in procurement operations, and the CSR agement procedures they practice, and other relevant matters. Procurement Standards, a set of requirements to be satisfied These surveys confirmed that all of the procured lumber was by every business partner. obtained legally. Initiatives in the Supply Chain Promoting Compliance in Procurement D ­ epartments Every business partner willing to cooperate with the Toppan The Toppan Group regularly conducts Business Partner MoniGroup’s CSR procurement initiatives submits a memorandum toring, a questionnaire survey of business partners, to check of cooperation and reports its CSR activities in questionnaires. whether Toppan’s procurement departments perform proper Toppan checks the current status of business partner activities operations in accordance with the Basic Procurement Policy. via these questionnaires and reassesses or visits partners to In fiscal 2012 the Group asked seven business partners to fill conduct onsite inspections and interviews face to face whenout the questionnaires and improved compliance in procureever necessary. ment operations based on the results. The Group has also established the Supplier Hotline, a portal Verifying the Legality of Lumber as Paper Material for receiving reports from business partners, on its website. Toppan promotes sustainable procurement of raw materials by Fair Operating Practices monitoring paper suppliers (business partners) to ensure that the lumber they use for paper production is legally obtained. Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines (revised from the Procurement Guidelines in May 2007) Basic Procurement Policy I We impartially offer opportunities to all suppliers. I We give full consideration to impacts on the environment. I We comply with all domestic and overseas legislation and perform fair I We pursue QCD (Quality, Cost, Delivery) in order to meet the needs of the business dealings based on corporate ethics. market. I We strictly control the information obtained through our procurement a ­ ctivities. I We implement CSR initiatives throughout the entire supply chain. CSR Procurement Standards (11) T he company strives to make timely and appropriate disclosure of 1. Basic human rights information relating to matters such as the details of business activ(1) The company respects basic human rights. ities, quality, and product safety. (2) The company does not carry out unjust discrimination in the treatment 4. The environment and safety and employment of employees. (12) T he company strives to use raw materials and components with a 2. Public order, compliance with laws, fair business activities low impact on the environment. (3) The company does not carry out inappropriate profit sharing or (13) T he company strives to devise processes with a low impact on the receipts. environment for manufacturing and processing. (4) The company does not have dealings with any antisocial individual or (14) T he company carries out appropriate management of chemical subgroup. stances specified by Toppan. (5) The company complies with laws, regulations, and government notices (15) T he company carries out appropriate disposal of industrial waste. applicable to business activities, such as company laws, antitrust laws, (16) The company strives to prevent work-related accidents and create a subcontracting laws, labor-related legislation, and environment-related safe and clean workplace, and also works to ensure the safety of legislation. employees in an emergency. (6) The company complies with laws protecting those who disclose infor5. Improving quality mation in the public interest, and it protects the rights of those who (17) T he company meets the standards for quality required by Toppan report internally. and strives to improve quality. (7) The company complies with legislation related to exports and with the 6. Appropriate pricing laws of the countries and regions in which it operates. (18) T he company provides products or services at a price that is com(8) The company does not allow child labor or forced labor. petitive in the market. (9) The company does not infringe intellectual property rights such as 7. Stable supply patents, copyrights, and trademarks. (19) T he company meets stipulated delivery dates and supplies items 3. Management and disclosure of information safely and reliably. (10) The company carries out appropriate management of confidential 8. Social contributions information and personal information obtained through its dealings. (20) The company engages in contributions to society. 26 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 Conduct Guidelines and Information Management Policy Conduct Guidelines Here are the specific conduct guidelines presented after Chapter 1 of the Conduct Guidelines (described on page 12). Chapter 2: Specific Conduct Guidelines Chapter 2 defines the specific conduct practices that we should undertake based on the Basic Principles provided in Chapter 1. Basic Principle 1: Respecting basic human rights Basic Principle 4: Avoiding all links with antisocial groups 1. Recognizing the diverse values of individuals and respecting personal 1. Prohibition of any dealings with antisocial groups qualities and individuality 2. Prohibition of involvement in antisocial activities 2. Prohibition of discrimination of any kind 3. Prohibition of provision of unjust benefits 3. Prohibition of sexual and power harassment Basic Principle 5: S  triving to improve quality and providing creations Basic Principle 2: H  aving high ethical standards and acting as a responthat contribute to customer satisfaction sible member of society 1. Making our best efforts for the customer and building a relationship of In the conduct of business trust 1. Acting with pride as a member of the Toppan Group 2. Striving to improve quality in every process 2. Prohibition of tacit approval of illegal conduct and rule violations 3. Fully ensuring the safety and security of products and services 3. Respect for foreign cultures and customs 4. Prohibition of the infringement of the intellectual property rights of others In our private lives Basic Principle 6: R  ecognizing the importance of information related 4. Prohibition of conduct that causes distress to other people to business and managing it appropriately 5. Prohibition of drink-driving 1. Protecting information regarding customers 6. Prohibition of the possession and use of illegal drugs 2. Protecting the company’s confidential information 7. Prohibition of gambling 3. Appropriate handling of personal information Basic Principle 3: C  omplying with laws and company rules and conduct4. Striving for the appropriate management of information and records ing fair business operations Basic Principle 7: P roactively undertaking conservation of the global Legal compliance environment 1. Prohibition of collusion and cartels 1. Striving to reduce the environmental burden of business activities 2. Prohibition of improper conduct in dealings with business partner companies 2. Promoting businesses with consideration for the environment 3. Prohibition of improper conduct against competitors 4. Prohibition of false transactions Basic Principle 8: Embracing change and taking on new challenges Fair Operating Practices 5. Respecting business partners’ standpoints and building appropriate rela1. Making proposals that embrace change to customers tionships with customers 2. Advancing technical development that meets the needs of customers 6. Prohibition of bribery and inappropriate entertainment practices 3. Having an awareness of problems and striving to improve the status quo 7. Prohibition of illegal political contributions or donations 4. Striving to enhance one’s knowledge, skills and techniques 8. Prohibition of insider trading 5. Securing and using intellectual property 9. Prohibition of illicit import and export transactions Basic Principle 9: B  uilding trust from society through social contribution 10. Prohibition of child labor and forced labor activities and appropriate disclosure of information 11. Compliance with international rules and local laws in overseas business 1. Proactively participating in the company’s activities to contribute to society Compliance with company rules and local communities 12. Maintaining discipline and order in the workplace 2. Contributing to the development and passing on of skills and culture 13. Prohibition of other work without the company’s permission 3. Disclosing information appropriately and enhancing the transparency of 14. Prohibition of conduct that causes a conflict of interests with the company business activities 15. Prohibition of receipt or provision for personal gain or rebate 16. Appropriate management of assets entrusted to the company by customers Basic Principle 10: B  ringing together individual strengths to fully 17. Appropriate management and use of company assets exploit the integrated strength of the group 18. Prohibition of prejudicial treatment of persons that have reported problems 1. Striving to create a lively and vibrant workplace via the appropriate procedure 2. Striving to create a safe and clean workplace 19. Fulfilling duties with integrity 3. Taking pride in the Toppan Brand and striving to cultivate it 20. Reporting promptly and appropriately 4. Group companies working together to maximize integrated strength Established in June 2000 Revised in November 2010 Toppan Group Basic Policy on Information Security As a group of companies operating in the information communication industry, each of us at the Toppan Group carries out Groupwide information security management in the recognition that the management of information necessary for business is a significant managerial challenge for us as a means to reciprocate our customers’ trust and promote the ongoing growth of the Toppan Group. 1. W  e manage information necessary for our business appropriately in observ4. W e are deeply aware of the risks to the information assets we handle, such ance of our in-house rules, the law, and the principles of social order. as illegal access, loss, damage, falsification/manipulation, and leakage of 2. We collect information for appropriate purposes using appropriate information, and take necessary and reasonable safety measures against ­methods. these risks. We deal with and rectify any problems that occur promptly and 3. We safely manage the information entrusted to us by customers in order in an appropriate manner. to reciprocate our customers’ trust. 5. We establish, operate, maintain, and continuously improve information security management systems. Established on April 1, 2001 Revised on August 1, 2011 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 27 Consumer Issues  oppan received two awards for its universal design (UD) initiatives. T Points Toppan has increased the number of tightly secured areas designated for the handling of personal information and is taking steps to have more of these areas accredited and certified. T  oppan was one of the first private-sector companies to acquire the Carbon Footprint of Products (CFP) system certification under the CFP Communication Program undertaken in Japan. Assuring Product Safety and Quality C  ertified Approval System for Manufacturing in Food Quality assurance for products at Toppan is a concern for every Packaging department, not only the departments directly responsible for Food packaging requires exacting quality assurance for safety production. The departments involved in marketing, R&D, planand sanitation. Toppan has adopted a certified approval sysning, design, sales, and delivery all contribute to quality. This tem to ensure that the operational sites of Toppan and partis why Toppan describes quality assurance in production as a ner companies can manufacture containers and packages total activity (“Total Quality Assurance”) and strives to improve only after receiving the required ratings in audits. The audits product quality and manage product safety. are conducted based on the Quality Assurance Guidelines for Food Packaging using a checklist. Toppan carried out 29 Product Safety audits at 28 operational sites inside and outside the Company Toppan has established a Basic Stance on Product Safety in fiscal 2012. Management and Basic Guidelines on Product Safety Management to secure the safety management of the products it Management of Chemical Substances in Products manufactures. The latter provides guidelines for the following Toppan intensively promotes product safety management in measures: the establishment of a structure to secure product all manufacturing processes, from material procurement to safety by identifying and evaluating the risk of improper use or product shipment, by controlling various chemical substances other product-related mishaps and complying with laws and whose use is prohibited or restricted. While adhering to green regulations relevant to products manufactured by each diviprocurement standards prescribed by client companies, the sion; information collection and provision and actual measures Company has established a set of Green Procurement Standin the case of product-related accidents or problems; and ards attuned to the features of products manufactured by product recall procedures. every division in the business fields of Electronics, Living To support product safety management, Toppan strives to Environment, and Information & Networks. Toppan manages Consumer Issues improve product quality on an ongoing basis. Every operational chemical substances in products throughout the whole site has acquired the ISO 9001 certification for its quality man­supply chain. agement system (QMS) and works to update it. Two hundred and fifty-four employees took part in Toppan’s training sessions for internal auditors at operational sites in fiscal 2012. Basic Stance on Product Safety Audits for the Food Container and Management Filling/Packing Businesses We promote product safety Audit Points management throughout • Agreement with customers the Group by securing safety and • Quality assurance system • Management of equipment and improving the quality of our products inspection devices based on the Basic Principles of • Management of safety and sanitation Conduct Guidelines and • Steps to prevent the admixture of the principles of corporate social different products responsibility as a protector of • Steps to prevent the admixture of foreign substances user safety and health. • Steps to prevent the outflow of defective products • Steps to prevent contamination Operational site audit • Traceability • Security • Education and training • Maintenance of systems and frameworks Operational Sites Audited Food containers • 12 operational sites at divisions and manufacturing subsidiaries Filling/packing businesses • 5 operational sites at manufacturing subsidiaries • 8 operational sites at production business partners Training session for internal auditors 28 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 Universal Design Initiatives also snaps with an audible “click” to give users a tangible sense Universal design (UD) is one of the prime corporate social of “open” and “tightly closed.” responsibilities for Toppan, a company that designs and proIn 2013, Toppan also received the chairman’s award at duces packaging and communication tools consumers see the Japan Packaging Competition sponsored by the Japan and use every day. Federation of Printing Industries. The prizewinning package Toppan strives to help realize the fulfilling lifestyles enunciwas designed for “Meiji Buono Cheese,” a snack-like cheese ated in the Corporate Philosophy by providing people with stick. The tip of the cheese stick pops out from its wrapper attractive, easier-to-use products and services. In keeping with as the consumer opens the package. Thanks to this pop-out the Toppan Declaration on Universal Design and Toppan’s mechanism, the consumer can eat the cheese without actually Seven Principles on Universal Design, the Company promotes touching it with his or her fingers. UD initiatives that assign greater weight to sensory values and Toppan assigns high value to three ideals when introducing customization while emphasizing functions such as underuniversal designs in the business field of Information & standability and usability. Networks: diversity awareness, enhanced user-friendliness, http://www.toppan.co.jp/ud/ (in Japanese) and continuity. Departments in this field offer UD proposals to client companies to help them improve their communication Examples of Universal Design tools and make those tools available to more people. Their Toppan’s packaging departments have been applying their own proposals are total solutions covering the whole design procresearch and development methods to develop UD proposals ess: from the analyses of existing problems and editing and that enhance the inherent brand values of client products. In design by specialists to support for the formulation of guidefiscal 2012, Toppan and Meiji Co., Ltd., a client company and lines and manuals and the development and implementation collaborator, shared an Accessible Design Package Award for of in-house training programs. their design of a tube container for butter, “Meiji butter in tube Consumer Issues 1/3,” at the Japan Packaging Contest. The Japan Packaging Institute, the event sponsor, valued the container most for the tube cap, which requires fewer twists to open and close, reducing the physical demands imposed on users. The cap Toppan’s Seven Principles on ­Universal Design 1. Design products and services that are more responsive to people with different physical abilities and perceptions. 2. Facilitate communication using multiple channels for communication, including visual, aural, and tactile channels. 3. Make products easier to use by making them easier to understand. 4. M  ake products that are easier to move, easier to approach, and require less strength (remove the physical burdens). Meiji butter in tube 1/3 Meiji Buono Cheese 5. D  esign products that are safe to use procedurally, functionally, structurally, materially, and environmentally. 6. Provide products at a reasonable price and in the amounts required by society. 7. Engage in design that appeals to the senses with consideration for comfort, enjoyment, and beauty. Established in 2001 Revised in April 2010 The cap opens and closes with a few twists and The tip of the cheese stick pops out when the snaps with an audible “click” to give users a consumer opens the package. Thanks to this tangible sense of open and closed. mechanism, the consumer can eat the cheese without actually touching it with his or her fi­ ngers. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 29 Protecting Personal Information Response to New IT Risks Toppan treats all personal information entrusted to the ComIEstablishing a Set of Guidelines pany safely and securely in order to protect the interests and In response to the prevalence of smartphones and tablets and rights of individuals, to reciprocate customers’ trust, and to the widespread use of social media services such as Twitter cope with the growth of more-personalized communication and Facebook, Toppan drew up a set of guidelines to prevent services. information leaks and careless remarks in virtual environments. These guidelines have been disseminated across the Group  einforcing the Management of Operations Involving R via regular employee education. the Handling of Personal Information IHolding an Open Seminar Toppan has structured a system to maintain unified control Risks in cyberspace are becoming a global issue. Toppan over the handling of personal information across Japan by took a step to spread accurate knowledge about these risks thoroughly implementing its own qualification system based among employees by inviting a cyber-security specialist to on stringent security criteria. In fiscal 2012, the Company present a guest lecture. Mr. Itsuro Nishimoto from LAC Co., increased the number of qualified security areas designated Ltd. spoke on “Cyber Security—current threats in cyberspace for the handling of personal information to 63. and how to control them.” A total of 263 Group employees More of these areas are working to acquire ISO/IEC 27001 joined the seminar. certification in addition to PrivacyMark accreditation. Toppan’s tightly secured areas at the Kyushu and Chugoku & Shikoku Making Activities Ongoing Subdivisions of the Nishinihon Division acquired the ISO/IEC Toppan continuously conducts quality-oriented audits on 27001 certification in fiscal 2012. operations involving the handling of personal information. The Company closely audited the management and deletion of intermediate files containing personal information for 25 Consumer Issues operations in fiscal 2012. Toppan also arranged face-to-face lectures for all employees across Japan to heighten their awareness on the handling of personal information. A total of 318 lectures were presented in fiscal 2012. Regions in Japan with Tightly Secured Areas Designated for the Handling of ­Personal Information (as of March 31, 2013) Kansai (12 areas) Hokkaido (3 areas) Chugoku & Shikoku Tohoku (2 areas) (1 area) Kyushu (2 areas) Kanto (41 areas) A specialist guest speaks at an open seminar on cyber security for Group employees Chubu (2 areas) Tightly Secured Areas Designated for the Handling of Personal Information at Toppan Group Companies with ISO/IEC 27001:2005 Certification (as of March 31, 2013) IInformation and Communication Division (IT Solutions, IT Solution Department, Toppan Idea Center; Service Integration Department, IT Service Division, Toppan System Solutions Co., Ltd.), Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. IInformation and Communication Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd.; Toppan Communication Products Co., Ltd.; Toppan Joho Kako Co., Ltd. IOji Security Room, Data Center, Toppan System Solutions Co., Ltd. ITakino Securities Printing Plant, Toppan Communication Products Co., Ltd.; Information and Communication Manufacturing Subdivision, Information and Communication Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. IKyushu, Chugoku and Shikoku Team and ISMS Promotion Committee, Information Security Management, Nishinihon Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. 30 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 Contributing to Sustainable Consumption Reporting the Carbon Footprints of Products Toppan produces a host of environmentally friendly products The carbon footprint of products (CFP) is a measure of CO2 designed to contribute to a sustainable society. emissions associated with the life cycle of a product or service, In the field of paper-based containers and packaging, from raw-material procurement to disposal and recycling. It is ­Toppan has developed and markets the Eco Flat Cup®, a a single number anyone can understand. More consumers are paper-based beverage container produced from pulp using expected to voluntarily choose eco-friendly products by referdomestic lumber, including lumber harvested from forestring to these numerical values on product labels. thinning operations. The Eco Flat Cup is coated with a thin GL As a participant in a CFP pilot program operated by the Film barrier and can be easily crushed into a very small volume Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan, Toppan for disposal. The superior barrier and seal properties of the collaborated with the ministry in the formulation of Product Eco Flat Cup enable longer periods of storage compared to Category Rules (PCRs). In fiscal 2012, Toppan acquired the similar containers. In fiscal 2012, the Company created a new CFP system certification in two fields: publication and comuse for the cup by commercializing a new type that can be used mercial printed materials (intermediate goods) and printed for alcoholic beverages that require high-temperature filling. materials for advertisement and business. Toppan was one of In 2002 Toppan acquired the Forest Stewardship Council the first private-sector companies to acquire this certification (FSC®) Chain of Custody (COC*) certification, a forest product under the CFP Communication Program, a Japanese CFP certification covering production processes during manufacscheme undertaken by the Japan Environmental Management turing, processing, and distribution. Since then the Company Association for Industry (JEMAI). The system certification has been steadily expanding the scope of the certification. acknowledges that an internal system has been established Among plants manufacturing paper-based containers, the to manage CFP through the stages of CFP quantification up Sagamihara Plant was covered by the Company’s COC certo the application for CFP registration and disclosure. The tifications from the FSC® and the Programme for the Endorseacquirement of the certification allows four of Toppan’s plants Consumer Issues ment of Forest Certification Schemes (PEFC) before the beginin the Kanto region to apply for registration and disclosure of ning of fiscal 2012. Toppan expanded the scope of the CFP data without carrying out product-by-product verification certifications to include the Itami and Mikkabi Plants by the procedures outside the Company. end of the same year. Toppan will offer the CFP registration and disclosure service to client companies as a means of disseminating more products with CFP labels. Products with the CFP certification Eco Flat Cups Carbon Footprint of Products (CFP) (in Japanese) ­registration certificate (in Japanese) Forest Stewardship Programme for the EndorseCouncil® (FSC) ment of Forest Certification forest management Schemes (PEFC) forest cercertification tification A scheme for approvA forest certification scheme ing responsible forest covering the world’s largest management under the certified forest area, managed principles and standPromoting Sustainable by the PEFC council (internaards established by the Forest Management tional headquarters based in FSC®. Switzerland). *Chain of Custody (COC) certification is a scheme for approving comprehensive product management to effectively prevent the admixture of pulpwood and wood products from responsibly managed forests with pulpwood and wood products from non-controlled sources during any part of the production process from manufacturing to distribution. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 31 Community Involvement and Development T  he Toppan Group has been engaging in support activities in several projects to assist with the post-disaster Points reconstruction of eastern Japan in cooperation with other companies, NPOs, and local and national governments. Toppan personnel have participated in support activities to educate and foster coming generations in communities. Toppan sponsored the 6th Toppan Charity Concert series to help enhance literacy in developing countries. Community Contribution and Involvement IBook Wagon Mobile Libraries The Toppan Group has supported the communities in which it Toppan began its mobile library program in July 2011. Mobile operates by solving local issues and contributing to sustainable libraries were deployed on regular rounds of 14 temporary local development as a community member. Its domestic and housing sites in Sendai City, Miyagi Prefecture to deliver books overseas operational sites are involved in organizations that to residents. The aim was to contribute to community creabring together the opinions of members in the communities and tion by providing mobile spaces to bring people together. The promote community contribution activities through dialogue. program ran until March 2012. In fiscal 2012, the mobile libraries resumed operation from  ssisting the Post-disaster Reconstruction of A June to December with help from local university student vol­Eastern Japan unteers. Later in the year, at the end of the resumed operation, ICo-creation Workshop to Accelerate Reconstruction the Toppan Group turned over the program, along with the In August 2012, Toppan and a group of companies launched mobile library trucks, to two organizations, the Shanti Volunteer a workshop to promote the sharing of goals and challenges Association and Shikama Town, Miyagi Prefecture. Shanti Volamong companies with broad-ranging know-how and techunteer Association had already established a similar mobile nologies, NPOs deeply aware of local needs, and local governlibrary program for reconstruction assistance, while Shikama ments playing leading roles in community renovation. Workshop Town had its own mobile library plan to give townspeople more participants are encouraged to start up projects focused on the opportunities to read books. Both organizations continue to co-creation of activities that will help accelerate reconstruction operate the mobile libraries Toppan established. of the areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011. They strive to create businesses in which corporate IVolunteer Activities economic value is balanced with initiatives to address social The Toppan site in Sendai City, Miyagi Prefecture pooled efforts betterment and community reconstruction challenges. with the Shichigahama Volunteer Center to remove debris every Community Involvement and Development Over the course of fiscal 2012, three working groups were Saturday from agricultural fields hit by the 2011 tsunami near set up to discuss model businesses based on the roadmap the coast in Shichigahama Town. Toppan employees from for leading providers of reconstruction assistance formulated Kansai and Hokkaido also took part in this activity, bringing by the Reconstruction Agency of Japan. the total volunteer tally to 169 on a cumulative basis. Mobile library (Shanti Volunteer Association) Work experience program (in Chiba) Work experience program (in Shiga) Mobile library Class for elementary school students invited to Roundtable conference with a local community (Shikama Town, Miyagi Prefecture) the site (in Nagoya, Aichi Prefecture) (in Niigata) 32 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013  ostering Future Generations and Contributing to F Initiatives at Overseas Operational Sites Education An operational site in the US donated to a community educaThe Toppan Group is an active participant and contributor in tional assistance program, and its employees worked as proprograms to foster the children and young people who one day gram committee members. This program donates learning will be sustaining society. Many operational sites in Japan have tools and reminds parents of the importance of education to arranged classes, internships, work experience programs, and encourage the parents to keep their children in school. In similar activities. ­Thailand, the Toppan site took part in a mangrove planting An operational site in Fukuoka City, Fukuoka Prefecture, for activity to protect the natural environment and prevent damage example, gave university students opportunities to experience from waves and monsoons. and appreciate work in information analysis as paid interns in a special work placement program. An operational site in Nagoya Cooperating with International City, Aichi Prefecture continues to offer classes in collaboration Communities to Address Social Issues with a local elementary school and NPO. Using Toppan prodToppan participates in activities to enhance literacy (the abiliucts and know-how, site instructors give the students tips on ties to read, write, and calculate with adequate proficiency to communication and the importance of natural environments. function well in daily life) for people living in developing countries. Literacy is a living skill essential for escaping poverty and Dialogues with Communities enjoying a healthier, more culturally enriched existence. Every Toppan site throughout Japan stays in constant diaToppan sponsored the 6th Toppan Charity Concert series in logue with its neighboring communities to grow with them as fiscal 2012 and donated concert proceeds to the Asia-Pacific a community member. Cultural Centre for UNESCO (ACCU). The funds donated this The plant in Shibata City, Niigata Prefecture has improved its year will be used for literacy education and classes on materoperations by inviting local residents and government officers nal and child health for mothers raising young children in Community Involvement and Development for meetings to inform them of recent plant events and sound Cambodia. out their opinions and suggestions. Educational assistance event (in the US) Toppan Charity Concert Literacy education in Cambodia ©ACCU (Violinist Emiri Miyamoto) Mangrove planting (in Thailand) Toppan Charity Concert Literacy education in Cambodia ©ACCU (Saxophonist Nobuya Sugawa) TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 33 The Environment  he Toppan Group has established a set of medium-and-long-term environmental targets for fiscal 2020 and T Points presses ahead with environmental initiatives. The Group operates environmental activities in four areas: Environmental Management, Eco-protection, Ecocreativity, and Environmental Communication. Toppan’s Environmental Activities The Toppan Group Declaration Four Environmental Activity Areas on the Global Environment The Toppan Group actively promotes environmental initiatives As responsible members of international society, based on The Toppan Group Declaration on the Global Enviwe who work within the Toppan Group strive to realize a sustainable society ronment, a basic philosophy for the environmental activities through forward looking corporate activities with consideration of the Group. for the conservation of the global environment. Toppan’s environmental activities are divided into four Basic Principles areas—Environmental Management, Eco-protection, Eco-cre1. We observe all laws, regulations and in-company rules relating to the ativity, and Environmental Communication. The Group enacted environment. a set of five bylaws to strengthen the Eco-protection Activities 2. For the future of the Earth, we strive for the effective utilization of limited performed to minimize environmental burdens associated with resources and the reduction of all types of environmental burden. 3. With foresight, we promote the development and widespread use of the Group’s corporate operations: the Bylaw on Global Warming products that show consideration for the environment, and contribMitigation, the Bylaw on the Building of a Recycling-oriented ute to the environmental activities of customers. Society, the Bylaw on Chemical Substance Management, the 4. We engage in communication related to the environment with a wide Bylaw on Pollution Control, and the Bylaw on Biodiversity. The range of peoples both inside and outside the company, and strive for mutual understanding. Toppan Group has taken steps to conserve the global environ5. We also take a proactive approach to environmental conservation in ment in each of the areas based on the five bylaws. corporate activities in international society. Established in April 1992 Revised in April 2009 Medium-and-long-term Environmental Target Values, Results, and Evaluation of Environmental Targets for Fiscal 2012 and The Environment Targets for Fiscal 2020 Environmental Targets (Values) for Fiscal 2013 1. Mitigation of global warming Environmental Targets IReduce CO2 emissions by 11% compared to the fiscal 2008 level 1. Mitigation of global warming IReduce CO2 emissions (751 kilotons 669 kilotons: –82 kilotons) 2. Action for building a recycling-oriented society IReduce final landfill waste disposal 2. A  ction for building a IReduce waste generation per unit of production value ­recycling-oriented society 3. Conservation of the atmospheric environment IReduce VOC emissions into the atmosphere IReduce final landfill waste disposal by 87% compared to the fiscal 2008 level 4. Waste reduction IControl waste generation (1,584 tons 206 tons: –1,378 tons) 5. Chemical substance management IReduce the handling amount of chemical substances designated under the PRTR law 3. C  onservation of the atmospheric environment IReduce VOC emissions into the 6. Initiatives to conserve biodiversity IPromote conservation during paper atmosphere by 70% compared to procurement and at operational sites the fiscal 2008 level (7,326 tons 2,198 tons: –5,128 tons) 7. Environmental contribution through products IDevelop and expand the sales of environmentally friendly products 8. Facilitation of environmental communication IMaintain effective communication 9. Prevention of environmental risk IEstablish and observe new in-house control standards 10. Enrichment of environmental education 11. E  nvironmental conservation at overseas production sites 34 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 Environmental Management Activities system audits for 52 systems and carried out internal environOperating Environmental Management Systems mental audits at 72 operational sites in fiscal 2012. Necessary Toppan operates established environmental management procedures were taken to correct the deficiencies pointed out ­systems (EMSs) based on the Group’s environmental manageduring the audits. ment rules. Seventy-two Group domestic sites undertake environmenImproving Environmental Literacy tal activities to achieve the targets set under the Eco-protection Toppan undertakes various measures to improve the environActivity Plan. The Ecology Center collects environmental permental literacy of Group employees based on social trends formance data as the organization responsible for supervising related to the environment, priority topics for year-by-year envithe Group’s environmental activities. The center then evaluates ronmental activities, and other environment-related matters. and verifies the data and reports the results to the Board of Toppan held rank-based, optional, and internal auditor trainDirectors and other management bodies. Points of improveing sessions and arranged Group-wide e-learning-based proment for the continuous upgrading of environmental managegrams in fiscal 2012. Email newsletters from the Ecology Center ment are proposed and implemented throughout the entire serve as educational tools for the persons in charge of enviCompany. ronmental management at operational sites. The center began The environmental audit follows a three-stage screening sending out a newsletter on biodiversity twice every month in process: a management system audit by an ISO 14001 regisfiscal 2011 and began issuing energy-saving notifications six trar, an internal audit by the Ecology Center, and another intertimes a year in December 2012. nal audit at the individual site. Toppan underwent management The Environment Fiscal 2012 Environmental Targets Management Indicators Target Values Results Achievement Rates Evaluation (Values) for Fiscal 2013 ICO2 emissions 739 kilotons 679 kilotons 108.1% S 688 kilotons ICO2 emissions per unit of sales 0.72 tons/million yen 0.76 tons/million yen 94.4% B 0.75 tons/million yen IFinal landfill waste disposal 475 tons 352 tons 125.9% S 455 tons IWaste generation per unit of production 0.653 tons/million yen 0.724 tons/million yen 89.1% B 0.735 tons/million yen value IVOC emissions into the atmosphere 5,250 tons 4,497 tons 114.3% S 4,762 tons IVOC emissions into the atmosphere per — — — — 0.0128 tons/million yen unit of production value IMaterial recycling rate 92.4% 92.7% 100.3% A 92.7% IHandling amount of chemical substances 8,643 tons 6,689 tons 122.6% S 6,828 tons designated under the PRTR law IHandling amount of chemical substances designated under the PRTR law per unit — — — — 0.0183 tons/million yen of production value IUsage rates of certified paper and Applied a set of paper — A — Continuous increase recycled paper procurement guidelines IOperational sites for land-use assessment 2 sites 4 sites 200% S 4 sites IPercentage of lumber legally obtained by suppliers (out of all lumber used as a — — — — 100% material for paper that Toppan procures) ITotal sales of environmentally friendly 240.0 billion yen 208.5 billion yen 86.9% B 5% increase in total sales products (Cartocan, etc.) compared with the previous year IIssuance rate for Site Eco Reports*1 100% 100% 100% A 100% IRate of establishment of new in-house 100% 33%*2 33% C 100% control standards IRate of course completion in e-learning100% 98% 98% B 100% based programs Trial assessment using the Checked the in-house Trial assessment using the IEstablishment of in-house standards — C in-house standard values management indicators in-house standard values *1 Toppan independently determines which operational sites are required to issue Site Eco Reports. *2 Toppan carefully examined the relevant indicators and the contents of the in-house standards. Evaluation criteria: S, Results achieved far surpass the targets (achievement rate [%] 105); A, Targets achieved (100 achievement rate [%] 105); B, Activities fully carried out, but targets unachieved (70 achievement rate [%] 100); C, Activities insufficient (achievement rate [%] 70) Achievement rates: For environmental targets #1, 2, 3, 5: 200 – (values actually achieved / target values) × 100 [%]; for environmental targets #4, 7, 8, 9, 10: (values actually achieved / target values) × 100 [%] TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 35 Toppan’s Environmental Burden and Types of Environmental Impact by Business Field Environmental Impact 100% Other Other Toppan applies the LIME* life-cycle impact assessment method Other 80% Photochemical to consolidate INPUT and OUTPUT data on environmental oxidants Environmental impact burden associated with business activities into a single index 60% of environmental impact. Global Global warming Global warming This assessment provides a holistic view of the environ40% warming mental impact of all business activities at the Group and serves 20% as a benchmark for establishing medium-and-long-term enviResource Resource Resource ronmental targets and checking the effectiveness of environ0% consumption consumption consumption mental initiatives. Information & Networks Living Environment Electronics Toppan has managed to reduce its environmental impact Note: In Living Environment, the chart shows a significant impact from photochemical oxidants, pollutants formed by reactions between sunlight every year. In fiscal 2012, the Group attained a 25% reduction and VOCs released into the atmosphere. In Electronics, the chart compared to the fiscal 2006 level. shows that energy consumption in clean rooms and other facilities *Life-cycle Impact assessment Method based on Endpoint modeling with high energy-loads imposes higher impacts on global warming. (LIME): A version of the damage-oriented environmental impact assessToppan includes these indicators among its medium-and-long-term ment method adjusted for application in Japan based on the environmenenvironmental targets and has taken initiatives to reduce these types tal background domestically. Damage derived from impact categories is of environmental impact. quantified for each part of the environment to be protected (e.g., human health, biodiversity). Once the damage is quantified, the environmental impacts of multiple factors are integrated into a single index. The Environment Major Environmental Burdens by Business Field in Japan (INPUT/OUTPUT data) INPUT Material Input Total Energy Consumption Total Water Consumption Total PRTR Handling Information & Networks Information & Networks Information & Networks Information & Networks 798,640 (50.8%) 3,905 (25.2%) 975 (7.4%) 998 (14.9%) Living Environment Living Environment Living Environment Living Environment 737,582 (47.0%) 5,389 (34.8%) 1,916 (14.5%) 2,540 (38.0%) Electronics Electronics Electronics Electronics 34,486 (2.2%) 5,525 (35.7%) 9,933 (75.1%) 3,148 (47.1%) Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites 0 (0%) 656 (4.3%) 391 (3.0%) 3 (0%) Total 1,570,708 (Unit: tons) Total 15,475 (Unit: 1,000 GJ) Total 13,215 (Unit: 1,000 m 3) Total 6,689 (Unit: tons) OUTPUT Total Waste Discharge CO 2 Emissions Total Effluent Discharge Total PRTR Release Information & Networks Information & Networks Information & Networks Information & Networks 133,660 (50.4%) 168,603 (24.8%) 627 (5.3%) 60 (20.2%) Living Environment Living Environment Living Environment Living Environment 100,509 (37.9%) 259,047 (38.2%) 1,423 (12.0%) 233 (77.8%) Electronics Electronics Electronics Electronics 27,392 (10.4%) 224,572 (33.1%) 9,406 (79.5%) 6 (1.9%) Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites 3,514 (1.3%) 26,608 (3.9%) 378 (3.2%) 0 (0.1%) Total 265,075 (Unit: tons) Total 678,830 (Unit: t-CO 2) Total 11,834 (Unit: 1,000 m 3) Total 299 (Unit: tons) Note: E  nergy consumption associated with fuel consumption is calculated using the conversion factor specified in the year 2000 amendment of the Act on the Rational Use of Energy of Japan. The primary energy input associated with electricity consumption is calculated uniformly as 0.00983 GJ/kWh. Some of the material inputs are calculated from estimated values based on production values. I “ Waste” in this report includes industrial waste of no value and waste materials of value sold or transferred as resources (both generated in association with business activities). IT  otal energy consumption is the quantity of electricity and fuels consumed. 36 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 Eco-protection Activities Branch. The Sakado Plant of Toppan Communication ProdMitigating Global Warming and Saving Energy ucts Co., Ltd. and the Asaka, Ranzan, and Itabashi Plants of Toppan has been reducing the total emissions of carbon dioxToppan Printing Co., Ltd. received the top awards for outide (CO2) to help mitigate global warming. standing performance. An award for excellence was also Toppan engaged in diverse activities throughout Japan in conferred upon the Kawaguchi Plant of Toppan Communicafiscal 2012 to cope with the power-supply shortages after the tion Products Co., Ltd. Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011. The Company introduced a nationwide demand-monitoring system as a means Improving Transport Efficiency in Logistics of controlling the peak power demand in the summer and winToppan Logistics Co., Ltd., the logistics specialist for the ter. This system profiles electricity consumption conditions at ­Toppan Group, is working with shippers from Toppan Group operational sites in real time. If electricity consumption at a site companies to reduce the energy consumption per unit of transincreases, the Company encourages the site to make energyport volume by company vehicles and the total volume of CO2 saving efforts. As in the year before, Toppan continued adoptemissions from transport. ing LED lights and heat-shield films and coatings, along with Energy consumption per unit of transport volume in fiscal other energy-saving measures such as reviews of air condi2012 was 57.5 kL/million ton-kilometers, 11.4% lower than the tioner temperatures and a lights-out policy for lights not in use. volume recorded in fiscal 2011. The energy consumption per Through these efforts, CO2 emissions in fiscal 2012 were unit of transport volume for the five years from fiscal 2008 to reduced to 679 kilotons (well within the target of 739 kilotons fiscal 2012 was reduced by an average of 2.6% per year, well for the year). surpassing the targeted average reduction of 1%. CO2 emisIn March 2012, Toppan installed solar panels capable of sions were 48,752 tons, or 38.4% higher than the fiscal 2011 generating 60 kW of electricity at the Fukaya Plant in Saitama level, due to an increase in overall transport volume in terms of Prefecture in order to use renewable energy. freight ton-kilometers. The Environment As a result of these efforts, five plants in the Toppan Group Toppan Logistics will work to accomplish the targets for received awards at the “2012 Kanto Efficient Electricity Use fiscal 2013 by optimizing transportation conditions and further Awards” sponsored by the Japan Electric Association Kanto improving transportation efficiency. CO2 Emissions (1,000 t-CO 2) Q CO 2 emissions CO 2 emissions (t-CO 2 /million yen) per unit of sales 1,500 1.00 1,200 0.74 0.75 0.76 0.80 0.71 900 0.60 751 722 695 679 600 0.40 300 0.20 0 0 “2012 Kanto Efficient Electricity Use Award” 2008 2010 2011 2012 (fiscal year) (Itabashi Plant) Note: C  O2 emissions are calculated by the method specified in the Guidelines for Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Businesses (2003) from the Ministry of the Environment (MOE) of Japan. The CO2 emissions associated with electricity consumption, however, are calculated uniformly as 0.378 t-CO2/MWh. CO2 emissions in fiscal 2012 amounted to 809,466 t-CO2 when calculated using the effective emission factor from another MOE method specified in the Ministerial Ordinance Concerning the Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities of Specified Dischargers (the latest amendment on March 31, 2010). Solar panels (Fukaya Plant) TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 37 Building a Recycling-oriented Society Preventing Pollution In a drive to use limited resources more effectively, Toppan The Eco-protection Promotion Committee at each Toppan site works to reduce the discharge of waste, increase the recycling sets in-house control standards more stringently than the rate, and apply appropriate waste treatment methods. regulatory standards require. By complying with these standWaste paper derived from operational sites primarily in the ards, Toppan sites work to reduce environmental burden and Information & Networks and Living Environment fields makes prevent pollution at the sites. up the largest portion (74.6%) of the total waste discharged at To prevent atmospheric pollution, Toppan controls boilers Toppan sites. This is followed by waste plastics from plants in and other plant facilities responsible for air pollutants by manthe Living Environment field and waste acids and alkalis such aging operations under appropriate combustion conditions. In as waste etchant from plants in the Electronics field. Toppan fiscal 2012 the Company continued enhancing efficiency in has worked to increase the material recycling rate by processeffluent-gas treatment by precisely controlling the plant facilities ing waste paper into recycled paper and by separating waste subject to the requirements stipulated under the Air Pollution plastics and processing composite plastic into pellets. Waste Control Law of Japan. VOC and toluene emissions into the acids and alkalis have been processed by internal chemical atmosphere in fiscal 2012 were both reduced compared with treatments. Final landfill waste disposal was reduced by 200 the fiscal 2011 levels. tons in fiscal 2012 by converting cinders discharged from incinTo prevent water pollution, Toppan has installed wastewater erators, a waste product formerly allocated to landfill, into a treatment facilities designed to cope with specific water conroadbed material. The Company has pressed ahead with recysumption and pollutant conditions at individual sites. Wastecling by establishing more detailed criteria for approving “zerowater recycling systems have been installed at Electronics emission sites” with a three-level grading system based on plants that discharge effluents in significant amounts. By recovachievement rates. ering and reusing wastewater via these systems, the plants Toppan will subdivide waste-separation displays at offices have been reducing the levels of water consumption and effluThe Environment and other non-production sites from fiscal 2013. Data from ent discharge. inspections of separation conditions will be provided as feedToppan has also been working for the prevention of groundback to the workplaces in order to heighten awareness among water pollution by checking facilities subject to the requirements employees. stipulated by the revised Water Pollution Control Law of Japan and taking other preventive measures based on the regulatory regime. Total Waste Discharge and Final Landfill Waste Disposal VOC and Toluene Emissions into the Atmosphere* (1,000 tons) Q Total waste discharge Q Final landfill waste disposal (1,000 tons) (tons) VOCs Toluene 350 2.5 10,000 313.8 280 277.8 267.6 2.0 7,326 265.1 7,500 1.6 210 1.5 5,271 5,000 4,888 4,497 140 1.0 0.6 0.6 2,500 70 0.4 0.5 362 376 317 275 0 0 0 2008 2010 2011 2012 (fiscal year) 2008 2010 2011 2012 (fiscal year) Recycling Rate and Material Recycling Rate *Emissions into the atmosphere are calculated in conformance with the (%) Recycling rate (recycling / total waste discharge) standards established by the Japan Federation of Printing Industries (JFPI) Material recycling rate (material recycling / total waste discharge) and the Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Asso100 ciation (JEITA). The data for fiscal 2011 have been adjusted based on 98.8 99.3 99.4 99.6 revised methods for calculation. 95 93.0 92.7 91.5 91.5 90 85 80 0 2008 2010 2011 2012 (fiscal year) 38 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 Controlling Chemical Substances set under the Noise Regulation Law. (Toppan is devising counToppan has striven to reduce the consumption of chemical termeasures, including investigations into the sources to detersubstances designated under the Pollutant Release and Transmine whether the noise is Toppan’s responsibility or the responfer Register (PRTR) law of Japan in an attempt to reduce envisibility of others.) The Company took immediate corrective ronmental burden. In fiscal 2012, Toppan sites all over the world measures for every case, including steps to revise the control terminated the use of dichloromethane. Steps have also been methods for equipment. Since implementing these corrective taken to reduce the consumption of other designated chemical measures, Toppan has reviewed control procedures and taken substances, both volume-wise and in terms of the range of necessary actions to reliably prevent recurrences. As a prevenapplication, by introducing safer substitutes. These efforts tive action against environmental pollution, Toppan holds regreduced the handling amount of chemical substances desigular drills to cope with emergencies and accidents during pronated under the PRTR law by 7.5% compared to the previous duction operations. Emergency-preparedness procedures are fiscal year, surpassing the target for fiscal 2012. reviewed whenever the results of the drills call for them. Toppan has upgraded chemical substance control measures In fiscal 2012, the Company verified compliance with into meet increasing social demand year by year. Procedures for house standards at each plant via internal environmental audits controlling chemical substances at production sites are in place, and other checks. For plants whose in-house standards had and the Company has been taking thorough steps to implement been set inappropriately, standards were reset and existing them. operation and control conditions were reviewed to ensure that none of the regulatory standards would be exceeded. Approach to Environmental Compliance Communities around Toppan plants filed five complaints and In fiscal 2012 in Japan, three production sites recorded VOC inquiries at four sites in fiscal 2012. All cases involved inconemission levels exceeding the regulatory standards set under veniences to community residents related to noise. Toppan has the Air Pollution Control Law and one site recorded odor levels reviewed the control of facilities and equipment responsible for The Environment exceeding the limits set under the Offensive Odor Control Law. noise and either installed isolators or assessed plans to install Three production sites, meanwhile, recorded excessive levels them. The Company has also stepped up routine inspections of BOD, COD, and n-hexane extractable substances, relative and other measures to prevent the recurrence of noise-related to the regulatory standards set for water contaminants under problems. Toppan will enhance the quality of environmental the Water Pollution Control Law and Sewerage Law. Regarding management through ongoing dialogue with residents in surnoise, seven production sites exceeded regulatory standards rounding communities. Chemical Substances Designated Purification of Soil and Groundwater Pollution under the PRTR Law*1 Operational Site Detail Current Progress*2 (tons) Total Total Total Ebie Plant Soil pollution by hexavalent handling transfer release Remediation work completed (Osaka City, Osaka) chromium and lead 10,000 8,681 Itabashi Plant Minami I bldg. Soil pollution by hexavalent Remediation work completed (Itabashi Ward, Tokyo) chromium and lead 7,228 7,500 6,689 Itabashi Plant Groundwater pollution by Groundwater pumped and (Itabashi Ward, Tokyo) hexavalent chromium and toluene purified; continuously monitored Niigata Plant Soil pollution by fluorine and its 5,000 Continuously monitored (Shibata City, Niigata) compounds 3,119 Groundwater pollution by VOCs Asaka Plant 2,500 2,010 2,111 (Voluntary investigation of well Continuously monitored (Niiza City, Saitama) water on the plant premises) 399 346 299 *2 As of March 2013 0 2010 2011 2012 (fiscal year) *1 D  ioxins are excluded because of a difference in the counting unit. The data for fiscal 2011 have been adjusted based on revised methods for calculation. Emergency-preparedness drill to cope with a Odor measurement by an external agency ­hypothetical leakage scenario (Fukuyama Plant) (Sakado Plant) TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 39 Promoting the Conservation of Biodiversity the landscape of a windbreak forest, with protective mounds IAcquiring SEGES for Urban Development Certification built in. The Thicket Forest is conceived as an ecosystemat the New Plant in Gunma minded local forest made up native vegetation. The Flower Toppan’s Basic Policy on Biodiversity stipulates rules for the Forest will provide an attractive community landscape with procurement of raw materials such as paper, water use and rows of cherry blossom trees combined with azaleas and other effluent discharge, the release of chemical substances, the flowering trees. use of land and environments in and around operational sites, and other environmental matters. Under this policy, the ComIBiodiversity Conservation at Operational Sites pany will be designing green spaces that emulate the indigThe Fukaya Plant launched a biodiversity conservation activity enous environmental features in and around the site premises onsite in fiscal 2012. The activity was inaugurated with an at Toppan’s new plant under construction in Gunma Prefecture. event entitled “Forest-planting for local wildlife.” Employees Plant construction will be completed in March 2014. and their families took part in quizzes, plant observation This green space plan is the first plan of its kind within a ­sessions, an eco-workshop to create safe habitats for beetle plant premises to acquire the certification of the Social and larvae, and so on. The second event was a “Birdhouse instalEnvironmental Green Evaluation System (SEGES) for Urban lation for wild birds in the forest.” This time the participants Development. The Organization for Landscape and Urban observed living things within the plant premise under the guidGreen Infrastructure of Japan grants this certification to busiance of expert naturalists. Every participating family built and nesses that contribute to society and the environment through installed a birdhouse and feeding station in the green space green conservation and creation. for the Great Tit. The plan secures a green space ratio of 30% or more. It also seeks to reach a 50% permeable land ratio (area where IImproving Land-use Practices at Operational Sites rainfall infiltrates into the ground) by installing a rain garden, Since fiscal 2010, a cumulative total of nine operational sites The Environment a wetland area that uses rainwater effectively. The green space have applied the land-use assessment method* to monitor will consist of three zones: the Wind Forest, the Thicket Fororganisms within their premises and to assess the degree to est, and the Flower Forest. The Wind Forest is modeled after which their land-use methods contribute to biodiversity. *Based on a set of Guidelines for Sustainable Business Site Management® established by the Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB) Concept illustration of Thicket Forest at new Birdhouse creation (Fukaya Plant) Gunma plant Concept illustration of Flower Forest at new Wildlife observation (Fukaya Plant) Gunma plant 40 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 Eco-creativity Activities Environmental Communication Activities  eveloping and Approving Environmentally Friendly D Presenting at Eco-Products 2012 Products At the Eco-Products 2012 fair in December 2012, Toppan proToppan approves eco-friendly products in accordance with the posed new environmental solutions based on an “ecollable” criteria set under Toppan’s 14 Environmental Points based on concept oriented towards a sustainable society. By combing ISO 14021 and in-house standards established separately by “ecology,” “collaboration,” and “able,” the Company intends to divisions. A total of 106 products were registered as “environshow that governments, companies, organizations, consumers, mentally friendly products” as of the end of March 2013. and other stakeholders are able to collaborate on eco-tasks The criteria for the 14 Environmental Points were reviewed that no entity can accomplish alone. These entities may work in fiscal 2012. Toppan will apply the revised criteria to approve together for the development of new environmental technoloenvironmentally friendly products from fiscal 2013 and revitalgies and the creation of new society-wide schemes to resolve ize its Eco-creativity Activities further. environmental challenges. Toppan presented environmental solutions such as packaging materials for lithium-ion batteries,  nvironment-related Businesses at Group E the eco-friendly Cartocan, and smart community initiatives. ­Companies These products and initiatives exemplify the endeavors Toppan Like Toppan itself, the companies of the Toppan Group develop, has realized through collaboration with client companies, produce, and market eco-friendly products in line with standorganizations, governments, and other entities in development, ards they formulate themselves in consideration of social sales, and operation. demands. The total sales of environment-related businesses—includIssuing Site Eco Reports ing, most notably, sales of environmentally friendly products Toppan’s ISO 14001-certified sites in Japan issue Site Eco satisfying the in-house criteria of the Toppan Group—stood at Reports directed towards local municipalities and residents in The Environment 208.5 billion yen in fiscal 2012. surrounding communities. Thirty-three reports from 44 sites were issued in fiscal 2012. Toppan’s 14 Environmental Points and Receiving LCA Society of Japan Environmental Considerations Chairman’s Award Toppan’s 14 In November 2012, Toppan received the Life Cycle Environmental Points LCA Society of Japan Chairman’s Award at Stage for Environmentally the 9th LCA Society of Japan Awards sponFriendly Products sored by the Life Cycle Assessment Society Production and 1. Use of safe materials of Japan (JLCA). These awards commend distribution 2. U  se of recycled companies, organizations, and researchers materials who make intensive efforts to reduce envi3. Resource-saving ronmental burden by applying life cycle assessments (LCAs). 4. Reduced energy JLCA applauded Toppan for the followconsumption in ing: for applying LCAs to the quantification production Eco-Products 2012 of environmental burden associated with 5. Use of recovered both the Company’s overall business activienergy ties and individual products; for incorporat6. Reduced solid waste ing the concept of LCA into the measureUse ment of water consumption and other types 7. Energy-saving of environmental burden; and for success8. R  educed release of fully reducing environmental burden and chemical substances improving environmental efficiency through9. Long product life out its business activities through the aforeAfter Use said measures. 10. Reusability 11. Recyclability 12. Suitability for disposal 13. E  asy separation and disassembly 14. Biodegradability Site Eco Reports (in Japanese) TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 41 Independent Assurance Toppan revised the composition of the environment section therefore advised to begin examining the revised guidelines of the CSR Report 2013 to make it easier to read. The Comat an early stage. pany was able to make the revisions without any quantitative We see that the accuracy of the environmental performance reduction of the information to be disclosed. Pursuant to these data in the report is improved overall, thanks in large part to revisions, some of the supplementary data are now disclosed improvements in the organization of the rules for reporting via the CSR Report 2013: Detailed Data, a PDF file posted on through the use of information systems. We believe, howthe Toppan website. ever, there is room for improvement in data presentation. For In May 2013, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) revised example, Toppan’s stakeholders can gain a clear picture of the its Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, the de facto global environmental burden throughout the Group only after referring standard for CSR reporting. Several of the revisions affect the to the Detailed Data online. directionality of future CSR reporting in significant ways. For The scope and boundary of the social performance data example, an organization preparing a CSR report in accordcovers only Toppan Printing Co., Ltd., in principle. It will be ance with the GRI guidelines is required to disclose not only an ongoing challenge for Toppan to disclose the activities and the process it uses to identify the information to be disclosed, results of the entire Group comprehensively. but also the material aspects identified through the process. To cope with these new information-disclosure trends adeptly, Shinichiro Akasaka reporting organizations will need time to prepare. They are KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. Indicators in this Report Assured by an Independent Assurance Provider Pages Indicators Assured by an Independent Assurance Provider Number of Recruits; Female Managerial and Supervisory Staff; Employment of Persons with Disabilities; 19 Human Rights number of retired employees; number of reemployed employees Number of Employees; Reasons for Leaving; Average Annual Salary; Annual Paid Leave Used; Employees 20 Taking Maternity or Childcare Leave Rates of decrease in the average hours of overtime worked (in fiscal 2007, fiscal 2012); number of employees 21 who have resigned from the Company and registered to join the rehiring system for employees who resign from the Company for the delivery and upbringing of children Labor Practices 22 Occupational Safety and Health Number of employees who participated in the Toppan Business School; number of employees who participated in basic, Company-wide education (via e-learning programs); number of employees who were 23 deployed overseas under the trainee system to acquire practical training in overseas business; number of employees who participated in selective training on globalization 24 Number of Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders; ratio of female Leaders Number of employees who participated in training sessions for Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders; 25 Fair Operating Practices number of employees who participated in training on the prevention of improper conduct; number of employees who participated in education on compliance with transaction-related laws and regulations 26 Number of business partners surveyed to verify the legality of lumber used for paper production Number of employees who participated in training sessions for internal auditors; results of audits conducted 28 Consumer Issues using the quality audit checklist 34 Toppan’s Environmental Activities Environmental targets (values) and results for fiscal 2012 *Only the numerical results are assured. Environmental Management 35 Number of internal environmental audits conducted Activities Toppan’s Environmental Burden and 36 Major Environmental Burdens by Business Field in Japan (INPUT/OUTPUT data) Environmental Impact 37 CO2 Emissions Total Waste Discharge and Final Landfill Waste Disposal; VOC and Toluene Emissions into the Atmosphere; 38 Recycling Rate and Material Recycling Rate Eco-protection Activities Chemical Substances Designated under the PRTR Law; Compliance with regulatory standards in fiscal 2012; 39 number of complaints and inquiries from communities around Toppan plants; Purification of Soil and Groundwater Pollution Number of newly registered environmentally friendly products; total sales of environmentally friendly products 41 Eco-creativity Activities at Toppan and Group companies Some data in the CSR Report 2013: Detailed Data posted on the Toppan website are also assured by the assurance provider. 42 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 Independent Assurance Report TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 43 Group Business Structure Customers Toppan Group Structure Manufacturing Companies Manufacturing and Sales Companies Sales Companies Toppan Communication Products Froebel-Kan Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Toppan Forms Co., Ltd. Information & Networks 59% Total Media Development Institute Toppan Graphic Communications Tosho Printing Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. 2 other companies Toppan Travel Service Corp. 9 other companies Toppan Printing Co. (America), Toppan System Solutions Co., Ltd. Toppan Forms Central Products Inc. (USA) Co., Ltd. Tokyo Shoseki Co., Ltd. Toppan Printing Co., (H.K.) Ltd. 10 other companies 26 other companies (PRC) T.F. Co., Ltd. (PRC) 15 other companies ∗Toppan M&I Co., Ltd. 9 other companies 8 other companies ∗Zhejiang Matsuoka Printing Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (Manufacturing and sales company) ∗Data Products Toppan Forms Co., Ltd. (PRC) Toppan Leefung Pte. Ltd. Ltd. (Thailand) 2 other companies (Singapore) 10 other companies 28 other companies Manufacturing Companies Manufacturing and Sales Company Sales Companies Toppan Packaging Products Toppan Cosmo, Inc. Co., Ltd. Toppan TDK Label Co., Ltd. Living Environment 25% Toppan Functional Products Toppan Containers Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Tamapoly Co., Ltd. Toppan Plastic Co., Ltd. Toppan Prosprint Co., Ltd. Toppan Packs Co., Ltd. 2 other companies 8 other companies ∗Toyo Ink SC Holdings Co., Ltd. Toppan Yau Yue Paper Products 3 other companies Ltd. (PRC) P.T. Toppan Printing Indonesia 2 other companies (Indonesia) Toppan Interamerica Inc. (USA) 8 other companies Manufacturing Companies Manufacturing and Sales Companies Sales Companies Toppan Electronics Products Toppan Electronics (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. NEC Toppan Circuit Solutions, Inc. 3 other companies Toppan TOMOEGAWA Optical Toppan CFI (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. Electronics 16% Products Co., Ltd. Toppan Photomasks, Inc. (USA) 5 other companies 8 other companies ∗Panasonic Industrial Devices ∗Advanced Mask Technology Optical Films Co., Ltd. Center GmbH & Co. KG (Germany) 1 other company Products Materials Service Notes: INo symbol: subsidiary—167 companies *: affiliates—30 companies (as of the end of March 2013) IToppan Group’s business activities are usually divided into five fields. Here, however, they are divided into three fields based on the current sizes of the businesses and other factors. IThe composition ratios given under each business field are percentages of overall net sales contributed. (“Net Sales by Business Field” are shown on page 5.) IToppan Forms Co., Ltd., Tosho Printing Co., Ltd., and Toyo Ink SC Holdings Co., Ltd. are listed on the first section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. IToppan operational sites span 15 countries and regions, including Japan. 44 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2013 http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/ © TOPPAN 2013.10 K I Printed in Japan
