Environmental and Social Report 2013 2013 Environmental and Social Report (Previous issue: June 2012) Issued June 2013 (Next issue: scheduled for June 2014) Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. 6-1, Ohtemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0004, Japan URL: http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/ For further information regarding this report, please contact the Public Relations Department, Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. Phone: +81-3-3246-5091 Fax: +81-3-3246-5096 e-mail: sec-pr@shinetsu.jp Your opinions, inquiries, and requests regarding this report are welcomed at our website: URL: http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/csr.html#environment Table of Contents Editorial Policy Corporate The Group strictly complies with all laws and regulations, conducts fair business practices and The Environmental and Social Report provides information on environmental, safety and quality control programs and CSR Mission contributes to people’s daily lives as well as to the advancement of industry and society by initiatives carried out by the Shin-Etsu Group. The Report also Statement providing key materials and technologies. describes Responsible Care programs1 at the Shin-Etsu Group. The Report has been compiled in accordance with the Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 and Environmental Reporting Corporate Mission Statement/Basic CSR Policy 1 Guidelines FY2012 released by the Ministry of the Environment, Editorial Policy/Table of Contents 2 Japan, and the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The Shin-Etsu Group: Message from Management 3 Basic CSR Period Covered by the Report Overview of the Shin-Etsu Group 5 1 Policy (indicated where otherwise) Will do our best to increase the Group’s corporate value through sustained growth and Japan: April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013 TOPICS 1: Shin-Etsu Group Products in Our Daily Life 7 Overseas: January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012 make multifaceted contributions to society. TOPICS 2: The Shin-Etsu Group Expanding All Over the Globe 9 Organizations Covered by the Report 2 The report covers the 143 companies of the Shin-Etsu Group. The range of entities from which data were collected is in principle Management Structures Will carry out all of our company activities by making safety always our utmost priority. as stated below. Where otherwise, this is indicated in a separate note. CSR Promotion Structure 11 3 (1) Environmental Activity Report Will constantly pursue energy-saving, resources-saving and the reduction of the The report includes data from the 123 companies of the ShinCorporate Governance 12 environmental impact, and seek to help create a sustainable future world in which we all live Etsu Group (an increase of 6). Compared to the coverage of the 2012 report, there is thus an expansion in scope and a Compliance with Laws and Regulations 16 in harmony with the Earth. difference in content. Information Asset Management 17 4 63 domestic manufacturing bases Will endeavor to contribute to the prevention of global warming and the conservation of 110 domestic non-manufacturing bases (decrease of 3) Risk Management 18 47 overseas manufacturing bases (increase of 5) biodiversity by means of our cutting-edge technologies and products. 57 overseas non-manufacturing bases (increase of 4) Environment and Safety 5 (2) Environmental Accounting Will strive to respect human dignity, assure equality in employment opportunities and Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. Environmental Management 19 (3) Management Structures, Relations with Society support the self-fulfillment of our employees. Shin-Etsu Group, except for the Shin-Etsu Polymer Group2 Targets and Results 19 6 1 Responsible Care program Reducing the Environmental Impact of Business Activities 21 Will appropriately disclose information in a timely manner. A campaign encouraging enterprises that handle chemical Input/Output substances to voluntarily ensure protection of the Environmental Accounting 22 7 environment, safety and health in all processes, from the development of chemical substances through manufacture, Environmental Initiatives 23 Will carry out trustworthy corporate activities that are based on the integrity of distribution and utilization to final consumption, disposal the Group’s ethical values. or recycling, to publish the results of their activity, and to Safety and Health 29 engage in dialog and communication with society. Initiatives for Safety and Health 29 2 For a report on the Shin-Etsu Polymer Group, see “Shin-Etsu Polymer Sustainability Report 2013” (to be published at end Relations with Society Global Compact Ten Principles of September 2013). Shareholders and Investors 31 The Shin-Etsu Group joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in November 2010. The Group upholds the ten principles advanced Customers 32 by the UNGC in the four areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Business Partners 34 The Global Compact asks that businesses should: Principle 6: U  phold the elimination of discrimination in Local Communities 35 Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of respect of employment and occupation Employees 37 internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 7: S upport a precautionary approach to Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit in human environmental challenges rights abuses Principle 8: U  ndertake initiatives to promote greater History of Activities 41 Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of association and the environmental responsibility effective recognition of the right to collective Principle 9: E ncourage the development and diffusion of Responsible Care (RC) Audit of the Report 42 bargaining environmentally friendly technologies Principle 4: Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced Principle 10: Work against corruption in all its forms, and compulsory labour including extortion and bribery Principle 5: Uphold the effective abolition of child labour * CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) The idea that enterprises, rather than concentrating solely on profit, need to value their relationships with a wide range of stakeholders in the conduct of their business. For information on our Corporate Mission Statement, Basic CSR Policy and UNGC participation, please refer to: GRI Guidelines Comparison Table WEB WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/csr.html#policy http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/csr.html#environment 1 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 2 Message from Managemant Meeting the expectations of people around the world by contributing to society through our key materials and technologies The Shin-Etsu Group has production bases all over • Promoting environmental conservation and Auditing Department an independent organization Focusing on making social contributions throughout the world the world. From these bases we are supplying a reducing the environmental impact and have put in place a fair, objective auditing variety of key materials and products that contribute We are working on the development and system. The Shin-Etsu Group carries out many different to the advancement of industry and society as improvement of the Group’s manufacturing kinds of social contribution activities around the well. We are seriously working on issues that are technologies thorough the Group’s horizontal world and has nurtured trust relationships with Strengthening our business continuity foundation closely related to society, such as the safety and technology committee, which is conducting local societies. One example is the staff members the environment by dedicating ourselves to carry studies from the point-of-view of environmental The Shin-Etsu Group has many products that of Shintech Inc. in the U.S participate in non-profit out our business activities. In all of our business performance. Furthermore, with regard to have a dominant share in the world market. For charitable organizations. In the future as well, we activities, we believe that it is our important greenhouse gases, in addition to the emissions this reason, we consider the stable supply of our will sincerely and proactively tackle the issues that corporate responsibility to contribute to the lives of emitted by the Shin-Etsu Group in its business products as our most important social mission, and society is seeking to deal with, and we will make people around the world who are supporting our activities, we began to estimate the emission for quite some time we have been implementing strong efforts to solidly carry out our responsibilities businesses in various ways. amounts from the raw materials production that our our strategy of globally dispersing our production as a good corporate citizen. Group uses to the disposal of the final products. bases so as to assure reliable supplies of our We sincerely would like to ask for your products to our customers. In this context, we have understanding and further support of the ShinAlways placing our utmost priority on safety • Products and technologies that help protect continually strengthened our preparations for such Etsu Group’s comprehensive endeavors to fulfill its “Safety first” is one of our core management the global environment contingencies as natural disasters. responsibilities as a good corporate global citizen. objectives. We make sure that all of our board The Shin-Etsu Group’s main products, including members and employees have a strong sense of PVC, semiconductor silicon, rare earth magnets, Participating in the U. N. Global Compact consciousness about safety. To ensure safety in all of silicones and LED packaging materials, are June 2013 our manufacturing processes, we strictly adhere to contributing to energy saving in a wide diversity of The Shin-Etsu Group signed the Responsible Care operational procedures. We ceaselessly review our fields. In addition, we are focusing on the research Global Charter of the International Council of operation procedures and also work to continually and development of products that will be essential Chemical Association (ICCA) in 2006, the global find ways to improve them. In addition, we work for the widespread use of such renewable energy chemical industry’s environmental, health and to eliminate latent risks through means such as sources as solar and wind power. safety initiative aimed at driving the continuous implementing the most appropriate facility design improvement of performance in these areas, and and making continuous improvements on them, has been actively supporting and implementing Practicing fair and highly transparent management improving production technologies, and reviewing these Responsible Care activities. In 2010, the and improving operation manuals as well as We have established strict internal control and audit Group became a participant in the United Nations making sure that they are scrupulously observed. systems. We have adopted a basic internal control Global Compact (UNGC) and has been voluntarily Furthermore, we are gathering and openly disclosing policy that strictly meets the requirements of the supporting and practicing in its business operations any concerns that our employees have felt in their Reporting System on Internal Control Over Financial and strategies the UNGC’s 10 universally accepted daily work concering possibly dangerous situations Reporting – which is stipulated in the Japanese principles with regard to the four areas including – what we refer to as “close-call incidents” – and Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. We are also human rights, labour, environment and antiendeavor to share this information. disclosing appropriate information. In addition, we corruption. These principles are in line with the are receiving advice and supervision of management Shin-Etsu Group’s mission and basic CSR (corporate from an objective, independent standpoint by social responsibility) policies. Going forward, we will Working to protect the environment appointing people as outside directors and outside continue to promote business activities that are in In all phases of our business activities, including our audit & supervisory board member who are among total conformity with these principles and will work manufacturing processes, production technologies the foremost figures in their respective fields and to further strengthen trust between Shin-Etsu and and products, we are constantly endeavoring to who possess deep insight and a wealth of business people throughout the world. reduce the environmental impact and save on the experience and knowledge. Furthermore, with Chihiro Kanagawa, Ph. D. Shunzo Mori Chairman President use of resources and promote energy saving. regard to our auditing system, we have made the 3 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 4 Overview of the Shin-Etsu Group We aim to become an enterprise group that is trusted by society. To this end, we strive to achieve world-leading standards of technology, quality and cost-competitiveness and engage actively in CSR initiatives As of March 31, 2013, the Shin-Etsu Group comprises Diversified Business. In each of these fields, we have Shin-Etsu Chemical and 142 Group companies, which products with strong market share, with the world’s top Corporate Overview share responsibility for sales, manufacturing and other share in polyvinyl chloride (PVC), semiconductor silicons, operations and cooperate to develop their respective photomask substrates for LCDs, and the top domestic Overview of Operations No. of employees (Persons) ■Consolidated ■Non-consolidated business activities. share for silicones. Trading name Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. 20,000 19,170 17,712 These business activities are divided into six fields: Shin-Etsu products are a familiar part of our everyday Location 6-1, Ohtemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0004, Japan 16,955 16,302 16,167 PVC/Chlor-Alkali Business; Silicones Business; Specialty lives. Indeed, the Shin-Etsu Group plays an essential role Established September 16, 1926 15,000 Chemicals Business; Semiconductor Silicon Business; in the modern advanced information society. Capital 119,419 million yen Electronics and Functional Materials Business; and Representative Shunzo Mori, President 10,000 Number of employees 17,712 (consolidated) 2,692 (non-consolidated) Business activities Production and sales of polyvinyl chloride, semiconductor Technology, Materials, Products Chart silicons, silicones, rare earth magnets, synthetic quartz, cellulose 5,000 2,609 2,647 2,656 2,695 2,692 derivatives and other products 0 Outstanding materials come from outstanding technology. The Shin-Etsu Group evolve into a variety of sophisticated Principal Shin-Etsu Group Companies 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 technologies developed in the process of creating products that meet ever advancing and diversifying needs. ● Japanese Domestic Group Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd., Shin-Etsu Handotai Co., Ltd., Shin-Etsu Polymer Co., Ltd., Shin-Etsu Engineering Co., Ltd., Nagano Electronics Industrial Co., Ltd., Naoetsu Electronics Co., Ltd., Shin-Etsu Astech Co., Ltd., and others ● Overseas Group Optical Products Cellulose Shintech Inc., Shin-Etsu Handotai America Inc., S.E.H. Malaysia SDN. BHD., Shin-Etsu PVC B.V., SE Tylose GmbH & Co. KG, isolators derivatives Shin-Etsu Handotai Europe Ltd., Shin-Etsu Handotai Taiwan Co., Ltd., and others Oxide single Synthetic sex crystals pheromones, (Lithium Aroma Rating: Aa3 long-term debt rating received from Moody’s Investors Services Tantalate) Materials chemicals Pulp Full details of Shin-Etsu Group companies: Rare Semiconductor WEB Compound earths http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/profile.html Acetylene encapsulatings semiconductors elements, Others materials Gallium Epoxy Technology Financial Highlights Single-crystal Organic Silane & Semiconductor Poly growing synthesis Silicon Silanes silicon Silicon technology technology metal Net Sales (Billion yen) Operating Income (Billion yen) Net Income (Billion yen) ■Consolidated ■Consolidated ■Consolidated Phenol ■Non-consolidated ■Non-consolidated ■Non-consolidated 1,500 250 232.9 200 derivatives Rare earths, Powdering/ 1,200.8 154.7 Electrolysis 1,200 200 Rare earth Rare sintering Photoresists 1,058.3 1,047.7 1,025.4 150 earths technology technology magnets 916.8 149.2 149.6 157.0 900 150 105.7 117.2 100.1 100.6 100 83.9 Industrial 606.7 553.9 602.8 579.0 559.5 Silica salt 600 100 78.4 76.8 80.1 64.0 70.7 77.3 56.7 51.9 44.5 49.0 Silicon Chorides, 50 CVD &PVD 1 2 Polymerization 300 50 metal technology Caustic soda Plastic & Film 0 0 0 Boron Fluorine processing 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 compound technology Pyrolytic Net Sales by Segment (Fiscal year ended March 2013) Net Sales by Region (Fiscal year ended March 2013) Silane Liquid boron Silane fluoroelastomers nitride Molybdenum Chlorine & Diversified business (PBN) Silicon Fluorine Ethylene 83.9（8％） PVC/Chlor-alkali Japan polymers 343.7 （33％） Asia/Oceania Synthetic Electronics and 334.3（35.0％） Silicones functional materials Consolidated Consolidated 295.0 （29％） quartz 182.8 （18％） net sales net sales Overseas Photomask Polyvinyl 1,025.4 1,025.4 blanks Pellicles chloride Semiconductor silicon billion yen billion yen United States (PVC) 202.5 （20％） 190.4 （18％） Other Silicones 91.1（9％） Europe Specialty chemicals 129.0 （13％） 114.5 （11％） 1 Chemical Vapor Deposition (CVD) 83.5（8％） A process for forming thin films on a substrate, involving gas energized by thermal, optical, or electromagnetic radiation to cause excitation or decomposition, and involving steps such as attraction, reaction, and dissociation. Financial and IR information 2 Physical Vapor Deposition (PVD) WEB A method for forming thin films of material on a substrate, using originally solid substances vaporized by thermal or plasma energy. http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/ir/ 5 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 6 1 TOPICS Shin-Etsu Group Products in Our Daily Life Shin-Etsu Group products also help in disaster restoration efforts The products of the Shin-Etsu Group are used in reconstruction efforts for the Great East Japan Earthquake. For example, Polymer Panels from Shin-Etsu Polymer were chosen as exterior decoration board for The products of the Shin-Etsu Group are used in many walks of daily life, enabling a pleasant and fulfilling lifestyle. restoration housing in Hachinohe City, Aomori Prefecture. Tatsuno The products also contribute to the saving of energy and resources and the reduction of environmental impact, thereby putting Chemical Industries’ Marcalian waterproof sheet for civil engineering the mission of “contributing to people’s daily lives, as well as to the advance of industry and society by providing key materials applications is being used in cleanup operations of radioactive materials and technologies” into practice. released due to the Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear power station accident. Polymer panels Marcalian Solar cell sealing materials Wind power generation motors Silicone Rare earth magnets Bridge retainer foundations Cosmetics Cellulose derivatives Silicone LEDs Silicone encapsulating materials, Silicone die attach adhesive, reflector Optical fiber Preform for optical fibers Harmful insect control for agriculture (disrupting mating Wire coating materials communication between male Polyvinyl chloride and female pests) Synthetic pheromones PVC windows Polyvinyl chloride Substrates for semiconductor integrated circuits in personal computers, smartphones, tablets, etc. Exterior decoration board Semiconductor silicons (siding materials) Polymer panels Large size photomask substrates for flat panel displays Synthetic quartz substrates Motors for hybrid and electric vehicles Rare earth magnets Air conditioning compressor Rare earth magnets Pharmaceutical coating agents, Sustained release agents , disintegrating agents Water pipes Cellulose derivatives Polyvinyl chloride Product information WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/products/ 7 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 8 2 TOPICS The Shin-Etsu Group Expanding All Over the Globe The first overseas subsidiary of the Shin-Etsu Group was founded in 1967 in Portugal. Since then, the Group has greatly expanded its scope of operations. Fiscal 2012 again saw business startups in various locations. At each subsidiary, we are reliably ensuring respect for human rights and are creating new and ongoing employment opportunities for local citizens, thereby contributing to the local economy. SHIN-ETSU (CHANGTING) TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD. Main overseas group companies and SHIN-ETSU ELECTRONICS MATERIALS VIETNAM CO., LTD. 1 5 (Longyan, Fujian Province, China) major overseas locations of new (Hung Yen Province, Vietnam) A plant with a yearly startups or expansions in fiscal 2012 In June 2013, a production capacity plant for producing for 3,000 tons of high-brightness LED magnet alloys used packaging materials for the production of was completed. rare earth magnets went into operation in March 2013. 9 10 11 19 SHIN-ETSU (JIANGSU) OPTICAL PREFORM CO., LTD. SHINTECH INCORPORATED 2 6 (Jiangyin, Jiangsu Province, China) 16 (Lousiana & Texas, U.S.A.) 2 3 6 A plant with a yearly In fiscal 2011, a plant for integrated production of polyvinyl chloride 1 17 18 preform production starting from raw capacity for the 4 material was completed equivalent of 8 million 5 in Louisiana. Like the kilometers of optical 12 13 14 15 Texas plant, the facility fiber went into full operation during fiscal has continued to 2012. operate at full capacity since fiscal 2012. 7 SHIN-ETSU SILICONE (NANTONG) CO., LTD. 8 SHIN-ETSU DO BRASIL REPRESENTACAO DE PRODUTOS 3 7 (Nangtong, Jiangsu Province, China) SHIN-ETSU HANDOTAI EUROPE, LTD. (S.E.H. EUROPE) QUIMICOS LTDA (Sao Paulo, Brazil) 9 (U.K.) 15 SHIN-ETSU (Malaysia) POLYMER (MALAYSIA) SDN. BHD. In fiscal 2012, a Sales of silicone products and cellulose derivatives began in fiscal 2012. plant with a yearly Production and Sales of Semiconductor Silicon Production and Sales of Silicone Rubber Molded Products, Embossed production capacity for Carrier Tapes and Input Devices 25,000 tons of silicone rubber was put into 10 SHIN-ETSU PVC B.V. 16 SUZHOU SHIN-ETSU POLYMER CO., LTD. (The Netherlands) operation. (China) Production and Sales of Vinyl Chloride Monomer and PVC Production and Sales of Input Devices and Display-related Devices 11 SE TYLOSE GMBH & CO. KG (Germany) SHIN-ETSU HANDOTAI TAIWAN CO., LTD. (S.E.H. TAIWAN) 17 (Taiwan) Production and Sales of Cellulose Derivatives SHIN-ETSU MAGNETIC MATERIALS VIETNAM CO., LTD. Production and Sales of Semiconductor Silicon SIMCOA OPERATIONS PTY. LTD. 4 8 (Hai Phong Province, Vietnam) (Western Australia, Australia) 12 S.E.H. MALAYSIA SDN. BHD. 18 SHIN-ETSU SILICONE TAIWAN CO., LTD. (Malaysia) In March 2013, a rare In fiscal 2012, yearly (Taiwan) earth separation and Production and Sales of Semiconductor Silicon production capacity refinement plant was Production and Sales of Silicone Products for silicon metal was completed. upped from 32,000 13 SHIN-ETSU (MALAYSIA) SDN. BHD. 19 SHIN-ETSU HANDOTAI AMERICA, INC. (Malaysia) tons to 48,000 tons. (U.S.A.) Production and Sales of Rare Earth Magnets Production and Sales of Semiconductor Silicon 14 SHIN-ETSU (Malaysia) ELECTRONICS (MALAYSIA) SDN. BHD. Domestic and overseas network Production and Sales of Epoxy Molding Compounds WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/network.html 9 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 10 Management Structures CSR Promotion Structure Corporate Governance Shin-Etsu Chemical implements various Corporate governance is one of our most activities to fulfill its corporate social important management tasks responsibility (CSR) Shin-Etsu Chemical aims to continually enhance of Directors sets out the fundamental policies of CSR Promotion Structure corporate value and thereby meet the expectations the Company and deliberates and makes decisions The mission of the Shin-Etsu Group is “strictly to To achieve this, we formulated our Basic CSR of shareholders. To this end, the Company has regarding key aspects of Company operations in comply with all laws and regulations, to conduct fair Policy as a detailed policy and this forms the basis instituted an ef ficient struc tural framework accordance with the Companies Act, the Shinbusiness practices and to contribute to people’s daily for internal regulations and various activities which and systems designed to enable a more prompt Etsu articles of incorporation, etc. Meanwhile, the lives as well as to the advance of society and industry are taking place. In order to promote the Basic CSR response to changes in the business environment. Managing Directors’ Meeting makes deliberations by providing key materials and technologies”. We Policy in an effective and appropriate manner at Moreover, Shin-Etsu Chemical accurately discloses and decisions regarding a variety of other operational believe we have a social responsibility to contribute a company-wide level in all aspects of corporate information to shareholders and investors as a issues. to our many stakeholders, including all of our activity, we have set up a CSR Promotion Committee means of enhancing management transparency and The Audit & Supervisory Board consists of five shareholders and investors, customers, business comprising managers from the relevant divisions strengthening audit systems. members, of whom three are Outside Audit & partners, local communities and employees, by and departments, and have appointed an officer Supervisory Board Member with a high degree of realizing this vision. responsible for CSR. independence. As well as attending the Board of Board of Directors, Managing Directors meetings, Managing Directors’ Meetings, Diagram of the Shin-Etsu Group’s various relationships Directors’ Meeting and Audit & and other important internal meetings, the Audit Supervisory Board & Supervisory Board Members inspect important Shareholders Sha and investors ShinEt su Chemical has adopted a Audit & documents and carry out other tasks in order to Supervisory Board Member system. The Board of audit the execution of operations by the directors. Customers Directors consists of 23 members, of whom five The Audit & Supervisory Board Members also hold are outside directors with extensive management monthly meetings with the Auditing Department experience and a high level of expertise. where they receive progress reports on activities, Two organizations discuss and decide on the internal auditing results, and other matters. They also IR activities General Shareholders’ Meeting execution of operations: the Board of Directors and provide advice on topics including these activities Dividend the Managing Directors’ Meeting, which are held and the selection of key auditing topics, and request on a monthly basis as a general rule. The Board investigations when necessary. Product sales Material procurement Business partners Product safety Corporate Governance System at Shin-Etsu Chemical Quality control Local communities General Shareholders’ Meeting Election/Dismissal Election/Dismissal Election/Dismissal Environmental management Local contribution Human rights and employment Committee Report Audit & Supervisory Board Education and training Officers’ Remuneration Committee Auditing Five audit & supervisory board Chairman: Outside director Board of Directors members of whom three are outside Welfare Election/Dismissal Employees 23 directors, including 5 external directors audit & supervisory board members Safety and health Judgment of Advice and Requirements Accounting Audit Supervision, Election/Dismissal Adequacy Outline of the Corporate Mission Statement, Basic CSR Policy, and our activities Auditing Representative Directors Accounting Auditors Reporting The Shin-Etsu Group’s Corporate Mission Statement Reporting Basic CSR Policy Managing Directors’ Meeting Instruction Deliberation on operational issues, etc. Auditing Department Reporting Reporting Compliance with Laws and Regulations Auditing Instruction/Supervision Committees for each main management task Information Asset Management Environmental Management Human Rights and Employment Investigation/Guidance Corporate Governance Material Procurement Contribution to society Marketing, Manufacturing, Research & Development and Management Departments Risk Management Safety and Health Product Safety As of June 27, 2013 11 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 12 Management Structures Outside Directors and Outside Audit & coordination between internal audit departments Supervisory Board Members Support system Directors’ Remuneration and outside directors and Audit & Supervisory Board. In order to bring about enhanced advisory and Support services for the outside directors and The Officers’ Remuneration Committee, chaired In addition, with respect to the Internal Control supervisory functions based on an independent Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members are by outside director Frank Peter Popoff with three Report System for Financial Reporting applicable perspective, Shin-Etsu Chemical engages the outside provided by staff from the relevant divisions. other directors as committee members, meets since the fiscal year ended March 2009 under directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board When a meeting of the Board of Directors or regularly twice a year and otherwise as necessary the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, Members listed below. other important internal meeting is to be held, to review and assess directors’ remuneration and the Company fully recognizes the importance of Since their appointment, the outside directors outside directors are informed in advance of the make recommendations to the Board of Directors maintaining the reliability and transparency of the have not only provided adequate super vision agenda and provided with an explanation of the in accordance with the Regulations of the Officers’ Company’s financial reporting. The Company’s from an independent perspective, but have also content as necessary, in response to which they Remuneration Committee. Internal Control Promotion Team takes a leading role provided advice across the full range of management express opinions as appropriate. in implementing the internal control system. operations based on their broad perspectives. The Outside directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members bring Board Members who have been unable to attend a Internal Control System and Operational Audit Management of Group Companies to the audits high levels of specialist knowledge and meeting of the Board of Directors receive a report on broad experience, which contributes to maintain our the proceedings, for instance in the form of a copy Shin-Etsu Chemical has formulated a Basic Policy on In the spirit of respect for the autonomy of Group company’s legal compliance system. of the minutes. Internal Controls to help put in place “structures to companies, the Shin-Etsu Group works for their O ut sid e dire c to r s and O ut sid e Audit & ensure that the execution of duties by the directors growth and development so as to promote mutual Supervisory Board Members have a high degree of is fully compliant with relevant legislation and the benefit in the interest of the business prosperity of independence and are not former employees of our articles of incorporation and that other duties are the Group as a whole. parent company, subsidiaries, major shareholders or performed appropriately”, as stipulated in Article Group companies are managed on the basis of major business partners. 362, Paragraph 4, Item 6 of the Companies Act. the Shin-Etsu Chemical Group Company Operational T he e s t ablishm ent , impl em ent ati o n and Regulations. Companies with strong ties to Shin-Etsu maintenance of an internal control s ystem Chemical in terms of capital, personnel, or materials is recognized as an impor tant management undertake prior consultation and submit reports responsibility at Shin-Etsu Chemical. Accordingly, to the parent company with respect to important List of outside directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members the internal control system is structured and items such as capital increase or decrease, merger, Position Name Significant other positions held implemented in accordance with the above policy liquidation, amendment of articles of incorporation, Outside directors Frank Peter Popoff Former CEO, The Dow Chemical Company (US) and subjected to constant review to make the system proposal of financial statements and budgets, more appropriate and efficient. planning of new businesses or facilities, and business Former Director and Chairman of the Executive Board, former Nikko Cordial Internal operation audits and assessment performance and business results. Masashi Kaneko Corporation of internal controls over financial reporting are Furthermore, by holding meetings which are Director and Chairman of the Board, Ikyu Corporation handled by the Auditing Department. The results attended by the presidents of our main Group Former Representative Director and President, Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation of these audits and assessments are reported to companies three times each year, we actively Tsuyoshi Miyazaki Former Representative Director and Chairman, the above board members including ouside directors and promote sharing and exchange of information Adovisor, the above Audit & Supervisory Board Members to strengthen among Group companies. Former Governor, Bank of Japan Toshihiko Fukui Outside Director, Kikkoman Corporation President, The Canon Institute for Global Studies Former President, The University of Tokyo Hiroshi Komiyama Chairman, Mitsubishi Research Institute, Inc. Outside Director, JX Holdings, Inc. Outside Audit & Lawyer Implementing internal controls and operational audits Supervisory Board Taku Fukui Managing Partner, Kashiwagi Sogo Law Offices Tomohisa Fujita, Auditing Department, Shin-Etsu Chemical Members Certified Public Accountant, Certified Public Tax Accountant Shin-Etsu Chemical always makes efforts for continual improvements and follow-up to Yoshihito Kosaka Partner, Grant Thornton Taiyo ASG reliably execute and create results for the Assessment and Report on Internal Control Representative Partner, HIYU Certified Tax Accountants’ Corporation Over Financial Reporting (“J-SOX”) based on the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. In addition, in fiscal 2012 we performed new internal audits on separate themes Former Representative Director, Chairman and President, former JASDAQ such as human rights, labor, and the environment. Securities Exchange, Inc. Starting in fiscal 2013, we are also performing audits at small-scale subsidiaries in the Kiyoshi Nagano Outside Director, SBI Holdings, Inc. Shin-Etsu Group, including non-consolidated subsidiaries. In this way we are working to Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, LEC, INC. minimize business and fraud risks. As of June 27, 2013 13 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 14 Management Structures Compliance with Laws and Regulations The Company and employees work together to ensure thorough compliance with laws and regulations Internal System for Timely Disclosure disclosure of corporate information. These regulations The Shin-Etsu Group regards compliance with of Corporate Information Initiatives Aimed at Preventing Corruption include the Regulations on Timely Disclosure of laws and regulations as an obligation of corporate In accordance with the regulations regarding Corporate Information and the Rules on Regulation activities. Compliance is incorporated into the The Shin-Etsu Group has created the Guideline information disclosure set by the stock exchange and of Insider Trading, which are communicated to Corporate Mission Statement and the periodical on Fair Corporate Activities, and works to create the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, Shinall Shin-Etsu Chemical departments and Group management objectives as a means of working to widespread awareness of it. In this way, the Group Etsu Chemical has formulated internal regulations companies to promote smooth operations. ensure compliance. prohibits actions that could be regarded as the unfair regarding collection, management, and timely transfer of profit from or to parties such as civil servants and business partners. Moreover, by having Ensuring Full Compliance Awareness directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and In the event of promulgation of or amendments employees make a Compliance Pledge, we assuredly State of the internal system for timely disclosure to legislation pertaining to corporate activities, the prevent unfair benefits or unfair demands in respect Legal Department serves in a central role to issue to our customers and business partners. Collection and management of corporate information Timely disclosure of corporate information internal bulletins and hold information sessions. In In addition, regular internal audits for corruption, addition, to raise awareness of compliance with laws embezzlement, and bribery are carried out, and the Directors, Audit & Supervisory and regulations in other companies, internal bulletins status of compliance with ethical standards is one Board Members or Board of Directors Each Department are issued to draw attention to violations of laws or item included in personnel evaluations. Reporting Approval regulations that occur at other companies. Shin-Etsu Chemical Reporting Contact Contact Finance & Timely Office of Public Relations the President Department Accounting Department disclosure Cutting Ties with Anti-social Forces Person in charge of Compliance Pledge Consultation The Shin-Etsu Group declares in its Basic Policy handling information Group companies Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members on Internal Controls that the Group shall adopt a Relevant Decisions of the necessity departments and timing of timely disclosures and employees make a Compliance Pledge to the consistently resolute attitude towards anti-social Company which represents their commitment as forces and shall take measures necessary to cut individuals to practice compliance in their daily work. itself off from any and all associations with antiFor the eventuality of inappropriate action occurring, social forces. In accordance with this policy, we disciplinary measures are available. will endeavor to develop internal systems under the leadership of the department in charge of managing these issues. Working closely with external Compliance Consultation Office organizations addressing these issues, we will To support each Shin-Etsu Group employee in strongly push forward initiatives aimed at eradicating ensuring that their work activities comply at all times anti-social forces. with relevant laws and regulations as well as internal rules, we have set up a Compliance Consultation Export Control Office, which is available whenever required to provide consultation or accept notifications. From the viewpoint of maintaining world peace In accordance with the Compliance Consultation and security, Shin-Etsu Chemical complies with the and Notification Regulations, the Compliance Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act and other Consultation Office maintains strict confidentiality export-related legislation. To that end, the Internal to ensure that no employee consulting the office Control Program on Security Export Control has suffers disadvantage. The office then carries out been established to classify categories of goods investigations in response to the information received and implement screening procedures for customers and takes corrective action where necessary. No and transactions. The Company also conducts employee suffers any form of disadvantage on internal audits and provides training and guidance the grounds of having made a consultation or for officers and employees as well as instruction to notification. Group companies. 15 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 16 Management Structures Information Asset Management Risk Management The Shin-Etsu Group recognizes the We make preparations against the various importance of information assets and risks that surround the Company uses the information with appropriate management specialized applications in cutting-edge industries. Initiatives for Information Asset Management Protection of Personal Information Risk Management Regulations An interruption of the supply of these products The Information Asset Management Regulations In order to properly protect personal information ShinEtsu Chemical has established the Risk would therefore have a major social impact. have been formulated under the Basic Policy on in accordance with the Act on the Protection of Management Regulations, precisely defined the T h e Co m p any w i d e Bus in e s s Co nt inui t y Information A sset Management established Personal Information, we have established our Privacy potential risks to the Company and the Group, Management Regulations have been established to maintain the confidentiality1, integrity2, and Policy, which is available on our website. created management systems related to preventing so the Company can fulfill its responsibility to availability3 of information possessed by the ShinMoreover, the Group is making exhaustive those risks and other matters, and set out how to supply important products even in the event of Etsu Group. It contains provisions on protecting, efforts in the appropriate handling and protection respond to risks after they occur. a large -scale ear thquake, explosion, fire, or utilizing, managing, and applying the information of the personal information of customers, business other serious disaster. The Company establishes assets of the Group. partners, and other contacts through measures such a business continuity plan and sets out matters Risk Management Committee Details concerning issues such as the handling, conducting education on laws and regulations and such as operations management. Moreover, divisionmanagement, retention periods, and deletion of holding lectures regarding personal information According to the Risk Management Regulations, the specific and plant-specific business continuity plans all information regarding customers and business protection during stratified training sessions. Risk Management Committee has been created and have been formulated that take these matters into partners are set out in subordinate regulations: the is chaired by a managing director. It constructs risk consideration. Information Asset Management Standards and the management structures, establishes regulations, and Initiatives Concerning Intellectual Property Trade Secrets Management Standards. In order to works to identify and prevent potential risks arising Systems in the Event of an Emergency prevent unintentional leaks of technologies due I n o rd e r to a cco m p lish s t rate gi c b usin e s s in connection with the operations of the Company. to business development into regions with weak management centered on intellectual property, The Risk Management Committee also promotes In the event of an emergency, a Company-Wide protections for intellectual property rights, we have the Shin-Etsu Group has established the Basic broad-based activities in risk management areas Headquarters for Countermeasures headed by the formulated the Standards for Preventing Technology Regulations for Intellectual Property, which set out such as business continuity planning, education, Company president will be set up immediately in line Leaks. regulations regarding acquisition, management, and and information provision. The Committee reports with the Regulations of Disaster Countermeasures The Information Asset Management Department application of intellectual property. In addition to directly to the Board of Directors, the Audit & Headquarters. Below this will be set up Head Office and the Auditing Department work together to protecting the Group’s intellectual property from Supervisory Board, and the Managing Directors’ Supervisory Departments attached to the Companyregularly conduct checks and follow-up surveys violation by third parties, these regulations also Meeting on major issues. Wide Headquarters for Countermeasures, Division of the status of compliance with the Information require respect for the rights regarding all intellectual Headquarters for Countermeasures headed by Asset Management Regulations along with other property of third parties. the relevant divisional general manager, and the Business Continuity Plans regulations. Moreover, information in forms such as an annual Headquarters for Countermeasures of the relevant report is disclosed to allow all persons involved with The Shin-Etsu Group considers the supply of highplant headed by the relevant plant manager. the Group to have a precise collection of the status quality materials based on superior technologies to Under this s ystem, each countermeasure 1 Confidentiality of the Group’s intellectual property assets. be an important contribution to society, and regards headquarters and organization is responsible for Information is to be protected from unauthorized users. 2 Integrity ensuring continuity of supply as a major corporate implementing emergency action procedures in Information is to be protected from falsification, deletion, destruction responsibility. Many of the Group’s products accordance with predefined operational criteria and loss. 3 Availability have high market share not only in Japan but also and for taking measures to ensure continuity of Ensure authorized users have access to information when needed. globally, and our products are often used for highly operations. Business continuity plans for information systems Ryoichi Okura and Shigeo Okano, Office of the President, Shin-Etsu Chemical In 2012, with the concerns of earthquake resistance and limited power source, the Shin-Etsu Group’s data servers were relocated to the current Data Center, meeting the requirements of the company business continuity perspective. The new Data Center is built on a firm ground, with seismic isolation structure and large-scale power generators. The risk of information leakage is also minimized with vein authentification security features, allowing only those registered to enter the structure. Through these efforts, the security of the Group’s information system has been further enhanced, providing more reliability to the total system. 17 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 18 Environment and Safety Environmental Management Targets and Results We Are Engaged in Various Activities in Accordance with Responsible Care Codes The Shin-Etsu Group incorporates environmental considerations into all aspects of corporate activity, with the aim in unison and are highly committed to the development and expansion of products and technologies designed of helping to prevent global warming and working towards the establishment of a sustainable society. to reduce environmental impact. We see this as a means of contributing to the conservation of the global We are striving to reduce greenhouse gases and other environmental impacts associated with production environment. We recognize that responding appropriately to all environmental regulations and standards in our processes by setting out ambitious targets and working towards clean production processes through structured product development and manufacture is paramount. The officer responsible for environmental control and and continuous programs. safety has overall company responsibility for this area and is dedicated to earning our customers’ trust. As a key materials manufacturer, our staff in the three areas of research, manufacture and sales are working Fiscal 2012 Targets, Implementation Status, Evaluation, and Fiscal 2013 Targets Item Major Fiscal 2012 Target Fiscal 2012 Implementation Status Evaluation Major Fiscal 2013 Target 1) Zero environmental Item Major Fiscal 2012 Target Fiscal 2012 Implementation Status Evaluation Major Fiscal 2013 Target Target achieved ◎ Zero environmental accidents accidents 2) Thorough Comprehensive maintenance and management Continue comprehensive maintenance and 1) Zero serious accidents Target achieved ◎ Zero serious accidents environmental of facilities and strict compliance with emission ◎ management of facilities and strict compliance management regulations with emission regulations Environmental conservation Process Safety and Prevention Plan 2) Risk assessment of Continued risk assessment of key facilities, and 3) Promotion of energy Installed energy-saving, high-efficiency facilities and Achieve 1% average yearly reduction in intensity facilities and processes, Risk assessment of key facilities, and implementation △ ○ implementation of preventive measures savings equipment, implemented exhaust heat recovery units1 and implementation of of preventive measures Technology transfer preventive measures 4) Reducing greenhouse Reduced greenhouse gas emissions intensity to Reduce greenhouse gas emissions intensity to ○ gas emissions 63.2% of 1990 level 50% of 1990 level by 2015 Determine causes of facility failure and prevent 3) Improvement of facilities Periodical inspection and maintenance of re-occurrence Landfill waste 2.14% of all waste generated and maintenance ○ Waste: reach zero emissions (landfill waste 1% or management deteriorative facilities implemented Periodical inspection and maintenance of 5) Reduce waste Reduced PRTR controlled2 substances emissions by × less of all waste generated) deteriorative facilities 28 tons Clarification of step-by-step emergency measures 6) Reduced emissions of Reduced NOx and SOx emissions, increased soot and judgement criteria substances causing emissions Set targets for reducing waste water, BOD, and Review of fire fighting, prevention plan, and Implementation of emergency drills, and proper ○ water pollution or air Reduced COD and SS discharge, increased BOD VOC discharges 4) Reliable emergency emergency network, and regular implementation of ○ training and knowledge transfer of safety pollution discharge response emergency drills management technology 7) Reduction in water Production volume increased, but water withdrawals Set reduction targets Improvement and promotion of Business ○ Continuity Plan withdrawals remained unchanged Increase recycling ratio Assessed permitted manufacturing quantities and Continue assessment of permitted manufacturing 1) Zero incidents requiring ○ 1) New chemical substance actual production control quantities and actual production control Chemical substance management Target achieved for Shin-Etsu Chemical only Zero incidents requiring an absense a day or more ◎ an absense a day or more management Strictly implemented reporting of harmful substance Continue reporting of harmful substance 2) Rate of incidents not information at time of acquisition information at time of acquisition accompanied by an Rate of incidents not accompanied by an absense Continue strict compliance with Chemical Target achieved for Shin-Etsu Chemical only ○ absense a day or more: a day or more: 0.5 or less 2) Appropriate compliance Strict compliance with the Chemical Substances Substances Control Law, Industrial Safety and 0.5 or less with legal and other Control Law3, Industrial Safety and Health Law, PRTR Health Law, PRTR Law, Poisonous and Deleterious Promote communication for ensuring that rules requirements for Law4, Poisonous and Deleterious Substances Control ◎ Substances Control Act, and other legal Promoted hazard prediction activities are followed chemical substance Act, and other legal regulations including overseas regulations, and follow-up on amendments Intensified promotion of close-call incidents reporting Implement hazard prediction training, pointingcontrol regulations, and follow-up on amendments. Strict compliance with overseas regulations and 3) Promote “zero monitoring of new or revised laws Occupational Safety and improvement suggestions ○ and-calling safety procedures, and 5S activities incidents” drive Application of past incidents examples to prevent Promote close-call incidents reporting and 3) Information disclosure Provided information to subcontractors and Continue to provide information to subcontractors similar incidents improvement suggestions on harmfulness of ○ Application of past incidents examples contractors and contractors chemical substances Comply with Specialization rule5 of Industrial Safety 4) Review and reorganize Operation manuals created or revised 1) Create and maintain Promote creation or revision of operation manuals and Health Law against added registration of operation manuals and Verified that operators strictly follow operation ○ comfortable workplace ◎ Continue improvements in working environment Occupational health Verify that operation manuals are strictly followed chemical substances (cobalt, indium, ethylbenzene ensure strict compliance manuals environment added) Identify risks and implement preventive measures, Continue lifestyle improvement guidance based 5) Work risk assessment on health checkup results, add examination Work risk identification and safety measures eradicate risk level III and higher Lifestyle improvement guidance based on health and preventive ○ 2) Promote physical and items to special health checkups (cobalt, indium, implemented Improve technology for risk identification and checkup results, promoted health improvement measures preventive measures mental health well○ ethylbenzene) programs being Continue promotion of physical health Implemented mental health training improvement programs 6) Training and drill Organized safety training programs and seminars Promotion of work safety training and drills ○ Continue mental health well-being program promotion Promoted acquisition of credentials Incentive system for acquisition of credentials 1 Intensity unit A measure calculated from the production volume of a reference product. Environmental data management is a Group-wide priority 2 PRTR (Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) Control A system to collect and publicize information on potentially harmful substances, including where and in what quantity such substances were released into Hiroyuki Iwata, Environmental Control and Safety Department, Shin-Etsu Chemical the environment (air, water, soil, etc.), and where and in what quantity they have been moved to as waste. 3 Chemical Substances Control Law Starting in fiscal 2011, the range of environmental data that is collected was expanded Short for “Act on the Evaluation of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their Manufacture, etc.” A law intended to prevent environmental pollution by to cover all companies of the Shin-Etsu Group. We followed this up in fiscal 2012 by chemical substances that can be harmful to human health or to ecosystems. 4 PRTR Law introducing an environmental data collection system designed to improve accuracy Short for “Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in the Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the and efficiency. The system has been implemented at Shin-Etsu Chemical and group Management Thereof.” A law intended to promote improved self-directed control of chemical substances by business operators, in order to prevent the companies in Japan. We also made a start on collecting Scope 3 greenhouse gas risk of damage to the environment. emission data (see page 28 of this report). 5 Specialization rule Short for “Ordinance on Prevention of Hazards due to Specified Chemical Substances”. An ordinance intended to protect workers from health hazards by In fiscal 2013, we are going to expand the scope of the environmental data collection chemical substances. system to include overseas group companies. We will also be improving the accuracy of * Responsible Care Codes: codes setting basic conditions for the implementation of Responsible Care in six areas: environmental preservation, process Scope 3 emissions calculation. safety and prevention plan, occupational safety and health, chemical and product safety, distribution safety, and social dialog (with the public). Alongside conditions in these areas, a Management System Code to operate all the above is required. 19 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 20 Environment and Safety Environmental Management Reducing the Environmental Impact of Business Activities, Input/Output Environmental Management Environmental Accounting We contribute to reducing the environmental The Shin-Etsu Chemical discloses data about impact of whole society by develop advanced costs required for environmental conservation technologies in compliance with guidelines Resources/Energy Raw materials Environmental Accounting Energy Consumption Water Usage • Methanol • Ethylene In fiscal 2012, Shin-Etsu Chemical applied the Major investments (crude oil equivalent) 200 million m3 • Pulp • Vinyl chloride monomer Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 prepared by Installation of an energy-recovering facility 2,429 million liters (unchanged from • Industrial salt • Poly silicon the Ministry of the Environment, Japan, to calculate the Promotion of energy savings resulting from improvements in (145 million liter increase previous fiscal year) • Silicon metal • Acetic acid Others investments and expenditures involved in reduction of production processes from previous fiscal year) Strengthening of energy loss prevention the environmental impact of air pollution, water INPUT Build-up and renewal of wastewater treatment equipment pollution, environmental release of chemical substances, Installation of equipment to recycle raw materials, and equipment etc.; energy-saving measures to conserve the global Shin-Etsu Group to treat and recover waste environment; and waste reduction and recycling to Improvement of industrial waste disposal facility By promoting the reduction of environmental impact at all stages from product design through raw material procurement to the improve reuse of resources. Environmental improvement, etc., of plants and surrounding areas establishment of an efficient manufacturing system, we are limiting increases in the amount of energy, water and raw materials needed to match the rising volume of products manufactured. Development Procurement Production Shipment Environmental Conservation Costs in Fiscal 2012 (Millions of Yen) Category Details Investment Expenditure We are promoting product We endeavor to procure raw Improved manufacturing systems are We endeavor to ship products by design and development that materials while minimizing being established with less means that have the lowest Plant area costs: 1,829 7,538 emphasize the importance of impact on the environment. environmental impact due to the impact on the environment. (1) Pollution prevention costs Prevention measures for air, water, noise and other types of pollution 538 3,811 reducing environmental impact. promotion of energy saving, recycling and the reuse of resources. (2) Global environmental conservation costs Energy saving and global warming mitigation measures 739 1,912 OUTPUT (3) Resource recycling costs Waste reduction, recycling and other measures 552 1,816 Exhaust Upstream and downstream costs Green purchasing and container and packaging measures 16 17 Administration costs Environmental management, environmental impact monitoring and environmental education measures 0 380 Emission GHG: 4,476,000 CO2-ton Soot: 32 tons NOx: 1,284 tons SOx: 172 tons Research and development costs Research and development of environmentally conscious products and processes 5 1,905 (198,000 CO2-ton increase (1 ton increase from (20 ton decrease from (67 ton decrease from Social engagement costs Donations and contributions to environmental saving 0 25 from previous fiscal year) previous fiscal year) previous fiscal year) previous fiscal year) Environmental remediation costs Assessment, handling and other costs related to environmental pollution 0 29 Discharges of water Total Discharges of water: 187 million m3 COD: 4,762 tons BOD: 572 tons SS: 734 tons Total 1,850 9,893 (2 million m3 decrease from (278 ton decrease from (142 ton increase from (108 ton decrease from previous fiscal year) previous fiscal year) previous fiscal year) previous fiscal year) Waste Amount of Amount of Waste Recycling Amount of Final Disposal Ratio: Economic Benefits of Environmental Cost of Environmental Conservation Waste Generated: Waste Recycled: Ratio: 65.0% Waste for Landfill: 2.1% Accounting in Fiscal 2012 (millions of yen) 25 29 90,000 tons 59,000 tons (3.3% decrease 1,900 tons (0.1% increase from Economic benefit ■ Pollution prevention 1,905 3,811 (16,000 ton decrease (14,000 ton decrease from previous fiscal year) (200 ton decrease previous fiscal year) Details of benefits (Millions of Yen) ■ Global environmental conservation from previous fiscal year) from previous fiscal year) from previous fiscal year) 380 Energy savings 379 ■ Resource recycling Fiscal 2012 PRTR Control Improved production efficiency 1,594 ■ Upstream and downstream 9,893 ■ Administration Production process 1,475 ■ Research and development 17 million yen 180 302 Amount released: 181 tons Amount transferred: 813 tons ■ Social engagement Secondary materials costs 119 707 (24 ton increase from previous fiscal year) (37 ton increase from previous fiscal year) ■ Environmental remediation Reduction in waste treatment costs 204 1,816 406 Fiscal 2005 1,912 Profit from sale of valuable resources 164 To Society 132 6,838 Total 2,341 million yen 250 76 3,032 Products 312 PVC Cellulose derivatives Optical fiber preforms Silicon carbide 336 1,320 Silicones Rare earth magnets POVAL Others 7 Fiscal 2002 759 Semiconductor silicon Synthetic quartz photomask substrates Hot-melt adhesives 5,186 million yen 2,544 * In order to clearly define the reduction efforts, the average value from 2000-2010 of the conversion factor for CO 2 from electricity supply is used. * As the industrial waste standards and PRTR Control vary from country to country, the figures shown represent the aggregated data from 1,272 the Shin-Etsu Group’s Japanese domestic operations only. 389 * Waste recycling ratio indicates amount recycled as a proportion of total waste generated. * Final disposal ratio indicates amount of waste for landfill as a proportion of total waste generated. Environmental Data WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/csr.html#houkoku 21 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 22 Environment and Safety Environmental Management Environmental Initiatives The Shin-Etsu Group is addressing all issues that are relevant to realizing energy saving and mitigating global warming, including reducing environmental impact, protecting the environment and recycling resources Countering Climate Change Mid-term target, fiscal 2012 target, results and evaluation, fiscal 2013 target Initiatives for Reducing the Environmental Impact of Shin-Etsu Chemical Gunma Mid-term target: F or Shin-Etsu Chemical alone, reduce greenhouse gas emissions intensity to 50% of 1990 level by 2015 The Shin-Etsu Chemical Gunma Complex is a major producer of silicone products, and various Fiscal 2012 target: Reduce energy consumption intensity by 1% compared to fiscal 2011 measures to save energy and reduce the impact on the environment are being implemented Fiscal 2012 results: S hin-Etsu Chemical: reduction to 59.6% of 1990 level (1.0% reduction from fiscal here. 2011), Shin-Etsu Group: reduction to 63.2% of 1990 level (2.9% reduction from First, a boiler turbine for electric power generation was installed in the 1990s, and a fiscal 2011) co-generation system1 for effectively re-using the steam downstream from the turbine was put Fiscal 2012 evaluation: Intense energy-saving efforts resulted in extremely good results for Shin-Etsu in place to increase energy efficiency. Chemical. Some overseas group companies had lower reduction ratios because their product mix changed drastically. In 2008, the facility switched its fuel base from heavy oil to natural gas which imposes Fiscal 2013 target: Achieve 1% average yearly reduction in energy consumption intensity much less of a impact on the environment, and a co-generation system using highly energyefficient gas turbines for power generation2 was installed. This resulted in a large reduction in carbon-dioxide, sulfur oxides (SOx) and other harmful emissions. In particular, emissions of the The large-scale Shintech plant completed in fiscal 2011 went into full operation from fiscal 2012, resulting in a greenhouse gas carbon-dioxide decreased by as much as 34% compared to fiscal 2007. 6.3% increase in energy consumption. Greenhouse gas emissions accordingly also increased by 4.6%. In the wake of Great East Japan Earthquake of March 2011 and the resulting nuclear power However, as Shintech continued full-scale production and full-scale marketing, energy-saving and the development of technology for improving production efficiency at other group companies resulted in a 2.9% station damage, businesses all over Japan were required to significantly curb their use of decrease in the emissions intensity index as calculated by conversion into the production of reference products. electrical energy. The Gunma Complex was able to increase the capacity of its power generation In fiscal 2012, all companies of the Shin-Etsu Group, both in Japan and overseas have started to estimate gas turbines and improve the generation rate of electricity and steam, and a smart grid system Scope 3 emissions data. within the Complex was also installed to manage peak loads. As a result, production could be maintained at the required level while meeting the power-saving demands. Energy Consumption (crude oil equivalent) Greenhouse gas emissions intensity relative to fiscal 1990 levels In future, the use of co-generation systems is to be expanded, with the aim of raising the Emissions intensity index relative to 1990 (Shin-Etsu Chemical) self-sufficiency rate for electric power from the current 62 to 100 percent. The day when the Consumption Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared to Fiscal 2006 (%) (Million liters) Emissions intensity index relative to 1990 (Shin-Etsu Group) plant will need to buy no power at all from electric power companies is already on the horizon. (% index of GHG emissions intensity) 4,000 179 100 100 Using100 the Gunma Complex as a model, the Shin-Etsu Group plans to implement similar 165 155 measures throughout the Group, in order to further save energy and lighten the environmental 143 3,000 85 impact of 85our activities. 2,429 110 2,284 100 98 2,010 71.2 1 Co-generation 1,887 70.0 69.2 2,000 67.3 A system 70 for re-using the waste heat produced during electric power generation to provide thermal energy for air-conditioning, hot 70 64.4 66.1 63.2 water supply and other purposes. 1,728 1,788 1,750 67.7 68.8 2 Power generation gas turbines 66.2 66.1 1,000 61.6 A machine using high-temperature gas from burning fuel etc. to drive a turbine for generating electricity. 55 60.6 59.6 55 50 2015 target 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 40 40 1990 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 CO2 Emissions (energy related) Detailed Chart of Energy Consumption by Energy Type (Calorific Equivalent) Unit: peta joule Emissions Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared to Fiscal 2006 (%) (Thousands of CO2-tons) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 6,000 169 Natural Gas 11.6 12.9 15.5 18.3 20.3 24.1 24.2 157 151 4,500 139 Heavy Oil A + Heavy Oil C 3.5 2.6 1.1 0.6 0.6 0.7 0.5 4,348 SCOPE 1 108 4,138 LPG + LNG 2.4 2.2 1.4 1.9 1.5 1.5 1.6 100 97 3,683 3,474 3,000 Other 1.3 1.1 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.6 0.7 3,275 3,365 3,246 Purchased Electric Power 41.6 43.3 42.3 45.2 48.3 55.6 61.3 1,500 SCOPE 2 Purchased Steam 6.5 6.9 6.3 6.0 6.1 5.8 5.6 Power generation gas turbine Screen shot of remote monitoring system for power demand 0 Total 66.8 69.1 67.6 72.9 77.7 88.3 93.9 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 23 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 24 Environment and Safety Waste Reduction Protection of Water Resources and Reduction of Water Pollutants The Shin-Etsu Group is aiming to reduce water withdrawals intensity, and to reduce the discharge of water Fiscal 2012 target, results and evaluation, fiscal 2013 target pollutants. Target values in this area are set by each Group company. Although production volume increased in fiscal 2012, both water withdrawals and amount of discharge of Fiscal 2012 target: Achieve zero waste emissions (landfill waste 1% or less of all waste generated) water remained approximately constant. Fiscal 2012 results: S hin-Etsu Chemical achieved a landfill waste ratio of 2.23% (0.32% increase from Group companies also perform water quality analysis to ensure strict compliance with all legal regulations. fiscal 2011), and Shin-Etsu Group companies in Japan achieved 2.14% (0.13% increase from fiscal 2011). Fiscal 2012 evaluation: T he fact that the amount of overall waste volume and of final disposal waste of group companies in Japan decreased significantly is a positive development. Water Withdrawals Amount of Water Recycled However, the landfill waste ratio showed an increase relative to fiscal 2011. Water Withdrawals Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared to Fiscal 2006 (%) Amount of Water Recycled Recycling Water Ratio (%) Fiscal 2013 target: Achieve zero waste emissions (landfill waste 1% or less of all waste generated) (million m3) (million m3) 400 4,000 139 135 138 88.2 88.3 90.2 90.6 91.0 90.8 90.8 115 In fiscal 2012, compared with last year, the amount of waste generated by group companies in Japan decreased 300 3,000 100 99 102 by 15.9%, and the amount of final disposal waste by 9.8%. Since most of the waste is processed by outside contractors, we also periodically check their sites to ensure proper handling of waste. 184 193 181 200 200 1,980 1,983 200 174 171 2,000 1,744 1,742 We will continue and expand our exploration of ways to re-use and recycle waste, with the aim of achieving 1,378 1,450 1,591 the goal of zero waste emissions. 100 1,000 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Amount of Waste Generated (Group companies in Japan) Amount of Waste for Landfill (Group companies in Japan) Amount Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared to Fiscal 2006 (%) Amount of Waste for Landfill Final Disposal Ratio (%) (thousand tons) (thousand tons) 400 8 3.36 3.35 3.39 300 100 102 93 6 2.76 Prevention of Air Pollution 86 2.45 80 4.58 4.56 4.51 2.14 67 2.01 200 63 4 The Shin-Etsu Group is working to reduce emissions of air pollutants. Target values in this area are set by each 3.33 2.98 136 136 133 121 121 group company. 107 2.15 100 90 2 1.94 Although production volume increased in fiscal 2012, the amount of sulfur oxide (SOx) emissions decreased, both in actual volume and in intensity. Group companies also regularly perform gas emissions analysis to ensure strict compliance with all legal 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 regulations. Amount of Waste Recycled (Group companies in Japan) Amount of Waste for Landfill (Shin-Etsu Chemical) Amount of Waste Recycled (thousand tons) Waste Recycling Ratio (%) Amount of Waste for Landfill (thousand tons) Final Disposal Ratio (%) Soot Emissions SOx Emissions 200 4 Soot Emissions Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared to Fiscal 2006 (%) SOx Emissions Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared to Fiscal 2006 (%) 3.37 (tons) (tons) 80 2,000 70.6 68.2 150 66.0 66.9 65.8 65.0 3 2.56 100 64.4 2.44 2.23 100 2.75 2.04 60 1,500 1.97 1.91 1,244 75 100 89.9 91.2 2 80 85.7 80.0 85.1 72.8 2.05 2.00 71 65 63 58.8 40 57 59 1,000 1.54 1.54 979 50 1 1.17 42 1.26 33 476 28 20 500 24 66 40 39 33 43 31 32 18 0 0 286 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 281 239 172 * Because standards applicable to waste differ by country, only data for group companies in Japan are given. 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 25 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 26 Environment and Safety Control of Chemical Substances Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Along with an increase in production, the overall amount released and amount transferred of PRTR system Starting from fiscal 2012, the Shin-Etsu Group is obligations to other business partners in the supply controlled substances increased. estimating Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions1, as chain, and to all stakeholders in the Shin-Etsu Group. per the “General Guidelines on Supply Chain GHG The assessment of secular change will also allow PRTR System Total Release PRTR System Chloromethane Release Emission Accounting” released by the Ministry of the us to more exactly gauge the progress of efforts to Released amounts Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared to Fiscal 2006 (%) Released amounts Environment (MOE) and the Ministry of Economy, reduce emissions. (tons) (tons) Trade and Industry (METI). Scope 3 emissions for 400 200 fiscal 2012 were 3.562 million CO2-tons, amounting 100 for 44% in the supply chain2. 1 Scope 3 released amounts Amount of emissions upstream and downstream from a company. 300 150 140 By accounting for and disclosing Scope 3 2 Supply chain 76 287 66 70 emissions, we are fulfilling our accountability Refers to all stages of a product from raw material production until it 60 109 reaches the final customer. 200 181 100 91 47 83 88 42 191 75 73 167 157 100 214 175 50 Scope 3 Emissions of the Shin-Etsu Group by Category 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 PRTR System Total Transferred PRTR System Chloroethylene Release Category 5 Transferred amounts Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared to Fiscal 2006 (%) Released amounts Waste Generated in Operations (tons) (tons) 79,500 CO2-tons 1,000 20 890 813 776 743 720 750 15 661 12.6 Category 4 Category 9 518 132 10.6 Upstream Transportation and Distribution Downstream Transportation and Distribution 125 9.6 500 115 10 8.9 232,000 CO2-tons 354,000 CO2-tons 7.7 7.6 100 Category 10 79 4.8 Processing of Sold Products 250 61 61 5 Category 1 Purchased Goods and Services Category 11 2,270,000 CO2-tons Use of Sold Products 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 * The adopted PRTR system is of the Japanese system, and the figures shown represent the aggregated data from the Shin-Etsu Group’s Japanese domestic Scope 1 operations only. 1,525,000 CO2-tons Scope 2 2,951,000 CO2-tons Prevention of Soil Pollution Initiatives for Biodiversity Preservation Category 2 Category 12 Capital Goods End-of-life Treatment of Sold Products Groundwater and soil monitoring at each plant The Shin-Etsu Group aims for environmentally 196,000 CO2-tons is being carried out in accordance with the Soil considerate product design starting already from Contamination Countermeasures Act. the product development stage. At the same time, we are also meeting our responsibility as a chemical company by working actively to ensure strict control of chemical substances, mitigate global warming, Category 3 Category 8 Fueland Energy-Related Activities Upstream Leased Assets reduce energy consumption, reduce the amount Not Included in Scope 1 or Scope 2 283 CO2-tons of waste generated, prevent water pollution, and 403,000 CO2-tons make other environmental contributions. We are also Category 6 Category 7 Business Travel Employee Commuting engaged in activities such as scenic improvement ■Supply Chain Upstream 8,700 CO2-tons 18,300 CO2-tons and tree-planting in areas neighboring our plants. ■Supply Chain Downstream Furthermore, we request that our business partners implement environmental conservation initiatives concerning forest conservation and similar activities. 27 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 28 Environment and Safety Safety and Health Initiatives for Safety and Health By formulating thoroughgoing safety measures and devoting efforts to daily education and training, we ensure the ability to respond to any situation Occupational Health and Safety Process Safety and Prevention Plan Education and Training Accident and Disaster Reporting The Shin-Etsu Group has formulated a basic policy The Shin-Etsu Group gives top priority to preventing The environmental safety audit for fiscal 2012 To improve the abilities and competence of for environmental safety that reflects our corporate serious accidents before they happen. With this aim showed that safety management in research facilities individual employees, necessary education and principle of “Safety and Environment First.” The basic in mind, we continually engage in various process and safety training at subcontractors were also being training is carried out systematically at all plants and policy expressing the tenets of the Group as a whole safety and prevention plan activities, to ensure the implemented properly. workplaces. This includes, for example: education in serves as a blueprint for the establishment of safety functional reliability of facilities and processes. A n audit on operations management in environmental conservation, training in handling of oriented action plans at each business site, plant, The activities are focused on assessment the emergency situations that could lead to serious chemical substances, risk assessment enhancement and Group company. By implementing, evaluating, safety performance of facilities and processes, and accidents was also carried out, and possible causes training, and human error prevention training. and reviewing these action plans, we are constantly on implementing corrective actions for any found requiring emergency stop of a plant, such as We also provide the opportunity for hazardous working to further improve occupational safety and problems. Major facilities and processes are designed a major earthquake, power failure, or abnormal experience training for our own staff, the staff of health. from the outset to conform to safety performance reaction, were clarified, and preventive measures our subcontractors, and temporary staff. Personal evaluation principles based on HAZOP1. With regard were defined. It was verified that judgement criteria experience of possibly hazardous events through to facilities and processes with the potential for and procedures for an emergency stop are properly Occupational Safety experiments and hands-on training serves to raise serious accidents, repeated HAZOP studies are documented. the individual hazardous awareness of all operators. In order to proactively eliminate the risk of lost time conducted for further improved facility safety. No serious accidents or disasters occurred during incidents, we place great emphasis on identifying In 2012, we conducted reviews and documentation fiscal 2012, but there were six lost time incidents Environmental Control and Safety Audits and removing workplace hazards. Vigorous efforts of procedures at each plant, covering the safety among Group company staff. to this effect are being made at all sites. We regularly design of processes at major facilities, operations A cause analysis was performed in each case. To check that activities directed at environmental collect information on incidents revealing problems, management for upholding safe and stable Countermeasures focusing on eliminating hazardous conservation, occupational health and safety, and even if such an incident has not resulted in an actual operations, and response procedures in the event o p erations and prov iding s afe guards were process safety and prevention plan are implemented accident or damage. To facilitate this, we have a of fire, explosion, earthquake or other serious implemented, along with thorough information to best effect, comprehensive environmental safety framework for reporting of close-call incidents and accident or disaster. We intend to widely circulate dissemination. However, because there are instances audits and special audits on selected themes are safety concerns. We share this information both on a and propagate systematically organized technical where the attention and awareness of the operator carried out regularly. company-internal basis and with outside parties. documentation, to further strengthen our safety and are crucial, we aim to increase hazardous awareness Risk assessment activities aimed at identifying prevention plan capability. and prevent incidents through programs that latent risks, eliminating hazardous operations, and By further intensifying an ongoing program of combine hazard prediction training with pointingother essential approaches to operational safety inspecting machinery, piping and other equipment and-calling safety procedures. are combined with hands-on measures such as showing signs of deterioration or corrosion, we will protection by isolation, interlocks and other ways of ensure that mechanical integrity is maintained. minimizing exposure to risks. The zero-accident program comprising hazard 1 HAZOP (Hazard and Operability Study) A method of systematically checking and validating safety measures by prediction training, pointing-and-calling safety comprehensively investigating latent risks and operational irregularities Safety Inspections at Overseas Group Company procedures and other measures, along with safety in a plant. activities such as review and strict compliance with In March 2013, a safety inspection was carried out manuals are also being pursued. at Shintech Inc., a major member of the Shin-Etsu As part of the safety and health oriented Number of Lost Time Incidents (Group companies in Japan) Group in the U.S. As the largest PVC manufacturer in initiatives, we aim to create a comfortable work Number of Lost Time Incidents Frequency of Lost Time Incidents (%) the world, the company is known to always employ (Number) environment and promote physical and mental health safe practices, responding to the trust placed in to by 20 well-being. In particular at workplaces handling 0.50 customers and society. 0.49 specific chemical substances, organic solvents 0.47 In view of the large number of accidents at and similar, regular inspection of local ventilation 15 0.39 chemical plants recently, both in Japan and overseas, 12 systems and working environment measurements are 11 11 the inspection was aimed at checking if any hidden conducted with the aim of improving the working 0.28 risks exist at any of the Shintech plants, and to 10 0.26 8 environment. ensure that safe operation will continue to be reliably 0.09 6 6 5 implemented in the future. The inspection showed that Shintech's safety initiatives fully live up to the 2 trust that is being placed in the company. 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 We will continue to carr y out such safety inspections and audits of Group companies to make certain that a thoroughly safety-conscious approach is being realized throughout the entire Group. Close-Call (Hiyari-Hatto) Incidents WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/csr.html#security 29 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 30 Relation with Society Shareholders and Investors Customers We have numerous dialogues with The Shin-Etsu Group is entrusted with the shareholders and investors via our IR activities safety use of our products from our customers In regards to complaints, each division independently Information Disclosure Communication Quality Control responds to the customers’ complaints through the The Shin-Etsu Group believes the appropriate General Shareholders’ Meeting Quality Control System investigation and determination of the causes and and timely disclosure of corporate information to Shin-Etsu Chemical holds a General Shareholders’ Each Shin-Etsu Chemical’s division and/or Group the preventive action for recurrence. The recall and shareholders and investors is a way to encourage Meeting once per year according to its articles of company is responsible for the quality of each product liability problem that have a social impact understanding of the Company, and also leads to incorporation. To ensure that shareholders can fully product to the customers. So that we can supply is defined as a critical quality claim and given special reasonable evaluations by the market. We therefore consider the agenda items, we send notices on the products and services that generate customer priority to be distinguished from other claims. When implement fair and transparent disclosure by convention of these meetings at an early stage. satisfaction, each of our plants has its own quality a serious claim occurs, it is immediately reported posting information on the Company’s website and The convention notices, as well as English-language control policy. At the same time, by implementing to the top management so that a company-wide announcing it to stock exchanges and news media. translations, are also posted to the Company’s the Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) cycle, we work to response can be implemented. We also publish the Annual Report and other reports website for the greater convenience of shareholders. raise the effectiveness of the quality control system, for shareholders. At the General Shareholders’ Meetings we report enhance product quality, and improve service. Quality Audits and Support on financial results, vote on agenda items, and Requests and suggestions from customers are To achieve the zero quality problem, the claim and respond to various questions from shareholders. reported immediately by the sales departments complaint information from the customers are closely that are in direct contact with customers to the examined. Furthermore, quality audits are carried Other Types of Communication R&D Department, Quality Assurance Department, out periodically for the improvement of quality We hold quarterly conference calls and meetings Manufacturing Department, and the relevant and customer service. Quality audits evaluate the on financial results for analysts and institutional departments. These information are incorporated quality activity of each section from the customers’ investors. In addition, we also accommodate oneinto new product research and development and/ viewpoint and the viewpoint of quality cost in order on-one meeting requests from domestic and or also used to improve existing products. In this to reinforce the weak point of the quality control international analysts and institutional investors way, we have created a system to reinforce our system. The system for the recurrence prevention as occasion calls. The Company’s management relationships of trust with our customers. of claim complaints is established by focusing on proactively attend conferences organized by Almost all Shin-Etsu Group manufacturing evaluating the past claims and investigating the root securities companies and take part in Q&A sessions plants, both domestic and overseas, have obtained cause of the quality issue. with participants. In these and other ways, we make certification of the quality control systems such as The PDCA cycle is applied to problems pointed Shin-Etsu Report Annual Report efforts to create deeper understanding of the ShinISO 9001 and ISO/TS 16949. out on quality audit for improvement and followEtsu Group through direct dialogues. up. The Six Sigma program1 is also deployed on company-wide as activity for the improvement in a Profit -Sharing Policy Response to Complaints quality control. The Shin-Etsu Group works to expand business profit Shin-Etsu makes it an absolute rule to make an initial and enhance our corporate quality from a long-term Inclusion in Indices response to all quality complaints from customers 1 Six Sigma program Quality improvement method developed by Motorola in the 1980s. viewpoint. We distribute dividends based on our for Socially Responsible Investment within 48 hours of receipt. Focused on processes where quality variation appears, it is designed standard of sharing the fruits of these management to minimize variation within the processes and thereby reduce the incidence of quality defects. This approach has been adopted across endeavors to shareholders in a suitable manner. Due to high evaluations of the Shin-Etsu Group’s the Shin-Etsu Group. In addition, financial reserves are appropriated for CSR initiatives, we were included in the MSCI capital investments, research and development, and World ESG Index and MSCI World SRI Index in other types of investment. We proactively use these August 2012, which are indices for international reserves to strengthen our global competitiveness socially responsible investment (SRI). and for future business developments, with the goal In addition, in January 2013 Morningstar of further improving our corporate value. Japan K.K. selected the Shin-Etsu Group for Our annual dividends in fiscal 2013(April 2012 to inclusion in its Morningstar Socially Responsible March 2013) were ¥100 per share. Investment Index, containing 150 listed corporations in Japan that are evaluated as having excellent social qualities. Financial and IR Information List of Shin-Etsu Group companies with ISO 9001 certification WEB WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/ir/ http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/quality.html 31 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 32 Relation with Society Business Partners The Shin-Etsu Group is committed to fair and equitable procurement practices and to incorporating environmental considerations into the supply chain Etsu Group is also committed to developing new Product Safety Promotion Basic Procurement Policy Procurement Audit manufacturing technologies designed to totally FMEA1 and other analyses are carried out at every eliminate the use of specified toxic substances in A Basic Procurement Policy has been formulated for Before and after transactions, the business partner is process from product development to product conformance with the RoHS Directive7. the purchasing of supplies needed for production asked to complete a procurement audit checklist, the commercialization to identify potential issues for activities, including raw materials, sub materials results of which are used for evaluation. Additionally, system per formance and / or produc t safet y. including transportation packaging, and machinery we visit business partners in Japan and overseas Quantitative analysis is undertaken to evaluate issues and equipment. This policy is ensured in the Group whenever necessary to carry out audits. identified in order to improve product design and 1 FMEA (Failure Mode and Effects Analysis) and posted on the website. Systematic method to identify and prevent problems before they occur manufacturing processes. Business partners are expected to understand the in regards to products and processes. Business Continuity Initiatives We provide SDS2 for each product to customers. 2 SDS (Safety Data Sheet) Basic Procurement Policy and asked to incorporate SDS stands for Safety Data Sheet, which lists the physical and chemical Customers are encouraged to take appropriate properties of the chemical substance together with harmfulness and the content of the Policy into their supply contracts. The Shin-Etsu Group has formulated a Business safety precautions for understanding hazardous and emergency response procedures. Designed to promote safer use of Continuity Plan and is prepared for contingencies. chemical substances and prevent accidents and incidents, SDS are harmful characteristics of the product, undertaking supplied by manufacturers, importers and distributors to customers at We would like business partners to understand the all required legal procedures whenever necessary, the point of sales or shipment. Compliance with the Act against Delay effectiveness and practicality of the Group’s Business installing safety systems and/or pollutant treatment 3 Yellow Cards in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Continuity Plan and draw up a business continuity The yellow cards on which all relevant information on treatment required facilities, and wearing protective gear. in case of an accident during transportation of chemical substances Etc. to Subcontractors plan of their own. As a safety measure during transportation, is described. The cards are handed to the transport contractor to be For all business partners subject to the provisions brought by tanker lorry or other means at the time of transportation. we issue a Yellow Card3 and/or Container Yellow 4 Container Yellow Cards of the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Cards 4 that are affixed to containers. Moreover, we The standard yellow card system is not suitable for use with mixed Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors, the Shin-Etsu Control of Chemical Substances Used post warnings about potential hazards and harm cargoes and small-lot deliveries. Instead, each container carries a label displaying safety information such as UN number of chemical name and Group makes periodical checks in combination as Raw Materials according to the GHS5 method. emergency response procedure number. with reporting of new transactions to ensure The Shin-Etsu Group checks the ISO 14001 status of 5 GHS (Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Within Japan, the Shin-Etsu Group implements Chemicals) full compliance. In addition, staffs in charge of business partners and considers preferential business appropriate management in the research and Internationally standardized system of classification and labeling of purchasing and procurement frequently attend transactions with business partners that have ISO chemicals. development stage by confirming the safety 6 REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of external seminars and internal training sessions to certification so as to purchase materials of lower of new chemical substances and submitting Chemicals) discuss specific examples of conduct. In this way, the environmental impact. EU regulation on the registration, evaluation, authorization, and manufacturing permit applications in accordance restriction of chemicals. Company works to boost awareness of compliance When contracting specifications on supply of raw with the requirements of the Act on the Evaluation 7 RoHS (Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances) with the Subcontractors Act. materials, we investigate the business partner’s use of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their Directive In addition, the Company reques t s that of chemical substances with environmental impact EU directive on restricting the use of certain hazardous substances in Manufacture, etc. and other applicable legislation electrical and electronic equipment. business partners who supply raw materials comply in products and packaging, their environmental such as the Industrial Safety and Health Act. The thoroughly with the Act against Delay in Payment of management systems, their handling of prohibited Shin-Etsu Group conforms to the REACH regulation6 Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors. substances as stipulated in the RoHS Directive, and and is working to comply strictly with the appropriate their Green Partner certification status. transmission of information along the supply chain In addition, we also comply with REACH regulation and other aspects of the regulation. The Shinregistration. Delivering safe, reliable products to customers Yoji Fujimoto, Strategic Planning Department, Silicone Division, Shin-Etsu Chemical Efforts for stable procurement of materials Tomoyoshi Tada, Purchasing Department, Shin-Etsu Chemical The products handled by the Silicone Division are unique because of the extremely large number of different types. Because we conform to a wide range of legislation on the In fiscal 2012 there was concern about the procurement of raw materials due to factors management of chemical substances, we also provide support to overseas customers such as major declines in supply amounts caused by exhausted resources and states of regarding conformance with legislation, through such services as the SDS Creation emergency at business partners. However, our business was not hindered because we Support System we introduced in fiscal 2012. In addition, we have established quality took steps such as using multiple suppliers from inside and outside Japan. assurance structures at overseas Group companies as well. In fiscal 2013 we are also paying attention to suppliers’ supply chains for primary raw From fiscal 2013 we are continuing our assistance for conformance with legislation in materials, and are also working to discover new suppliers. In this way, we are making overseas countries, and are also planning to take part in multiple exhibitions inside and efforts for stable procurement. outside Japan in order to widely provide product information to customers. Basic Procurement Policy WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/procurement.html 33 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 34 Relation with Society Local Communities We maintain communication with local communities through our business sites in various regions Plant tour for teachers in managerial Participating in the mikoshi parade at Related to the Great East Japan Earthquake Raising funds for UN World Refugee Day positions in Annaka City the Naoetsu Gion Festival Participating in work to clean up marine debris Japan Japan Japan in Oregon Since 2006, the Shin-Etsu Group has raised funds for As part of activities to deepen understanding of Twenty-two Group employees working at the The United States of America the UN-established World Refugee Day, observed Shin-Etsu’s Gunma Complex among residents of Naoetsu Plant district helped carry a mikoshi Via the Japan-America Society and the Portland every year on June 20. In this way, assistance is the region, a plant tour was held for teachers in (portable shrine) in the parade at the Naoetsu Gion Chamber of Commerce, a small group of SEH provided to refugees across the world via the Japan managerial positions who work at elementary and Festival, where they toured throughout the town. America employees helped clean coastal areas in the Association for UNHCR. In 2012 the Company junior high schools in Annaka City. state of Oregon, where they performed tasks such matched the contributions given by employees, and as confirming whether found articles were tsunami the total was donated. debris from the Great East Japan Earthquake. Participating in National Breast Cancer Awareness Month Blood drives Support making a Japanese garden The United States of America Inside and outside Japan Holding the 2nd Local Produce Market to The United States of America In October 2012, Shintech employees in the The Shin-Etsu Group carried out blood drives at its support Tohoku A Japanese garden was completed at Clark College Louisiana sector participated in National Breast plants and Group companies. Approximately 80 Japan in Vancouver, Washington—where SEH America is Cancer Awareness Month, which is organized by employees took part in the blood drive held at ShinJust like in 2012, Shin-Etsu Chemical and Shin-Etsu located—through a personally support by Shin-Etsu the American Cancer Society. For one day during Etsu Polymer Malaysia in February 2012. Handotai participated in the Local Produce Market Chemical Chairman Chihiro Kanagawa and support this month, employees worked while wearing pink that was held in March 2013 in the Asahi Seimei by SEH America. A dedication ceremony attended by clothing in honor of the movement to increase Otemachi Building. There, specialty products from persons including the mayor of Vancouver was held awareness of breast cancer. Fukushima, Iwate, and Miyagi Prefectures were sold. in April 2012, and the garden is currently beloved by residents as a place for relaxation. Communication with local communities WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/society.html 35 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 36 Relation with Society Employees People create and support technology. We provide assistance for the efforts of each employee to fulfill his or her potential The Shin-Etsu Group respects human rights and expert organizations to provide the 24-hour Family international labor standards of the International are also an opportunity to set targets for the next six implements a variety of approaches to create Health Consultation Desk. Labour Organization (ILO) and that no forced or child months and to provide feedback on progress, and workplaces that are conducive to work, and where labor is taking place. serve in this way to promote further development of each employee is healthy, fulfills his or her potential, abilities. Respect for Human Rights and can build a career. Human Rights Enlightenment Promotion Performance-based personnel evaluation Committee systems and equal opportunities Education/Training and Health Considerations Personal Development The Shin-Etsu Group, from a corporate viewpoint, We have introduced a personnel system that Employee health programs organized the Human Right s Enlightenment places importance on employee ability and work Auditing student system To decrease staff sickness, we are working to offer a Promotion Committee with the aim of coping with performance. This system proves useful for increasing In 1962, we established an auditing student system fulfilling regular health consultation service, provide various human rights issues and creating cheerful employees’ motivation, as their treatment reflects with the goal of improving workplace cohesion. health guidance for lifestyle-related diseases, take workplaces where people are inspired to work. their performance, attitude, and evaluations of how Under the system, up to about ten employees each measures to ensure mental health, and focus on This committee also holds regular human rights they meet their challenges to achieve higher goals. year are chosen from plant manufacturing sites activities that promote fitness and develop physical enlightenment training for directors and employees To operate the personnel system in a fair and and sent to study at universities for one year. In strength. to promote the improvement of human rights appropriate manner, evaluation training is provided the 50 years since the system was introduced, 506 We have also established Health Committees awareness. for all managers who conduct performance review employees have completed the program and now at our head office and branch offices, as well In addition, Shin-Etsu belongs to both the so that they can carry out personnel evaluations function as leaders in the workplace. as Safety and Health Committees at each plant Industrial Federation for Human Rights, Tokyo, and in a fair way. To further increase transparency, district. These committees undertake activities while the Industrial Federation for Anti-Discrimination, evaluation standards are made available and the Training for international adaptation receiving information and guidance—including Osaka. Our employees participate proactively in results are also disclosed. Furthermore, a system of The Shin-Etsu Group is expanding its business about measures to improve the work environment events held by both federations, as well as training interviews between the evaluator and the person activities throughout the world. Competency to and prevent damage to health—from industrial sessions put on by other organizations. being evaluated has been established to ensure that communicate in foreign languages is therefore an physicians. the two parties can communicate successfully. essential skill for smooth operations. To this end, In addition, our Fitness and Physical Strength Efforts to abolish child labor and forced labor During interviews, each staff member and his/ the Group provides English language training to Development Promotion Committees work together The Shin-Etsu group conforms to international her immediate superior use Communication Sheets teach meeting and presentation skills and offers with Medical Treatment Rooms to organize physical guidelines, and does not approve of forced labor to ensure mutual awareness of the superior’s intercultural communication training to promote strength monitoring, and to hold seminars and or child labor of any type. We conduct a survey of expectations regarding what he/she would like the understanding of cultural differences commonly events for physical strength improvement. To provide Group companies, including overseas companies, subordinate to accomplish, as well as what challenges encountered overseas. Chinese conversation classes health support to include employees’ families, the each year. Through this survey, we confirm that the subordinate would like to take on. The interviews are also held. corporate health insurance society cooperates with our employment conditions are based on the 1 QC Quality Control. Or, activities in manufacturing industry that encourage employees to make proactive contributions to workplace management Training system and improvement, leading to improvements in quality. Training for different staff grades Specialized education General education Special education Environment and safety education Quality control education Six Sigma education Utilizing diverse human resources Akito Murayama, General manager Advanced S/M job family Personnel & Labor Relations Department, Shin-Etsu Chemical level management training training Black belt training • Patent training We implemented the hiring of persons with disabilities by advertising jobs via job-placement office and other job placement • Training for services in each region. Consequently, our employment rate for adaptation to internationpersons with disabilities is 2.0% as of March 2013. And due to Course for Specialized alization management the revisions to the Act for Stabilization etc. of Employment of Section manager education in enviMiddle management training development QC1 master course level English language ronmental control Older Persons etc., we have also introduced a new system for the Green belt training trainning training, meeting skills Mental health seminars (external training) and safety employment of elderly persons. Job family change training course I/II From fiscal 2013 we will continue promoting the utilization Human rights English language of person with disabilities Line management Staff management awareness training training, presentation skills and elderly persons. We will Junior manager training training course I/II Supervisor education also make efforts including level QC intermediate course Leader training Chinese conversation promoting the hiring of classes Auditing student Safety education international students, and system (1 year) Special education introducing overseas training, Intercultural so that we can respond to Junior leader training Basic education communication training Regular further overseas developments employees New employee second-phase training QC basic course in our business. New employee induction training New recruit education 37 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 38 Relation with Society We have created the Internal Re-employment Shinkansen commuting benefits Respect for Diversity Welfare and Benefits Program for employees who have reached the Since 1989, Shin-Etsu has allowed commuting by Childcare and nursing care systems retirement age of 60 years, which allows them to be Accumulated holidays Shinkansen at company expense. This option has The Shin-Etsu Group offers a full range of systems to re-employed until age 65. A certain number of annual paid holidays are granted allowed more employees to own houses and enables support employees who give birth to and are raising in accordance with labor regulations. If those annual personnel who are reassigned to headquarters children. Our childcare leave system can be used by paid holidays are not taken, a certain number can from plants and other business sites in Gunma and Labor-management Relations employees until their children have reached the age be treated as accumulated holidays, which are then Fukushima prefectures to transfer jobs without of three, and many employees take advantage of Shin-Etsu Chemical holds council with the Shin-Etsu carried over to the next year and may be utilized changing their lifestyles. As of March 2013, 65 the system. Meanwhile, the shorter working hours Chemical Labor Union to promote communication as family-care leave days or as days off for injury employees were taking advantage of this Company system allows employees with children up to grade between labor and management. Meetings of the or illness. Employees may also use these holidays offer. three of elementary school to shorten their working Central Staff Council are held once a month at the to volunteer in disaster areas or serve as donors for hours by up to two hours a day. head office and are attended by senior management organ or bone marrow transplants. Other systems A s for nursing care leave, under cer tain themselves, who discuss with staff subjects such The BAKER-KANAGAWA Japan-U.S. scholarship conditions, employees can take up to one year of as management policy, outline information about Employee Hotline program was established by Mr. Robert Baker, leave per eligible family member. No employees took individual businesses, and the personnel system. As a counseling service for trouble with work or founder and the first president of Dow Chemical advantage of the system in fiscal 2012. Meanwhile, each business site holds a monthly Local other issues, we have set up Dial Shin-Etsu, which Japan Ltd. and a former chairman of the American Labor Meeting with the local branch of the Shin-Etsu is staffed by experienced and qualified specialist Chamber of Commerce in Japan, and Mr. Chihiro Chemical Labor Union. couns elor s from out sid e of the Company. Kanagawa, chairman of Shin-Etsu Chemical. It can be Number of employees who have taken childcare Repeated dialog and discussion between labor Consultations are received anonymously and treated used for the children of Japanese employees of the leave (Fiscal 2012) and management deepen mutual understanding with strict confidentiality, but if requested the Shin-Etsu Group to attend universities in the United and trust and facilitate business operations in counselor will contact the Personnel Department to States and for the children of American employees to Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. 14 (Male: 2; Female 12) which staff and management can come together to discuss possible solutions. attend universities in Japan. Consolidated companies in Japan 45 (Male: 3; Female 42) present speedy responses to the changing business In addition, we have established asset-building Consolidated companies total 1 103 (Male: 30; Female 73) environment. schemes, a shareholding system, and a mutual aid society to provide support for weddings, childbirth, 1 The length of childcare leave differs from country to country, as the program is based on local law. and sudden hospitalization of family members. I decided to work in Japan because I was fascinated with Japanese technologies A Shin-Etsu Group employee competed in the London Paralympic Games My connection to Shin-Etsu Chemical came about because I used our yttrium oxide in my undergraduate Manabu Tamura of Skyward Information System Co., Ltd.’s and graduate research. I found Shin-Etsu Chemical Isobe Complex represented Japan in wheelchair rugby1 at appealing because they had expanded overseas from the Paralympic Games that were held in London in August an early stage, so it is possible to work not just in 2012, where he won fourth place. It was Tamura’s third Japan but across the world, too. That’s why I joined the appearance in the Paralympics after Athens in 2004 and Company. Beijing in 2008. I am currently learning many things since I am Tamura is currently employed at Skyward Information in charge of a broad range of tasks, including the System as a system engineer. At the same time he is part improvement, manufacture, quality control, and of BLITS, a team that constantly occupies the top position shipping of silicone resins for LEDs. Before entering in the Japan Wheelchair Rugby Federation. Although he is the Company I was concerned about my lifestyle and extremely busy each day with his work, he never misses a Users of the childcare system (Shin-Etsu Handotai Co., Ltd.’s Shirakawa Plant) work, but this was resolved via the courteous advice practice. from the human resource staff. In addition, I am always Tamura said, “Everyone has the right to live happily as a supported by the wonderful bosses, senior employees, part of society. Equality is essential for acquiring the rights and colleagues in my workplace. to life and happiness. In my case I have a physical disability, Promoting active roles by foreign nationals, In the future I hope to return to my home country but I can work in the same way as a non-handicapped disabled persons, and the elderly and share with my people about the wonderful person in an environment that is free of barriers. I can also As one facet of ensuring the required human qualities of Japan, as well as the technologies I have devote myself to sports.” The Shin-Etsu Group will increase learned here. its employment of persons with disabilities in the future resources for engaging in global business, the ShinEtsu Group carries out employment at overseas through the creation of workplace environments, and will support the active roles of persons with disabilities in Group companies and also makes efforts to employ Nur Hazwani Binti society. foreign nationals who are studying in Japan. Khusaini, The entire Group is also working to proactively 1 Wheelchair rugby Organic Electronics Materials Rugby in which the players use wheelchairs. One team is composed of four people, and one game consists of four eight-minute periods. employ disabled persons and create environments Technology Group, Gunma Japan won the Bronze Medal in the 2010 World Wheelchair Rugby Championships. As of February 2013, it is ranked fourth in the world. where it is easy for them to work. Complex, Shin-Etsu Chemical 39 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 40 History of Activities Responsible Care (RC) Audit of the Report Measures taken by the Shin-Etsu Group Awards in the Fields of Safety, the Environment and Industrial Health 1926 Founded as Shin-Etsu Nitrogen Fertilizer Co., Ltd. (name changed to Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. in 1940) 1926 2000 ISO 14001 certification obtained for all domestic production plants of Shin-Etsu Chemical 2000 2000 Fire Defense Agency Director General’s Prize for superior handling of hazardous materials (JAPAM VAM & POVAL) 2000 Installation of wastewater pretreatment system (Shin-Etsu Silicone Taiwan) 2000 Superior Prize, Minister of Labour (Nissin Chemical Industry) 2000 Final waste disposal system completed (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) 2000 Superior Prize, Minister of Labour (Naoetsu Electronics) 2001 Waste disposal system completed (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Naoetsu) 2000 Superior High-Pressure Gas Production Facility Award, Director of Kinki Bureau 2001 Installation of absorption refrigeration system (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Kashima) of Economy, Trade and Industry (Shin-Etsu Quartz Products/Takefu) 2001 Installation of thermal recovery system for distillation process 2001 Commendation for Occupational Health Activities, Minister of Health, Labour (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Kashima) and Welfare (Shin-Etsu Quartz Products/Takefu) 2002 Installation of co-generation system (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Kashima) 2001 Superior High-Pressure Gas Production Facility Award, Minister for Economy, 2003 Participation at First International Conference on GSC Tokyo 2003 Trade and Industry (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Kashima) 2003 Installation of steam recycling system (Shin-Etsu Silicone Taiwan) 2001 Improvement Prize, Director of Saitama Labor Bureau (Shin-Etsu Polymer/Tokyo) 2004 OHSAS 18001 certification obtained (Shin-Etsu Electronics Malaysia) 2002 Thirty-Year Lost Time Incident-free Special Achievement Award, Japan Soda Industry Association (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Naoetsu) 2005 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Promotion Committee established 2002 Superior Company in the Field of the Environment Award, Hsinchu County, 2005 Installation of cellulose wastewater recovery system Taiwan (Shin-Etsu Silicone Taiwan) (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Naoetsu) 2002 Superior High-Pressure Gas Production Facility Award, Director of Kinki Bureau 2005 Environmental Charter revised of Economy, Trade and Industry (Fukui Shin-Etsu Quartz) 2005 Co-generation system further expanded (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Kashima) 2003 Superior High-Pressure Gas Production Facility Award, Director of Kanto Bureau 2006 Hydrochloric acid recovery system installed on silica production line of Economy, Trade and Industry (Kashima Vinyl Chloride Monomer) (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) 2003 Achieved seven million Lost Time Incident-free hours, a 1st class Lost Time 2006 Signed the Responsible Care Global Charter Incident-free record (Shin-Etsu Handotai/Isobe) 2006 Fuel for boiler system switched (Nagano Electronics/Chikuma) 2003 5th Class Lost Time Incident-free record (Naoetsu Electronics) 2007 SA 8000 certification obtained (Shin-Etsu Magnetics Philippines) 2003 Superior Facility Award, Yamaguchi Prefecture Hazardous Materials Safety 2007 Installation of system to reduce steam usage by improvement of distillation Convention (Shin-Etsu Polymer/Nanyo) process (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Kashima) 2004 Superior Prize, Head of Saitama Labor Bureau (Shin-Etsu Polymer/Tokyo) 2008 Installation of natural gas fuel conversion system (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) 2004 Safety and Health Encouragement Prize, Head of Nagano Labour Bureau 2008 Augmentation of wastewater biological treatment system (Shinano Polymer/Hotaka) (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) 2004 Bureau Director Encouragement Prize for Safety and Hygiene, Niigata Labour 2008 Installation of thermal recovery system for distillation column Bureau (Niigata Polymer) (Japan Vam & Poval) 2005 Excellent Safety and Hygiene Workplace Award, Minister of Health, Labour and 2008 Installation of gas turbines (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) Welfare (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Kashima) 2008 Fuel conversion of bolier (Tatsuno Chemical Industries) 2005 Good Management Program Prize of Occupational Safety and Health, Malaysian 2008 Installation of LNG-fueled through-flow boiler (Nissin Chemical Industry) Ministry of Human Resources (S.E.H. (Shah Alam)) 2008 Thermal recovery system installed on silica production line 2005 Superior Prize for Safety and Health, Niigata Labour Bureau (Niigata Polymer) (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) 2006 Superior Prize for Health, Director of Niigata Prefecture Labour Standards Bureau 2009 Installation of high-efficiency turbo refrigerator (Shin-Etsu Handotai/Isobe) (Naoetsu Precision Engineering) 2009 Installation of air conditioning system using process based on free cooling 2006 5th Class Lost Time Incident-free Certificate (Shin-Etsu Film: disaster-free record (Shin-Etsu Handotai/Takefu) maintained to date) 2009 OHSAS 18001 certification obtained (Asia Silicones Monomer) 2007 Superior Prize, Director of Nagano Labour Bureau (Nagano Electronics) 2007 Encouragement Prize, Director of Nagano Labor Bureau (Shinano Polymer) 2008 Superior Prize for Industrial Safety and Health, Director of Fukui Prefecture Labour Bureau (Fukui Shin-Etsu Quartz) 2009 Special award from Thai Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare for one million consecutive hours of Lost-Time Incident-free operation (Shin-Etsu Silicones Thailand) 2009 High-pressure Gas Safety Award, Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry (Shin-Etsu Handotai/Takefu) 2009 Superior High-Pressure Gas Production Facility Award, Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry (Kashima Vinyl Chloride Monomer) 2010 2010 Fuel for boiler system switched (Nagano Electronics/Plants II and III) 2010 Encouragement Prize, Director of Saitama Labor Bureau (Urawa Polymer) 2010 Installation of inverter turbo refrigerator (Nagano Electronics/Plant V) 2010 Committee Chairperson’s Award from Committee for Promotion of Electricity 2010 Participation to UN Global Compact Utilization in Seven Tohoku Prefectures (Shin-Etsu Quartz Products/Koriyama) 2010 Installation of oil clarification system (Shin-Etsu Silicone Taiwan) 2010 Superior Prize for Environmental Preservation, Niigata Prefecture 2011 Gold Medal at the Korean Ministry of Knowledge Economy’s National Quality (Naoetsu Precision) Management Convention (Shin-Etsu Silicone Korea) 2010 High-Pressure Gas Safety Award, Head of Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency 2011 Installation of electriclty demand monitoring system (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) (Nissin Chemical Industry) 2011 ISO 50001 certification obtained (Shin-Etsu Silicones Thailand) 2010 500,000 Lost Time Incident-free Hours Award, State of Ohio (Shin-Etsu Silicones of America) 2012 Gold Medal at the Korean Ministry of Knowledge Economy’s National Quality Management Convention (second consecutive year) (Shin-Etsu Silicone Korea) 2010 Occupational Excellence Achievement Award, National Safety Council (US) (Shintech) 2012 ISO 50001 certification obtained (SE Tylose) 2012 Forty-Year Lost Time Incident-free Special Achievement Award, Japan Soda Industry Association (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Naoetsu) 2012 Achieved 8.1 million Lost Time Incident-free hours, a 2nd class Lost Time Incident-free record (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) Membership Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) Plastic Waste Management Institute Japan Chemical Industry Association The International Friendship Exchange Council Vinyl Environmental Council List of Shin-Etsu Group companies with ISO 14001 certification The Japan Committee for UNICEF, etc. As of March 31, 2013 http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/csr.html#environment 41 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2013 42
