COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 www.parco.com.pk About Pak-Arab Refinery Limited (PARCO) PAKARAB REFINERY LTD (PARCO) is a Joint Venture between the Government of Pakistan and the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, incorporated as a public limited company in 1974. As an integrated energy company, PARCO is the leading player in Pakistan`s petroleum industry with major operations in refining, transportation, storage, marketing, oil supply and logistics. With the largest refinery in Pakistan having a capacity of 100,000 BPD representing 35% of the country`s refining capacity, strategic storage of over one million tons, over 2000 kms of cross country pipeline network including its JV subsidiary Pak-Arab Pipeline Company Limited (PAPCO), a rapidly expanding retail outlets network owned by TOTAL PARCO a joint venture between PARCO and TOTAL of France, distribution of imported OMV lubricants from Austria PARCO has emerged as the strategic fuel supplier to the country. PARCO`s Core Functions Refining Pipelines Storage Marketing PARCO Pearl Gas (Pvt) Ltd (PPG), formerly known as the SHV Energy Pakistan (Pvt) Ltd is a 100% subsidiary of PARCO, having largest LPG marketing and distribution network. PPG manages storage, processing, filling and distribution of LPG. The performance of the company can be judged by the fact that it has maintained its AAA and A1+ long and short term credit rating by Pakistan Credit Rating Agency (PACRA) for fifteen consecutive years. The company set another first in Pakistan when it obtained three simultaneous international certifications: ISO 9001:2008 (Quality Management System), ISO 14001:2004 (Environmental Management System) and OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational Health and Safety Management System). PARCO has also received Environment Excellence Awards for the last seven consecutive years and is rated among the top 10 organizations in Pakistan for outstanding achievement in Environment Management. As a good corporate citizen, the company focuses on meeting the expectations of its internal and external stakeholders in a professional and strategic manner. PARCO not only invests in its employees, makes efforts for customer satisfaction and operates ethically, but also undertakes a wide range of projects to benefit society in areas of education, health, environment, sports, culture, community development, road safety, and natural calamities. Processing and handling hydrocarbons is our business and it comes with its share of hazards. PARCO proactively identifies, minimizes and mitigates situations that have the potential to cause harm to the health and safety of its employees, customers, service providers, communities, public and the environment. The focus and diversity of technical, social and environmental projects of PARCO speak for themselves. Our cross country pipeline network makes us next-door neighbor to many remote and underprivileged communities. PARCO Schools & Clinics Support Program is aimed at providing basic education and health facilities. The program is an ongoing initiative in which new schools and clinics are identified and existing ones are improved by providing basic infrastructure and other necessities that are beneficial for the surrounding communities. Communities are happy that PARCO is there for help when they need it most. PARCO has always responded passionately to the nation’s distress calls during natural calamities, such as the earthquake or floods. PARCO also supports culture and heritage by patronizing indigenous music, poetry and the arts. As a member of WWF, PARCO helps in conservation of nature, with several initiatives to its credit. In keeping with the Values of the company and our traditions, PARCO makes philanthropic contributions to institutions that are making significant efforts to help the underprivileged. From producing environment friendly products to efficient, world class engineering facilities and infrastructure, building a competent team, and major social initiatives, PARCO is doing its utmost in Providing Energy with Responsibility. CORPORATE RECOGNITION DURING 2012 PACRA Maintains “AAA” Entity Ratings of Pak-Arab Refinery Limited Consecutively For 15 Years The Pakistan Credit Rating Agency (PACRA) has maintained long term and short term entity ratings of Pak-Arab Refinery Limited at AAA (Triple A) and A1+ (A One Plus) respectively for the past 15 years. The ratings denote the lowest expectation of credit risk emanating from an exceptionally strong capacity for timely payment of financial commitments. PARCO Conferred Gold Medal in CSR Category by FPCCI in the 36TH FPCCI Export Awards 2012 Pak-Arab Refinery Limited has contributed immensely in the realm of Corporate Social Responsibility. Recognizing PARCO’s CSR program, the Federation of Pakistan Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FPCCI) have awarded PARCO, a Gold Medal for Overall CSR Contribution at its 36th FPCCI Export Award. The criteria for evaluating the organizations nominated for this award related to their contributions in nine areas: Charity & Donation, Consumer Rights, Education and Training, Environment, Health Care, Hospitals and Clinics, Human Development & Poverty Alleviation, Human Rights, Research and Development, Sports and Culture. Since Mr. Shuja Uddin Ahmed, DMD Operations, PARCO is contributing in all these areas, FPCCI recognized our PARCO receiving the Medal from contributions and presented the award to PARCO. As a good Corporate H.E. President of Pakistan, Mr. Asif Ali Zardari Citizen, PARCO does it utmost on meeting the expectations of its internal and external stakeholders in a caring, professional and strategic manner and adopts best CSR practices applicable to its business and community. PARCO Wins Fire and Safety Award 2012 As the leading energy provider in the country, PARCO has always been mindful of its responsibilities towards its customers, employees, the community and the environment it operates in. Due to the nature of our business protecting our employees and installations from fire and safety hazards is inevitable. In this lieu the role of HSE is crucial towards developing procedures and process for eliminating these hazards, along with training the staff for unforeseen events. Recognizing the efforts of our HSE department, its procedures, safety measures and business processes throughout our installations, the National Mr. Asghar Shaheed Gardezi, Manager HSE of Forum for Environment and Health (NFEH) and Fire Protection Association PARCO receiving the Award of Pakistan (FPAP) bestowed upon PARCO the Fire and Safety Award 2012. The Award is a testament of PARCO`s efforts to provide a safer working environment to all its employees, along with the commitment of our HSE department and the high standards of operational safety, control and audit which made this achievement possible. 9th Environment Excellence Award 2012 PARCO has been awarded the 7th consecutive Annual Environment Excellence Award by the National Forum for Environment and Health (NFEH). PARCO for the 3rd consecutive time has been placed amongst the 10 best organizations of Pakistan in Environment Management. A Special Recognition Certificate for outstanding achievement in Environment Management was also awarded to PARCO by NFEH. The panel of judges voted unanimously to award the excellence certificate to PARCO for the company`s vision, environment protection policies and practices, and its Corporate Social Mr. Shuja Uddin Ahmed, DMD Operations, Responsibility program. PARCO receiving the Award NFEH is a non-government, non-profit organization which works in collaboration with United Nations Environmental Program (UNEP) and is supported by the Ministry of Environment, Government of Pakistan. This Special Recognition comes as a result of the six consecutive Annual Environment Excellence Awards received by PARCO. These awards reflect our good management practices, the efforts of our team and our concern for the environment. CSR Leadership Excellence Award 2012 PARCO was awarded the CSR Leadership Business Excellence Award 2012 at the Annual International CSR Summit and Award Ceremony. The event was organized by the National Forum for Environment and Health (NFEH). The summit was attended by dignitaries and CSR experts from around the globe. The CSR Excellence Awards recognizes and promotes organizations that make outstanding contributions for a sustainable future through CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) initiatives. 87 national and multinational companies filed their nominations for the awards. The expert jury comprising of international CSR experts and prominent personalities from the corporate and social sector selected 36 companies. PARCO received the award for the most prestigious category of “CSR Leadership Excellence”. Governor Punjab, Mr. Latif Khosa presenting the award to Mr Shah M. Saad Husain, GM (CA), PARCO First Prize for PARCO’s Corporate Garden PARCO has been winning prizes for its Corporate Garden for the last 9 years. The Company was ranked first for 6 consecutive years in the Corporate Garden Category in the competition held by the Horticultural Society of Pakistan. PARCO once again secured first position for its Corporate Garden in 2012 competition held by the Horticulture society of Pakistan. Brig. (R) Raheel Saigol, Manager Administration of PARCO receiving the award The UN Global Compact Excellence Award 2011 in Multinational Category PARCO, being an active member of the UN Global Compact, was awarded the “Living the Global Compact” Responsible Business Award 2010-11 in the Multinational Companies category. This Excellence Award is the highest award in this category. The Global Compact Award not only acknowledges PARCO’s commitment towards strategic and sustainable CSR, but also appreciates our efforts in adopting UNGC’s universal Ten Principles in our operations. The Ten principles relate to Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Transparency. General Manager Corporate Affairs, PARCO receiving the Certificate and Award Presented by the United Nations Global Compact’s Pakistan Local Network (GCLN) and Responsible Business Initiative (RBI) a Pakistan based internationally recognized enabler for responsible business, the Award acknowledges organizations demonstrating the UNGC Principles in action, not just a specific CSR project or program. More than 100 Pakistani companies/institutions are signatories to the United Nations Global Compact and have committed themselves to adopting its Ten Principles. The award nominees passed through a rigorous and documented process of successive stages of short-listing by multidisciplinary local and foreign experts, who assessed performance in each of the four major categories of the GC, namely Human Rights, the Environment, Labor and Transparency. The international jury appreciated PARCO’s efforts in making important and substantial investments in sustainability for its products, especially the dramatic reduction of sulphur by a factor of 14. The jury also appreciated “PARCO’s strong processes for sustainable performance, multi-stakeholder internal CSR team which includes focal persons from the divisions and relevant departments” PARCO’s Engagement with the UNGC Pakistan Local Network PARCO Supports United Nations Principles on Responsible Management Education (PRME) Being a member of the UN Global Compact, PARCO has been collaborating with the UNGC Pakistan Local Network at different forums in Pakistan to promote the Universal Ten Principles. In this context, the Company participates in forums and shares its best practices. The UN Global Compact Pakistan Local Network, on October 6th, 2012, organized a ‘National Conference on Quality of Responsible Education in Pakistan’ in collaboration with Pakistan Institute of Quality Control and Employers Federation of Pakistan in Karachi to promote Principles on Responsible Management Education. Mr. Shah M. Saad Husain GM Corporate Affairs, PARCO presenting a paper at the Conference The National Conference was attended by educationists from leading educational institutions and corporate sector of Pakistan. Mr. Shah M. Saad Husain, General Manager Corporate Affairs, PARCO presented a framework through which PARCO and its responsible management acts in order to successfully manage Pakistan’s leading oil conglomerate. The presentation also focused on how PARCO collaborates with the educational institutions and its partnership with the academia in order to support the Company back through trained professionals. The UNGC PLN officials applauded PARCO’s efforts and appreciated Mr. Shah M. Saad Husain for sharing the best practices. The conference was also attended by PARCO’s Corporate Communications and Human Resource department staff. Global Compact Pakistan Local Network in collaboration with Employers’ Federation of Pakistan Organized “37th Business talk CSR meeting on “SECP Draft Guidelines on CSR for Business” The 37th Business Talk CSR meeting was organized at Karachi on 24th October, 2012 by Global Compact Pakistan Network in collaboration with Employers Federation of Pakistan and Federation of Pakistan Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FPCCI). Mr. Shah M. Saad Husain from PARCO was one of the distinguished panelists to discuss the significance of Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan’s (SECP) draft guidelines on Corporate Social Responsibility for business. He said that since CSR was going to drive the way of conducting business, the SECP guidelines were a timely initiative. He made some suggestions in improving upon the guideline by suggesting that (a) the word compliance may be substituted by the word adoption as the former sound much too strong and legal, (b) policy should be linked with strategic intent of business, (c) framework specific for Pakistan may be develop, (d) CSR Consultative Committee should be headed by Company’s CEOs (e) independent assurance should be authoritative and cross-functional and they should be conducted by a forum comprising of representatives from SECP, FPCCI, EFP and UNGCPLN to give the institution more credibility and acceptability by business. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment At PARCO, we deliver “Energy with Responsibility”. PARCO respects all human beings and considers employees as its greatest asset, striving to support employees, their families, nearby communities and other stakeholders in accordance with Human Rights. Management Systems HR Management, Administration HR Management, HSE, Security Communities Actions Work-Life Balance Healthy Environment Education Facilities Basic Health Protection of Company Work Safety Road Safety Stakeholder Involvement & for Employees Facilities Assets and Employees Community Investment Results PARCO provides its PARCO continues to provide a PARCO has been continuously PARCO provides 100% In order to maintain a safe and The PARCO management All PARCO drivers are While pursuing its business, PARCO ensures, as far as possible that employees absence from healthy and green working endeavoring to enrich its free medical cover to its secure working environment, PARCO expects from all employees provided training to comply its internal and external stakeholders are assured of basic human work for rest and relaxation, environment to its employees. human capital by adopting new employees, their employs security services for to strictly follow safety and with Road Safety Rules, rights and facilities. Till date, PARCO has implemented several sickness, recuperation after During 2012, the Company was techniques and methods for spouses, dependents (up protection of company assets as well housekeeping instructions. Pakistan Traffic Code, etc. proactive CSR initiatives in Health, Education and Community sickness and for attending ranked 1ST in the Best Corporate developing its people. PARCO to 21 years) and as employees at all PARCO locations. As better housekeeping, Development for the underprivileged sections of society. personal affairs. Garden Category in a helps and guides it employees, reimbursement of 60% being part of safety not only through appropriate training, to results in better living Access to Education/Basic Health competition held by the medical costs of An employee proceeding on Horticultural Society of Pakistan. make the best of their talents. employees’ parents. conditions but also protects Our cross country pipeline network makes us next-door neighbor Annual Leave may request for PARCO has been winning prizes employees from unexpected Training Needs Analysis, All permanent/contract to many remote and underprivileged communities. Since 2007, advance salary payment for for its Corporate Garden for the accidents. Personal Development Plan and female employees are PARCO conducts an extensive Schools & Clinics Support Program approved leave period. In last 9 years. Career Planning are formalized eligible for maternity leave To this end, PARCO has which aims at improving the education and health infrastructure addition, employees are also Road Safety Training for processes for all employees. of 12 weeks. instituted an annual ‘Safety in adjoining communities by supporting Rural Health Clinics, entitled to ‘Leave Fare PARCO Drivers and Housekeeping Award’ Primary, Middle and Secondary Schools, being run by Assistance’. Ibn-e-Sina Hospital at PARCO ensures that all its Safety Check being performed which is awarded to the one Government of Pakistan. Up till 2012, PARCO has provided Mid-Country Refinery employees and staff of Service by Security Personnel station which has assistance to 62 institutions along its pipeline and refinery across The Company looks upon its Providers practice Road Safety (MCR) ensures timely maintained immaculate Pakistan. employees to socially A standard operating procedure, regulations and precautions as medical assistance to housekeeping and the best acquaint themselves with with communication and command responsible citizens. Our HSE These institutions have been provided assistance in developing the employees and their safety standards during this professional colleagues from PARCO is an OHSAS 18001:2007 levels has been established to department conducts monthly infrastructure, civil works, procurement of equipment, etc to help families posted at the year. other organizations and other (Occupational Health and Safety report security incidents, accidents, Road Safety Trainings. them sustain their operations to providing basic health and Refinery in Qasba Gujrat walks of life. To facilitate this Management System) certified natural calamities and other risk PARCO ensures that education. which is in a remote Proper road markings and inter-relation, the Company Company since the year 2005. situations. Personal Protective area. road safety signs are installed More than 10,000 children are receiving education in PARCO sees that the employees have Equipment (PPE) is provided The Company has been receiving To encourage employees of the An electronic Incident Reporting within all PARCO facilities and supported schools. PARCO`s assistance to these institutions has the facility and use of a to all employees. Service National Environment Company to enhance their System has been functioning at locations for strict raised communities` interest to enroll their children in these reputable club in the city Providers are also required Excellence Awards for the last professional competence, PARCO over a long period of time. compliance. refurbished and well-maintained schools diverting them from where they are posted. This is to provide PPE`s to their seven years in a row. PARCO provides membership The system has been upgraded in child labor to primary education, raising the literacy rate. called the ‘Club Membership’ staff. Violation of Road and Traffic of reputable professional 2012 to make it more users policy. Rules by any employee is bodies and organizations which friendly. misconduct, liable for In the event of an employee impart technical, professional disciplinary To protect Company assets and or spouse’s death, the and managerial knowledge to employees, a background/reference action/punishment. Company provides the employees through the check and police verification of all transportation of deceased and ‘Funeral Assistance’ to ‘Organizational Membership’ new inductees is conducted. the family. policy. We have an extensive Management Development Program (MDP) for During 2012, PARCO`s During 2012, PARCO our employees. All trainings are planned and coordinated in a Pipeline Division has sponsored 5 Nonsystematic manner by the Company in terms of the needs and the successfully completed 4 Management Staff and 2 talents required. The training efforts are not confined to a few formal Medical policies are revised from time to time to suit employees’ million man-hours without Management Staff to perform classroom courses but extend in all directions to remove employees’ lost time accident (LTA). requirements and provide appropriate health care system. “Hajj” (Holy Pilgrimage). This weaknesses and making the most of their strengths. Last three years of PARCO has developed three schools with The Citizens Foundation – a reputable NGO working in the Training Man-hours data is given below. PARCO helps its employees and their families with economic is done on annual basis. area of imparting quality education – at Karachi and Qasba Gujrat, near PARCO Mid-Country Refinery. protection against loss of earnings in the event of employee’s death During August 2012, PARCO inaugurated the newly extended academic block of PARCO-TCF Primary PARCO provides membership or disability occurring as a result of illness, accident or otherwise Campus II to accommodate another 180 students at a cost of Rs 5.7 million. Altogether, 732 children of professional bodies and under the ‘Death & Disability Benefit Plan’. are receiving quality education in all the three PARCO-TCF campuses. fraternities to its employees. Employees at the age of 45-50 years and above are required to During 2012, PARCO organized Teachers Training for School Teachers of Government Schools which undergo medical check up after two years and employees are supported by PARCO near Corporate Headquarter and Mid-Country Refinery. The training’s key Ceremony held at Corporate above 50 years are required to undergo medical examination objective was to improve the teaching capability of the teachers by sharing the learning Headquarters, Karachi annually to determine the quality and level of their health. methodologies that children can adopt within and outside the classroom. The training was attended The Company also covers medical/traveling expenses of employees and their dependent if he/she is by 50 teachers from approx 10 different schools. suffering from such a disease which requires a vital organ transplantation that cannot be done in PARCO partnered with National Commission for Human Development (NCHD) – an NGO working in Pakistan. rural areas for education and health and has supported 20 Literacy Centers at Qasba Gujrat near its To provide full medical cover to its employees and dependents, PARCO has 39 hospitals, 30 Mid-Country Refinery during the past two years where 500 women have been taught to read, write consultants, 6 laboratories, 16 pharmacies across the country. and learn basics of mathematics in five months. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2013 (Page 1 of 13) HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Contd. BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment At PARCO, we deliver “Energy with Responsibility”. PARCO respects all human beings and considers employees as its greatest asset, striving to support employees, their families, nearby communities and other stakeholders in accordance with Human Rights. Management Systems HR Management, Administration HR Management, HSE, Security Communities Actions Work-Life Balance Healthy Environment Education Facilities Work Safety Stakeholder Involvement & Community Investment for Employees Results Employees posted at outstations PARCO’s annual Inter-Station The School at PARCO`s MidUnder the umbrella of schools and clinics support program, PARCO has supported several Basic and Rural Health Centers based Yearly Lost Time Accident and Lost Time Injury Rate work on ROTA System, where Competition for the Best Country Refinery (MCR) Housing in small villages nearby PARCO cross-country pipeline and Stations and Terminals. The clinics are providing basic healthcare to 3.5 they work for 20 days and then Housekeeping at PARCO Stations Complex provides subsidized the local communities within their villages. As a result, community members are no longer required to travel for long hours to enjoy 8 days paid leaves with and Terminals continued this year education to the 3 the cities for basic treatment. their families. where all the Stations and employees` children till prePARCO’s Mid-Country Refinery at Qasba Gujrat is surrounded by many underprivileged communities, who are deprived of the 2.5 Terminals were scrutinized. university level. The School also MCR LTA basic education and health facilities. PARCO operates a Community Welfare Clinic in order to provide basic health facilities to LTIR & LTIR PARCO has a cafeteria for During 2012, Terminal Station-4 has a board which includes PARCO 2 Pipeline LTIR the domestic workers working at the Mid-Country Refinery, their families and other people from nearby areas. The clinic is MCR LTIR employees where nutritious at Machike was awarded as the management and parents of the Pipeline LTA being run at a cost of Rs 1.5 million a year and treats approx 2,760 patients annually. In order to ensure sustainability of its 1.5 meals are served at more than best station in housekeeping. children. operations, the clinic is supervised by the Company doctor and provision for its operation is kept in yearly CSR budget. 1.03 70% subsidy. PARCO employs 2 1 0.78 cooks at each Station and HSE Audits are conducted 0.65 0.55 0.71 Support during Natural Calamities 0.485 0.46 0.43 0.42 0.36 Terminal for cooking meals for regularly to ensure compliance 0.5 Altogether, during the 2010 and 2011 floods, PARCO has spent more than Rs 31 million in terms of medical camps, distribution 0.38 0.32 staff. with best practices. 0 0.26 of dry ration, cooked food, quilts and tented accommodation, reconstruction of houses, schools and clinics in the flood PARCO provides international 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 affected areas of Punjab and Sindh. level facilities for Sports like During 2012 monsoon rains, the Country again faced massive floods at Shikarpur, Rajanpur and Kandhkot. PARCO again stood Cricket (Flood Lit Stadium), PARCO provides its employees by the nation and provided dry food ration packets to 800 families. It is an ongoing program whereby more support will be Hockey, Football, Volleyball, PARCO conducts in-house Occupational Health Safety and Environment with developmental opportunities provided. So far, PARCO has spent approximately Rs 4.8 million in various flood relief and rehabilitation work. Swimming, Tennis, etc. Indoor (OHSE) training programs and achieved 1.5 man days per employee of to acquire knowledge and build up sports are also provided in a Club training during 2012. Contractor trainings are also conducted once a skills through training and selfComplex e.g. Bowling Alley, week. A vital part of every contract requires contractors to comply with development, to the mutual Gymnasium, Badminton, Table PARCO’s HSE standards. advantage of the employees and Tennis, Snooker, Squash, etc. at PARCO provides financial the Company. The ‘Educational Before mobilization, Service Providers` staff undertakes Orientation & its Mid-Country Refinery, Stations assistance to support nonRefund Plan’ is one such initiative Training covering Occupational, Health, Safety & Environment and Terminals. management staff’s daughter intended to provide financial procedures and practices. marriages and education assistance to eligible employees Noise Monitoring is being done on quarterly basis. High noise areas are Increasing Self-Reliance through Vocational Training assistance for their children, in who wish to undertake studies or being identified and sign posting for the compliance has been done. PARCO has always believed in inculcating self-reliance capabilities amongst the Pakistani times of need. training not directly covered by Personal noise monitoring is carried out to check the 8 hours noise youth. PARCO and its subsidiaries have supported many well-known institutions working in Company initiated programs or During February 2012, PARCO dosage of employees exposed to high noise areas and their audiometery the area of providing vocational trainings. plans. organized the Annual Family Day is done. PARCO went a step further by searching for deserving vocational training institutes in rural for all employees and their PARCO has also been supporting Personal dust dose is also checked for employees potentially exposed to areas, nearby PARCO facilities and identified 13 centers at Machike, Faisalabad, Kot Adu, families where they enjoyed fun the educational endeavors of its any kind of dust. Mahmood Kot, Qasba Gujrat, Muzaffargarh, DG Khan, Multan, Fazilpur, Shikarpur and rides, puppet show, magic show, employees and their children. Bubak. The institutes are being provided assistance by setting up state-of-the-art computer games, food, etc. More than ‘Scholarship for Children of Toxic Gas areas are marked with toxic gas signs and no one is allowed to labs for conducting various professional courses and vocational trainings pertaining to 2,600 PARCONIANS and their Employees’ is intended to support enter the area without proper gas masks. sewing, embroidery, computer and technical education. PARCO provided electrical family members visited the the employees by providing The drinking water is checked on a monthly basis to eliminate any embroidery sewing machines, furniture and computers. These institutions were also Annual Family Day where they financial assistance to help defray bacterial contamination. uplifted and repaired by civil works to create a better learning environment for students. all spent quality time together. their children’s professional Monthly audits including Safety and Housekeeping, Personal Protective The basic objective in supporting these vocational training centers is to provide skill The event helps employees to education on the basis of a formal procedure that recognizes academic Equipment, Gas Mask and Work Permits are conducted diligently to creation amongst the youth and especially women of Pakistan. The vocational trainings unwind from their busy merit. During 2012, three children of PARCO employees were provided ensure active monitoring and compliance. For more information, please pertaining to sewing and embroidery will help the rural women in achieving selfschedules and enjoy the whole financial educational assistance. see Principle 8. sustenance. The overall 13 vocational training centers have been supported at a cost of day with their families and Educational Awards which includes a certificate and cash rewards are approximately Rs 11 million. socialize with their fellow PARCONIANS. given to school going children of the employees, based on good performance in their Secondary Education. This recognition helps motivate Supporting Internal Stakeholders children to further enhance their educational performance. PARCO cares for its internal and external stakeholders. The Company supports its non-management and service provider’s staff in all manners that it can help. PARCO provides funeral assistance, assistance for daughter marriages, medical support on PARCO has always encouraged young minds to blossom with bright ideas. case to case basis, educational awards for non-management and service provider staff children in recognition of their The Company holds an Article Competition to encourage employees’ performance in Secondary Education and for further education as well. children in developing creative writing skills. The winners are rewarded with certificate and monetary prizes. The competition is conducted twice a The Company also supports the staff in many ways on case to case basis, whenever they need financial, medical or other support. All in all, PARCO acts as a Socially Responsible Corporate Citizen in all possible ways to help its internal and external year. During 2012, 8 children have won in two competitions, and were stakeholders. rewarded with certificates and cash prize. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2013 (Page 2 of 13) HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Our Commitment PARCO makes all possible efforts to avoid complicity in Human Rights Abuses and abides by the laws of the country. Management Systems HR Management, Operations, Contract Management, Communities etc. Actions Ethical Standards and fair dealings with shareholders, staff, customers, Equal Opportunity Employer Women Empowerment suppliers, service providers and other external partners Results During recruitment, every employee of PARCO signs a declaration agreeing to PARCO`s Guiding Principles All appointments in PARCO are based on merit for filling approved vacant Being an equal opportunity employer, PARCO makes efforts in taking initiatives to empower women amongst its which include a complete set of guidelines on fair and ethical dealings with customers, internal and external positions. Our recruitment process ensures fair and competitive matching of internal and external stakeholders. Some of these initiatives are given below. stakeholders and communities. Violations of these principles are viewed seriously, have resulted in disciplinary candidates with job specifications. Non-job factors e.g. gender, origin, religion, action, and in some cases have led to the termination of service. Following are some highlights of PARCO`s and external influence are not considered. Under–age employment is strictly The Government of Pakistan promulgated Protection Against Harassment of Women at the Workplace Act, 2010 with Guiding Principles: an objective to create a safe working environment for women which is free of harassment, abuse and intimidation so forbidden. that they can work with dignity. PARCO enforces this Act throughout the company and has placed it on its intranet We practice a merit-based equal-opportunity policy for recruitment and reject any influence of gender, portal to educate women at workplace about their rights. PARCO has a committee to deal with harassment complaints PARCO Job Advertisements clearly state that use of any extraneous influence will takes suggestions and gives recommendations to Management. Employees, including head of departments, are color, caste, faith, ethnic origin or recommendations by influential persons. disqualify the candidate. advised to report any acts of harassment by any gender as such harassment is considered misconduct liable of PARCO believes in tempering its policies with human values that can raise the human capital of the disciplinary action. Since the last 39 years of existence of PARCO, no case of harassment against women have been PARCO provides equal career growth opportunity to both male and female registered. Company and the Nation. employees, some of whom are also heading key departments and sections in the PARCO believes that valid profits are made by good businesses through efficient services, productivity of Company. The company has females working in Engineering, Finance, Projects, PARCO has supported three schools with The Citizens Foundation – a reputable NGO working in the area of imparting operations, value addition, innovative financing and strategic management of PARCO assets, talent and IT, Telecom, Marketing, HR, and Medical functions. Our target is zero quality education – at Karachi and Qasba Gujrat, near PARCO Mid-Country Refinery. These schools employ all female skills, while contributing to the well being of the Society. staff belonging to the nearby communities. The existences of these campuses have generated employment for these discrimination in a male dominated society and industry. local women to earn a decent living. As a professionally managed organization, we at PARCO ensure that all the stakeholders are provided Management and Engineering Trainees, upon successful completion of their Amongst the above mentioned three campuses, the PARCO–TCF Campus II at equal opportunities. Be it customers, employees, communities etc. we ensure equal treatment at all levels. training, are considered on merit against vacant positions, as permanent Qasba Gujrat offers education till Grade V and is operating at full capacity. In employees without discrimination, in case if there is vacant position. 2011-12 session, 176 students were enrolled (47% girls). During August 2012, PARCO believes in the value of transparency, openness and self-examination, and consider them as PARCO inaugurated the newly extended academic block of PARCO-TCF Primary safeguards against potential faults. During 2012, 56 Trainee Engineers, 50 Trainee Technologists and 3 Management Campus II to accommodate another 180 students at a cost of Rs 5.7 million. The Trainees were inducted. project not only enhances the enrollment of young boys and girls but will also As a professionally managed organization, we at PARCO ensure that all the stakeholders are provided increase women employment at Qasba Gujrat, as TCF has an all female staff. equal opportunities. Be it customers, employees, communities etc. we ensure equal treatment at all levels. Benefits, facilities and allowances, as specified in the Company`s policies are provided to all employees and their dependants without discrimination. In order to ensure sustainability of the school, PARCO provided additional Rs We consider our Suppliers and Service Providers as our business partners and deal with them with the 2.5 million as operating cost for the fiscal year 2012-13 for Primary Campus same fairness that we reserve for our employees and customers. II extension and the newly established PARCO-TCF Campus III at Qasba Gujrat. A total of Rs 8.2 million have been spent so far. Altogether, PARCOAs a Company we are acknowledged as a responsible corporate citizen in the community of business and TCF campuses have 732 children enrolled, of which 45% are girl students industry of Pakistan and have received multiple awards from various external stakeholder bodies as receiving quality education. mentioned in the COP. PARCO’s Schools and Clinics Support Program supports 62 institutions with 48 schools and 14 clinics. Out of these 48 schools, approximately 80 percent are situated in the rural areas, with maximum female staff. We strive for minimal impact on the environment and contribute significantly to reducing the damage done to nature by man. The Community Welfare Clinic at the PARCO Mid-Country Refinery caters to approximately 2,760 patients a year of We do not tolerate unsafe and hazardous-to-health work practices in transit or at the work place. which majority patients treated are women and children. At the PARCO Mid-Country Refinery, the female spouses of the Company employees have formed a Ladies Club which is financially supported by PARCO. The club undertakes several social and fun events totally organized by the women residing at the Refinery Housing Complex. At PARCO Mid-Country Refinery Housing Complex, the Company has separate housing for women. There are separate sections and timing for facilities and club sports for women. During 2012, PARCO has continued its support and partnership PARCO has always believed in providing self sustenance capabilities with National Commission for Human Development (NCHD) – an amongst the Pakistani youth. PARCO and its subsidiaries have supported NGO working in rural areas for education and health and has many well-known institutions working in the area of providing vocational supported Ten Literacy Centers in different villages near Midtrainings. Keeping in view the brief history, PARCO went a step further by Country Refinery. This initiative has earlier helped 250 uneducated searching for deserving Vocational Training Institutes in rural areas, nearby women and this year has again helped another 250 women in PARCO facilities and identified 13 centers at Machike, Faisalabad, Kot Adu, improving their living standards, hygiene and health. These Mahmood Kot, Qasba Gujrat, Muzaffargarh, DG Khan, Multan, Fazilpur, women are taught to read, write and learn the basics of Shikarpur and Bubak. mathematics within five months. These educated women are able The institutes are being provided help through setting up state of the art to understand their children’s need for education and are computer labs for conducting various professional courses and vocational motivating them to pursue further education. The women are also trainings pertaining to sewing and embroidery by providing electrical able to handle their daily chores with a sane mind. At Qasba embroidery sewing machines and furniture. The physical facilities of these Gujrat, a total number of 500 uneducated women have been institutions are also being uplifted through conducting much needed civil provided basic education and this number is expected to increase works to create a better learning environment for students. in coming year. Literacy Centers for Women Vocational Training Centers Supported by PARCO www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2013 (Page 3 of 13) LABOR PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Our Commitment PARCO believes in addressing Employee issues practically and providing the right of collective bargaining to all its workers by complete compliance to all Industrial Relations Ordinances and Laws. Management Systems HR Management, Industrial Relations, Operations, CSR Actions Freedom of Association Collective Bargaining Negotiations and Proactive focus and redressal of Employee Grievances to maintain a good Organizational Climate Union Charter Signing partners Results PARCO workers are free to form or join a trade union of their choice without fear of intimidation or PARCO has a history of good management – employee relations. In an effort to encourage employees to voice their suggestions for improving the Company’s performance and efficiency, an ‘Employee Suggestion reprisal. There has never been a labor strike since PARCO`s inception, and Program’ has been introduced. The objective of this initiative is to provide employees an opportunity to come up with innovative and creative ideas all CBA agreements have been negotiated in a friendly for process improvement, cost savings, operations effectiveness, safety and efficiency. Under this program, employee suggestions towards The Company complies with Industrial Relations Ordinance 2012. PARCO has one registered trade atmosphere. improving organizational efficiency are recognized and rewarded. Suggestions made by the employees are reviewed by the Managing Director and union comprising of all non-management employees represented by 10 Collective Bargaining Agents the Executive Committee Members which includes Company’s top management. Approximately 164 suggestions were received during 2012. (CBA). Free and fair elections of CBA were held during 2012. In order to obtain feedback from exiting employees on the problem areas in the Company and on the employee’s concerns, complaints and Management and CBA work together on many Employee Development and Welfare Programs. suggestions, an exit interview of all exiting employees are also conducted and remedial actions are taken accordingly. For answering queries/suggestion/complaints of employees, the PARCO HR Department has a dedicated Help Desk. Our Managing Director holds sessions with each category/level of staff separately on regular basis for example, Trainees/Section Heads/Engineers/Managers. During 2012, such sessions were held at Corporate Headquarters and PARCO Mid-Country Refinery. The Human Resource Department at PARCO regularly conducts visits of PARCO installations at remote locations, to gather employee feedback, complaints and suggestions. The HR department also conducts Focus Group sessions amongst the employees where employees are randomly selected from each department at all locations irrespective of their grade or level. The objective of these discussions is to gather information pertaining to issues faced by the employees at all areas. A total number of 6 sessions have been conducted during 2012-13, attended by 92 participants from different departments belonging to various levels. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2013 (Page 4 of 13) LABOR PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR Our Commitment PARCO completely disallows any form of forced or compulsory labor in all its functions. Management Systems Human Resource Management Business Partners, Operations Actions The terms of employment at PARCO provide maximum freedom to Maintaining industry-competitive Compensation and Compliance by checking of Vendors/Suppliers/ Service Providers employees to voluntarily enter or leave the organization on free will. Benefits Results PARCO`s employment contracts do not violate human rights or labor laws. PARCO does not have a PARCO’s policy is to pay employees atpartners all levels with responsibility, salaries and wages Vendors/Suppliers/Contractors are checked by PARCO that no forced labor is utilized for PARCO`s jobs. During practice of service bonds. which are competitive when compared with prevailing salary scales for similar work in prequalification, PARCO employees visit suppliers and vendors to visually observe and report if any children are comparable organizations. For this purpose, salary surveys are regularly conducted and employed or if forced labor is practiced. All employment Separation contracts process, payment by giving terminated dues, canofbeoutstanding postnotice of 30 days retirement etc. party. by either benefits, are done salary adjustments, benefits and revisions are accordingly granted targeting 75th percentile of the industry are provided. PARCO conducts open competitive bidding for services and materials procurement to provide equal opportunity to all expeditiously. qualified vendors/suppliers. PARCO benefits its employees with economic protection against loss of earnings in the Upon induction, all employees are provided an employee handbook which includes all the Human event of separation from service through ‘Gratuity Fund’. Besides this, PARCO also benefits Resource policies and procedures pertaining to hiring, training and development, compensation, its retired employees with ‘Pension Funds’. The window/children of a deceased employee benefits, leaves, medical benefits and much more. Furthermore, an electronic version of the book is are also entitled to receive pension. also placed on PARCO’s Intranet Portal for instant access to the employees. The electronic version is updated as soon as amendments are made in the policies. PARCO also has a ‘Transfer of Ownership of Company Assets’ policy aimed at increasing employee satisfaction and retention. Under this scheme, employees are allowed to purchase Company vehicles and household appliances at a nominal cost. To assist employees in solving their transportation, housing problems and in acquiring hard furnishings for their homes, PARCO grants Car, Housing and Furniture Loans to its employees. Employees who are availing the residence facility at the Mid-Country Refinery site benefit from the following: o Allotment of Company–owned residential housing o Hard and soft furnishings o Household appliances o World class sports, club facilities o Schooling, mosque, shopping centers, etc. PARCO places utmost importance to the continuous services of its employees as being a factor to be recognized in terms of granting reward and recognition. The Company recognizes long and dedicated services rendered by employees and in recognition thereof has instituted suitable awards commensurate with the length of service. Following are the number of awards which have been given to employees in January 2013 on completing different periods of service: Year of Service No. of Employees 7 52 10 56 15 44 20 17 Housing Complex at PARCO Mid-Country Refinery 25 11 30 3 35 6 Sports Facilities at the PARCO Mid-Country Refinery Housing Complex www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2013 (Page 5 of 13) LABOR PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOR Our Commitment PARCO forbids engagement of any form of child labor in its operations or by any of its business partners. Management Systems Human Resource Management, Operations Business Partners Corporate Social Responsibility Actions Documented procedures prohibit employment Third party audit of Labor conditions Inclusion of Labor Laws (that disallows child PARCO assists in enhancing primary and secondary schooling to reduce Child of Child Labor labor) in contracts with Business Partners Labor in its adjoining communities Results No child labor has ever been employed by PARCO. Despite the fact Regular third party audits are conducted by the Labor By asking Suppliers and Service Providers to adhere to the laws Under PARCO’s Schools and Clinics Support Program, the Company supports schools and clinics of rural that under the labor laws of Pakistan the minimum age of hiring is 14 Directorate’s labor department and health and hygiene of the country, they are required to comply with all labor laws, communities located near PARCO`s Mid-Country Refinery and its Stations & Terminals in the Sindh and Punjab years, PARCO`s minimum age limit for induction is 18 years, which is department, Employees Old Age Benefit Institution meet security and human rights requirements as well as provinces of Pakistan. thoroughly checked by birth certificates, educational transcripts, (EOBI), Social Services Department, Workers Children eliminate employment of under-age workers. national identity card by NADRA (National Database and Registration Education Cess, Sindh Employers Social Security Up till 2012 around 62 Government schools and clinics have been provided assistance for developing Authority) and other age verification documents, thus ensuring that Institution and other authorities who ensure elimination infrastructure, procurement of equipment, etc., to help them sustain their operations for providing basic facilities there is no child labor across the company. of Child Labor and compliance of other requirements of to the communities. Out of these 62 institutions, 48 are schools where more than 10,000 children are receiving Labor Laws. During 2012, three visits were made at education. PARCO`s assistance to these institutions has raised the communities` interest to enroll their children in different PARCO facilities. these refurbished and well-maintained schools diverting them from child labor to primary education, raising the literacy rate. PARCO supported Schools and Clinics since 2007 till date PARCO has partnered with TCF (The Citizens Foundation) – a reputed NGO in Pakistan and has developed three campuses i.e. two primary and one secondary school at Qasba Gujrat and Karachi. These campuses are built in under-privileged communities and impart quality education to around 732 children. Amongst the above mentioned three campuses, the PARCO–TCF Campus II at Qasba Gujrat offers education till Grade V and is operating at full capacity. During August 2012, PARCO inaugurated the newly extended academic block of PARCO-TCF Primary Campus II to accommodate 180 additional students at a cost of Rs 5.7 million. The project enhances the enrollment of young boys and girls. PARCO provided additional Rs 2.5 million as operating cost for FY 2012-13 for Primary Campus II extension and the newly established PARCO-TCF Campus III at Qasba Gujrat. Educating Women for a Better Tomorrow During 2012, PARCO has supported ten Literacy Centers in Partnership with National Commission for Human Development (NCHD) in different villages near Mid-Country Refinery. National Commission for Human Development is an NGO operating in 134 districts in Pakistan, with the mission to transform lives by improving access to basic education and healthcare in the country’s poorest communities. This initiative has earlier helped 250 uneducated women in a similar program during 2011. This year the program has again helped additional 250 women in improving their living standards, hygiene and health. These women were taught to read, write and learn the basics of mathematics within five months. These educated women are now able to understand their children’s need for education and motivates them to pursue further education. PARCO-TCF Primary Campus I (Karachi) PARCO-TCF Primary Campus II (Qasba Gujrat) The Newly Established PARCO-TCF Secondary Campus III (Qasba Gujrat) www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2013 (Page 6 of 13) LABOR PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION. Our Commitment PARCO provides equal employment opportunity and supports diversity of human capital in all its functions. Management Systems Human Resource Management Corporate Social Responsibility Actions Ensuring Equal Employment Enforcing Code of Workforce Diversity Merit-driven Appointments Expand PARCO`s interaction Organizing Plant Visits for Technology Transfer Opportunities for all Ethics and Promotions with Educational Institutions University Students Results PARCO offers equal opportunities to all PARCO ensures that employees PARCO employs 1,356 direct PARCO discourages nepotism and PARCO undertakes regular summer and winter Universities show keen interest in PARCO possesses competent specialists in many qualified applicants, men and women, abide with the Company`s employees, including 21 people every form of favoritism. The way up internships for students belonging to business and visiting PARCO’s facilities and the areas and in order to utilize their expertise, these belonging to all faiths and religion, Code of Ethics. Every employee from minorities. These employees the PARCO ladder is open to engineering disciplines where the selection of company organizes plant visits for internal training resources develop and deliver come from all over the country, everybody. The policy of the Company internees is done on merit. During 2012, PARCO petroleum, chemical, civil, electrical, training programs. origin, ethnicity, color, caste or creed. has to sign, at the time of induction, a declaration irrespective of domicile/origin, is to develop and promote employees inducted 46 interns and provided on the job electronics, telecommunication, and PARCO ensures that no discrimination agreeing to PARCO`s Principles ethnicity, religion, gender, or any from within the organization through training with challenging projects. other engineering and business PARCO offers Trainee Program in the fields of is made amongst employees and till which include a complete other non-job dimension. Thus career and succession planning. As an students belonging to different management and engineering. The training example, our Managing Director PARCO also participates actively in Career Fairs at date, all male and female employees guideline on avoiding there are workers of all ages, from universities. ranges from 1 to 2 years and provides the joined the Company 37 years ago as a the leading Engineering and Management belonging to different religion are discrimination, ensuring fair all provinces i.e. from the candidate learning and exposure to different Trainee, immediately after graduating educational institutions where counseling and job employed at all levels including senior and ethical dealings with all northern most cities to the aspects of a real life working environment. Upon as an engineer. opportunities at PARCO, etc. are discussed with management positions. internal and external southern most area of Karachi. demonstrating satisfactory performance at the students. In 2012, more than 1,000 students were stakeholders including Hiring and promotions are done on end of the training, the Trainee is inducted as an PARCO is a national employer, provided career counseling. Over 900 applications Employees are given holidays in communities, customers, employee if a suitable vacancy exists. merit, performance and ultimate were received by PARCO through Career Fairs. accordance with their religious suppliers and vendors. employing people without potential of each employee through customs. discrimination and strictly on professional and transparent HR PARCO also supports research, conferences, trade merit, from all parts of the processes. If any employee exerts fairs, workshops and other events of educational PARCO gives special employment Country: external pressure of any sort s/he is institutions. We also provide technical equipment preference to handicapped applicants No. of Since 1975, PARCO has trained 931 Engineering and Management trainees. Since January 2012 automatically disqualified and faces for labs of engineering institutions. PARCO has and has till date employed 5 such Province Employees alone, 108 trainees have been inducted in PARCO. This number is increasing and shows that disciplinary action. donated 4 Gas Turbines to the Mechanical people. Azad Kashmir 12 PARCO has not stopped inducting fresh talent even at a time when Pakistan is facing an Engineering Departments of four engineering Balouchistan 10 universities of Pakistan i.e. NED Universityeconomic downturn, natural calamities, etc. See Women Empowerment in Principle FATA 1 Khyber Pakhtoonkuwa 72 Karachi, University of Engineering and 2. Punjab 577 Technology-Lahore, Mehran University-Jamshoro, To address the issue of scarcity of trained manpower in the country, an ‘Apprenticeship Sindh 475 Bahauddin Zakariya University-Multan. These Program’ has also been introduced. The objective of this six-month program is to provide ______ turbines are now being utilized by the universities technical training to fresh graduates and upgrade their skills. Total 1,147 to provide hands-on training to the engineering students. PARCO has a huge reservoir of highly skilled and experienced human capital. Please refer to Despite being a petroleum the below graph showing our Talent Inventory in different areas. engineering organization, PARCO encourages women for employment at the Mid-Country Refinery, which is located in a remote area, by providing separate accommodation for single women. As a multinational Joint Venture, PARCO also employs dual national staff which further adds to our diversity and talent pool. Many of our experts are teaching at different universities transferring knowledge and skills to the younger generation. Joint research projects are also undertaken with educational institutions. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2013 (Page 7 of 13) ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Our Commitment PARCO is committed to comply with the National Environment Quality Standards (NEQS) and ensures minimal impact on the environment. Management Systems HSE, Operations and Administration Actions Environment Friendly Efficient Effluent Management Environmental Auditing, Certification and Environment Friendly Solid Waste Management Supply-Chain Awards Products Results Effluent monitoring is carried out at all Stations and Terminals and the PARCO is a fully IMS CERTIFIED ENERGY Company and amongst the first PARCO proactively works to Solid waste generated at the Mid-Country Refinery is disposed in a Crude Oil is the basic raw material in any Mid-Country Refinery (MCR). Reports are sent to EPA against SMART in Pakistan to simultaneously achieve three international certifications, manner that protects human health and the environment. It takes an oil refining firm. Environmental ensure that its products and fuels Program. that is, ISO 9001:2008 (Quality Management System), ISO 14001:2004 inclusive approach that endeavors to protect surface and ground-water, stewardship is a prime motivation as we are environment friendly. Lead air, flora and fauna. (Environmental Management System) and OHSAS 18001:2007 manage transportation of crude from Impact on the environment from the refining process is controlled by (Occupational Health and Safety Management System). free Gasoline complies with the Keamari Port in Karachi to our refinery in treating and managing emissions. Low NOx (Nitrous Oxide) burners and standard having sulfur content PARCO’s Mid Country Refinery and Stations and Terminals have Mahmood-Kot, MCR through 864 km Sulfur removal from fuel gases are examples. less than 150 ppm. With the designated procedures and areas for effective system of waste collection During September 2012, PARCO Pipeline Division was re-certified on its and segregation. Drums marked in yellow and green are placed in each pipeline which is approx 400 ft above sea Effluents are treated in a state of the art effluent treatment plant having three standards by a third party certification body. investment of 132 million USD on area e.g. plant, maintenance, truck loading, laboratory, office area, etc. level. The pipeline ensures that each capacity of 340m3/hr involving extensive chemical and biological a Diesel Hydro Desulfurization Hazardous, non hazardous waste and recyclable materials are segregated drop of crude oil is transported to MCR treatment. The waste water from all over the refinery is collected and In September 2012, surveillance audit was conducted by a certified body unit, Diesel produced by PARCO is at the source. without effecting the environment. through skimming, neutralization, dissolved air floatation, aeration, for re-validation of the IMS certificates at CHQ. on Euro II specifications i.e. less clarification, filtration and drying operations the effluent water is than 500 ppm. This positions The Solid Waste Management yard is the storage point for waste at MCR. We have leak detection system, brought with in NEQS limits before being discharged. The treated water It is a well organized area catering for everything from spent catalyst and For the year 2012, IMS certificates of Mid-Country Refinery were rePARCO at the top in Pakistan emergency shut down system, intelligent is reused for plants after compliance with NEQS (National Environmental chemical drums to used batteries. An internationally operating third Quality Standards) is ensured. All effluents are checked and verified certified by a third party certification body during December 2011. where the running standard is party has been contracted for disposing the waste. All types of solid pigging, corrosion protection, and 5000 ppm of sulfur in diesel. The regularly before discharging by third party EPA (Environment Protection wastes are collected in the waste yard and separated according to their microwave towers for communication, extracted sulfur is solidified and Agency) approved Labs to comply with NEQS. During 2012, 9 risk assessments were carried out and 7 in 2011 for various nature. There are five separate yards according to the nature of waste. SCADA (supervisory control and data activities at PARCO Corporate Headquarters. The purpose of risk sold as a by product. acquisition) system to avoid leakages, All contractors’ equipment is checked for compliance to NEQS. assessment is to define mechanism and responsibilities to identify OHS Scrap Yard is situated near the south side boundary wall of the refinery thefts and intermediate storage tanks at hazards and assess their risks in respect of normal and ascertained in front of Solid Waste Management Yard. All the waste generated at the Various chemicals in use are stored in a well ventilated warehouse and it activities performed in the premises of PARCO. It also aims to provide Mid-Country Refinery is stored in the Solid Waste Management & Scrap 5 different pumping stations. is ensured that a minimum level of inventory is kept to minimize the mechanism and responsibilities to identify EMS aspects and assess its yard. Environment section keeps the record of Solid Waste Management hazard. The chemical warehouse is equipped with deluge valve system to impacts. Yard. Hazardous waste yard gate is kept locked and the keys are During the year 2012, approx 3.4 Million suppress any kind of contamination. Plastic trays and HDPE sheets have available with Environmental Engineer. The non hazardous waste is Metric Tons of crude oil was transported been placed under the chemical drums to meet the required level of Striving for professional excellence has been a hallmark of PARCO. As the leading energy provider in the country, stored in green drums and shifted to the non-hazardous waste yard. from Karachi to PARCO`s Mid-Country protection. PARCO has always been mindful of its responsibilities towards its customers, employees, the community and the Administration Department keeps the record of all the municipal waste Refinery (MCR) at Mahmood Kot through environment it operates in. Due to the nature of our business protecting our employees and installations from fire and submits the record to the Environment Engineer on monthly basis an 870 km pipeline network, ensuring In compliance of Integrated Management System (IMS) at Corporate and safety hazards is inevitable. In this lieu, the role of HSE is crucial towards developing procedures and process for for proper monitoring, treatment and/or disposal. safe and secure transportation. This Headquarters, environmental sampling and testing of liquid effluent eliminating these hazards, along with training the staff for unforeseen events. (sewerage and car wash area) and gaseous emissions (generators of efficient supply chain eliminates the Around 186 tons of hazardous waste was disposed off in 2012 by a CHQ and Commercial buildings) are being carried out against NEQS on Recognizing the efforts of PARCO’s HSE department, its procedures, safety measures and business processes movement of oil tankers significantly certified and EPA approved third party. During hazardous waste yearly basis through an EPA certified laboratory. Liquid effluent throughout our installations, the National Forum for Environment and Health (NFEH) and Fire Protection Association contributing in reduction of air pollution. management, around 2000 Empty metal and plastic drums were sold parameters include temperature, pH, chemical oxygen demand, of Pakistan (FPAP) bestowed upon PARCO the Fire and Safety Award 2012 in a prestigious ceremony held in Karachi. with safe recycling/ disposal guarantees. The payback of recycled drums biological oxygen demand, total dissolved solids, total suspended solids, Similarly, during 2012, the 817 km WOP contributed significantly in disposal of hazardous waste. oil & grease, phenolic compounds and chlorides while gaseous (White Oil Pipeline) transported approx The Award is a testament to PARCO`s efforts to provide a safer working environment to all its employees, along with emissions are being tested for Co, Nox, Sox, H2S, smoke and noise. Five years’ (2007 2011) results remained within permissible limits specified the commitment of our HSE department and the high standards of operational safety, control and audit which made At the Corporate Quarters in Karachi, around 312 kgs of hazardous waste 3.7 Million Metric Tons of HSD (High in NEQS. Samples for 2012 have been extracted for testing and results this achievement possible. was disposed which included tube lights, toners, cartridges stored in a Speed Diesel) from Karachi to Mahmoodare awaited. designated area. The disposal was successfully carried out in 2010 in an Kot. environmentally friendly manner thru an EPA certified body. The next EMS (Environment Management System) Impact Assessment registers disposal of hazardous waste would become due when the same has been have been prepared at every Station, and EMS impact is assessed on accumulated up to 300 kgs. regular basis to ensure IMS conformance with ISO and EMS requirements. In the picture: PARCO representative (extreme left) “Fire and Safety Award 2012” receiving the “Fire and Safety Award 2012” Efficient Pipeline System Effluent Treatment Plant at PARCO Mid-Country Refinery www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2013 (Page 8 of 13) ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 (Contd.) BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Our Commitment PARCO is committed to comply with the National Environment Quality Standards (NEQS) and ensures minimal impact on the environment. Management Systems HSE, Operations and Administration Actions Efficient Effluent Management Environmental Auditing, Certification and Awards Air Emissions Monitoring Results Regular third party monitoring is done diligently, and the results are well below Audits of housekeeping, gas masks, noise, work permits, closed sampling box etc, Yearly PARCO takes into account the air emissions monitoring on a regular basis by a third party and the results are well below permissible permissible NEQS limits. Results of some key parameters are shown below. third party vehicle emissions monitoring, bi-annually third party stack emissions and NEQS limits. Results of some key parameters are shown below. liquid effluent monitoring, bi-annually third party ground water monitoring within the refinery and neighboring areas. Bi-annually third party ambient air monitoring around NEQS the PARCO installation within 2 kms of radius, are all ongoing and routine environmental NOx (Oil Fired) Results Total Suspended Solids NEQS projects. 700 Results 600 250 Regular HSE Audits of operational areas and office buildings are carried out to ensure safe environment in the office areas. Any discrepancies found during the audit are 500 200 analyzed for their risks on safety and appropriate recommendations are provided as key mg/Nm3 400 performance indicator. Since 2007 at CHQ, 10 HSEQ Internal Audits have been carried 150 out, eleventh internal audit was carried out in November 2012. 300 mg/l 100 200 100 50 NEQS Limit 0 0 CO Results DecJulJanJulJanJulDecAprOctAprFebJunDecJulJanJulJanJulDecAprOctAprFebJun900 06 07 08 08 09 09 09 10 10 11 12 12 06 07 08 08 09 09 09 10 10 11 12 12 800 Month M onth Monitoring is carried out by EPA aprroved 3rd party Monitoring is carried out by EPA approved 3rd party 700 600 mg/Nm3 NOx(Gas Fired) NEQS 500 Results Biological Oxygen Demand NEQS 400 450 Results 400 100 300 350 90 200 300 80 mg/Nm3 70 100 250 60 0 200 mg/l 50 DecJulJanJulJanJulDecAprOctAprFebJun150 40 06 07 08 08 09 09 09 10 10 11 12 12 100 30 50 20 Month 0 10 Monitoring is carried out by EPA aprroved 3rd party DecJulJanJulJanJulDecAprOctAprFebJun0 06 07 08 08 09 09 09 10 10 11 12 12 DecJulJanJulJanJulDecAprOctAprFebJunM onth 06 07 08 08 09 09 09 10 10 11 12 12 Month Monitoring is carried out by EPA aprroved 3rd party Monitoring is carried out by EPA approved 3rd party. NEQS SOx NEQS* Oil & Grease NEQS Chemical Oxygen Demand Results Results 6000 Results 180 12 160 5000 10 140 4000 120 mg/Nm3 8 100 mg/l 3000 mg/l 6 80 2000 60 4 40 1000 2 20 0 0 0 DecJul-07 JanJul-08 JanJul-09 DecAprOctAprFebJunDecJulJanJulJanJulDecAprOctAprFebJunDecJulJanJulJanJulDecAprOctAprFebJun06 08 09 09 10 10 11 12 12 06 07 08 08 09 09 09 10 10 11 12 12 06 07 08 08 09 09 09 10 10 11 12 12 Month Month Month *The NEQS for SOx is 1700mg/Nm3 based on 1% sulfur contents in fuel. Above NEQS is prorated on the basis of sulfur contents in fuel . Monitoring is carried out by EPA approved 3rd party Monitoring is carried out by EPA approved 3rd party Monitoring is carried out by EPA aprroved 3rd party www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2013 (Page 9 of 13) ENVIRONMENT Principle 8 COMPANIES SHOULD TAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment PARCO and its employees show responsibility in operations and in adjoining communities. Management Systems HSE, IMS, Operations, CSR Actions Environmental Stewardship Increasing Health and Safety Environment Certificates Reduction in Pollution Ground Water Sampling Initiatives Promoting Greater Environmental Awareness and Performance and Excellence Awards Responsibility Results The National Forum for Environment and PARCO`s Mid-Country Refinery (MCR) has The surrounding area of Mid Country During 2012, PARCO observed the World Environment Day throughout its PARCO infuses the core value of Environmental training is conducted twice a preserving the environment, this is not month in which PARCO employees and Health (NFEH) has awarded PARCO with developed a comprehensive ground and Refinery (MCR) has many fuel service facilities to show the strong commitment towards the cause of environment only limited to emissions far below NEQS Service Provider`s staff participate. All the Annual Environmental Excellence soil monitoring plan to ensure that there stations and auto workshops which are conservation. At the Stations and Terminals, safety walks were organized limits or products on Euro II standards but contractors are responsible for complying Award for the seventh consecutive year in is no contamination in soil and water and potential contaminants for ground and the HSE representatives posted on the Stations gave elaborate also to preserve natural habitat by with our Environmental Policy and legal water. Realizing this environmental presentations on various environment related topics like green economy, 2012. The NFEH is a non-government, nonhas developed base line data for diverting its oil pipeline. requirements as part of their contractual aspect, MCR has developed a profit organization which works in continuous monitoring. We perform 3rd awareness for environmental aspects and their impact like global warming, obligations. EMS training is also conducted at The 2,000 km of oil pipelines traversing the collaboration with the United Nations party (EPA certified) ground water comprehensive ground and soil ozone depletion and degradation of natural resources, etc. all stations in which PARCO`s and Service country, save thousands of gallons of fuel Provider`s staff attend the training sessions. Environmental Program (UNEP) and is monitoring of the surrounding areas of monitoring plan, whereby 8 soil samples and reduce pollution that would otherwise are collected twice a year to ensure that PARCO’s staff at the Pumping Station-4 at Fazilpur observed the World supported by the Ministry of Environment, PARCO Refinery and Corporate have been caused by tank lorries traffic. there is no contamination in soil and Environment Day with great zeal and enthusiasm. The staff engaged the Fire, rescue and emergency drills are Government of Pakistan. Headquarters twice a year, to ensure that conducted regularly at all PARCO locations water. local community to observe the World Environment Day by educating them the community nearby is using safe The refining complex at PARCO’s Midto ensure preparedness for emergencies. on the dangers posing towards the environment, especially the excessive underground water. There are 16 different The ground water monitoring of the Country Refinery is equipped with a stateFour batches of Emergency Response Team use of plastic materials such as polythene bags. After the lecture, a walk for of-the-art effluent treatment plant, low parameters that are tested: pH, Color, surroundings of Mid-Country Refinery and are being trained every year to ensure cause was also conducted for the awareness of green economy. The PARCO NOx (Nitrous Oxide) and SOx (Sulphur TDS, Taste and Odor, Total Hardness, Corporate Headquarters is performed availability of trained manpower at all staff at the Station also distributed Cloth Bags amongst the children to Oxide) burners and a Sulfur Recovery Unit. times. First Aid staff is trained by Faecal Coliform, Coliform Organisms, against 16 parameters through a third Approximately, 16% of the refinery’s cost convey the PARCO’s message in the vicinity. The objective of the initiative professional Fire and Rescue personnel, Arsenic, Chloride, Sulphate, Iron, Cyanide, party (EPA certified) consultant, twice a has been utilized in this project. was to discourage the use of plastic bags. refresher courses are ensured periodically. Lead, Selenium and Manganese. year, to ensure that the community Ambient air monitoring at 1 and 2 Km nearby is using safe underground water. distance around our refinery is done twice a To create a general awareness amongst the year by EPA certified third party. The employees regarding the importance of parameters being monitored are NOx, SOx, maintaining a good health; health and To avoid noise pollution, a comprehensive CO and particulate matter. safety brochures were launched on subjects noise survey is also carried out regularly at like the importance of good posture, the boundary walls of the MCR in order to quitting smoking, dengue fever, bird/swine make sure that the community surrounded flu viruses, office ergonomics, healthy by Mid-Country Refinery is not affected by balanced diet, importance of sanitation, the noise generated due to its operations. how to avoid hepatitis A, B & C, AIDs, etc. Regular lectures on various health topics (e.g., obesity, etc) are conducted by Company Ambient air monitoring at 1 and 2 Km Doctors. Similarly Medical Bulletins are also distance around PARCO’s Mid-Country issued on the Company’s intranet portal as well as emailed to all employees to increase Refinery is also done twice a year by EPA health awareness on various topics among certified third party monitoring NOx, SOx, the employees. CO and particulate matter. To enhance health and safety awareness among employees, trainings like Road Safety, Tank lorries that are received for filling Fire Fighting, Emergency Response Planning, are “Top loading” and of a variety of sizes PARCO is conducting a study on calculating the overall electricity Anti-Terrorist Attack, Risk Assessment and and dimensions. This leads to consumption at the Mid-Country Refinery and reducing its carbon footprint. Procedures of Waste Management, Hydrocarbon vapor emissions that create Similar calculations on Fuel Oil and Gas Consumption are being conducted Occupational Health & Industrial Hygiene Management, First Aid, etc are organized a very hazardous environment in the truck simultaneously. Upon analyzing the data, the company will then take from time to time. loading area, in the explosive limit range. initiatives to reduce overall energy consumption at the PARCO Mid-Country Apart from constant danger of fire refinery. Please refer to the graphs shown in Principle 7. incident due to high volatile vapors, the Mr. Shuja Uddin Ahmed, DMD situation is also very serious for the Oil is removed from the oily water at the Effluent Treatment Plant and Operations, PARCO receiving the environment as these vapors contribute recycled with crude in the process. This process minimizes the spoilage of Environment Excellence Award to Global Warming. According to Environmental Impact Assessment Report, 85% of the crude as well as its exposure to the environment. annual hydrocarbon emissions from the refinery take place during the filling of the Truck The Company conducts HSEQ Internal Audits twice a year, to ensure that Lorries. In order to control this hazard, a fire proof cloak was fabricated for covering the defined mechanism and responsibilities for planning, conducting and truck lorry manhole. The fugitive emissions are then collected in an overhead tank. reporting internal health, safety, environment and quality management systems are being followed. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2013 (Page 10 of 13) ENVIRONMENT Principle 8 (Contd.) COMPANIES SHOULD TAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment PARCO and its employees show responsibility in operations and in adjoining communities. Management Systems HSE, Operations, CSR Actions Environmental Stewardship HSE Training Programs Initiatives Promoting Greater Environmental Responsibility Results At PARCO, we have an in-house Health Safety and Environment (HSE) training programs. PARCO is EMS 14001 certified In offices we have a culture of using the other side of paper in Comprehensive noise surveys are conducted within all operational areas, Stations & Terminals and the Mid-Country company and all relevant employees including Top, Middle and Lower Management are fully aware of Environmental printers. This recycle paper not only saves cost but also reduces the Refinery. Equipment and locations are identified where a detrimental noise level may be present. Ear muffs and ear plugs Management Systems (EMS) and National Environmental Quality Standards (NEQS). This is ensured by our routine EMS consumption of paper and ultimately trees that are to be cut to are made mandatory accordingly. Generator/ turbine housings, fired heaters, compressors and similar potentially high and HSE in house trainings pertaining to Air Emissions Management, Effluent Discharge Management and Solid Waste prepare pulp. Since 2009, there has been a considerable reduction in noise equipment are monitored periodically. Even at the boundaries, a noise survey is carried out in order to make sure Management supported by Standard Operating Procedures. paper usage. that communities surrounding our facilities are not affected by any noise generated due to operations. PARCO achieved a target of 1.5 man-days i.e. 12 hours per employee of HSE training in 2011-12 and is currently en-route PARCO has a comprehensive system of contractor management that to its target of 1.75 man-days per employee of HSE training in 2012-13. ensures compliance with PARCO procedures for Health, Safety & Noise Analysis Environment. Training and awareness including emergency response is given to all contractor workforces weekly and before the 98 commencement of work. PARCO ensures every contractor has first 96 96.4 95.8 TRAINING SESSIONS aid and medical facilities for its workers. Medical fitness certificates July – September 2012 are necessary for highly hazardous work. 93.9 94 92.8 Training Man-hours (MCR) 2012-13 = 1155 Contractor staff is given emergency response trainings and on the 92 2200 Attendance 2166 use of emergency equipment. PARCO HSE personal supervision is 91.4 2030 91.2 2100 91 90.9 2000 Training Sessions ensured full time throughout the contract. Safety talks are 90 90.1 90 90 89.6 89.9 1900 considered KPIs and followed diligently, frequency of which is given Noise Level 1800 1747 below: 88 1700 88 87.6 1580 1542 1600 87 87 87 1456 1436 86.4 1500 86 85.6 1400 85.4 1300 84 1200 84 1100 1000 900 82 800 700 80 600 500 335 Emissions of all vehicles in transport fleet, diesel generating sets 400 78 300 and fire water engines at Stations and Terminals are being tested 100 100 200 200 300 300 400 400 400 400 400 400 500 500 600 600 600 600 Uty Uty Lab Lab 151 179 200 89 70 104 103 119 during fiscal year 2012-13. M S M S M S M S M S M S M S M S M S M S M S 100 29 0 Areas 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 All employees including Top, Middle and Lower Management are fully aware of Environmental Management Systems and National Environmental Quality Standards. This is ensured by our routine EMS and HSE in-house trainings including air emissions management; effluent discharge management and solid waste management are conducted. These are also PARCO works proactively to prevent occupational supported by our Standard Operating Procedures. health illnesses at all its sites. Noise, eudiometry, dust monitoring and illumination surveys are carried out on a regular basis. Noise exposure is measured through a personal noise monitoring program. Noise surveys are conducted three times a year and noise levels are compared. PPEs are prescribed, areas are signposted for mandatory PPE use and Engineering controls are utilized to reduce noise levels. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2013 (Page 11 of 13) ENVIRONMENT Principle 9 COMPANIES SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Our Commitment PARCO makes all efforts to minimize the impact of its operations on environment by utilizing technologies that are environment friendly. Management Systems HSE, Operations Actions Diesel Hydro-Desulphurization Plant (DHDS) Effluent Treatment Plant Automated Incident Reporting System Air Dispersion Modeling producing Euro II Spec. High Speed Diesel Results With commissioning of the DHDS plant at the Mid-Country Refinery, PARCO`s Effluent Treatment Plant has a capacity of 340m3/hr. Waste An electronic Incident Reporting System has since been functioning in PARCO Mid-Country Refinery uses an Environmental Monitoring software for PARCO has the capability of producing High Speed Diesel conforming water from the refinery is collected and through skimming, PARCO. The system has undergone company-wide improvements this year. Atmospheric Dispersion Modeling. The software helps identify the theoretical EURO II standards and is the only refinery in Pakistan to have achieved neutralization, dissolved air floatation, aeration, clarification, filtration The objective of the upgrade is to encourage incident reporting and provide concentration of certain environmental pollutants like Sulfur Oxides and this capability. This product is helping EURO II compliant automobiles to and drying operations, the effluent water is brought within NEQs limits a more transparent and user friendly system, where all employees can Nitrogen Oxides released from the heater stacks in the refinery. MCR has perform better by being fuel efficient and giving low emissions. All before discharge into local drainage or reuse for plants. benefit from the lessons learned. Employees will now be able to track developed an integrated solution using the MAESTRO System developed by impacts on the community, flora and fauna identified in the incident reporting and investigation down to meticulous detail and this will ATM-PRO in order to perform realistic impact assessment of industrial pollution. Environmental Impact Assessment study for the DHDS project had be a valuable learning experience. The solution consists of software called “MAESTRO W/D/P” that generates local mitigation strategies which were implemented with meticulous care. meteorology taking into account the topography and land use in the surroundings of the industry and a sample set of pre-calculated data basis, providing one year of meteorological (3D) data fields and dispersion calculation During 2012, the DHDS plant at PARCO has processed more than 1.2 of the sources within the company. million metric tons of High Speed Diesel on EURO II specifications. Effluent Treatment Plant at PARCO Mid-Country Refinery The Automated Incident Reporting System (IRS) Updated reports of IRS showing outstanding/unclosed incidents are reported to the Managing Director and Senior Management so that there is Diesel Hydro-Desulphurization Pant at PARCO Mid-Country Refinery for increased focus to close out such incidents and for taking suitable producing EURO II Spec. Diesel. countermeasures to avoid recurrence. During 2012, 163 Incidents Reports were raised from the Mid-Country Refinery of which 32 have been closed-out successfully with recommendations for improvements, while investigation for 87 IRS raised have been completed and are currently being scrutinized. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2013 (Page 12 of 13) ANTI CORRUPTION Principle 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY. Our Commitment PARCO does not allow any form of corruption and monitors its business transactions with internal and external stakeholders to eliminate this malpractice. Management Systems All Corporate Functions Actions Corporate Governance Transactions with Suppliers, Contractors, Service Providers Elimination of Discrimination Results PARCO adopts international standards of accounting. In PARCO`s 39 years of operations there has been no instance of extortion or bribery. Elimination of discrimination during selection of Vendors/Contactors/Service Providers by check and balances against introduction of discriminatory conditions. Compliance with Statement of Ethics and Business Practices is pursued at all levels and locations. Suppliers/Service providers are required to sign integrity pact with PARCO to declare that the supplier/service provider has not used any external or internal influence, commission or fee in Pre-qualified Vendors/Contractors list is periodically updated through advertisements placed in getting the contract from PARCO. newspapers and evaluations based on predetermined criteria. All funds, assets, receipts and disbursements are properly recorded in the Books of the Company. Compliance with the Company’s Financial Authority Manual specifying fiscal limits for transactions Contracts/Supplies in excess of Rs 50 million are approved by a Bid Evaluation Committee of Board of Compliance with regulations of the Security & Exchange Commission of Pakistan. at various levels and positions. Directors while contracts in excess of Rs 100 million are approved by the Board of Directors. Purchase orders exceeding Rs 10 million issued include a clause which states that the supplier with the Constitution of Company Procurement Policy is approved by Board of Directors. No discrimination is made on basis of gender, religion, caste, origin, etc., while hiring an employee. acceptance of purchase order shall submit a statement, duly signed by an authorized executive of the supplier HR policies are transparent and merit based where there are no influences or pressures as mentioned on Rs 100 stamp paper that the supplier has not given or agreed to any individual, company or official of Any form of extortion and bribery, given or taken, is a very serious misconduct according to the HR in Principle 6. PARCO or Government of Pakistan within or outside Pakistan, directly or indirectly any commission, gratification, bribe, finder’s fee, or kick back with the objective of obtaining the contract/purchase order or any Policy of the company and the concerned employee is liable to be terminated for such other benefit from PARCO. misconduct. PARCO has an Internal Audit Department which conducts periodical audits for procedural PARCO employees, if found involved in corruption in any form or contravening with any Company Policy on compliance and reports directly to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Ethics, Finance, Procurement, HR, Operations or any other function, face disciplinary action. Such deviations can lead to termination of service and are reflected in the employee`s performance appraisal. Constitution of separate committees for transparent and merit-based prequalification, quotations PARCO has IMS, HSE, Environment, CSR, Financial, HR and other audits done to ensure compliance with best opening, tender opening, etc. practices and ethical standards. Development of Annual Procurement Plan and plans for contractual work and services by external PARCO has NEVER been involved in any court case related to corporate malpractices or corruption or bribery, Service Providers which are pre-approved by the Company and subsequently monitored in etc. monthly and quarterly management review meetings. We adhere strictly to the Internationally Accepted Accounting Principles, SECP (Securities and Exchange All contracts, business activities, operations, procurements, etc., are subject to Internal and Commission of Pakistan), the Country’s Financial/Tax/Labor/Environment and other national and provincial External Audit. legislations. Purchase Orders are issued to technically compliant commercially lowest bidders for procurement During the year 2012, PARCO developed and implemented a comprehensive Business Continuity Management under Rs 1 million. An Internal Evaluation Committee (IEC) has been formed to evaluate proposals Plan (BCP). The scope of the document is to have risk assessment of core business areas, identification of for orders of Rs 1 million and above. contingencies that can lead to loss of business reputation, credibility, a company wide or a national crisis and resources that need to be mobilized for business continuity while establishing the structure, responsibilities Centralized Procurement with due diligence and more than one step evaluation process for and communication necessary for crisis management. Business Continuity Management is a holistic process selection of Supplier/Service Provider. that a framework for building organizational resilience with the capability for an effective response. It safeguards the interests of key stakeholders, reputation, brand and value-creating activities. PARCO Materials Department is not allowed to commit any terms and conditions with any Supplier/Service Provider against any law of Pakistan. BCP is a documented collection of procedures and information that is developed, compiled and maintained in readiness for use in an incident and enables PARCO to continue to deliver its critical products and services. Payment to any Supplier/Service Provider/Contractor is made after proper inspection by the concerned Department and confirmation of acceptance by End User through signing of inspection At PARCO, transparency in all our operations and management systems is considered top priority and ensured report. at all levels. The IMS department at PARCO takes periodical feedbacks from different vendors on PARCO’s performance and their treatment. Vendor’s grievances are heard and dealt with due care. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2013 (Page 13 of 13)
