Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 April 2012 March 2013 Epson conducts its business activities with the aim of becoming a company that is indispensable to customers and society. These activities are rooted in our Management Philosophy and in the employee mission underpinning the EXCEED YOUR VISION tagline. Epson Sustainability Report 2013 Editorial Policy This report describes Epson’s CSR initiatives oriented around the Epson Management Philosophy. In compiling this report, we placed the customer at the top of our target audience. In addition, we used the words of the employees who are actually carrying out the activities whenever possible so they can convey their thoughts directly to our stakeholders and reafﬁrm a sense of pride in the work they do. The feature article titled “Epson’s DNA” describes how our compact, energy-saving, and high-precision technologies and mind-set, which have taken shape over 70 years in business, live on in our manufacturing and skills development and how they inform our environmental contributions and the creation of customer value. In addition, the “Customer Commitment” section starts the feature articles on the theme of “pursuing customer satisfaction”. 1 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 Contents Overview of the Epson Group 3 To Our Stakeholders 5 Reporting Period Business Vision 7 April 2012 to March 2013 Note: Contains some information on activities conducted af ter March 2013. Feature Articles 9 Scope This report describes the sustainability efforts of Seiko Epson Corporation Tracing the Roots of and 96 consolidated subsidiaries. The scope of environmental reporting, however, covers Seiko Epson Corporation, 9 afﬁliates in Japan and 38 Epson’s DNA afﬁliates overseas. Note: “Epson” refers to the Epson Group, unless indicated other wise. 11 Organizational Changes in This Reporting Period Italy-Proven Epson Core Technology ● Addition of one consolidated subsidiary I kj t T Inkjet til P Textile Printing i ti R Reduces d ● Removal of two consolidated subsidiaries Environmental Impacts Refer to the following website for details on changes to the Epson Group. Full year ended March 31, 2013 http://global.epson.com/IR/financial_results/ 13 Marshaling the Power of Referenced Guidelines T h l i Originating Technologies O i i ti ● GRI1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines v3.1 in the Watch Business and ● Environmental Reporting Guideline issued by the Japanese Ministry of Honed Over 70 Years Environment (2012) ● ISO 26000:2010 / JIS Z 26000:2012 (Guidance on social responsibility) 1 Epson’s evolving 15 Global Repor ting Initiative: This international organization creates global guidelines that organizations can use to measure and repor t their economic, environlow-power GPS modules mental, and social per formance. Developing Modules as Memberships Users Ourselves ● Global Compact Japan Network ● Life Cycle Assessment Society of Japan 17 ● Japan Portable Rechargeable Battery Recycling Center ● Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association Using Invisible Assets to ● Japan Business Machine and Information System Industries Association Give Concrete Shape to ● Communications and Information Network Association of Japan Customer Value ● Japanese Business Federation (Nippon Keidanren) Previous Reports CSR Management Epson has been publishing a report every year since 1999. In 2003, the name of the report was changed from Environmental Report to SustainabilCSR att Epson E 19 ity Report. Customer Commitment Next Scheduled Report July 2014 Commitment to Customer Satisfaction 23 25 Customer Value Delivered by Epson Commitment to Environmental Conservation Inquiries about Sustainability Report 2013 Preserving the Natural Environment 33 Seiko Epson Corporation Individuality and Teamwork PR&IR Department 3-3-5 Owa, Suwa-shi, Human Development at Epson 39 Nagano-ken, Japan 392-8502 Tel: +81-266-52-3131 (main) Occupational Safety and Health 43 CSR activity website Trusted Throughout the World http://global.epson.com/SR/ Organizational Governance 45 Sustainable Procurement 49 Prospering with the Community Disclaimer This report includes forward-looking statements, estimates, and Corporate Citizenship 51 plans based on the information available at the time of publicaCommunication 54 tion. Actual results may be different from those discussed. Worldwide Recognition / Reader Feedback 57 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 2 Overview of the Epson Group Company Proﬁle (As of March 31, 2013) ● Company Seiko Epson Corporation ● Capital ¥53,204 million ● Founded May 18, 1942 ● Number of Employees ● Head Office 3-3-5 Owa, Suwa-shi, Consolidated: 68,761 Nagano-ken, Japan 392-8502 Parent Company: 11,902 ● Group Companies 96 (including Seiko Epson Corp.) Americas Regional Sales ¥200.3 billion Employees 2,346 Europe Regional Sales ¥175.2 billion Employees 2,153 Japan Regional Sales ¥266.6 billion Employees 18,234 Asia & Regional Sales ¥209.1 billion Oceania Employees 46,028 Regional headquarters Sales/service site Production site Development site Representative ofﬁce/branch Asia & Oceania Japan Afﬁliates in Japan (20 total) Afﬁliates Overseas (75 total) 30% 25% Epson Sales Japan Corporation Epson America, Inc. Percentage of Net Sales Epson Direct Corporation Epson Europe B.V. by Region (April 2012 to Tohoku Epson Corporation Epson (China) Co., Ltd. March 2013) Akita Epson Corporation Epson Singapore Pte. Ltd. Europe Americas 21% 24% 16 others Epson Engineering (Shenzhen) Ltd. Singapore Epson Industrial Pte. Ltd. Japan 27% P.T. Indonesia Epson Industry Percentage Americas Epson Precision (Philippines), Inc. of Employees 3% 67 others Asia & by Region Oceania Europe 67% 3% Consolidated Results Highlights Net Sales ¥ 851.2 billion Operating Income ¥ 21.2 billion Net Income ¥10.0 billion (billions of yen) (billions of yen) (billions of yen) 1,200 40 20 1,122.4 1,000 985.3 973.6 32.7 10.2 30 10 877.9 851.2 5.0 800 24.6 21.2 0 -111.3 -19.7 -10.0 600 20 18.2 -10 400 10 -20 200 0 -1.5 0 March March March March March March March March March March March March March March March 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 3 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 FY2012 Performance by Business Segment Information-Related Equipment Segment Net Sales Segment Income (billions of yen) (billions of yen) Net Sales: ¥688.0 billion (down 0.5% Y/Y) % net sales 688.0 Segment Income: ¥52.6 billion (down 18.8% Y/Y) 81.3% 691.8 64.8 52.6 Printer Business Inkjet printers, page printers, dot-matrix printers, large-format printers, printer consumables, color image scanners, mini-printers, POS systems products, etc. Visual Products Business 3LCD projectors, HTPS TFT LCD for projectors, handheld label printers, etc. March March March March 2012 2013 2012 2013 Miscellaneous Personal computers, etc. Inkjet printers Business inkjet printers Large-format printers Scanners High-temperature See-through polysilicon TFT LCD mobile viewers Dot-matrix printers Mini-printers Digital label presses Digital minilabs Projectors PCs Devices & Precision Products Segment Net Sales Segment Income (billions of yen) (billions of yen) Net Sales: ¥156.8 billion (down 10.3% Y/Y) % net sales Segment Income: ¥7.6 billion (Up 65.4% Y/Y) 18.5% 174.8 156.8 7.6 Device Business Quartz Device Business (crystal units, crystal oscillators, crystal sensors, etc.) 4.6 Semiconductor Business (CMOS LSI, etc.) Precision Products Watch Business (wristwatches, watch movements, etc.) March March March March 2012 2013 2012 2013 Factory Automation Products Business (SCARA robots, IC handlers, industrial inkjet equipment, etc.) * The optical products business was transferred to Hoya Corporation and Hoya Group companies anies on FebFebruary 1, 2013. Timing devices Sensing devices Semiconductors Inertial Wristwatches Compact SCARA robots Digital inkjet textile printers measurement units six-axis robots Other Net Sales: ¥1.2 billion (down 92.6% Y/Y) % net sales Segment Income: -¥1.1 billion (¥1.5 billion loss in previous fiscal year) 0.2% Intra-Group Service Business, etc. Note: The percentage of net sales includes inter-segment sales from April 2012 to March 2013. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 4 To Our Stakeholders Aiming to Be an Indispensable Company 5 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 Realizing Our Management Philosophy and energy efﬁcient, more precise and more accurate. These Becoming an Indispensable Company advanced technologies have yielded original core technologies that help deﬁne Epson, including in inkjet and Epson currently employs over 68,000 persons worldwide. projection systems. We are using these technologies to I feel a tremendous responsibility to them as well as to create unique, customer-pleasing products. These prodour countless stakeholders—our suppliers, customers, ucts, augmented by ever-evolving information technology shareholders, and the people in the communities where and social infrastructure, are now being turned into soluwe operate. tions that precisely meet customer needs. The business environment during the 2012 ﬁscal year (ended March 2013) was difﬁcult, with advanced econoBecoming an Indispensable Company mies slow to recover and growth in emerging markets through Products, Services, and Conduct slowing. But regardless of the business environment, we that Garner Trust are united as a company in our desire to make Epson an indispensable company for customers and society by The fundamental key to being recognized as an indisembodying the ideals spelled out in Epson’s Managepensable company by customers and society is trust that ment Philosophy. is built through the course of business activities. Essential to earning trust is compliance. All Epson executives and Epson is on the cusp of transforming itself into a comemployees are, of course, obligated to observe legal and pany that once again posts strong growth by creating regulatory requirements, internal regulations and poliand providing new information tools and equipment for cies, and a corporate code of conduct. Moreover, we as businesses and professionals, as well as for consuma company are morally bound to help solve issues such ers. Epson’s Updated SE15 Mid-Range Business Plan as environmental problems and human rights abuses. (FY2013-15), launched in April 2013, is a three-year plan Epson joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2004 for building the foundation for that transformation. We and, in 2005, established “Principles of Corporate Behavhave already realigned our businesses, concentrating ior,” a code of conduct that reﬂects the ten principles of our management resources on select areas. We are now the Global Compact and which all Epson executives and ready to further hone our strengths and create unique employees are required to uphold. In April 2013, Epson products that drive additional growth in existing busiestablished a Compliance Ofﬁce to further solidify comnesses or open up new business areas. pliance and risk management. Going forward, through the conduct of our people and Exceeding Customer Expectations with the value and quality of our products and services, Epson Great and Original Products will garner trust around the world and contribute to society. In so doing, we hope to become an indispensable To provide value that exceeds the expectations of our company. customers, we ﬁrst have to look hard at the needs that arise from their wants, expectations, and problems. We then have to correctly read the underlying trends, following them to explore the potential future needs. Our responsibility is to then bring Epson’s strengths to bear so that we can provide the best solutions to satisfy those needs. With roots in wristwatch manufacturing, Epson has for Minoru Usui seven decades resolutely developed and pursued adPresident vances in technologies to make products smaller, more Seiko Epson Corporation Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 6 Business Vision Forging Strong Growth The Updated SE15 Mid-Range Business Plan (FY2013-15) Changes in the business environment and worsening ﬁnancial performance in the ﬁrst half of the 2012 ﬁscal year prompted Epson to re-examine and adjust some of the strategies and ﬁnancial targets in its business plan in March 2013. The result is the Updated SE15 Mid-Range Business Plan, a three-year plan that runs from FY2013 to FY2015. A Time for Laying the Foundation for Fresh plan, which starts in 2016, Epson aims to transform itself Growth from being primarily a provider of consumer imaging products into a company that once again posts strong Epson’s Updated Mid-Range Business Plan represents growth by creating and providing new information soluan important strategic shift. In existing businesses, where tions and equipment for businesses and professionals, Epson has focused largely on consumers, we are reas well as consumers. The Updated Mid-Range Business aligning our product mix as we also adopt new business Plan maps out the actions to be taken to build that founmodels. In new business segments we are aggressively dation over the next three years. developing markets. Under the next mid-range business ● Basic Policy “SE15” Long-Range Corporate Vision Basic Policy ● SE15 Vision Statement Manage businesses so that they create steady income, Epson is committed to the relentless pursuit of and avoid the single-minded pursuit of net sales growth. innovation in compact, energy-saving, high-precision technologies, and through the Initiatives for achieving the SE15 Long-Range Corporate Vision formation of group-wide platforms1 will become ・Strengthen the ﬁnancial structure with an emphasis on a community of robust businesses, creating, generating cash. producing, and providing products and services ・Change the proﬁt structure with an eye toward fresh growth. that emotionally engage customers worldwide. ● Corporate Vision 1 Shared foundations and infrastructure FY18 Next mid-range business plan A company that once again posts strong growth by creating ● The Epson Envisioned in SE15 and providing new information tools and equipment for businesses and professionals, as well as consumers. FY16 Updated Mid-Range Business Plan FY15 Develop firm Transform existing business domains foundations Develop new business domains FY13 Epson today Primarily a consumer imaging product provider 7 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 Financial Targets Avoiding the single-minded pursuit of revenue growth for the three years from ﬁscal 2013, we will generate steady income and cash as we realign in existing business segments and develop new business segments. Once we have positioned the company to generate steady proﬁts, we will aim, from 2016, to achieve 10% ROS and at least 10% ROE on a continuous basis as early as possible. FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 USD 1= JPY 85 JPY 85 JPY 85 EUR 1= JPY 115 JPY 115 JPY 115 Net sales 890.0 910.0 930.0 Sensing & 1,000 (billions of yen) 19.0 22.0 27.0 industrial solutions Next mid-range business plan 750 146.0 150.0 151.0 Devices & (FY2016-18) precision products Aim for 10% ROS and at least 10% 500 ROE on a continuous basis 728.0 742.0 756.0 Information-related (ROS = operating income / net sales equipment 250 ROE = net income / shareholders' equity) 0 * Results for other businesses, corporate expenses, and internal transaction eliminations are not shown. Key performance indicators (FY2013-15, aggregate) Capital expenditure 120.0 billions of yen Operating Free cash ﬂows 68.0 billions of yen income 100 (billions of yen) 4.4% 5.4% 75 3.4% 5％ Dividend policy 50 The objective is to consistently achieve a 25 0％ consolidated dividend payout ratio of 30% over the 30.0 40.0 50.0 medium to long-term 0 * These financial targets are the figures that were announced on March 13, 2013. These figures were subsequently revised based on amended foreign exchange rate assumptions. As announced on April 30, Epson now expects to record consolidated net sales of 910 billion yen and operating income of 33 billion yen in FY2013. Increasing Collective Strength to Increase increase the competitiveness of the devices that these Customer Value technologies yield while we also look to increase total customer value by enhancing systems and services for Epson’s competitive strength comes from a unique set making effective use of these devices. And, by offering of core technologies that are undergirded by precision unique, inimitable value to a broader range of customers, processing technologies. As we move ahead, we will we will achieve the SE15 Long-Range Corporate Vision. Leveraging our unique technologies to create products and services that exceed customer expectations Epson’s unique compact, energy-saving, and high-precision technologies, which can be traced back 70 years to our roots in watch manufacturing, create value that exceeds customer expectations and, when combined with unsurpassed technical skills, result in products that surprise and delight our customers while also providing value in the form of solutions to environmental and other social problems. The feature articles that begin on the next page highlight a number of examples. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 8 Feature Epson’s DNA Epson's Evolving Compact, Energy-Saving, and High-Precision Technologies Tracing the Roots of Epson’s DNA The Rise of Suwa’s Watch Industry The history of Epson officially begins with Daiwa Kogyo Ltd. (est. 1942) but actually traces back to 1881 and the Hattori Tokeiten. In 1937 the wristwatch department of Seikosha, the manufacturing arm of Hattori Tokeiten, was spun out as an independent company, Dai-Ni Seikosha Co., Ltd. (now Seiko Instruments Inc.). Daiwa Kogyo was born as a contract factory of Dai-Ni Seikosha. In 1944, a portion of Dai-Ni Seikosha's operations were evacuated from Tokyo to Suwa, giving Daiwa Kogyo the machinery and people needed for an end-to-end watch manufacturing process. In 1959 Daiwa Kogyo and Dai-Ni Seikosha's Suwa factory merged to form Suwa Seikosha Co., Ltd. Wristwatch assembly line (1962) Official Timekeeper for the Olympics The Seiko Group was named the official timekeeper for the 1964 Tokyo Games. As soon as Tokyo was selected, in 1960, the Seiko Group began as one to develop the necessary equipment. Suwa Seikosha (now Seiko Epson) was in charge of developing a crystal chronometer and printing timer.1 Despite the short development period, the company produced an incredibly small, low-power crystal chronometer (the QC-951) and a printing timer, the first-ever system to both measure and print times in an Olympics. The printing timer (top) 1 The printing timer was jointly developed with Seikosha. The Seiko Crystal Chronometer QC-951 (bottom) The Quartz Watch That Revolutionized Horology Released in 1969, the Seiko Quartz Astron 35SQ was the world’s first quartz wristwatch. Achieved by further shrinking the desktop-sized QC951, it rewrote horologic history with its remarkable accuracy. At a time when the daily rate for mechanical watches was 20 seconds, the 35SQ offered a daily rate of 0.2 seconds (±5 sec/month). The Seiko Quartz Astron 35SQ 9 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 The Digital Printer that Launched Epson In 1968 the company developed the EP-101, the world’s first electronic calculator printer derived from the printing timer. The small size and light weight of this groundbreaking printer laid the foundations for Epson’s information-related equipment business. The compact, lightweight EP-101 digital printer Revolutionizing Printing with Micro Piezo Technology In 1994 Epson launched the MJ-700V2C color inkjet printer. Boasting amazing image quality, the printer was a global hit that touched off a dash to ascend to even higher image quality heights. The color inkjet printer MJ-700V2C In 1998 Epson’s MAXART printers produced photo-quality wide-format prints. Capable of handling high-mix, low-volume print jobs, these plateless inkjet printers sent shockwaves throughout the world of highvolume analog printing. Epson’s Micro Piezo technology is today expanding, reaching beyond the home and into commercial and industrial printing domains by providing value in the form of outstanding image quality, high added value and high throughput. The Large-format printer MAXART MC-9000 Inkjet printers Business inkjet printers Large-format printers Digital minilabs Digital label presses Epson's evolving compact, energy-saving, high-precision technologies that began with watches continue to evolve and endure. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 10 Feature Epson’s DNA Epson’s Compact, Energy-Saving, High-Precision Technologies Change the World Lake Como (Italy) Italy-Proven Epson Core Technology Inkjet Textile Printing Reduces Environmental Impacts to a Level Unthinkable with Traditional Printing Digital textile printer Monna Lisa EVO (2011) Product samples printed by Monna Lisa Helping to Revitalize One of the World's Great Silk Centers The Como region of Italy was renowned as one of the Digital textile printing is greener than traditional “analog” world’s great silk fabric production centers, but cheap textile printing. Since the digital process is shorter and products from low-cost competitors in emerging nations does not require plates, it uses anywhere from 40% to in Asia has put many in the local industry out of business 75% less electrical power and water than a traditional since the early ‘90s. With the bulk fabric end of the trade process, as well as far less ink and fewer chemical prodmigrating elsewhere, Como was looking to concentrate ucts. The dramatically lower environmental impacts and on the high-end of the market, a niche where it can higher printing efficiency of the digital process are thus differentiate by design work but which required flexible changing the mature textile printing industry. digital textile printing systems to provide fast turnaround ● Comparison of analog and digital textile printing processes on relatively small orders. Given this, in 2003, Epson and Italian companies F.Lli Robustelli S.R.L. and For.Tex Conventional method Inkjet method S.R.L., which have expertise in textile printing, forged a Original design Pre-Processing partnership to provide total textile printing solutions by Original design Image layout pairing the Monna Lisa textile printers jointly developed Color Dye matcing Image layout by Epson and Robustelli with the textile inks and textile separation and tracing Platemaking and dye making pre-processing know-how of For.Tex. Sample printing Sample printing Manufacture Disposal of Plate It took time for digital textile printing to gain traction in of mass production dyes unnecessary dye washing and storage the Como region, but as printing firms gradually learned Volume printing Volume printing more about this digital technology and as the mechanical Plate Disposal of performance of digital systems improved, more and more washing and unnecessary storage dye firms turned to digital textile printers. Today, Monna Lisa Post-Processing Post-Processing printers account for more than half of all the digital textile 1.5-2 months 3 days-2 weeks printers operating in the Como region. 11 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 New Models in Development for Short-Run Applications Once Monna Lisa digital textile printers began spreading Hirotaka Ishizuka of the IS Planning & Design Department in the Como region, designers began asking specifically says, “The Monna Lisa has earned a strong reputation in that their designs be printed digitally because of digital the market for stable quality and system reliability, but usprinters’ ability to faithfully reproduce original designs. ers weren’t able to capitalize on its full potential because When this happened, firms that already owned one or they had to also use it to create samples. Our current more Monna Lisa printers began asking about ways to mission is to provide customers with a short-run printer to increase their utilization rate. In response, Epson, with handle samples and small orders so that they can keep technical cooperation from Robustelli, began developtheir Monna Lisa operating at peak capacity. The shorting a new short-run textile printer that could be used to run printer will have the significant advantage of being produce samples or small orders with a quick turnaround fully compatible with Monna Lisa thanks to Epson’s ink time. The new model, which Epson plans to release in the deposition and color management technology. autumn of 2013, will be 100% compatible with the Monna Lisa. By purchasing a new short-run model, firms that I spent a month at Robustelli in Como and learned a great already own a Monna Lisa will be able to shift production deal. I talked with people on the production floor and of samples and low-volume, fast-turnaround orders to the saw their products. Normally you don’t get to see how new model, thus freeing up their Monna Lisa for longer amazing the designs and gradations produced by digital production runs. textile printing are. I am now more confident than ever that digital textile printing has the potential to unlock new Firms that purchase a short-run printer can minimize the value that traditional printing never could. I can hardly waiting and down times for retooling their Monna Lisa wait to launch systems by turnthe new shorting them fully over run printer and to bulk production. broaden the This helps to rebase of digital duce the amount of textile printing.” electricity used by a plant per unit of production volume. The SurePress FP-30160 inkjet digital industrial Hirotaka Ishizuka (the 2nd on the left) textile printer IS Planning & Design Department (scheduled for release in autumn 2013) with members of Robustelli VOICE Voice of the Customer Monna Lisa allowed us to greatly explore new business We have been working in traditional printing and finishing for many years. In the early ‘90s, our business was hurt by lower-priced competitors from Asia, forcing us to find new ways of doing business to survive. What we found was digital printing. However, the main digital printers on the market did not adequately meet our printing quality and productivity requirements. Then we learned of the Monna Lisa being developed by Epson, Robustelli and For.Tex. Realizing that the Mr. Adalberto Guggiari Managing Director Monna Lisa offered better performance than other printers, we decided to work with them. The NOMEGA S.R.L. Monna Lisa gave us a great opportunity to develop a new printing business. We were able to create new prints that would have been impossible with traditional printing processes. The outstanding performance and productivity of Monna Lisa helped us to become one of the major printing mills in Como in a short period of time. The Monna Lisa afforded us a great opportunity to explore a new business that was not just an extension of the past business. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 12 Feature Epson’s DNA Relentless Innovation in Compact, Energy-Saving, High-Precision Technologies Marshaling the Power of Technologies Originating in the Watch Business and Honed Over 70 Years Seiko Astron GPS Solar Watches * Seiko Astron GPS solar watches are sold by Seiko Watch Corporation. The Second Astron Watch Revolution Wristwatches have continued to evolve since the Seiko only of the GPS module but of the entire watch had to Quartz Astron ignited the first watch revolution, in 1969. be drastically reduced for the Astron to be a viable prodAbout a decade ago, for example, radio-controlled quartz uct. To reduce power consumption, Epson developed a watches, which self-correct based on captured time new signal receiving algorithm, lithium-ion battery, and calibration signals, began gaining in popularity. The most battery-protecting IC. Ultimately, all of these comporecent evolutionary descendent of the Quartz Astron nents had to fit into a package that is both comfortable appeared in 2012, in the form of the Seiko Astron, a GPS and aesthetically pleasing. They do, and Seiko Astron wristwatch that recognizes all 39 of the world’s time GPS solar watches are fully worthy of bearing the Astron zones and automatically adjusts to them at the press of a name. button. 2012 Nikkei Superior Products and The solar-powered Astron’s GPS module had to be far Services Award more energy-efficient than Epson’s earlier GPS modules, which were widely used in mobile phones. And it is. The The Seiko Astron GPS solar watch was one of 24 small, accurate new module consumes only about oneproducts and services recognized by the Nihon Keizai fifth the power of its predecessors. Epson combined the Shimbun with a 2012 Nikkei Superior Products and module with a number of innovative new components, Services Award for Superiority. This award acknowlincluding a small yet acutely sensitive ring-shaped anedges products and services that carve out new martenna, to enable the Astron to capture even weak GPS kets using advanced technology and ideas that provide satellite signals so that it can automatically correct the evidence of Japan’s underlying strength. time anywhere in the world. The power requirements not 13 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 A Convergence of Original Technologies Development leader Katsuyuki Honda says, The Astron a normal watch when it is receiving GPS signals. For project is not something that could be achieved by any that reason, we developed a new lithium-ion battery and one person. Everyone who had a hand in the project, battery-protecting IC. which included people from component R&D, design, engineering, planning, and manufacturing, was unified by The ring-shaped antenna we developed had to provide the desire to achieve an amazing product. Development the ideal reception while being enclosed in a small, atstarted about 10 years ago. Since some members of the tractive, durable metal case that is comfortable to wear. GPS module development team were from the watch To build it to specifications, we traveled around Japan to business, they had a natural affinity for working with the gather data in conditions where we expected the watch people on the watch development team, so cooperation to be used. Then, after was excellent. We had heard that the Quartz Astron was analyzing the data, we built entirely in-house from original components, includmade design adjusting its quartz crystal resonator and purpose-built IC. We ments. Through this wanted to continue this tradition of self-reliance with the painstaking process Astron GPS solar watch, so we created the GPS module we achieved the best and every other part that did not yet exist, by ourselves. possible product performance. The golden part is the ring antenna The power consumption of the GPS module had been reduced considerably, but from a watchmaker's perKensuke Tomidokoro, one of the Astron's planners and spective, it was still too high. A stable power supply was marketers, says, The Astron GPS solar watch is the essential for product commercialization. That is because result of a team effort. This watch represents a converthe module draws about 10,000 times more current than gence of original technologies. I feel that we were able to surprise and delight customers by creating unprecedented new value. Forty-four years ago the Quartz Astron had a major impact on society as the most accurate watch the world had ever seen. Our goal for its namesake, the Astron GPS solar, is to make it the new standard for watches in the future. Development continues, and one day there will be a Katsuyuki Honda (left), W Development & Design Group model for every need and taste. Kensuke Tomidokoro, W Products Planning & Sales Department VOICE Voice of the Customer As a Global Road Warrior, I’d been Waiting for a Watch Like This I do a lot of international travel in my line of work, and I had been hoping for a watch that could quickly and easily give me the correct local time. The Seiko Astron is that watch, and I don’t go anywhere without it. It has everything I ever wanted in a watch. The GPS function recognizes all of the world’s time zones and is easy to use and operate. The design is refined and elegant, which is unheard of in a multifunction watch. The watches’ stately appearance is at odds with its surprising lightness (it weighs only 135 g) and comfort. The Astron stands as a proud example of Epson’s outstanding engineering capabilities and of Japanese craftsmanship as a whole. The Shigeyuki Nakamura, Tokyo only way the watch could be better is if it gets even slimmer and lighter as it evolves. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 14 特集 2 Feature Epson’s DNA Epson’s Compact, Energy-Saving, High-Precision Technologies Paving the Way to New Domains Epson’s evolving low-power GPS modules Developing Modules as Users Ourselves The Development Path to develop our own GPS IC. In 2006 we completed At the heart of a Seiko Astron solar work on a powerful yet energy-efficient GPS module watch and a WristableGPS running that was adopted by major Japanese mobile phone monitor lies a GPS module, the roots manufacturers. of which trace back 17 years. Epson’s first GPS module, developed jointly with a partner, emerged In 2010 we developed an even more power-stingy GPS from the laboratory in 1999 following a three-year demodule. This module is today used in Seiko Astron wristvelopment period that began in 1996. It was used in watches and WristableGPS running monitors. the world’s first GPS mobile communication device, the Locatio. The following year, in 2000, we began a project Small GPS Modules Realize Big Dreams Epson made significant technological advances in its compact, energy-saving, high-precision technologies during the course of GPS module development for mobile phones, paving the way for the development of GPS modules for wristwatches. Norio Teruuchi of the S Key Components R&D Department says, “We decided to produce the GPS IC in-house and rewrite the software to further reduce power consumption. It was a challenging job that took six months to complete, but the combination of From the left, Kazunari Kobayashi of the Business System Planning & Design Department, Norio Teruuchi of the S Key Components R&D Department, streamlined circuitry and elegant software enabled us to and Hidekazu Maezawa and Fumihiro Misawa of the S Planning & Design further shave power consumption.” Later, we increased Department the module’s positioning accuracy by preprograming a new algorithm and shrank its size by squeezing all funcAn advantage that Epson has is that the GPS module tions into a single module. Hidekazu Maezawa of the S developers can also get involved in end-product develPlanning & Design Department recalls the problem they opment. This enables us to take ideas that will maximize were up against. “We were able to increase the accuracy customer value and incorporate them into our products of GPS positioning information, which changes with time from the planning phase. The GPS modules that grew and place, because we developed new tests and anaout of our compact, energy-saving, and high-precision lytic methods and repeatedly verified the algorithm with a technologies have the potential to transform lives and mountain of data.” make dreams come true in a wide range of fields. 15 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 On the Frontier of Wearable Devices Creating Customer Value in New Domains WristableGPS Running Monitors Developed for Runners, by Runners Yoshihiro Yamamura of the S Planning & Design Department says, “The members of the WristableGPS development team ran in full marathons in Nagano, Tokyo, and Osaka to find out for ourselves what sort of solutions runners were looking for. We wanted to know, for example, how runners who are testing the limits of their endurance would feel if they were to glance down at their The SS-700S multi-sport model runner’s watch just Running monitors have to be compact, lightweight, and before crossing the finpower-parsimonious while still delivering accurate posiish line only to see that tioning information, pulse data, and advanced data prothe distance displayed cessing capability in a comfortable, nice-looking design. was off by 100 meters. In developing GPS running monitors that fit this bill, memActually running in races bers of the development team ran in races while using gave us a sense of the runners’ watches already on the market to identify issues level of performance a Yoshihiro Yamamura, S Planning & Design Department with setup, operations, comfort, battery life, and perforrunner expects. With mance in rainy weather. The end result is monitors with WristableGPS monitors, we wanted to exceed that level. low-power GPS modules and long battery life. CombinIn the future we plan to use a variety of sensors to furing technologies derived from watch manufacturing with ther increase the accuracy of distance measurements. technologies for integrating sensors and an innovative flat We will also look at interoperability with communications antenna, our WristableGPS monitors are wearable deequipment. The hope is that our monitors will encourage vices that embody Epson’s unique set of technologies. people to get out and enjoy exercise.” VOICE Voice of the Customer The WristableGPS Makes Running to Work Fun My daily run to work became a lot more enjoyable when I started using a WristableGPS. I used to always run along the same route because I knew the distance, which can be monotonous, but once I strapped on a WristableGPS I started taking different routes because I could measure the distance. My WristableGPS helped me finish the Nagano Marathon, in the snow, in less than four hours. I can even use it in ultra-marathons because the monitor can continue to take GPS measurements for up to 14 hours, so I don’t have to worry about the battery dying Ms. Kaori Nakatsugawa, Hokkaido in the middle of a race. That allows me to just concentrate on the race. Hokkaido is cold in the winter, so I do a lot of running indoors. In the future I would like to see a GPS running monitor that can also accurately measure distances indoors. I’d also like to see more stylish designs for women. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 16 Feature Epson’s DNA Building Products and People Capitalizing on Skills in the Workplace Using Invisible Assets to Give Concrete Shape to Customer Value Unparalleled skills that are indispensable for developing and making the most of Epson’s unique technologies are continuously passed down. Akira Takahashi (left) and Takashi Iimori Imaging Products Production Technical Development Department Manufacturing Strengthened by a Combination of Technology and Skills Using original technologies to create products that excelerate improvements in design quality on the factory cite customers requires great communication between floor. Third, they have to be able to establish manufacturdesign engineers and technicians, as well as a united ing technologies that allow products to be produced with effort toward a common goal. There are three important stable quality. Epson engages highly skilled technicians capabilities that technicians must have for this. First, they in strategic steps of the product development process have to be able to grasp and give concrete form to the to work with design engineers in order to give concrete vision of the designer that could not be fully expressed in shape to customer value and deliver products that cusa drawing. Second, technicians have to be able to actomers can trust. Unique Manufacturing Technologies Retained Via a System for Passing Down Skills With production moving offshore, Epson, in 2002, set Craftsman up an in-house manufacturing school called the “MonoTakashi Iimori, zukuri Juku” to train young technicians so that they can who noted learn and carrying on the craft of manufacturing from an Takahashi’s older generation. Students at the Monozukuri Juku who talent. Takaare given the chance to compete in the Skills Olympics hashi made it undergo intense training to master fundamental skills in a his mission to Honing manufacturing skills short period of time. learn the craft of mirror finishing and precision-mold finishing from Iimori. Meanwhile, skills acquired on the manufacturing floor are There is every reason to believe that Takahashi will dealso handed down. In his third year after joining Epson, velop into a master technician himself after many months Akira Takahashi, who was working in the mold production and years spent devoted to the production of parts and workshop, was “discovered” by Contemporary Master molds on the manufacturing floor. 17 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 Contemporary Master Craftsman1 Takashi Iimori Imaging Products Production Technical Development Department With four decades working exclusively in mold production, Iimori is a justly recognized master of his craft. In 2008 he was chosen as a Contemporary Master in acknowledgement of his superior skills in press and plastic mold finishing, assembly adjustment, and especially high-precision plastic mold manufacturing. He has also served on the National Injection Molding Skills Certification Committee. 1 Recognized by the Japanese Minister of Health, Labor and Welfare. Cultivating Abilities on the Manufacturing Floor Takashi Iimori says that to produce critical plastic molded Akira Takahashi says, “In manufacturing we have to meet parts for Epson's Moverio head-mounted display (HMD), strict quality, cost, and delivery requirements. I’m learnhe had to fabricate high-precision molds to demanding ing mirror-finishing and mold-finishing skills on the job flatness requirements. This meant that the molds had to by asking Mr. Iimori a lot of questions and by analyzing have a mirror finish of unprecedented quality. So, using individual tasks and processes. I want to be the type of his decades of experience and interpreting the qualtechnician who communicates closely with design engiity required for the product, he established a method neers, learns how to interpret and embody their vision, for achieving this mirror finish after much trial and error. and raises the accuracy and precision of each and every Then, showing actual molded parts to the HMD's design part that goes into a product.” engineers, he established molding conditions for mass production. Epson's technicians enhance their own capabilities and build trusting relationships with design engineers by taking on the challenge of meeting the strict requirements of design engineers. The Monozukuri Juku and factory floor serve as places where young technicians can hone their manufacturing skills. Moreover, the most ambitious can earn the chance to enter the Skills Olympics and develop a level of skill unsurpassed on the manufacturing floor. Having an environment like this is The Moverio BT-100 head-mounted display tremendously valuable for the company and society. Epson's DNA Yields Unique Technologies and, When Combined with Unsurpassed Skills, Make Customers' Dreams Come True A commitment to pursuing compact, energy-saving, high-precision technologies that originated with watches is embedded in Epson’s DNA and has been passed down for 70 years to produce many other unique core technologies. Those technologies have combined with unsurpassed skills to produce unique, customer-pleasing products. Epson’s DNA, firmly embedded in business activities that create customer value, is expressed in products that continue to surprise and delight our customers. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 18 CSR Management CSR at Epson Discharging our social responsibilities via programs to realize our Management Philosophy What Is Epson's CSR? Principles of Corporate Behavior 1 Acting ethically, building trust Epson's Management Philosophy is the bedrock on We will abide by the law and conduct all our business with high ethical standards. which our businesses are run. Our mission is to build 2 Protecting people, assets, and information stakeholder trust as we grow and prosper with commuWe will maintain systems to provide the security of people and nities and to help create a better world. To this end, we all corporate assets, and will be prudent in handling information. strive to practice the values preached in the Management 3 Pursuing customer satisfaction We will keep the customer in mind at all times and make the Philosophy, maintain legal and regulatory compliance, quality of our products and services our highest priority. adhere to the highest standards for business ethics, and From the quality assurance efforts of each employee to the quality of our company as a whole, we will devote ourselves to create value that exceeds the expectations of our cuscreating products and services that please our customers and earn their trust. tomers. We consider any action designed to realize the 4 Creating a safe, healthy, and fair workplace Management Philosophy to be a CSR activity. We will respect fundamental human rights and facilitate a fair, safe, healthy and pleasant work environment. 5 Fostering diverse values and teamwork We will draw strength from our diversity, creating a positive ■ Codes of Conduct synergy between the individual and the company. Established in 2005 and applying to the entire Epson 6 Co-creating with our business partners Group, Principles of Corporate Behavior spells out We will expect our business partners to live up to the same ethical standards we observe and aim to work together to principles of conduct for realizing the Management Phiour mutual beneﬁt while respecting applicable laws and our mutually independent business strategies and stances. losophy. Epson Code of Conduct, established in 2006 7 Initiating honest dialogue with our stakeholders and based on these principles, describes the conduct We will maintain open lines of communication with our required of all Epson employees. We revised the code in stakeholders, thoughtfully considering their views and suggestions. 2009 and again in 2013 to instill greater consciousness. 8 Prospering with the community We will actively contribute to the communities in which we operate, as well as the international community, facilitating The graphic below illustrates the nine core principles that mutually beneﬁcial relationships. 9 Preserving the natural environment form the foundations of corporate activities for realizing We will integrate environmental considerations into our corporate the Management Philosophy. activities and actively strive to meet high conservation standards in fulﬁlling our responsibilities as a good corporate citizen. ● CSR Initiatives at Epson Customers Principles of Corporate Behavior Global environment http://global.epson.com/company/epson_way/principle/index.html Shareholders/investors Government Local communities NGOs/NPOs Employees Suppliers Conduct to Realize the Management Philosophy Preserving the natural Acting ethically, Protecting people, Pursuing customer Prospering with the Creating a safe, healthy Fostering diverse values Co-creating with our Initiating honest dialogue building trust community satisfaction environment assets, and information business partners and fair workplace and teamwork with our stakeholders Principles of Corporate Behavior The Epson Code of Conduct, Principles of Corporate Behavior, Management Philosophy and Interpreting the Management Philosophy 19 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 Realizing Our Management Philosophy to strengthen group governance. In 2012 we further solidiKenji Kubota ﬁed the integrity of corporate governance by appointing an Senior Managing Director outside director. Then, in March of 2013, we established an internal Compliance Ofﬁce to further enhance compliance Epson aims to be an and risk management. The Compliance Ofﬁce’s mission is indispensable company to build and maintain stakeholder trust by reminding execufor customers and socitives and employees of their legal and ethical obligations ety by realizing our Manand forestalling potential violations. agement Philosophy. To do so we must earn the Meanwhile, the conduct of executives and employees must trust of our stakeholdconform to legal, ethical, and societal requirements and be ers, most notably our aligned with the Management Philosophy. For this reason we customers, and contribhave implemented ongoing programs to educate executives ute to the betterment of and employees about compliance issues. For example, in society. As a member 2011, we created a pamphlet titled “Interpreting the Manageof society, we seek to fulﬁll our roles and responsibilities as ment Philosophy.” Distributed to Epson personnel worldwide, a corporation citizen to build a healthy society. We pledge the pamphlet serves to build understanding of the Manin our Management Philosophy to be a “progressive comagement Philosophy, to get individuals to think about what pany” that contributes to the wellbeing and advancement of kind of customer value their work yields, and to guide them society, so actions to realize the Management Philosophy toward action that adds value. are themselves CSR activities. The pursuit of the Management Philosophy has no end. Solid corporate governance and ethical conduct are essenThat is because customer and societal expectations not tial for achieving the Updated SE15 Mid-Range Business only differ by region but also continuously change over Plan and, by extension, Epson’s Management Philosophy. time. We remain committed to making Epson an indispensAs part of our governance efforts, we began in 2010 to betable company for all of our customers and other stakeholdter deﬁne the respective roles and functions of the Head Ofers through sincere and unstinting efforts to contribute to ﬁce, operations divisions, and Group companies in an effort the well-being of society. Programs to Instill the Management crete actions that embody it; and (2) discuss risks within Philosophy the places based on the reading of the Epson Code of Conduct. We have programs to prompt Epson personnel to consider, recognize, and practice conduct that reﬂects the A survey was conducted after CSR Month ended to deideals of the Management Philosophy in their own work. termine the extent to which these activities were carried out, the degree to which the Management Philosophy is ■ CSR Month understood, the nature of actions taken on the workplace October is CSR Month at Seiko Epson, a time for reﬂectlevel, and the content of discussions. The survey was ing on the kind of conduct for realizing the Management also used to ﬁnd out about any compliance concerns and Philosophy. The theme for 2012 was “Wedding your work gather opinions and suggestions about the activities. The to the Management Philosophy and practicing conresults were shared with employees. The survey showed duct that earns trust.” During the month, all personnel a participation rate exceeding 90%. For a large majority throughout the Epson Group in Japan were instructed to of employees the events served as a meaningful reminder (1) analyze the Management Philosophy and identify conof the importance of the Management Philosophy. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 20 CSR Management ■ Instilling the Management Philosophy in The United Nations Global Compact Greater China In 2012 training seminars were held as part of a program Epson has participated in the United Nations Global to instill knowledge and awareness of the Management Compact since 2004. We have pledged to uphold the ten Philosophy using the pamphlet “Interpreting the Manageprinciples of the Global Compact, and we participated ment Philosophy,” with most of the participants for sales in driving global initiatives in the areas of human rights, companies in China, Hong Kong, and Taiwan. A total of labor, environment, and anti-corruption. 629 employees participated in the seminars, from Epson (China) Co., Ltd. (ECC), Epson (Beijing) Technology SerEpson’s Principles of Corporate Behavior, which convice Co., Ltd. (EBTS), Epson Hong Kong Ltd. (EHK), and cretely describes the type of internationally acceptable Epson Taiwan Technology & Trading Ltd. (ETT). conduct necessary for realizing Epson’s Management Philosophy, is reﬂected the concept of the Global ComAt the seminars, ECC President Kiyofumi Koike explained pact. The Epson Code of Conduct explains in detail the why we need to study the Management Philosophy at conduct required of employees based on the Principles this point in time, and each department and individual of Corporate Behavior. Epson inculcates these values into created and announced a declaration of conduct based employees so that they can independently make the right on the Management Philosophy. As a team building exdecisions. ercise, the participants broke up into teams and created their own logos and slogans for putting the declarations Through these acinto practice, later presenting them to the group. tions, Epson intends to continue to be a Epson also offers an online course in the Management progressive company, Philosophy to help employees see the links between the trusted throughout Management Philosophy and their own jobs. the world. U.N. Global Compact Initiatives http://global.epson.com/SR/un_global_compact/index.html Discussing the team's declaration Creating a logo and slogan ● Epson's Codes of Conduct Framework and the ten Principles of the U.N. Global Compact Principles of Epson Code Management Philophy Corporate Behavior of Conduct United Nations Global Compact Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 21 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 FY2012 CSR Initiatives Epson seeks to build trusting relationships with all stakeholders and to grow and prosper with communities. Epson’s 2012 CSR initiatives were oriented around the ﬁve tenets of the Epson Management Philosophy. Meeting Challenges with Innovative and Creative Solutions Customer Commitment 23 32 Epson constantly strives to create customer value. Commitment to Environmental Conservation 33 38 Epson engages in various environmental initiatives. Individuality and Teamwork 39 44 Epson values its employees. Trusted Throughout the World 45 50 Epson practices organizational governance. Prospering with the Community 51 56 Epson contributes to the communities in which it operates. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 22 Customer Commitment Commitment to Customer Satisfaction We will keep the customer in mind at all times and make the quality of our products and services our highest priority. From the quality assurance efforts of each employee to the quality of our company as a whole, we will devote ourselves to creating products and services that please our customers and earn their trust. Maximizing must-have quality and attractive quality from a customer perspective to provide satisfying products and services Ryuhei Miyagawa Executive Ofﬁcer Deputy General Administrative Manager, Business Infrastructure Improvement Division (in charge of CS/Quality Assurance, Environmental Affairs, Safety, Monozukuri-Juku) / General Manager of Safety Product Value That Meets Customer Building in Customer Value in Every Process Expectations and Department Product value is made up of two components that are To incorporate these two essential components in a prodessential for satisfying customers. The ﬁrst is must-have uct, we ﬁrst have to apply the customer-focused create, quality, attributes that are essential for any product and produce, and sell process to all work performed in every that provide customers with assurance. The second is department, from product planning and development to attractive quality, attributes that are not essential but sales and marketing. Only when customers are satisﬁed that, when provided, perfectly match customer needs with the value we created and embodied in the product and exceed their expectations. can we say that we have actually delivered the value we intended. The cycle for creating product value that will Must-have quality derives from two elements: product earn customer satisfaction is completed by listening to safety and expected performance. A product must not customer feedback and using it to fashion new value. ignite, produce smoke, cause an accident, or contain harmful chemicals that could impair health. Meanwhile, it In addition, we have to reexamine the work we do in every has to demonstrate the promised and expected perfordepartment from a customer perspective and enhance mance. the quality of work with a commitment to achieving 100% conformance. In the create process, in particular, we Attractive quality, on the other hand, is, in Epson's case, have to identify customer difﬁculties and needs in the usachieved by providing the best solution to customers' difage environment; we have to dig down to unearth the real ﬁculties or needs by capitalizing on advances in our comneeds of customers and the real causes of problems. To pact, energy-saving, and high-precision technologies. To do so, we think it is important to go out into the market, achieve attractive quality, we have to provide products actually visit places where work is performed, and ask that meet or exceed customer expectations by ﬁnding ourselves constantly what customers want. By using what out exactly what they actually want, by making products we learn to shape product speciﬁcations and quality from smaller, more energy efﬁcient, and more accurate, and by the development phase, we prevent quality problems and supplying them with useful new technology. provide the kind of product value that customers seek. To create product value that satisﬁes customers, we seek Going forward, we will strive to deepen communication to satisfy these two components on the highest level. with customers and markets, and continuously execute the create, produce, and sell cycle to provide product value that earns customer satisfaction. 23 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 Create, Produce and Sell Create, produce, and sell represents the cycle of value through which we at Epson forge bonds with our customers by providing products and services that engender trust, assurance, and shared enjoyment. Create Produce Confront customer expectations head-on, involve Provide customers with new value by continuall personnel from the planning phase, and ously improving the quality of your work and by pursue value to deliver to customers. maximizing teamwork. ● Enhance planning quality (must-have quality and attrac● Take action to achieve the goal of 100% conformance, tive quality) to meet customer expectations. never neglecting the things you are supposed to do. ● Establish a QA system that meets customer use needs. ● Establish data analysis techniques that lead to higher built-in quality. I'm a product design engineer. Since customer likes I help manufacture approximately 800 kinds of tape and dislikes have a major impact on the size, shape, cartridges for handheld label printers. To ensure appearance of a product, and ease of use, I am acutely that all products are conforming, I always work in conscious of the customer whenever I'm designing a accordance with work process standards, assiduously product. I have to hone my own sensibilities and attune follow instructions, maintain 5S3T1, and determinedly product designs so that they are drive continuous improvements to in accord with what customers improve quality. say they want. 1 5S; Sort, Straighten, Scrub, Standardize, Sustain 3T; Predetermined position, Predetermined item, Predetermined number Yusuke Kimura Create Produce Imaging Products Design Keiko Hatano Department VP Manufacturing Department Customers Sell Sell Listen to customer feedback, and use what you Establish relationships with customers so that learn to create new value. they feel confident in choosing Epson products. ● Enhance communication with customers. ● Provide customers with accurate, easy-to-understand ● Listen seriously to customers and relay their opinions to information. the planning department. ● Provide customer-assuring service and support. I work in the information center, ﬁelding customer I sell and market industrial robots. There are a lot inquiries. My goal is to enable customers to easily use of potential robot customers who assume that their their products by helping them quickly solve difﬁculfactories lack the necessary environmental setup for ties. I analyze inquiries and share robots or that robot maintenance my data with the Head Ofﬁce in would be a problem. My job is to Japan and relevant departments. I dispel these notions by showing strive to provide and enrich online them the actual environmental instructions for users with movies setup and maintenance requireand illustrations. ments, which are minimal. Zhao Mei Ho Kok Koon Epson (China) Co., Ltd. (ECC) Epson Singapore Pte. Ltd. (ESP) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 24 Customer Commitment Customer Value Delivered by Epson Epson's products and services provide beneﬁts that customers need and expect, as well as beneﬁts that they may not even notice. The customer value that Epson creates, produces, and delivers often comes in the form of convenience, greener performance, and personal assurance. Delivers convenience in the form of speed and power with more C features and improved usability Delivers greener performance, reducing users' carbon footprint G across the product life-cycle Delivers assurance to customers, who know they can trust Epson A Photo : EP-805A Japan model products The Expression Premium Series on target measurements of 390 mm (width) by 341 mm (depth from front to back), and a height of 139 mm. These measurements would make the XP-600 approxi■ Compact Size and mately 40% smaller than the Artisan 730. The size target 00Low Power Consumption C G was met by shrinking the printer's mechanisms, including a duplexer for two-sided printing, and developing a new Epson learned from a survey of the Artisan 730 (launched type of print head and lower ink cartridges. Epson also in 2011) users that they often installed these printers increased printer energy efﬁciency, reducing daily power somewhere other than where they wanted because of consumption by about 57%. The new design reduced size constraints. So, when we began studying the size global warming impacts across the product life cycle by requirements of the 2012 Expression Premium XP-600, approximately 28%. we went into the ﬁeld to see where users actually wanted to place their home printers. We then made numerous mockups to evaluate printer functionality, usability, ease 40 % smaller of installation and so forth within the given space constraints. After repeated tests and analyses, we settled The XP-600 is 40% smaller than the Artisan 730 in terms of cubic measurements. ● Providing Environmental Value with Compact Printers Depth Miniaturization of a built-in duplexer (two-sided printing unit) Miniaturization and embedding of the duplexer The five media paths were unified in the XP-600, and all media Depth On-carriage ink cartridges Miniaturization Keys except for discs travel over a reverse roller. The diameter of the roller was reduced to 45 mm, enabling the duplexer to fit inside ・On-carriage system that supplies ink directly to the head the printer and reducing the front-to-back depth. ・Low-height print head and ink cartridges Expression Premium Epson Artisan 730 (2011) Width Miniaturized main board & optimized layout XP-600 (2012) Sectional view φ57 ・ Dense boards & optimized placement of components A ・ Arranged over the carriage driving area A B B φ45 Height Thinner (lower) print head and ink cartridges / Input paper trays CD/DVD tray Two-sided printing path ・ Optimum arrangement of ink flow channels in head & smaller parts Rear-loaded paper A Ink cartridge B Print head ・ Simplified ink chamber structure (higher volumetric efficiency) Reduction rates calculated under Epson’s test criteria. Power consumption and global warming impact may vary depending on printer use. Cubic size: 30,572 cm 3 (Artisan 730) vs. 18,352 cm 3 (XP-600) Energy consumption: 34 Wh (Artisan 730) vs. 15 Wh (XP-600) Global warming impact: 83 kg-CO2 (Artisan 730) vs. 60 kg-CO2 (XP-600) 25 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 ■ Improved Touch Panel Usability C A ■ A Better Red C Customers told us that on the previous touch panel it The Expression Premium series, which was launched was hard to tell when it was okay to press the next butin 2011, was available in red in Japan as well as black or ton. We solved this issue on the new panel of the Expreswhite, but some consumers felt that the red model lacked sion Premium XP-700 / 800 by the high-end feel of the black and white models. lighting up the buttons that can be used. We also enlarged the So, for the EP-805AR and XP-700 (sold only in Japan size of the areas around the and some Asian markets as a variation of the Expression icons that respond to touch, Preminum Printer) we explored and tested other composince users sometimes press sitions, constructions, and designs to ﬁnd the most apthe lettering or their ﬁngers pealing look, feel, and color. We switched to a plastic that stray from the intended target. Touch panel has a richer, deeper color. We also expanded the area composed of glossy plastic, and we used a metallic ﬁnish ﬁlm on the front face of the printer to improve the overall impression of the prod■ Convenient Network Environment C A uct. As a result of these efforts we were able to The growth and spread of wireless networks and wireless come up with a red with devices have made our lives more convenient. On the an appealing quality. A other hand, setting up a connection can be complicated. survey showed a higher That is why Epson Sales Japan crelevel of customer satisated an easy-to-understand yet thorfaction with the new red ough guide to using wireless LANs color. EP-805AR for customers who want to learn how to enjoy wireless network printing the easy way. The guide uses actual ■ Ensuring Product Safety A screenshots and illustrations to show how to connect smartphones, tabEpson strictly controls product safety in conformity with the lets, and other devices to the printer Epson Quality Standard (EQS) which speciﬁes far-reaching Guide to using wireless and how to make prints. LANs product safety requirements uniformed within Epson group. Under the EQS, Epson obviously strives to ensure that emitting smoke, ignition and customer’s injuries are never caused by our products. We also consider electro ■ Scatter-Free Prints C magnetic compatibility (EMC), product substance content, chemical emission from product and product information On earlier printers prints were deposited on an output security vulnerabilities as part of said product safety. paper tray that had to be pulled out manually, so if the user was not near the printer or forgot to pull out the In addition, every effort is made to build product safety tray, the prints would fall to and scatter on the ﬂoor. The into our products Expression Premium XPat the planning and 700 / 800, however, was design stage, to designed so that the outeliminate potenput paper tray automatitial hazards and cally extends when printing to make sure the starts, so that prints never products are safe scatter. even if misused. Auto-extending output paper tray EMC testing facility Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 26 Customer Commitment Powerful Features for Productive Meetings Select Green Products Based on Objective Ratings ■ Interactive Projector C G ■ EPEAT® Registered G Epson's BrightLink Pro EPEAT, an American environ1410Wi interactive projecmental rating system that helps tor is loaded with features identify greener electronic equipthat enable smoother, more ment, expanded its registry to productive meetings and include imaging equipment, in BrightLink Pro 1410Wi presentations. Since it can EPEAT-registered WorkForce Pro February 2013. In response, WP-4590 in the U.S. be used in PC-free mode as Epson registered a number of a whiteboard, you can start meetings fast, with very little fuss business inkjet printers and large-format printers that are sold or setup required. In PC interactivity mode you can annotate a in the U.S. to make it easier for consumers to choose ecoprojected image and share it over a network. With split-screen considerate products. functionality you can display presentations and live teleconferences at the same time, and people in separate locations To be registered, products in the imaging devices category can interact with the same image. This projector enhances must meet at least 33 required environmental performance productivity by shrinking the criteria. (There are also 26 optional criteria.) Products are amount of time it takes from rated on a life-cycle basis, addresssetup to sharing of content, ing such aspects as the elimination of sending screens directly to othtoxic substances, the use of recycled ers by email, and saving travel or recyclable materials, and energy time, trouble, and energy. efﬁciency. Teleconferencing tool EPEAT logo High-Capacity Ink Tank for Volume Printing Aiding Automotive Safety ■ High-Capacity Ink Tank Printer C ■ Quartz Gyroscopic Sensors A In 2010, Epson's L-series printThe XV-9000 series of gyroscopic seners became the ﬁrst printers sold sors detect vehicle ﬁshtailing and potential with Epson's ink tank system. rollovers, and activate compensatory These printers, which can output XV-9000 series safety systems. Because these sensors a large quantity of prints on a sinhave a role in controlling vehicle safety gle tank, proved to be extremely and saving lives, Epson takes special care to ensure the utM205 monochrome printer popular in emerging markets. In most reliability. To identify and eradicate potential defects, we 2012 we launched the M series of low-priced monochrome exhaustively analyzed every step in the design process and in printers. The smaller size, faster printing speeds, and inwork procedures, looking for and addressing potential causes creased durability of these models match the needs of small of problems, including human error. business users, banks, and government agencies. In addition, we mark the built-in ICs with The new products are currently serial numbers to allow us to trace and sold in markets such as Indonesia, retrieve inspection and production history The Automotive Safety Russia, China, Brazil, and India information so that we can pinpoint the mark is used in manufacturing processes and will be successively rolled out cause of problems, if necessary. to signify the need to special control to other regions in the future. Reﬁlling the ink tank 27 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 Understanding Products through Actual Use Visibility Improved by Universal Design ■ GPS Running Monitors A ■ Large-Format Printers A Epson's WristableGPS monitors (currently Epson acquired Color Universal available only in Japan) record distance, Design (CUD) certiﬁcation for the time, pace, and other data during exercise SureColor SC-T3050, SC-T5050, such as running and jogging. To introduce and SC-T7050. Launched in 2012, our running monitors to potential users, these large-format ofﬁce and school SureColor SC-T5050 The SS-700S multiEpson Sales Japan (ESJ) conducted free printers are designed to print archisport model product trials at numerous events. tectural drawings, posters, point-of-purchase displays, and more. The CUD program certiﬁes products, printed materials, ESJ set up booths at popular road races in Japan and ofbuildings and facilities that are accessible to persons with color fered runners—both serious athletes and fun runners alike—a vision deﬁciency. These products are designed so that they are chance to sample one of our products. Those who tried them easy to use even for persons with deﬁcient color vision, with out commented that the running monitors were light, comfortcarefully selected color schemes for display lamps, messages able, easy to use, useful even on the LCD, control buttons, labels, and software screens. for beginners, and would even Example of improved colors make training more enjoyable. Main races at which product trials were conducted: The CUD mark can be Arakawa 30k, the Turtle Marathon in placed on products that Adachi, the Suwako Half-Marathon, have been approved by the and the Fujisan Marathon nonproﬁ t Color Universal Lighting up an Switched to a shade Epson booth at the Fujisan Marathon Design Organization. orange LED of red Multiple Functions for Greater Productivity for physical transport. ■ Check Scanner C G The TM-S9000MJ combines check scanning, endorsement and Paper checks are an integral part of life in the U.S. and some receipt printing functions in a single device. In addition to havother locales. In the past, banks would physically mail checks to ing a small footprint that saves space at the teller counter, this one another for processing, but legal changes and technologiall-in-one device is fast and easy to use. By maximizing work cal advances have made electronic check processing stanefﬁciency and eliminating the need for several separate devices, dard. With the TM-S9000MJ, Epson supports electronic check the TM-S9000MJ helps save energy and resources. processing, which not only lightens the work load on banks but also reduces the environmental impact by eliminating the need ● All the required functions in a single unit Thermal receipt printer Check MICR reader Inkjet printers ● Electronic Check Processing: 1 Card magnetic stripe reader The Faster, Greener Alternative Individual or company Payee Check clearance process 6 3 2 1. The payer fills out a check for the proper amount and hands it to the payee. Page printer Image scanner 2. The payee takes the check to the bank for 5 cashing or deposit. 4 TM-S9000MJ functions Bank Z Bank X 3. The bank pays the payee. ・Simultaneous double-sided check scanning 4. The bank mails the check Truck transport replaced by electronic data ・Thermal printing of roll paper receipts ・Check & cut-sheet printing (inkjet) 5. Bank Z remits funds to Bank X. ・Check magnetic ink character recognition (MICR) scanning 6. The amount is debited from the payer's ・Photo ID scanning account. ・ATM card magnetic stripe scanning (optional) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 28 Customer Commitment Quality Improvement Program ■ Trainer Training at Overseas Production Sites Epson's products should be of the same high quality no Epson conducts a variety of programs in line with a matter where they are manufactured. That is why Epson quality policy we established to provide concrete guidealso puts a great deal of effort into QC training overseas. lines for continuing to create products and services that please and are trusted by customers. Good programs are Employees of overseas production sites who have unshared across the global organization to boost the level dergone QC trainer of the Epson Group as a whole. training and who are recognized to Quality Policy http://global.epson.com/company/epson_way/principle/quality.html have reached a certain level of knowl■ Quality Control Training edge and teaching Epson provides QC training to all employees. The goal proﬁciency become is to continuously improve quality by developing people licensed as trainers. Trainer Training (Thailand) who can identify and address the root causes of problems. Employees receive practical training that they can ● Trainer Training put to immediate use. In the basic course they learn the fundamentals of QC along with problem-solving tools and Region Production Sites Licensed Trainers techniques. Epson also offers professional courses that Southeast Asia 7 companies 103, cumulative teach advanced analytical techniques. China 8 companies 125, cumulative ■ Pay Day is Customer Satisfaction Day ● Quality control training program Every month on pay day Epson publishes on its intranet Primary Intermediate Advanced bulletin board comments and opinions received from cusCommon QC-A Course (Manufacturing) tomers. This is part of a wider program to share voiceQC Introduction Course QC-B Course (Engineering) of–the-customer (VOC) data with all employees. Sharing QC-C Course (Administration) customer problems and praise with all employees instead Small Problem-solving type of only those who directly interface with them enables us QC story training Target-achievement type to coordinate cross-organizational programs to increase QC story training group/Team customer satisfaction. Why-Why analysis training Robustness evaluation course Quality On pay day in February 2013 Epson posted customer Professional course engineering Parameter design course introduction course complaints about our products. This generated a lot of On-line (LPI) course feedback from upstream departments such as R&D, With orthogonal array, soft inspection course planning, design, engineering and quality. Epson will use Factor analysis course VOC data to improve its products going forward. Reliability evaluation advanced course ● Section Breakdown of VOC Feedback * QC-ABC courses shall be selected one or more. Other 8% R&D 7% Service & support 8% ● Standard QC Courses for All Employees (Japan) Sales & marketing Total respondents 8% Planning & design Course People trained1 % trained Administration & IT 5% 292 28% QC Introduction 583 93.6% (15,229 cumulative) Manufacturing 4% QC-ABC 590 88.4% (13,545 cumulative) 1 The number of persons completing the course by March 31, 2013. Production control 11% Engineering & quality 21% 29 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 ■ Quality Improvement Initiatives ■ CS & Quality Month Best Practices Assembly (E-KAIZEN Activities) Epson has designated November as CS & Quality Month. In the Epson Group, E-KAIZEN activities are taken on During the month, we carry out programs across the the individual and team level to systematically solve probEpson Group to increase awareness of day-to-day quality lems and issues encountered on the job. assurance activities and to further improve quality. In the 2012 ﬁscal year we implemented actions to achieve One of the key activities during Epson's mid-term CS/quality goal of constantly improving the month is an assembly at quality and team strength so that we can keep delivering which people share best pracnew value to customers. tices. The purpose is to roll best practices out across the entire Every year, the results of team-based improvement Epson Group. More than 100 activities are presented in blocs. There are four blocs, employees from operations diviconsisting of Japan, China, Southeast Asia, and Europe/ sions around Japan participated America. The teams with the best presentations in each in the 2012 event, where they bloc are invited to the Worldwide Team Presentations in presented case studies on best In-house poster promoting CS & Quality Month Japan, where the teams with the best presentations are practices in two thematic areas: recognized with awards. In addition to sharing presenassessment costs ( A costs ) and a customer perspectations at the various events, we upload details about tive. activities to the company intranet. The objective is to promote similar activities across the Epson Group, for mutual Theme 1: Efforts by designers & engineers to cut A costs improvement and enlightenment. Epson aims to build quality into products from the start of the commercialization phase so as to attain manufactur● Selection Process ing quality high enough to eliminate the need for inspecWorldwide Team Presentations tions. Numerous case studies described ways to develop new methods to increase inspectors' evaluation capabilities and designs that do not rely on inspections. Japan China SE Asia Select teams Bloc Bloc Bloc from Competition Competition Competition Europe/America Theme 2: Products arising from a customer perspective To satisfy customers, you have to start by asking yourself Select teams from each division & site not what kind of products to make but what kind of value to provide. Reports on this theme were presented at a The Worldwide Team Presentations conference was held round-table discussion at which project leaders talked in October 2012, with 17 elite teams from the various about actual products that arose from a customer-based blocs giving their presentations. A team from the Microperspective. People who were directly involved in product devices Operations Division in Japan was presented with development talked about how they identiﬁed customer the President's Award in recognition of its outstanding wants and requirements, how they incorporated them activities. The team earned high marks for improving the into products, and about such things as processes, tools, existing oscillator test process so as to increase customer and keys to unearthing underlying issues. value. Presenter Mayumi Kamijo says, We had meeting after meeting to try to quickly solve issues and, ultimately, our persistence paid off. Our motto is to work steadily to improve in every area, not matter Members of the QC team that won the Presihow small. dent's Award (Mayumi Kamijo is in the middle.) Best practices presentation during CS & Quality Month Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 30 Customer Commitment Sales / Service & Support ■ Sales and Marketing Campaign in China Epson (China) Co., Ltd. (ECC), which oversees sales and Epson provides customer value through its products and marketing in China, launched a new sales and marketing services. We want consumers to be able to identify prodcampaign in 2011 based on market research that showed ucts that meet their needs, so we always look to provide that modiﬁed Epson products sold in unauthorized chanaccurate, readily understandable product information and nels were not receiving quick after-sales service. quality after-sales service so that they can use our products with assurance. One of the main programs is designed to expand the number of authorized dealers who can provide custom■ After-Sales Service for Epson PCs ers with assurance before and after purchase in 4to Epson Direct Corporation's support policy reads as fol6-tier cities that ECC's existing lows: Every second counts. Never make customers wait. channels cannot cover. Earn customer satisfaction and ongoing loyalty. To earn authorization, dealers have Our customers' work does not wait just because their PC to undergo training to learn about Authorized dealer logomark failed. Obviously a strong quality program is essential for product functions and product use preventing PC failures in the ﬁrst place, but when failures so that they can provide the right products for customer do occur, minimizing customer downtime becomes the needs and respond quickly to inquiries and requests for top priority. In addition to providing free repairs during the repairs. As of the end of March 2013, there were about standard warranty period, we also offer a type of extend1,000 authorized dealers in China. ed warranty in which we guarantee a one-day turnaround on repairs. If an Epson PC should fail during the coverage For customers who are period, Epson Direct will pick up the product, repair it, not able to visit a dealer and return it the next day, weekends included. outlet to see products ﬁrst hand, ECC provides In July 2012 economic and business magazine Nikkei enriched online content Business ranked Epson Direct Corp. No. 1 for the eighth and service, including consecutive year in the PC category for after-sales serdetailed descriptions of vice satisfaction. Tsutomu Hatakeyama of the CS & Qualifunctions with illustraty Control Department, which handles after-sales service, tions and online sales. Product training for authorized dealers said about receiving the award, We have always worked to provide customers with a level of service and support ■ Advice Leaﬂets that they want. We take pride in our work, and this award Field service personnel reported frequently hearing from is a conﬁdence builder. It shows that we are doing somecustomers that customers wanted convenient and easything right. We are going to continue our efforts to maxito-understand documentation for their printers. So, in mize customer satisfaction. 2009, Epson Sales Japan Corporation launched a project to create and distribute advice leaﬂets. These leaﬂets provide customers with clear and accurate answers to frequently asked questions in a timely manner. Service personnel carry advice leaﬂets with them to give to customers. Advice leaﬂets are also provided to customers who enter into a service agreement. Moreover, they are used as answers to FAQs on the Epson Sales Japan website. Going forward, we will enrich the content of the advice that our service personnel can provide. Members of the CS & Quality Control Department (Tsutomu Hatakeyama is the third from the right in the front row.) 31 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 Product Safety various software of products so as to eliminate vulnerabilities to the extent possible. Epson applies its Quality Management Regulation and Product Safety Management Regulation globally to realIn 2012, web services products, such as Epson Email ize a uniform level of product quality. We strive to ensure Print were included in the customer safety and security with the Epson Quality Epson Quality Standard. Standard, which speciﬁes far-reaching product safety Kyoichi Kamijima of Epson's and environmental requirements to be met by Epson Imaging Products Software and its suppliers. These self-imposed standards meet or Planning and Design Deexceed the legal and regulatory requirements of countries partment says, We analyze and regions. the latest threat trends and design our software so as Epson recognizes the importance of product safety in to eliminate vulnerabilities Kyoichi Kamijima winning customer trust. That is why we established our and protect customers from Imaging Products Software Planning and Design Department Basic Policy on Product Safety and are extremely proacsecurity threats. tive in ensuring product safety. ■ Rapid Response to Product Incidents ■ Product Safety Initiatives Whenever a safety incident occurs, we immediately issue a Epson makes every effort to ensure the safety of our preliminary report using a Quality Crisis Management (QCM) products. We use analytic equipment and techniques system that spans the entire Epson Group. The QCM syslearned and honed over the years to analyze safety-relattem quickly delivers the information to relevant personnel ed incidents reported by customers and to determine root and, depending on the seriousness of the incident, to the cause. The lessons learned are shared throughout the chief executive. Then, putting the needs of our customers Epson Group to prevent recurrences of similar incidents. ﬁrst, we analyze the cause, develop countermeasures, announce the incident to the public, provide market support, We also provide product safety training for all employees and submit to outside agencies the reports and notiﬁcaand build intrinsic safety into our products by eliminating tions required by product safety laws and regulations, such hazards at the product planning and design stages and as Japan’s Consumer Product Safety Act. by making sure the products are safe even if misused. ● Epson Product Incident Response Process We set and ensure compliance with strict voluntary limits for The QCM system Product incident occurs product chemical emissions of things such as volatile organdirectly delivers news and reports on product Inquiry incidents that occur ic compounds, ozone, dust, and ultra ﬁne particles. Epson's Sales companies and anywhere in the world to corporate headquarters, chemical emissions testing laboratory earned accreditation market support departments operations divisions, and the chief executive Entry into QCM system based on signiﬁcance. as a testing facility to ISO/IEC 17025 in April 2013. QCM system Delivery Delivery Delivery ■ Product Information Security Initiatives Division/Afﬁliate Chief executive quality assurance Corporate HQ Sales company With the growth and expansion of networks, products of department Quality Assurance Service & Support all kinds are now commonly equipped with network conReport Cause analysis assessment Legal Affairs Legal Affairs nectivity. While network connectivity is convenient, it also and approval Countermeasure planning Public Relations Public Relations poses security risks, as systems are subject to the threat Reporting decision Other related depts. Other related depts. of attacks, data alteration, and the leak of conﬁdential Issue reports, share information, respond information by third parties with malicious intent. Reports Appropriate release of information & notiﬁcations & market support Outside agencies Customers To help maintain the security of printers and other products that are used in a network environment, Epson has Important product safety notices (in Japanese) set demanding quality standards for printer drivers and http://www.epson.jp/info/ (Epson did not issue any important product safety notices newly in the Japanese market in FY2012) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 32 Commitment to EnvironmentalConservation Preserving the Natural Environment We aim to reconcile our corporate activities with the global environment by meeting high conservation standards Environmental Approach in 2015, naming the environment as a challenge area. Environmental initiatives are incorporated into our policies Epson carries out environmental programs under uniform and pursued as an integral part of our business activities. standards and goals in each country and region. The Epson Principles of Corporate Behavior and Major Activi■ The 2015 Vision ties deﬁne our basic environmental stance. In 2008, we Traditional environmental initiatives focus on reducing enestablished Environmental Vision 2050, which sets forth vironmental impact. They try to manufacture eco-friendly what we as a business must do to halt environmental products as efﬁciently as possible with the least such degradation and achieve sustainability. Its premise is impact. This is fundamental for a business that cares that the carrying capacity of the Earth should be shared about the environment. Epson is going one step further: evenly among all persons. Reducing CO2 emissions and the customer is integral to our activities leading up to conserving biodiversity are the main pillars of this Vision. 2015. Thus our goal is to provide a lowered environmental impact as a value to the customer. By introducing a new To achieve our environmental vision, we set certain perspec-tive and the concept of environmental commuintermediate targets to ﬁll the gaps between where we nity, we are working to reduce our environmental footprint are and where we want to be. The SE15 Long-Range with a wider range of ideas and initiatives. Corporate Vision describes the enterprise we wish to be Environmental Policy Detailed outline of Environmental Vision 2050 http://global.epson.com/SR/environment/vision/environment_policy.html http://global.epson.com/SR/environment/vision/vision2050_index.html ● The 2015 Vision Provide customer value by using our compact, energy-saving, high-precision technologies to reduce our environmental impacts across all areas of operations, from our products and services to our sales and manufacturing activities. We challenge ourselves to achieve new socially sustainable Eco Community practices through environmental community action centered on Eco Community products and services. Eco Eco Technology Education We achieve new products, services, functions, and uses that New Perspective change the behavior and businesses of customers, and reduce Eco the environmental impacts. Corporate Eco Citizenship Communication We create customer-pleasing products that have a 50% lower Products impact by further making them smaller and lighter, more energy efficient and recyclable, and last longer. New Perspective Products We achieve efficient, low-impact production processes that Production provide underlying support for greener products in concert with Production total cost reductions and quality improvements. 33 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 ■ Fiscal 2012 Results last longer, helping them to reduce environmental impact. Epson introduced the SE15 Mid-Term Environmental We took measures that helped us achieve our GroupPolicy in 2010. In line with the policy, we are reducing the wide impact reduction targets for production. environmental impacts of our products and services. In 2013, we are working to transform a lower environmenIn 2012, we met our targets for products that are smaller tal impact into customer value, by providing environmenand lighter, are more energy efﬁcient and recyclable, and tal value that customers can appreciate. The 2015 Vision FY2012 Results New Perspective We expanded the product family that reduce environmental impacts by innovating We achieve new products, services, functions, and uses outdated printing processes that change the behavior and businesses of customers, Examples: Introduced a new digital minilab (SureLab SL-D3000) and products for the signage and reduce the environmental impacts. and display market (SureColor series). Products Smaller, lighter, energy-efficient products in each business We create customer-pleasing products that have a 50% Example: Cut weight of the EP-805A (for Japan model) inkjet printers 43% vs. PM-A920 (a FY lower impact by further making them smaller and lighter, 2006 for Japan model) by making board and internal mechanism smaller, lowering life cycle CO2 more energy efficient and recyclable, and last longer. 36%. Production Took various measures through total cost reduction programs We achieve efficient, low-impact production processes • CO2 Target: Reduce emissions 30% vs. FY06 Reduced by 39% compared to FY06 (see p.34 for details) that provide underlying support for greener products in concert with total cost reductions and quality • PRTR Target: Reduce emissions to FY06 emission level or less improvements. Reduced by 42% compared to FY06 (see p. 35 for details) • VOC Target: Reduce emissions to FY06 emission level or less Reduced by 38% compared to FY06 (see p. 35 for details) • Wastes Target: Reduce emissions to FY06 emission level or less Reduced by 39% compared to FY06 (see p. 35 for details) • Water Target: Reduce usage 50% vs. FY06 Reduced by 55% compared to FY06 (see p.36 for details) Eco Community Conducted environmental PR at each business site We challenge ourselves to achieve new socially sustainExamples: Showcased smaller-size, energy-efficient, recyclable, and longer-life products at Ecoable practices through environmental community action Products 2012. Ongoing environmental education done by Taiwanese affiliate. centered on products and services. Production ■ Global Warming Prevention Epson’s initiatives to prevent global warming revolve Programs for total cost reduction are helping conserve around reducing CO2 emissions by conserving energy, energy and boost space efﬁciency at sites. Quality imand reducing global emissions of greenhouse gases provement programs include initiatives that try to increase other than CO2. yield and eliminate the need for inspection. These directly relate to the reduction of life-cycle environmental impacts In ﬁscal 2012, we set out to reduce greenhouse gas emisof products and services we provide to customers. sion by 30% compared with ﬁscal 2006 and achieved our worldwide target. ● Greenhouse Gas Emissions • 1990 GHG from sources other than energy (Per unit of sales as % of FY1990 level) Emissions from energy use use are calculated using corresponding (Emissions: 10,000 t-CO2) (Japan) emissions in 1995. • In Japan we used an average value 120 Emissions from energy use published by the Federation of Electric Per unit 110.3 107.9 111.2 106.1 (overseas) Power Companies as a conversion factor of sales 102.7 100 96.9 97.4 97.0 95.3 GHG (Japan) to calculate equivalent CO 2 emissions from 88.6 90.7 energy consumed. 100 GHG (overseas) 80.7 Outside Japan we used national emissions 89 91 factors provided by the Japan Electrical 80 90 74.9 70.8 Manufacturers’ Association (JEMA). 59.8 • To calculate CO 2 emissions from fuels both 60 57.9 in Japan and abroad, we used the CO 2 64 58 conversion factors published jointly by the 43.4 56 50 50 49 49 Japanese Ministry of the Environment and 40 48 49 47 45 Ministry of the Economy, Trade and Industry 40 38 in Version 2.4 of a GHG emissions calculation and reporting manual. 20 • To calculate the CO 2 equivalent of emissions of GHG other than CO 2, we used conversion 0 factors published by the Intergovernmental 1990 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) in 2001. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 34 Commitment to EnvironmentalConservation ■ Substance Management ● PRTR Substance Handling & Emission Epson uses its “E-Chem” chemical data management Emissions (tons) Amount handled (tons) system to centrally track information on chemical sub1,441 30 Amount handled 1,327 1,500 stances used at Epson sites around the world. We are 25 1,143 1,201 1,250 1,003 1,045 engaged in ongoing efforts to reduce the quantities of 20 1,000 803 chemicals used and to moderate emissions of pollutant 15 14.4 750 12.3 12.3 10.6 release and transfer register (PRTR) substances and vola10 8.4 Emissions 500 6.8 4.6 overseas 5 250 tile organic compounds (VOC). Using ﬁscal 2006 emisEmissions in Japan 0 0 sions as a benchmark, all Epson business units managed 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) and met their ﬁscal 2012 targets for reducing emissions. ● VOC Handling & Emission Emissions (tons) Amount handled (tons) In addition, we are building trust relationships by making 4,808 4,817 Amount handled 500 5,000 our substance data available to the public and by creat4,249 387 408 400 4,000 ing opportunities to exchange opinions with members of 350 2,966 300 280 263 266 3,000 the local community. 240 Emissions 200 overseas 2,000 1,978 1,440 1,325 100 1,000 Emissions Example: Deeply Reducing Acetone Usage in Japan 0 0 Epson’s Suwa Minami Plant, which produces liquid crys2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) tal display panels, uses acetone (an organic solvent) in the washing process. (This process is to keep contami■ Zero Emissions nants out when injecting liquid crystals into the panel.) Epson’s zero emissions program began with an effort to recycle 100% of our waste products. All Group Members of “Sukkiri Circle” took up the challenge of recompanies in Japan and overseas production sites met ducing acetone use as an E-KAIZEN activity. Rather than their material recycling targets. Currently we are shifting sticking to conventional ways, they rethought the washing towards resource conservation initiatives, which seek to process and materials used, vastly increasing quality and reduce the resource inputs into production processes. reducing the number of washings. As a result, the plant was able to use just one-tenth the amount of acetone it ● Annual Waste1 Emissions did in FY2011. With 90% less waste liquid and containEmissions (tons) 50,000 ers for it after using the 42,425 40,934 acetone, this has helped 40,000 35,368 32,535 32,432 greatly reduce our envi28,903 Waste 30,000 26,079 (overseas) ronmental footprint. Waste 20,000 (Japan) Recycled (overseas) 10,000 Recycled Members of “Sukkiri Circle” greatly (Japan) reduced acetone use 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) 1 Items that are no longer needed at Epson ofﬁces and are emitted outside the company. ● Zero Emissions Programs Recycling Resource Conservation Definition of “recycling” Reduction • Recycling 100% of waste Closed-loop of inputs Waste materials recycling materials Shift Closed-loop • Maximum of 50 g of burnable Resource recycling waste per person per day inputs Factory Non Resource Factory closed-loop inputs Non recycling closed-loop Definition of recycling “resource conservation” Recycled in-house Recycled in-house • Reduction of resource inputs Product Product • Reduction of wastes by using Recycled externally Recycled externally recycled resources 35 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 ■ Water Recycling ■ Transport Epson is mitigating environmental impacts and maintainEpson is reducing CO2 emissions by increasing the efing legal and regulatory compliance by focusing on water ﬁciency of product, part, and waste transportation. We and resources from a risk management point of view. Baare making products smaller (which increases shipping sic to this is making sure we soil and consume no more efﬁciency), rethinking our logistics centers, innovating the water than necessary, and recycling and reusing what we loading and packing processes (to boost loading efﬁdo use. ciency), and reconsidering shipment departure and arrival frequencies and number of trips. We work actively to increase the recycling rate of factory wastewater and comply with stricter water quality regulaIn ﬁscal 2011, CO2 emissions increased because we used tions. Moreover, we are implementing energy-efﬁcient international air freight more frequently to ship products water treatment facilities. Thus, we seek to reduce the and components that needed quick delivery. But in ﬁscal overall impact of production processes. 2012 we basically sent our shipments by sea, which led to the reduction of our CO2 emissions. ● Annual Water Usage (1000 m³) ● CO2 Emissions from Distribution 20,000 Emissions: (1,000 t-CO2) Per unit of sales (% of 2006) 17,319 16,484 450 15,000 13,981 400 386.9 12,768 10,492 350 350 10,000 305.1 8,456 Per unit of sales 7,700 300 (Japan and Int’l) 300 overseas Per unit of sales 5,000 250 (Japan) 250 Japan 204.6 199.1 200 200 175.4 0 158.5 166.9 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) 150 132.6 150 117.2 Japan 100 97.8 141.5 100 91.4 107.9 100 80.3 72.8 71.7 66.8 90.1 83.7 Int’l (Air) ■ Environmental Risk Management 50 50 Int’l (Sea) Any environmental pollution resulting from Epson’s busi0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) ness activities could have a serious impact on residents of the surrounding area, as well as for the rest of the region or country. We follow Group-wide standards for ■ Soil and Groundwater Remediation pollution control and ensure that all members are well Epson is pumping and treating groundwater contamiacquainted with the ideas and laws of environmental risk nated by chlorinated organic solvents at several sites in management. Each promotion unit uses ISO 14001 to Japan, including at its Head Ofﬁce. In addition, we have identify and assess the risk of failing to meet standards barriers in place to prevent further contamination. or of experiencing environmental complaints or incidents in an ongoing effort to continuously mitigate those risks. ● Site Groundwater Data and Remediation Methods (mg/l) In ﬁscal 2012, we conducted internal pollution and emisSite 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 Remediation sions audits at 27 business sites (17 in Japan and 10 HQ 28 39 62 Barrier, pump and treat, monitoring overseas) and have nearly completed the corrective acShiojiri 0.75 0.67 0.28 Barrier, pump and treat, monitoring tions for nonconformances that were found. Fujimi 0.14 0.12 0.12 Barrier, pump and treat, monitoring SuwaMinami 0.14 0.094 0.06 Barrier, pump and treat, monitoring Regulatory limits for oil were exceeded twice during ﬁscal * Groundwater trichloroethylene concentration trend / annual average (normal limit is 0.03 or less) 2012. This incident was reported to the government and is being addressed. Global Environmental Data http://global.epson.com/SR/environment/reports/data.html Exceeded regulatory limits: 2 Complaints: 0 Accidents: 0 ISO 14001 Certification List http://global.epson.com/SR/environment/reports/iso14001.html Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 36 Commitment to EnvironmentalConservation Product Collection and Recycling ■ Participation in Collection and Recycling Scheme Building a recycling-oriented society requires businesses, Epson Australia Pty. Ltd. (EAL) has taken part in buildgovernment, and consumers to cooperate in properly ing a scheme as one of the government and IT industry processing end-of-life products. Epson began collecting members in a home electronics recycling system begun and recycling used toner cartridges in 1995. To comin 2012. As such, it is helping to reduce the amount of ply with various regulatory requirements and consumer end-of-life home electronics sent needs throughout the world, Epson presently has a global to landﬁlls. system for collecting and recycling not only ﬁnished products but also cartridges. Epson currently collects and EAL’s Garry Pearce shows his recycles cartridges in 41 countries and regions. leadership when he says, “As an ofﬁcer of Australia and New ZeaIn ﬁscal 2012, we expanded our collection areas and land Recycling Platform Limited, I stepped up our collecting and recycling efforts, with the started the TechCollect, a govresult that these efforts are now better known. Especially ern-ment-certiﬁed service Garry Pearce, EAL in Australia, the EU, Taiwan, and some other places, we that collects and recycles took part in establishing recycling schemes and rehome electronics for free. vamped our programs and systems. This enhanced our EAL will continue to deal collecting and recycling initiatives in quantity and quality. positively with environmental problems by recycling.” The TechCollect logo mark ● Finished products collected (cumulative through fiscal year) ● Cartridges collected (cumulative through fiscal year) (tons) (tons) 150,000 50,000 123,049 39,106 111,636 40,000 36,405 98,103 33,262 100,000 87,624 29,933 78,238 30,000 26,045 65,740 21,977 53,667 20,000 17,716 50,000 39,853 13,047 24,860 8,895 18,549 10,000 5,385 11,522 2,888 5,702 1,374 0 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 * Collected either voluntarily or as mandated by local law (FY) (FY) * Amount actually collected * Sum of amount actually collected and amount expected to be collected ● Worldwide products and cartridges recycling programs Regions where we recycle ﬁnished products Regions where we recycle cartridges Canada China Europe U.S. Japan Morocco South Korea Mexico Taiwan India Hong Kong Columbia Philippines Singapore Brazil Australia South Africa Chile Argentina 37 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 Eco Community ■ Green Talent Program Epson Taiwan Technology & Trading Ltd. (ETT) offers the With our technology and know-how, Epson is pursuing Green Talent Program. Begun in 2011, the environmental our unique environmental community initiatives, based education program is for university and graduate school primarily on products and services. These initiatives students in Taiwan. ETT planned the program to foster also better acquaint us with customers’ expectations personnel who could help Taiwan develop into a sustainand needs from us. Understanding this helps us effect a able society. positive loop, in which we better provide what society is looking for and deepen our ties with stakeholders. In this In June 2012, 50 students took part in a workshop at ETT way too we help achieve a sustainable society. on enterprise’s response to global warming. In September, nine students selected by interview took part in a ■ All-Japan Senior High Schoolers Eco Action Project session at Tohoku Epson Corporation. Here, they got two The Ink Cartridge Satogaeri (Homecoming) Project, of days packed with a wide range of lessons and experiwhich Epson is a member, sponsors the All-Japan Senior ence. They toured a production facility, got hands-on High Schoolers Eco Action Project. Epson is please to experience, and heard lessons about eco-friendly manutake part in the event. facturing and recovery from the March 11 earthquake and tsunami. In ﬁscal 2012, seven students from the Suwa Seiryo Senior High School visited Epson Mizube Corp. There, they They also had a spirited discussion with Tohoku Epson toured plant facilities designed for persons with disabiliPresident Akihiko Sakai. They talked about enterprise’s ties and tried sorting cartridges. They got to speak about relationship with the comenvironmental activities munity (employment status directly with prefecture and of people around plants, city council members and disclosure of environmental local government ofﬁcials data, communication) and who also took the tour. This about the environment and made the day even more economy in general. Participants in Japan session meaningful. Students taking a plant tour ■ Incentives for Eco-Inventions ■ Eco-Products Exhibition in 2012 Epson has been providing incentives for eco-inventions We exhibited at the Eco-Products Exhibition, with the that greatly decrease environmental impact. We seek to theme “Epson helps reduce environmental impact with be an industry leader and practice corporate citizenship its products.” Using our latest products as examples, our by developing technologies that reduce impact. exhibit addressed four aspects: “smaller and lighter,” “more energy-efﬁcient,” “lasting longer,” and “new perspective.” It In 2012 we sought patents on technical development of introduced the products’ environmental performance, cuseco-friendly designs, production processes, and so forth. tomer value, and technical background to the products. ● Patent Applications for Eco-Inventions (Cumulative) The display itself took advantage of eco-friendly product (Application index) features: a large-format inkjet printer produced decorative 439 450 424 banners, and a wall-hung projector played video. 400 380 Other Manufacturing 350 process 300 290 Energy-saving 250 design 200 194 Resource saving 150 100 100 50 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) Display banner and environmental products * As a percentage of normalized 2007 ﬁlings Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 38 Individuality and Teamwork Human Development at Epson We respect fundamental human rights and facilitate a fair, safe, healthy and pleasant work environment HR Development and Training ■ Middle Management Training Epson offers a course in management practices to its ■ Approach to HR Development middle managers worldwide. The course is designed to Epson develops and trains its human resources in line teach aspiring managers the roles and responsibilities with a Human Resources Development Policy established of managers, and to provide them with the knowledge, in 1996. The policy states that Epson will “…support management skills, and conduct they will need to efemployees who have aspirations for self-actualization, fectively serve in a management capacity. The course is to connect all the companies in the Epson Group with also structured so as to give participants an opportunity people, and to nurture employees so that both corporate to practice in the workplace what they learned in the and individual objectives are met.” We provide training so course. that our people understand their roles and what is expected of them as members of the Epson team. Training In ﬁscal 2012, a course was held for employees from Jaenables them to work and communicate effectively, solve pan who are posted problems and achieve goals, and experience personal in the United States, and professional growth. Indonesia, China, the Philippines, and In ﬁscal 2012, Epson introduced a new personnel system Singapore. for middle management. This new system establishes clear roles and requirements on both the business and conduct In addition, we held axes. Middle management training is also being emphasized a Global Incubation Middle management training (U.S.) to ensure the new system is implemented effectively. Seminar in February 2013 for 26 members of middle management at our overThe training is intended to ensure that managers correctly seas afﬁliates. We have been holding this seminar every understand the strategic business objectives and are able year since 1999 to develop future business leaders and to rapidly and nimbly respond to internal and external to spread and ingrain Epson's Management Philosophy. changes in the business environment, and that managers are able to support the growth and development of the people who report to them by putting organizations and Human Resources Development Policy http://global.epson.com/company/epson_way/principle/human_policy.html individuals in a position to succeed. ● General Concept of New Personnel System for Middle Management Realization Management Philosophy Employee Business axis Conduct axis Principles of Achievement Motivation Incentives Realization of SE15 of Management Corporate Philosophy Behavior Remuneration Position for success Personnel requirements Salary system Org. mgmt. based Application of skills HR mgmt. on role Org. design Licensing Leader candidates Evaluation system Role deﬁnitions Training Role evaluation Placement HR database Management of objectives 39 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 ■ Training for New Employees in Japan ■ Hands-on Training at the Monozukuri Juku Epson considers the ﬁrst year of employment to be a Over decades of business growth, untold numbers of training period during which new employees learn about Epson employees developed technologies and skills in the Epson approach to work. ultra-precision machining and mechatronics. They also developed a variety of components that make up our For the ﬁrst two weeks, employees learn about the basics ﬁnished products. These invisible assets are embedded of business, including the company's systems, how to in the company’s DNA and form the foundation of our read ﬁnancial statements, personnel systems, the Epson manufacturing. Epson’s Monozukuri Juku, an in-house Code of Conduct, Epson's core values, and other knowlmanufacturing school, ensures that Epson's invisible asedge needed to work at the company. sets are transferred to the next generation of employees so they can continue to create customer value. They then move on to two weeks of hands-on training in manufacturing. Here new employees study the Epson apIt is a hands-on environment in which our young techniproach to work by disassembling and reassembling printcians and engineers can learn practical skills in manuers and watches and by learning about quality control, facturing and production control. It is a place to develop production control, and other related topics. We mentally people. A broad range of courses are provided. Employprepare them for society by teaching them discipline, ees learn about how to solve problems on the manufacmanners, and greetings. We also teach new employees turing ﬂoor and receive training in the art and science of practical business manners such as how to exchange manufacturing, including the basics of machining, electribusiness cards, cal equipment, and how to answer the mechatronics. Some phone, and how to employees train to greet customers so become key skilled they can be productechnicians by using tive immediately training techniques after joining their developed for the workplace. Skills Olympics. Cutting with hacksaws Training by solving problems on the manufacturing ﬂoor Training Courses and Workforce Composition ● Workforce Composition ● Main Online Courses in Fiscal 2012 (Japan) Male/Female Ratio Mgmt. Ratio 1 Mgmt. Diversity Course Title 2 Start Date Trainees 3 Women 18% Mgmt. 12% Women 2% Basic Information Security (2012) Apr. 2012 18,069 Men 82% Staff 88% Men 98% Introduction to Procurement Oct. 2012 10,383 (Subcontract Act, 2012) Data for Seiko Epson Corporation employees as of March 31, 2013 1 Security Trade Control Training (2012) Oct. 2012 11,882 Section manager and higher Basic Environmental Training II (2012) Feb. 2013 7,599 2 Compliance training ● Training in FY2012 by Employee Level (Japan) 3 The number of persons completing the course by March 31, 2013 People Percent Training Who Trained Trained Training System (Japan) New Employee Orientation New hires 287 100% http://global.epson.com/SR/our_people/development/index.html C-Level Employee Training New C-level staff 282 96.9% Senior Staff Training New senior staff 131 97.0% Section Manager Training New section managers 50 90.9% Note: Persons who have not received training are scheduled to do so in FY2013 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 40 Individuality and Teamwork Maintaining a Fair Workplace ■ Monitoring and Controlling Working Hours Epson remains fully compliant with labor laws. One of the ■ Zero Tolerance ways we ensure compliance is by following an operations Epson is serious about keeping all forms of discriminamanual that Epson created to prevent excess overtime tion and unfair practices out of its operations around the work. We have also deployed time management initiaworld. This stance is reﬂected in our participation in the tives and monitoring systems across the organization. United Nations Global Compact since 2004. In 2005 we Epson has programs to build awareness among employdocumented policies that outline Epson’s strong convicees of the importance of regulating working hours approtions in areas including respect for human rights, eliminapriately and we are fully committed to maintaining a welltion of harassment, eradication of all forms of discriminabalanced working environment. tion, respect for local culture and customs, prohibition of child and forced labor, and maintenance of positive labor ■ Work-Life Balance Initiatives relations. Epson, with one eye trained on the well-being and development of our children, allows employees to balance their There were 20 inquiries to our harassment hotline in 2012, careers with their personal lives so that they feel they can and all were handled in the strictest conﬁdence, in line stay with the company. We enforce an eight-hour workwith privacy protection laws. Additional services include a day at least once per week at our compliance hotline and other counseling services. Epson sites, and an increasing number of also strives to prevent fraud and other forms of legal missites have a day each year when parconduct in a number of ways, including through regular ents can bring their children to work. reporting to the Trust-Based Management Council and Because of these and other initiatives, by posting reminders on the intranet bulletin board. Epson is recognized for implementNext-generation acing policies that will beneﬁt the next creditation mark The Policies regarding Human Rights and Labor Standards generation. “Kurumin” http://global.epson.com/company/epson_way/principle/human_rights.html Every year, some of our male employees take paternity ■ Equal Gender Opportunity Initiatives leave. According to Shigeru Matsuyama, By spending Seiko Epson was an early advocate of equal opportunity time at home, I could watch my wife smile and my chilemployment. We abolished gender-based remuneration dren grow. Having time away in 1983, and the return-to-work rate for employees who from work also helped me grow have taken childcare leave is 95% (98% in 2012). In fact, as a person by giving me the women stay with Epson longer than men, on average chance to try new things and (21.4years for women versus 18.0 years for men). meet new people.” We intend to roll out these and other programs ● Childcare Leave Trends Shigeru Matsuyama on that help secure a healthy workpaternity leave Childcare Leave Caregiver life balance. FY Ratio of women Total1 Women Men3 Leave granted leave2 2012 80 66 100% 14 (12) 1 ■ Labor and Management Initiatives 2011 66 55 98% 11 (10) 2 Seiko Epson is a union shop whose employee union 2010 82 64 100% 18 (15) 2 representatives work cooperatively with management to 2009 74 53 100% 21 (20) 0 foster a better work environment. Joint committees are 1 Including individuals who took well-being leave 2 Number of individuals granted childcare leave / eligible* individuals formed to discuss and ﬁnalize mutual resolutions to is(Individuals who have had a child and are eligible for childcare leave) sues on a variety of topics, such as work systems, family 3 Numbers in parentheses indicate employees who took special paid leave support, and beneﬁts and wages. Well-being leave Main Employee Welfare and Benefits Systems (Japan) http://global.epson.com/SR/our_people/fair_working/index.html#well_being_leave http://global.epson.com/SR/our_people/fair_working/index.html 41 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 ■ Employment of Persons with Disabilities ■ Taking Part in the Abilympics Epson employs a large number of persons with disabiliSome of Epson’s employees with disabilities have amazties. We accommodate special needs by providing easying skills that are invaluable to the company. Masashi Muaccess restrooms, parking spaces, and other facilities. kaiyama of Epson Mizube Corp. is one of those employWe also provide services such as sign language interpreees. Mukaiyama said, “My usual job involves soldering, tation for in-house training and interviews, and special so I decided to compete in the Abilympics in order to imshortened working hours for dialysis treatment. Two speprove my technique and the quality of my work. Through cial subsidiaries, Epson Mizube Corp. and Epson Swan, training and perseverance, I was able to win a gold medal Ltd., provide a working environment that meets the needs in electronic circuit connections. Having a strong team of persons with disabilities so they can fully use their and the support of my co-workers really helped during skills. the competition.” One of the many jobs handled by Epson Mizube is part of the “Ink Cartridge Home Coming Project,” a collaborative effort between six printer manufacturers in Japan and Japan Post Co., Ltd. Epson Mizube receives used print cartridges collected throughout Japan, divides them by manufacturer, weighs and counts them, and sends them Abilympic athletes from Epson Mizube Masashi Mukaiyama demonstrates his to the manufacturer along with a report. Corp. skills in the competition ● Ratio of Employees with Disabilities (Japan) ● Types of Disabilities (Japan) (%) Other 2.4 6 (3%) 2.2 2.13 2.11 Developmental 54 (24%) 1.99 1.94 1.95 2.00 2.0 Other physical Limb 5 Total 78 1.8 223 Legally mandated ratio 1.8% 1.6 Kidney Physical 13 163 (73%) 1.4 Cardiovascular 19 1.2 Vision Hearing 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) 13 35 Two Awards at National Award Ceremony for Employers of Persons with Disabilities Epson Mizube Corp. has long promoted and contributed even more as we set our sights on the Ministry of Health, to the stable employment of persons with disabilities. In Labor and Welfare Minister’s Award.” recognition of these efforts, the Japan Organization for Employment of the Elderly, Persons with Disabilities and Mizube employee Chie Fujimori received yet another Job Seekers presented Epson Mizube with a President's President’s Award for a photo she took for the National Award. Epson Mizube Disability Employment general manager Hiroshi Awareness Month poster Uruga commented, “This contest. The photo, is all due to the hard which showed her cowork and cooperation of worker hard at work, was our employees. I would selected and is on display Chie Fujimori and her winning photoNational Award Ceremony like us to work together throughout Japan. graph Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 42 Individuality and Teamwork Occupational Safety and Health Occupational safety and health are the bedrock of business. Approach to Occupational Safety and Global Initiatives and Self-Sustaining Health Activities Believing that energetic employees who are healthy of ■ General Safety and Health Controller Meeting body and mind, and a safe, secure, and clean environEvery six months, general safety and health controllers from ment are essential to corporate health, Epson carries Epson business sites and afﬁliates throughout the world come out occupational safety and health programs at its sites together for the General Safety and Health Controller Meeting around the world. and reafﬁrm their responsibilities. Participants give presentations on the activities taking place at their business sites to The core component of this effort is the New Epson encourage best practices and self-sustaining activities. Safety & Health Program (NESP). Covering safety, health, and ﬁre/disaster prevention, NESP is based on an occuManufacturing afﬁliates in the China region, which has a pational safety and health management system (OSHMS) high concentration of large-scale production sites, hold that conforms to International Labour Organization (ILO) their own Safety and Health Controller Meeting every guidelines. Based on the principle of self-sufﬁciency, quarter. The controllers share information on common Epson aims to raise the level of safety and health manissues, discuss important actions such as legal compliagement at all of its business sites so they become selfance speciﬁc to China, and make sure their safety and sustaining. health activities are in step at all of their business sites. ● Basic Concept of NESP ■ Safety Management at Suppliers Epson checks the safety management systems in place Self-sufﬁcient promotion unit activities at suppliers and suggests ways to mitigate problems and Group-wide activities ・Deploy unique activities risks in line with Epson Group safety guidelines. After ・Horizontally deploy Organization preventative measures suggesting improvefor accidents that ments, the person in activities occurred in the past and that are similar charge of safety at a local ・Conduct safety patrols afﬁliate provides ongoing to keep workplaces assistance to the supplier staying safe in order to reduce procurement risks. Safety inspection at a supplier (Philippines) ● Occupational Injury Accident Frequency (Japan) 1.2 1.12 1.09 Manufacturing industry average 0.99 0.98 ■ Raising Employee Awareness at EPI 1.0 1.05 1.00 Epson Portland Inc. (EPI) runs its own NESP-related im0.8 provement proposal pro0.6 Electrical equipment manufacturing industry average 0.48 0.46 0.49 gram. Every year, it holds 0.44 0.39 0.39 0.4 0.22 0.24 0.25 an event where employ0.18 0.2 0.13 0.16 Seiko Epson Corporation ees who proposed ideas 0 can win stationery and 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) Occupational injury accident frequency: the number of injury accidents per million work hours, where an injury accident is an incident that causes a worker to miss one or more days of work other prizes. This program Occupational injury Number of injury accidents accident frequency Total working hours 1,000,000 encourages employee Prize Drawing for Safety Proposal Award * The number of FY2011 Seiko Epson differs from which in Sustainability Report involvement in NESP. at EPI 2012 due to a recount. 43 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 Maintaining Mental and Physical Well-being ■ Mental Health Initiatives In 2010, Epson established a new employee mental ■ Health Management Initiatives health program that emphasizes prevention. Epson’s health management program is an important part of its NESP activities. In 2012 a major reorganization led to the reassignment of a large number of employees. During this transition, In Japan, Epson established a mid-range plan titled our health management staff worked closely with the Healthy Epson 21.” This plan focuses on the key areas of HR department to provide extra support for the physical overwork, lifestyle-related illnesses, and mental health to and mental well-being of those affected. Atsushi Osato, maintain and promote wellness of body and mind while an occupation physician, said, “When an employee has working. to leave a place they have worked for many years and take on a new job, it is both In ﬁscal 2012, we built a health management support sysphysically and mentally tem that gives employees immediate access to their own stressful. The key is to know health data so that they can easily monitor their health. how much follow-up they We are also working to protect employee health by prorequire to maximize their viding managers and HR with information on employee abilities in the new position. work restrictions prescribed by physicians to ensure We have to keep a close eye safety and relieve stress. Improved self-care, manageon their health to head off ment care, and professional care by our medical staff will any health problems before Atsushi Osato Hino Ofﬁce Occupational Physician, enable us to promote total health care more efﬁciently. they develop.” Epson Group Associate Chief Occupational Physician Outside of Japan, Epson is always working to improve health management at its subsidiaries and afﬁliates based Fire and Disaster Prevention on the industrial safety and health laws of each country and the conditions on the ground. In ﬁscal 2012, health Epson is committed to being an accident-free workplace management staff from two of our afﬁliates in Indonesia and contributing to community ﬁre safety. To this end, we participated in an occupational safety and health training have organized independent ﬁre brigades to help protect program in Japan as part of our efforts to improve health ourselves and our property. The last working day of every management throughout Epson. August is Epson Disaster Prevention Day. On this day, Epson Group companies conduct ﬁre and disaster drills. ■ Support for Employees Assigned Overseas One of the drills is used to test our emergency communiEpson has a support system in place to provide Japacation systems, which we have in place to conﬁrm emnese employees assigned overseas with the same anployee safety and determine the extent of damage in the nual health check-ups offered in Japan, use of the health event of a wide-scale disaster. management support system, and health guidance by telephone and e-mail. Our occupational physicians and Ayako Yamamoto, second in command of the Head nurses visit overseas afﬁliate companies once every Ofﬁce Fire Brigade, talks about the activities of the ﬁre three years to check on the health of employees and brigade. “The ﬁre brigade their families. holds regular drills so we can learn about putting In ﬁscal 2012, an occupational physician and nurse visited out ﬁres, discipline, and afﬁliates in Indonesia and the Philippines to hold health disaster prevention. This consultations with employees from Japan and to visit also gives us the chance to local healthcare providers. Epson also launched a new interact with people from global health support desk. This new service is intended other departments. It is an to ensure that all employees assigned overseas have incredible experience.” Ayako Yamamoto Second in Command of Head Ofﬁce equal access to health-related information and services. Fire Brigade Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 44 Trusted Throughout the World Organizational Governance Epson is aiming to be an indispensable company by realizing our management philosophy. We have established a system of compliance to ensure the transparency and soundness of management in the eyes of our stakeholders Corporate Governance Design of Internal Control System The primary goal of corporate governance at Epson is Epson’s Management Philosophy outlines the vital busito continuously enhance the value of the company and ness principles to which the global Epson Group is comto ensure business transparency and health through a mitted, while Epson's Principles of Corporate Behavior strong system of checks and ethical practices. describes the conduct required to live up to these principles. As illustrated below, Epson takes actions to steadily Seiko Epson has a board of directors and a board of improve internal control across the entire Epson Group. statutory auditors. The nine-member board of directors meets once a month and convenes extraordinary ■ Group Governance meetings as needed. It makes decisions regarding basic The Epson Group is managed based on the concept: management policies, key business operations, periodglobal consolidated responsibility of product-based diviend closing, disclosure timeframes, and other important sions; and global responsibility of the Head Quarter (HQ) issues. An outside director was appointed to the board at supervisory functions. The head of the business operathe June 20, 2012, general shareholders' meeting, a positions divisions take the responsibility for the business tive move aimed at bringing an outsider's viewpoint and execution systems of subsidiaries, and the head of HQ insight to the company. supervisory sections take the responsibility for grouplevel corporate functions. With this system, Epson strives Various management bodies have been created to advise to streamline operations throughout the Epson Group, the president or board of directors, deliberate issues and including subsidiaries. facilitate decision-making, and oversee and enhance the Corporate Governance execution of business. http://global.epson.com/company/governance/index.html ● Governance Structure General Shareholders’ Meeting Elect/ Dismiss Report Elect/Dismiss Elect/Dismiss Submit/Report Report Propose/Report Independent Nomination Committee Public Accountant Board of Directors Cooperate Audit Compensation Committee Propose/ Board of Statutory Auditors Report Elect/ Compliance Dismiss/ Submit/Report Committee Oversee Observation/ Monitoring Propose/Report Report Corporate Strategy Council Audit Report/Initial responce Report SEC President to crisis Compliance Office Corporate Management Meeting Adjustment/ Business Operations Monitoring Cooperate Executive Officers and Presidents of Affiliated Companies Audit Office Various Strategy Councils Audit (Internal) Audit Business Units and Affiliates Audit Staff Office Crisis Management Meeting 45 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 ■ Compliance and Risk Management Compliance Activities In March 2013, the Seiko Epson board of directors passed a resolution calling for the establishment of an ■ ”Legal Quarterly” at ECC internal organization intended to improve compliance and The legal department at Epson (China) Co., Ltd (ECC) risk management. The highlights are the appointment of has been publishing a newsletter called “Legal Quarterly” a chief compliance ofﬁcer (CCO) and the establishment of since October 2011. This newsletter summarizes legal a compliance committee and compliance ofﬁce. news affecting ECC and explains actions that need to be taken. The newsletter is designed to mitigate legal Under this new organization, the compliance committee, risks by increasing employee awareness of laws and which is chaired by the CCO, acts as an advisor to the their sensitivity toward risk and uncertainty in day-to-day board of directors. The committee supervises operations operations. ECC publishes the newsletter in both Chinese related to compliance by deliberating important compliand Japanese to ensure ance activities and by giving reports and proposals to the that Japanese employboard of directors. In addition, the Compliance Ofﬁce 1) ees working in China and monitors compliance in general, making corrections and related departments in adjustments as necessary, and 2) takes action to mitigate Japan are up to speed risks by conducting regular monitoring of risks and overon the latest legal develseeing risk management activities. opments, helping build awareness of compliance Legal Quarterly in Chinese Meanwhile, the Corporate Strategy Council, which adissues throughout the vises the president, strives to ensure the effectiveness of Epson Group. compliance and risk management by deliberating important matters related to compliance and risk management ■ Internal Audits from various angles. When major risks become apparent, The Audit Ofﬁce, which reports directly to the president the president leads the entire company in mounting a of Seiko Epson, audits Epson Group divisions and subswift initial response in line with Epson’s prescribed crisis sidiaries to check compliance and the effectiveness and management program. The president periodically reports efﬁciency of their risk management, controls, and manto the board of directors on important matters concernagement methods. If problems are found, the Audit Ofﬁce ing the execution of compliance and risk management, helps minimize business risks by conducting a follow-up and formulates appropriate measures to respond to these audit to check the status of improvements. To ensure efissues. fective Group governance, The Audit Ofﬁce also centrally oversees internal audits for the entire group based on Epson has also installed a compliance hotline which has reports from auditors at regional headquarters in Europe, internal and external report windows and other advisory the Americas, China, and Southeast Asia. and support services to facilitate internal and external compliance-related inquiries and to ensure an effective ■ Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting whistleblower system. Every year, we audit internal controls to ensure the reliability of ﬁnancial reporting (J-SOX). The Epson Group Advisory and support services uses an autonomous distributed implementation system Epson Hotline (Compliance Ofﬁce) in which operations divisions and subsidiaries subject to Harassment advisory (HR Department) external audits conduct a self-assessment on the deCounseling related to working long hours (HR Department) sign and operation of their internal controls, while the JEmployee counseling (General Affairs Department) SOX Compliance Department ensures the validity of the Labor union counseling (Labor Union) assessment results. Operations divisions, subsidiaries, Insider trading inquiries (Legal Affairs Department) and afﬁliates not subject to external audits are required Anti-monopoly inquiries (Legal Affairs Department) to independently assess their internal controls and make Inquiries related to bribes and corruption such improvements as are necessary. (Legal and General Affairs Departments) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 46 Trusted Throughout the World ■ International Trade Initiatives Security at Epson Epson is a multinational corporation with production centers, sales centers, customers, and business partners Declaring a commitment to protecting people, assets, around the world. Smooth international trade operations and information in Principles of Corporate Behavior, are essential if we are to deliver Epson products and Epson takes steps to ensure personal security, the services to customers in a timely manner. security of corporate assets, and the utmost prudence in the handling of information. Epson recognizes the Meanwhile, we must observe numerous conventions and importance of good security practices. Accordingly, we frameworks governing international trade that have been establish and maintain systems to ensure the on-site put in place to maintain international peace and security. safety and security of personnel and visitors, carefully control all assets, respect the property of others, and To maintain compliance with these and to ensure smooth take strict precautions to safeguard personal data and trade, Epson has established comprehensive systems conﬁdential information. and processes that have enabled Epson companies to earn certiﬁcation from the relevant authorities in Japan ■ Information Security and abroad for compliance with the international trade Epson’s Basic Information Security Policy describes our programs. (See the table below.) approach to information security and the requirements that we must satisfy. This policy calls for all Epson per● Certifications sonnel to recognize the importance of information secuCompany Name Program (Certifying Agency) rity, exercise effective information security governance, Seiko Epson Corp. Special Bulk Export License (METI) and build information security into the corporate culture. Seiko Epson Corp. Authorized Exporter (Tokyo Customs) Epson America Inc. C-TPAT1 Partner (U.S. Customs) Epson Portland Inc. C-TPAT Partner (U.S. Customs) ● Information Security Organization Epson El Paso Inc. C-TPAT Partner (U.S. Customs) 1 Customs–Trade Partnership Against Terrorism, a program designed to strengthen Head Office President U.S. security across the supply chain. Audit Office In January 2013, Seiko Epson was certiﬁed under the Group CISO1 Authorized Importers’ Program run by Tokyo Customs. Group IT System Group Supervising Dept. This program gives preferential customs treatment to Supervising Dept. authorized importers with high levels of compliance and Group Information Security Council cargo security. By ﬁling a special import declaration, importers are able to import goods more quickly with Business Unit Business Unit Chief Executive fewer inspections and can CISO ﬁle import declarations and receive authorization before Senior Info. Security Manager the goods actually arrive Admin. Office in Japan. This program is Departments beneﬁcial to supply chain management because it 1 Chief Information Security Ofﬁcer ensures a stable lead time for customs processing. Basic Information Security Policy Approval certiﬁcate for Authorized http://global.epson.com/company/epson_way/principle/security_policy.html Importers’ Program 47 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 At Epson, each business unit builds and maintains its March 2005 and we have renewed it four times since own information security system based on group-wide then. The year leading up to certiﬁcation was the most standards. Internal audits ensure that the systems and difﬁcult for those involved because we had to establish controls at each business unit are evaluated and that all of the rules and train employees on them, but now information security-related risk management is effective. personal data protection has Senior information security managers from the business become ingrained across our units gather to discuss initiatives across the organization operations. Epson Sales Japan and to track progress. handles the personal data of many customers. Our employEpson also acquires ISMS (information security manees understand the importance agement system) certiﬁcation, which complies with ISO of protecting our customers’ 27001, to ensure continuous improvement of its informaprivacy and do so of their own Kyoichi Nakajima Epson Sales Japan tion security management organization. Currently, Seiko accord.” Epson's Business Systems Operations Division, IT Division, data centers, and Epson Sales Japan have all been ■ Intellectual Property Protection certiﬁed and manage information security accordingly. Epson protects the rights to our proprietary technologies so as to support the ongoing development of our existing Employees and managers learn about information secubusinesses and the growth and commercialization of new rity through online training courses and training programs businesses. These actions ensure that our IP portfolio for managers. The online training program has a parcontributes to corporate earnings. We also respects the ticipation rate of 100%, including executives. Every July, rights of third parties and implements measures to prewhich is designated as Information Security Enhancevent infringement of those rights. ment Month, Epson implements a number of awarenessraising initiatives. There are also year-round initiatives In 2012, Epson ranked 13th in Japan and 12th in the U.S. such as the monthly Information Security News, which for number of registered patents. Epson also received gives speciﬁc examples of actions employees can take in numerous awards in recognition of its contributions to the ofﬁce and at home. the advancement of science and technology and to the development of industry. These include the Japan Patent During Information Security Enhancement Month in 2012, Attorneys Association President's Award and the InvenEpson asked employees to rethink the way they use etor's Award at the mail, an essential business tool. Improper use of e-mail is 2012 National Comreported to have negative consequences, such as reducmendation for Invening the quality of one’s work and inconveniencing custion, and the Japan tomers. Epson asked its employees to review proper ePatent Ofﬁce Direcmail rules and manners and to make sure they are using tor’s Encouragement e-mail appropriately. Award at Kanto Region Commendation Award winners at National Commendation ■ Protection of Personal Data for Invention. for Invention Epson conducts internal audits to ensure that personal data is properly managed. Our IP initiatives are not limited to Japan. We emphasize understanding and respect for intellectual property Epson Sales Japan and Epson Direct are both Privacythroughout the world. In China, Epson (China) Co., Ltd. Mark certiﬁed and continue to operate in accordance (ECC) launched the IP Rights Reporting Seminar in 2007. with the program. As part of this ongoing program, ECC works with the media to raise awareness of IP issues among students in Kyoichi Nakajima from Epson Sales Japan says, Epson China. Sales Japan ﬁrst obtained PrivacyMark certiﬁcation in Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 48 Trusted Throughout the World Sustainable Procurement Prospering with suppliers based on the principles of fairness, coexistence and co-prosperity ● Procurement System Approach to Sustainable Procurement Management Philosophy ■ Basic Procurement Policy and Procurement Guidelines As stated in the beginning of the Management PhilosoPrinciples of Corporate Behavior phy, Epson is committed to being a progressive company, trusted throughout the world.” We strive to grow in Epson Code of Conduct harmony with the local and international communities by procuring goods in a manner consistent with the PrinBasic Procurement Policy ciples of Corporate Behavior and Basic Procurement 1. We will build good partnerships with suppliers, based on mutual trust and the principles of fairness, Policy. coexistence and co-prosperity. 2. Exercising high ethical standards and a social conscience, we will conduct our procurement To this end, we established formal procurement guideactivities in strict compliance with both the letter and spirit of laws and regulations, both national and lines that spell out fundamental Epson principles for our international, in every region where we operate. suppliers around the world. Our procurement guidelines 3. We will strive to reduce our environmental impacts of our procurement activities and will always seek cover requirements regarding compliance with laws, stable and reasonable quality, price, and delivery from suppliers. social norms and ethics in areas such as child and forced labor, respect for human rights, environment preservaProcurement tion, and health and safety. Epson practices sustainable Code of Conduct procurement in line with these guidelines. Procurement Guidelines From the perspective of our stakeholders, “Epson” refers to the entire supply chain for Epson products. Epson Epson Supplier Epson Group Procurement asks its suppliers to follow the Epson Supplier Code of Code of Management Regulation Conduct Conduct, established in April 2008, to help ensure that equivalent standards of conduct are maintained across Epson Group the supply chain. procurement standards ■ Co-creating with Our Business Partners Division & Group Evaluation In addition to providing quality products and services, company standards standard Epson believes that part of its responsibility is to work with business partners to ensure that human rights, labor standards, and environmental preservation are being Request for Business Supplier compliance relationship evaluation upheld across the supply chain. Business partners that we can trust are essential if we are to continue to provide Selfcustomers with products and services that excel in every assessment Suppliers area, including quality, price, and environmental performance. We strive to build trust through fair and transparent business practices with suppliers. Sustainable Procurement http://global.epson.com/SR/procurement/index.html 49 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainable Procurement Initiatives Compliance Management Initiatives ■ Bringing CSR to the Supply Chain Exercising high ethical standards and a social conEpson shares its corporate social responsibility values science, Epson conducts procurement activities in strict and objectives with its suppliers as part of an ongoing efcompliance with both the letter and spirit of laws and regfort to ensure that suppliers understand the risks associulations, both national and international, in every country ated with the environment, human rights, worker rights, and region around the world. Training and education is an and corporate ethics. This, in turn, minimizes associated important part of this commitment. risks and establishes a strong relationship of mutual trust. In Japan, companies in the Epson Group train employStarting in ﬁscal 2008, Epson launched an effort to improve ees on the laws, regulations, and social norms of various the level of CSR in our supply chain, including detailed countries and regions around the world to ensure that evaluations of CSR activities at our suppliers. We report the employees have the required expertise and awareness. results of evaluations to suppliers and, if necessary, request improvements. We also conduct on-site audits and other All employees in Japan are required to take the Introducmeasures to verify the status of improvements. tion to Procurement and Subcontracting Law Fundamentals online training courses. Employees directly involved In ﬁscal 2012, we focused our efforts on suppliers in in procurement must successfully complete procurement the printer business. After requesting improvements at and compliance management training. As of March 2013, nine suppliers, we conducted on-site follow-up audits to 15,500 employees have been certiﬁed. Then, starting in check the status of the improvements. November 2012, we began holding manager procurement compliance training to improve knowledge and un■ Epson’s Approach to Conﬂict Minerals derstanding of laws and regulations. This training course “Conﬂict minerals” refers to gold, tantalum, tin, and tungis mandatory for all managers with decision-making sten that serve as a source of funding for armed insurauthority. gents and anti-government organizations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and surrounding countries. ● Training System for Compliance Management in Procurement Publicly traded companies in the United States are required to report the presence of any conﬂict minerals in Manager Procurement their products to the Securities and Exchange CommisCompliance Training sion. This requirement does not apply to Epson because Managers Procurement and Compliance Management Training it is not traded in the United States. Employees involved in procurement Nevertheless, we work with our suppliers to eliminate Online Training conﬂict minerals from our products in line with our basic Introduction to Procurement General employees (Ethics & Code of Conduct) approach to socially responsible procurement. In October Subcontract Act 2012, we amended our procurement guidelines so that it asks suppliers not to use conﬂict minerals and we began investigating whether such minerals are being used in our Kuniko Ito, who is in charge of the training course, says supply chain. of the training, “We try to improve employee awareness Determining the origin of minerals requires tracing them of compliance as part of our all the way up the supply chain. This is a long and difﬁcult corporate social responsibiliprocess that does not always produce ﬁnal results, but ties. As a result, employees Epson is continuing its efforts to eliminate conﬂict minerare starting to take an even als in cooperation with its suppliers. more serious approach to compliance. Kuniko Ito, Production & Trade Conflict Minerals in Epson Products Management Department http://global.epson.com/SR/procurement/conflict_minerals/index.html Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 50 Prospering with the Community Corporate Citizenship Proactive engagement in communities as a good corporate citizen Approach to Corporate Citizenship ■ Taking Part in Forest Protection Event Akita Epson Corporation employees and family members Epson established its Corporate Citizenship Policy in joined a tree-planting event by the Ogachi ﬁshery asso2004. Our employees recognize that companies need ciation of Akita Prefecture in June 2012. Begun in 2008, to be more socially involved than ever, and so we aim the event was held for the ﬁfth year. Participants planted to contribute to society as a good corporate citizen and beech trees to protect water resources and increase facilitate mutually beneﬁcial relationships. vegetation. Epson’s contributions go beyond ﬁnancial support. We As they planted new seedemphasize contributions involving the imaging-based lings, they were able to technologies and knowledge that underpin our business see how the ones they had as a way to give back to society. In ﬁscal 2012, our contriplanted the previous year butions were worth about 270 million yen. Epson did not had grown. Employees and family members planting beech trees make any political contributions in ﬁscal 2012. General Corporate Citizenship Policy ■ Social Initiatives Mark ETT’s 30 Years http://global.epson.com/company/epson_way/principle/citizenship_policy.html In celebration of 30 years of business, Epson Taiwan Technology & Trading Ltd. (ETT) held a series of community events in 2012 to express its appreciation to its loyal Community Contribution Taiwanese customers. ■ Charity Run Case 1: Employee Volunteerism Epson Precision (Philippines), Inc. (EPPI) hosted “Takbo Employees and family members held monthly events Para Sa Kalikasan 2013,” a charity run, at the LiMA Techaround Taiwan, planting trees, cleaning beaches, and nology Center in February 2013. showing movies at schools in areas with no Instead of paying entry fees, runners were asked to bring theater nearby. All togethin recyclables like PET bottles, newspapers, magazines, er, nearly 1,000 employand cans. The many participants included EPPI employees took part between ees, students from area high schools and universities, March and October 2012. Movie screening and employees of other businesses in the center. EPPI turned the goods Case 2: Limited Edition Printer Charity Auction in for cash and donated Thirty limited edition printers, decorated with illustrations 13,466 pesos to SOS by popular Taiwanese artist Mr. Eyeball, were sold in a Children’s Village Lipa, charity auction. More than NT$1.2 million raised by aucan NGO helping ill and tion and ink cartridge sales was donated. EPPI Environment Manager Joyce Tan disadvantaged children. (right) presents check to SOS Children’s Village Lipa Director Johnald Lasin 51 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 Education for Young People ■ Support for “Sports Tengoku” The “34th Sports Tengoku,” an all-ages sporting event for ■ Hosting Youth Soccer Clinic by Manchester the people of Nagano Prefecture, took place in MatsuUnited Alums moto City in July 2012. The purpose is to promote lifelong Epson has been a sponsor of Manchester United Football sports and health. About 6,700 people took part in the Club, part of England’s Premier League, since 2010. We event, which features 35 sports and divisions including have continued to support the team as its Ofﬁcial Ofﬁce relay races, mallet golf, tennis, and sumo. Since 2007, Equipment Partner since then. Epson has presented keepsake photos, along with a 2L size photo for each member, to the teams who won their In April 2012, we held the Epson United Spirit Soccer relay races. Clinic for youth living in protective facilities in Malaysia and Singapore. Photos of generations of winning teams hang in their schools, encouraging new classes of children. In turn, the The 64 youth who took part received instruction from a children have sent us messages of thanks for the photos current Manchester United of their happy faces. Soccer School coach and Others have said, “We four former Manchester didn’t always get good United players. Lessons times in practice and included the importance of often we really messed repetitive practice of basic up, but because of moves. Soccer clinic participants (Malaysia) your photo, our overall memory is good.” Children with photos of generations of winning teams ■ Epson Green Environmental Protection Education for Kids ■ Project on Art and Science of Manufacturing Epson (China) Co., Ltd. (ECC) held the Epson Green In August 2012, Tohoku Epson Corporation invited 21 Next-Generation Environmental Protection Education students from the Nakamura Manufacturing Project Project in June 2012. Held for the sixth time, the project “Omoshiro Kagaku Monozukuri Juku” to get experience seeks to help children build an eco-friendly society in in a manufacturing setting. future. It increases their knowledge and consciousness of environmental protection and raises their interest in The project was launched eight years earlier with funds problems of the environment to encourage participadonated by Seiko Epson Corporation honorary advisor tion in conservation initiatives. This time, more than 400 Tsuneya Nakamura. The purpose is to hold courses for Beijing elementary school secondand third-graders and children interested in monozukuri (the art and science of family members were invited to a children’s center. British manufacturing) so they can understand it better. embassy staff in China gave a special talk on protecting the environment where the Olympics were hosted. After learning about Epson’s manufacturing history and the structure of our semiconductors and printer heads, the students toured an assembly plant. They learned about components made at the Skills Olympics and saw a lathing demonstration. As they watched, they Special talk by British embassy staff developed a deep interest in proper and Students watch a lathing demonstration with fast handling. interest Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 52 Prospering with the Community Environment and Community Activities Social Contribution through Our Business ■ Environmental Initiatives in Germany ■ Supporting Raptor Protection in Croatia Germany has been addressing environmental concerns As part of protecting wildlife in Croatia and the surproactively, and is working toward a nuclear-free future. rounding area, Epson Italia S.p.A. (EIS) donated a highEpson Deutschland GmbH (EDG) has an internal environdeﬁnition scanner to the “Atlas of Bird Feathers Project” mental program called “Green Way.” of the Raptor Rescue Center. The center is operated by the NGO Udruga Sokorlarski Centar (USC). The project is Case 1: Introducing Electric Cars to Fleet making a database of digital scans of bird feathers availEDG has been replacing its able for view on the USC web site for use in conservation sales ﬂeet with electric veactivities. hicles since 2011. The high-resolution scanned images can display the feathers in their original color and form. Publicly available, this is valuable data for scholars and others around the An electric vehicle used at EDG world. Case 2: Solar Power on EDG Head Office Rooftop EDG installed a solar power system on its head ofﬁce rooftop in 2008. It generates more than 45,000 kWh annually for internal use. High-deﬁnition scanner donated by Epson Expression 10000XL Case 3: Community Contributions In FY2012, the city of Meerbusch leased three hectares of land to EDG, and employ■ Support for Public Schools ees planted 15,000 trees on Epson America, Inc. (EAI) has supported educational iniit. Employees also have been tiatives of public school teachers through DonorsChoose. teaching a course to experiorg. That organization has a web site through which enence and understand energy terprises and individuals donate money. Teachers around at a Düsseldorf elementary the US can apply for classroom supplies like IT equipEDG employees planting trees school since 2007. ment, notebooks, and music teaching materials. ■ Epson Foundation Supports “Up-cycling” Two percent of the proceeds from EAI’s online store In April 2012, the Epson Foundation of Hong Kong sponsales from December 1-24, 2012 were donated to Dosored and held an awards ceremony for the Conservancy norsChoose.org, up to the $100,000 maximum. Association’s Waste Transformer Up-cycling Contest. “Up-cycling” means making high-quality or environmentally valuable products out of unneeded goods that would otherwise go to landﬁlls. The contest, open to junior and senior high school students, received 64 entries in three categories: furniture, household items, and home decorations. Starting in May, outstanding works were put on An Epson printer donated through the program display around Hong Kong. 53 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 Communication Deepening trusted relationships through constructive communication Approach to Communication Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors Communication serves as a vital bridge that connects ■ Regular General Shareholders’ Meeting Epson to its various stakeholders, including customers, The General Shareholders’ Meeting is an excellent opshareholders, investors, governments, communities, portunity to directly communicate with our shareholdNGOs and NPOs, media outlets, suppliers, students, and ers. Speaking directly to them at the 70th such meeting employees. Epson provides accurate, unbiased informain 2012, the president gave an overview of SE15 and its tion to all stakeholders in accordance with the Epson ﬁrst-half three-year mid-range business plan that paved Group Communications Regulation. In addition to upthe way for its realization. He also explained our initiatives holding public order, decency, and morality and maintainunder the second-half three-year plan. ing neutrality, Epson refrains from discrimination in any form, including but not limited to discrimination based on Every year shareholders bring a range of opinions and gender, age, national origin, ethnicity, race, religion, or questions to the Gensocial standing. Our communications respect the indieral Shareholders’ vidual and cultural diversity and earn the trust of people Meeting, which the throughout the world. president and other directors address Epson practices both marketing communication (conveysincerely. ing the value of our brand, products, and services) and 70th Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting corporate communication (conveying the value of Epson itself). In both cases, as an open, progressive company, Epson communicates through the mass media and directly to stakeholders to ensure the timely delivery of Dialogue with the Community information on our activities and initiatives, even if it is of a negative nature. ■ Dialogue with Local Residents Seiko Epson and Epson Group companies in Japan organize events to exchange ideas with the local residents Dialogue with Our Customers of the communities in which we operate. We strive to build a positive relationship of trust with the community ■ “Dear Mr. Epson” Column in Group Newsletter by cultivating a deeper understanding of our environmenIn each issue of the Epson Group newsletter Harmony, tal initiatives and risk management system. In ﬁscal 2012, the “Dear Mr. Epson” column introduces customers who we held such events at 9 business sites in Japan. use our products or people outside the Group who have some relationship to Epson, so that employees can hear what they have to say. Hearing customers in their own words raises the awareness of employees who create customer value but have few chances for actual contact with these people. In ﬁscal 2012, the column featured customers and business partners from China, Taiwan, and Singapore, as well as Japan. Community members observing efﬂuent treatment system (environmental risk communication at Shiojiri Plant) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 54 Prospering with the Community Dialogue with the Media Dialogue with Students ■ Keynote Speech at IFA 2012 ■ Brand Training In August 2012, president Minoru Usui gave the keynote Epson, working with Shinshu University, has developed speech in Berlin, Germany at IFA 2012, the world’s largand is implementing internal training to promote awareest trade show for consumer electronics and home appliness of increasing the value of the Epson brand through ances. The speech, entitled “Becoming an Indispensable the work of each employee. The year-long program helps Company in a Changing World,” was well received by members understand what a brand is and, through an the audience of more than 200 industry and mass media exercise-based format, they acquire basic processes and members. skills to incorporate into their work. Each year, Shinshu University students and mid-level employees from Epson take the course, engaging in group work. This helps stuDialogue with Suppliers dents learn what a corporate brand is and develops the ability to think and act to increase brand value. ■ Procurement Policy Explanatory Meetings It is important to ensure a suitable level of human By talking to students, employees get an objective view rights, labor standards, and environmental preservation of the Epson brand as the customer sees it, so for them throughout the supply chain. Our operations divisions the program is an and overseas production sites hold meetings periodically opportunity to attain to explain our business plans and procurement policies deep insight into what and to seek cooperation they need to do to in bringing them to fruibring better products tion. In this way, we try to market. to build strong, trusting Brand training relationships with suppliers by having them ■ Hosting Design Internships Procurement policy explanatory meeting take our objectives as for suppliers Each year we host design internships for students aspirtheir own. ing to be designers. The goal is to help them acquire knowledge and skills as working people and designers. Dialogue with Educators They get practical training built around a speciﬁc issue. Members present design ideas relating to the issue and ■ Instructional Training for Vocational High discuss it with each other. This teaches them the skills School Teachers and processes for drawing out better results on the Epson’s Monozukuri Juku gives practical training and ingiven issue. Although the term is short, the internship is struction to students and teachers in Nagano Prefecture. a chance for intense, educational communication with employees and students from other schools. At trainings for vocational high school teachers, we teach what enterprise expects of vocational high school students, the skills we want them to learn, and relationships between enterprise and school. Teachers tell us this gives them a concrete understanding of the type of student businesses are looking for, Students working on a particular issue and this is useful in their Instructional training for vocational high school teachers teaching. 55 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 Dialogue with Dealers and Distributors ■ Labor Union Labor-management conferences are held every month to ■ ECC Dealer and Distributor Convention facilitate communication between managers and emEpson (China) Co., Ltd. (ECC) invited 327 major dealers ployees at Seiko Epson. Informal meetings are also held and distributors to a convention just for them in March at the division and workplace level to provide a venue for 2013. bidirectional communication between employees and managers. Numerous committees, such as the health Attendees heard a recap of ﬁscal 2012 sales and Epson’s and safety committee and the working conditions comoutlook including ﬁscal 2013 sales strategy and new mittee, also provide opportunities to deepen mutual products and services. Products for the ﬁnancial industry, understanding. enterprises, government, and more were on display, and attendees received concrete sales tips targeting speciﬁc industries. Other Dialogue We also had attendees ﬁll out a questionnaire, from which ■ Monozukuri (Manufacturing) Museum we learned their challenges and their wishes from Epson. Our head ofﬁce’s Monozukuri Museum displays products In particular, they indicated that they wanted Epson to give developed, manufactured, and sold since Epson’s foundsupport for boosting sales to speciﬁc industries and ﬁelds. ing, including some pioneering items. Historical materials This was very useful information for future support efforts. are also on exhibit. Over 24,000 visitors from outside Epson have visited since the opening in May 2004. As one ECC is taking advantage visitor said, “I really of these valued opinions. got to understand It will continue to practice innovative techclose communication nologies and how with its sales channels quickly technology and offer valuable Epson advances.” products and services to customers. Display of products for ﬁnancial industry Monozukuri Museum ■ Photo contest Dialogue with Our Employees Epson holds various digital imaging contests to support the creative efforts of photographers and customers ■ Improving Workplace Communication across the globe. Below are a few such events. At Epson, each employee and workplace group strives to constantly go forward on our own initiative and work together to meet high standards, creating and maintain● Epson Photo Grand Prix 2012: ing a state of free and constructive communication for Epson Sales Japan Corp. that purpose. ● International Panorama Photo Contest 2012: Epson Australia Pty. Ltd. (EAL) We conduct a survey every year to gauge employee moti● Epson Color Imaging Contest 2012: vation and ability to produce results. Epson Taiwan Technology & Trading Ltd. (ETT) P.T. Epson Indonesia (EIN) Analysis of the results is done primarily by the management of each workplace and the situation is checked from time to time. Management selects and takes action on initiatives to maintain what is positive and improve whatever is negative. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 56 Worldwide Recognition / Reader Feedback Worldwide Recognition Here are some of the awards and accolades received by Epson in ﬁscal 2012. As of Apr 2013 Product and Service Awards Conferred by Recipient Date No. 1 in 2012 After-Sales Service Satisfaction, PC Economic & business magazine Nikkei Business Epson Direct Corporation Jul. 2012 Category (see p. 31 for details) No. 1 in 2012 Support Satisfaction, PC Category Personal computer magazine Nikkei Pasokon Epson Direct Corporation Aug. 2012 Gold in the Small to Medium Business Product of the Year Best in Biz Awards (US) WorkForce Pro C series printers Nov. 2012 2012 Nikkei Superior Products and Services Award for Nikkei Inc. Seiko Astron GPS solar watches Jan. 2013 Superiority (see p. 13 for details) EB-480/485Wi & EH-TW9100 projectors, TM-T88V-PT POS printer, TM-S9000MJ iF Product Design Award 2013 iF International Forum Design GmbH (Germany) series check scanners, ELPDC20 document Feb. 2013 imager, LW-700 label writer, DS-30 mobile scanner, XP series printers Inkjet all-in-one printers TIPA Award 2013: Best Multifunction Photo Printer Technical Image Press Association (TIPA) Epson Expression Photo XP-850, Epson Apr. 2013 Expression Photo XP-750 Environmental Awards B r o n ze Awa r d a t 2011 H o n g Ko n g Awa r d s fo r Hong Kong Environmental Campaign Committee Epson Hong Kong Ltd. May 2012 Environmental Excellence Shenzhen Pengcheng Waste Reduction Steering Excellent Enterprise in Waste Reduction Epson Engineering (Shenzhen) Ltd. Jun. 2012 Committee (China) China Environmental Labeling Contribution Award Chinese Ministry of Environmental Protection Epson (China) Co., Ltd. Jun. 2012 2012 China Recycled Resources Annual Investment China Material Recycling Association, China Epson (China) Co., Ltd. Jun. 2012 Contribution Award Financial News Service 2012 Minister of the Environment Award for Distinguished Ink Cartridge Homecoming Project (A joint Service in the Promotion of the 3Rs (reduce, reuse, and 3R Suishin Kyogikai p ro j e c t i n J a p a n b e t we e n s i x p r i n te r Oct. 2012 recycle) manufacturers and Japan Post Co., Ltd.) Environmental Award Indonesian Ministry of the Environment P.T. Epson Batam Feb. 2013 S h e n z h e n Wate r-S av i n g C i t y C o n s tr u c ti o n Leader in Water Reduction in Shenzhen Epson Engineering (Shenzhen) Ltd. Apr. 2013 Steering Group (China) Employee Awards Award for Excellence in Boiler Safety Management Boiler & Crane Safety Association Tohoku Epson Corporation Jun. 2012 Leader in Prevention of Occupational Injuries and Shenzhen Social Insurance Foundation Epson Engineering (Shenzhen) Ltd. Sep. 2012 Accidents in Shenzhen Management Department (China) President Award for an Excellent Company Employing Japan O rganization for Employment of the Epson Mizube Corporation Sep. 2012 Persons with Disabilities (see p. 42 for details) Elderly, Persons with Disabilities and Job Seekers Japanese Red Cross Society Silver Order of Merit Japanese Red Cross Society Miyazaki Epson Corporation Oct. 2012 Intellectual Property Awards Japan Patent Attorneys Association President’s Award Invention of High Brightness and Compact and Invention Implementation Achievement Award at Japan Institute of Invention and Innovation Jun. 2012 LCD Projector (Patent No. 3826950) 2012 National Commendation for Invention Higher Quality via Automatic Photographic Inventor’s Award at 2012 National Commendation for Japan Institute of Invention and Innovation Image Correction Technology (Patent No. Jun. 2012 Invention 3458855) Top 100 Global Innovator Award Thomson Reuters (US) Seiko Epson Corporation Dec. 2012 General CSR Awards The 9th China Outstanding Corporate Citizen Award, 21st Centur y Financial Repor t, 21st Centur y Epson (China) Co., Ltd. Dec. 2012 Award of the Most Environmentally Friendly Company Commercial Review (China) 2012 Award of Excellent Example of Corporate Social Gongyishibao (China) Epson (China) Co., Ltd. Dec. 2012 Responsibility ■ Inclusion in SRI Indices Epson is a component company of the following socially responsible investment (SRI) indices. FTSE4GoodGlobal Index May 2013 http://www.ftse.com/ftse4good/index.jsp 57 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 Reader Feedback Thank you for reading the Epson Sustainability Report 2013. Epson considers the Sustainability Report to be an important means of communicating with you, our stakeholders. In an effort to further improve our reporting and CSR activities, we ask that you take a few minutes to ﬁll out a survey at our website. We appreciate your cooperation. Questionnaire about Epson Sustainability Report 2013 https://cform.epson.jp/form5/pub/e042/sustainability Listening to Our Readers We would like to thank everyone who responded to last year’s survey. The results, compiled from responses provided by 592 people, are summarized below. ● General Stakeholders Poor Excellent Excellent Excellent 2% 64% Not good 65% Not good 65% Not good 5% 3% 2% Good Good Ease of Good Content Readability 32% 30% Understanding 32% ● Employees Poor Excellent Excellent Excellent 1% 10% Not good 11% Not good 12% Not good 9% 11% 11% Ease of Readability Content Understanding Good Good Good 78% 80% 77% Top Comments Main Improvements in Sustainability Report 2013 • The overall structure was simple and helpful in • We reduced the total volume while maintaining the understanding the report. On the other hand, I publication's original role as an annual activity report. thought the report was too long. • We described the potential of Epson's compact, • I'd like you to keep providing feature articles that energy-saving, and high-precision technologies, the inspire readers. core technologies that form our manufacturing platform. • The first half of the report seemed new and fresh, but the activity reports in the second half were old and • We have included a wide variety of articles in our stale. activity reports. • I liked the inclusion of Voice of the Customer articles within the feature articles. The design was excellent, with unity throughout. English website Japanese website Chinese website http://global.epson.com/SR/ http://www.epson.jp/SR/ http://www.epson.com.cn/aboutepson/report.html Epson Group Sustainability Report 2013 58 3-3-5 Owa, Suwa-shi, Nagano-ken Japan 392-8502 tel: +81-266-52-3131 http://global.epson.com
