The Dome, Level 4 Whiteleys Centre, 151 Queensway, London W2 4YN Salterbaxter Communications Limited Registered in England 3593800 T +44 (0)20 7229 5720 F +44 (0)20 7229 5721 www.salterbaxter.com Salterbaxter’s Com m unication on Progress UN Global Com pact 30 May 2013 This document is to be read alongside Salterbaxter’s online sustainability programme If Only… The If Only… programme presents an online record of the year and we are committed to annual progress reports against our targets. This is the seventh Communications on Progress (COP) submitted by Salterbaxter and will continue to be produced on a yearly basis. The If Only… programme describes the way Salterbaxter approaches sustainability, the activities it is involved in and recent performance in key areas. This document links key activities to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. We welcome all feedback and contact details can be found on the If Only… website http://sustainability.salterbaxter.com/ About Salterbaxter We are strategy, sustainability and creative communications advisers to Europe’s largest and most exciting organisations, committed to ‘making business better’. We help build long-term value for companies through five key disciplines: sustainability, digital communications, branding, corporate reporting and employee engagement. We are increasingly seen as one of Europe’s leading sustainability communications consultancies, with an unrivalled breadth and depth of experience across multiple sectors and countries. We offer a full range of corporate responsibility and sustainability communications services – from board level strategy consulting to the design, writing and delivery of printed and online communications. And everything in-between. Our clients are the leading corporations in multiple sectors across the whole of Europe. Currently there are 52 full-time employees. The company was founded in 1998 by Nigel Salter and Penny Baxter. Statement of support Operating responsibly has always been part of the fabric of Salterbaxter and its importance is just as strong as it was when we started the business over 15 years ago. And as the business grows it remains a fundamental part of the culture with all employees aware of, and taking part in, our sustainability programme. We launched the If Only… sustainability programme in July 2011 with a clear mission to use creative thinking to encourage positive living. The corporate responsibility work we do with our clients is where we can deliver most, but the way we run our own business must reinforce the corporate responsibility advice we give clients. We are active supporters of the UNGC and take part in the UK Network working groups for Communications and SME issues. Nigel Salter Penny Baxter Page no. 1 of 9 The UN Global Compact's ten principles and Salterbaxter Human Rights Principle 1 – Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 – Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Salterbaxter actions: • We support human rights and welcome the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights which were unanimously endorsed by the UN Human Rights Council in June 2011 (http://www.businesshumanrights.org/media/documents/ruggie/ruggie-guiding-principles-21-mar-2011.pdf ). • We assess our operational human rights impacts on a regular basis and believe we do not have significant adverse impacts at this time. Moving forward we will do this more systematically based on our existing systems and processes: to identify, prevent, mitigate and account for our actual and potential human rights impacts we will look at our country and industry contexts. Our bi-annual people survey will continue to be a key feature of our management system informing our internal human rights due diligence process. • Our main human rights challenges relate to the type of work we do and our industry. We seek to address these risks in a number of ways including through our management style, recruitment, internal communications, monitoring working hours through our online business operations system and managing working hours throughout the year to encourage a work/life balance and well-being (see People section for our targets and performance). • Equal opportunities for women in management and minorities is one of the key points for critique of the private sector that emerge when international organisations assess the human rights protection in the UK and Denmark where our offices are situated. We address this by being an equal opportunities employer and valuing diversity as an essential source of creativity, knowledge and network that enable us to deliver Ideas that Make Business Better, work cross-culturally and expand into new markets (see People section for more info on our policies). • Our main positive impacts are on rights such as the right to education, the right to safe and healthy working conditions and freedom of expression (through the way we run our business and the work environment we create together), and the right to an adequate standard of living (by appropriate remuneration and increasing number of jobs created). Labour Standards Principle 3 – Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 – Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 – Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 – Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Salterbaxter actions: • Salterbaxter employees are free to join a union should they wish. • We conduct annual reviews on performance and salary. • We operate an open and honest culture to discuss issues and have a grievance procedure. • We monitor working hours through our online business operations system and manage them throughout the year to encourage a work/life balance and well-being. • All permanent employees are on a contract that states their terms and conditions of employment and we have a staff handbook that explains their benefits along with all HR policies and procedures. • All permanent employees are entitled to take one day’s paid leave for volunteering each year. • We operate an equal opportunities policy. We do recognise that principles 3 6 are basic human rights also covered under principle 1, and our due diligence efforts are equally directed at principles 3 6 as 1 and 2. Environment Principle 7 – Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 – Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental challenges. Principle 9 – Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Page no. 2 of 9 Salterbaxter actions: • We engage all our employees on environmental and energy efficiency issues. • We are committed to identifying and minimising our environmental impacts and have conducted a review of our operations in line with ISO14001 thinking. • The biggest impact we have is through our supply chain and the production of printed materials for our clients. • We work hard to ensure we use the best printers and papers in order to keep that impact as low as possible. We work with printers to improve their environmental credentials. We review our performance and related issues on bi-annual basis. • We research the best papers for use in communications materials and advise clients on what to use. • We buy recycled and FSC paper for office use, and strive to recycle all paper used. • We recycle office waste as much as possible; this includes paper, cardboard, plastic and metals, IT equipment and printer toners. • We measure and strive to increase energy efficiency and we are signed up to a green electricity tariff. Anti-corruption Principle 10 – Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Salterbaxter actions: • We are committed to work against corruption and to work ethically at all times. • We only accept gifts of a modest nature and ensure they are distributed amongst all staff to prevent any undue influence developing with our client or supplier relationships. Our sustainability programme If Only... Salterbaxter has always had a vibrant sustainability programme within the business. It has evolved over the years and included a variety of activities ranging from promoting sustainability issues to young people, to tackling our own environmental impacts and developing deeper understanding of the areas in our supply chain we could improve. In mid 2011 we relaunched our sustainability programme under the If Only... name as a more focused programme where everybody may take part in and engage with our sustainability efforts. The If Only... programme reflects our ambition to actively tackle the sustainability challenges that matter most to us. If Only... was devised in a series of internal workshops and launched in a full-day event where everybody was involved. People from across the company got together to share ideas. Out of this thinking our mission was developed: To use creative thinking to encourage positive living. We will work together to solve the sustainability challenges that matter to us. We are committed to spread the word and in the future we will open events up to clients and partners. We also want to highlight current issues in sustainability, both for clients and industry knowledge. As part of our knowledge programme we continue to produce our annual and quarterly publication Directions, and conduct individual research projects. These are all made available via our website. We participate in industry-related webinars and podcasts. We are signatories to the UN Global Compact and active members of the UK Network. PEOPLE Our approach We rely on the talent and dedication of our great people. We engage them on issues that we care deeply about, that connect to our work and to our daily lives. We want to know what our people care about and give them the space in which to share this passion and innovate solutions. We nurture this by promoting a culture of openness and mutual respect. Ideas are never stifled by seniority, hierarchy or peer pressure. Everyone’s voice counts. Engaging our employees Our If Only… programme is focused on engaging our employees on sustainability challenges. It is a way for us to share and collaborate, apply creative thinking and propose practical solutions to the sustainability challenges we face on a daily basis and that we all care about. In 2012 we invested £145K worth of time into the If Only… programme in total and £60K in our Innovation Day alone. Page no. 3 of 9 Innovation Day – creating value for three social enterprises We worked with Active Minds, Bath Soup Company, and Oomph!, inviting them into the studio for the day and working to find solutions to the brand, communication and marketing challenges they face. The outcome of the day was an amazing body of work produced for the three social entrepreneurs and relationships that continued past the Innovation Day. Some people used their volunteering day to continue to work on projects with these social enterprises. Impressively, all the enterprises took away elements which they could put into practice the next day as well as others that would take longer to get up and running. Social enterprises embody the spirit of If Only… and we are committed to give our time and skills in 2013 to deliver £70K worth of value to social business through another Innovation Day. In 2012, the If Only… programme has been focused around four quarterly themes: Meat Free Monday, Travel, Digital Innovation and Volunteering. We have also had a number of in-house initiatives that are focused around last year’s ‘10% less’ environmental targets. Q1: Meat Free Monday The first theme, Meat Free Monday, was about more than just abstaining from meat for one day. We were aiming to raise awareness and educate on food as a sustainability issue. This included a veggie recipe blog, a film screening of Food Inc, promoting Fairtrade fortnight, reviewing our weekly shopping list to ensure that we support Fairtrade, organic and local produce, a Hilda versus Hovis debate, and veggie bake offs. Meat Free Monday has continued in the office so that client meetings remain meat free and our weekly shopping continues to be more sustainable. We took a survey before and after the quarter and it indicated that people were eating less meat and were much more mindful when consuming. Q2: Travel Travel in Q2 focused on the impacts of getting from A to B on a personal and global scale. We set team challenges focused on our commutes to encourage greener commuting on foot or by bike. We take part in a bike to work scheme and this is continuing into 2013. Travel tied into health and well-being with exercise challenges including taking the stairs to the office rather than the lift. Our keen cyclists also held Tuesday Travel lunchtime sessions where they shared their knowledge about cycling in London and simple bike repairs. We also discussed some of the challenges around movement in the context of our clients. Q3: Digital Innovation Digital is changing the way that we do everything; new innovations are inspiring us and shaping how we live our lives. We are all digital at work and at home so we all had something to share and learn on this theme. Our Digital Innovation theme for Q3 focused on weekly knowledge shares covering new apps, social media channels, blogging, etc. Q4: Volunteering The final theme for 2012 was Volunteering. We have been working with the London Orchard Project, an initiative promoting orchards and fruit trees in London, and inviting our employees to take their paid volunteering day. We didn’t meet our 100% target for 2012 so we kept the same target for 2013. 2013 Aims and objectives Awareness and behaviour change: In 2013 we are again having quarterly themes through which we can engage our people and we will be taking some of our initiatives into the broader community. We are using cross-disciplinary teams and will be incorporating a competitive element to get people to feel invested in their team’s success. Kicking off 2013 is the Sustainable Fashion team with Eco Fashion Fridays. Fundraising: For 2013 we are also setting an ambitious fundraising target of £10K (in 2012 we raised £1103). Charitable fundraising is different to the value we give to social business on our Innovation Day and the charities we will be supporting are ones that are close to our hearts. This target will require us to reach out to our community as we raise awareness of our actions. Students and interns: We are also setting new targets for the number of interns and student placements. In 2012 we had interns working in different teams (Sustainability, Design, New Business) and we want to build on this in the coming year. We had a strong tradition of student placements in the past, which we want to return to. Job satisfaction: This year we have set a new staff turnover target of 14%. We aim to be an employer of choice and to attract and retain the best talent. We want our employees to be inspired to work here and have set a target for this of 85%, measured through our People Survey. Page no. 4 of 9 Our targets: Our other targets continue to include employee average working hours and training. We have set consistent targets for these and although our formal training time target has decreased, we have increased our informal training target so there is no net loss in training time per employee. This also reflects our understanding of the kind of training that is required within the business and how this can be provided in-house. KPI 2012 Target/Action 2012 Achievement 2013 Target/Action If Only… value Value of time invested in If If Only… programme Only… £145K delivers £70K worth of Value of time invested in value to social businesses Innovation Day £60K Salterbaxter influence Change the behaviour of 4 other businesses Employees are inspired to (New for 2013) 79.4% 85% work at SB Average working day hours 8.5 8.7 8.5 Staff formal training (days) 1.0 0.71 0.5 Staff informal training 2.0 2.35 2.5 (days) Participation in the SB If 2.0 3.94 2.0 Only… programme Volunteering days 1 0.1 1 Number of student 7 0 4 placements Number of interns (New for 2013) 3 4 Staff turnover (national (New for 2013) 17% 14% average 15%) Charitable fundraising (New for 2013) £1103 £10,000 Other social indicators: We also collect a number of other indicators to get a sense of trends that are shaping our business and working environment. We have not set targets for these indicators as they are largely outside our control, but some are influenced by our working environment and corporate culture. As we continue to grow our business, tracking these indicators continues to be important to us as they show the shape of our workforce. Social Indicator Company Data Average number of full-time employees 42.5 Average number of freelance staff 15.7 Average sick days per person 2.71 Average age 37.3 Average length of service (years) 2.60 Staff gender ratio M/F 42:58 People Survey Our People Survey is conducted every six months and is part of our commitment to a transparent, fair, and inspiring working environment. We operate in a very dynamic workplace, we are growing fast and every opinion is important. We believe that the information we receive via the survey is a critical part of understanding what works well and not so well. We feed back to the company the results of our People Survey at our regular company meetings. The People Survey helps to inform management decisions, how we conduct appraisals, our culture, where we can improve and how we can be better. The survey is anonymous and features 30 questions: 26 are multiple choices on a 5-point scale, and 4 are open questions providing the opportunity for feedback and suggestions. It is not designed to replace our open and transparent day-to-day communication, nor our appraisal process, but its anonymous nature does give it a unique role. The six-monthly survey cycle allows us to gauge trends throughout the year and to develop potential improvements on time. Page no. 5 of 9 We want our employees to feel inspired to work at Salterbaxter. Some of the questions in the survey are specifically developed to track this and we have set ourselves an ambitious target of achieving an 85% total satisfaction level in these particular indicators. Equal Opportunities Policy Salterbaxter Communications Limited is an equal opportunities employer. This means that it is the company's policy to make every effort to ensure that there is no discrimination or harassment on the grounds of colour, race, nationality, religion or belief, ethnic origin, disability, age, gender, marital status or sexual orientation, their parental responsibilities, part-time or fixed-term status, in the way that the company treats its employees, job applicants, clients, contractors and visitors. Bullying is a form of harassment and this policy covers bullying. In issuing this policy the company has three main objectives: First, to encourage its employees to take an active role against all forms of bullying harassment and discrimination; second, to deter employees from participating in bullying, harassment or discriminatory behaviour; and third, to demonstrate to all employees that they can rely upon the company's support in cases of bullying, harassment or discrimination at work. The company is committed to a working environment that offers equal treatment and equal opportunities for all its employees, so that every employee is able to progress to their true potential. Even after employment has ended, the company is committed to ensuring that discrimination does not occur. This policy applies to all aspects of the company's working practices and therefore applies to the recruitment and selection of employees, terms and conditions of employment, training, salary, work allocation, promotion and disciplinary and grievance procedures. The company's recruitment, selection, promotion procedures and general policies and practices will be periodically reviewed to ensure that this equal opportunities policy is being implemented. All employees are required to follow and implement the company's equal opportunities policy and, if necessary, undergo any training and development activities to ensure that they can carry out their duties and responsibilities in terms of promoting, developing, implementing and reviewing the policy arrangements in the course of their work. Health & Safety Policy Health and safety information for all employees of Salterbaxter is supplied in the staff handbook, which is available to all employees at all times for ease of reference. Health and safety information relates to Salterbaxter’s office in Bayswater: The Dome, Level 4 Whiteleys Centre, 151 Queensway, London W2 4YN. We want our employees to be as safe as possible in our working environment. We require all employees to follow these guidelines at all times. Accidents If an accident of any description happens at work (either on or offsite), employees must report it to the Office Manager and it must be recorded in the Accident Book. A first aid box is available at all times. If an accident is of a serious nature, the Office Manager must be informed immediately. First aid The Office Manager has first aid training and will be on hand to assist with any immediate issues. Emergencies An evacuation procedure in the event of an emergency or fire is detailed in the staff handbook. All employees must evacuate the building immediately via the fire exits and dial 999 to call the relevant Emergency Service. Fire Exit doors must remain free from obstruction at all times and employees cannot return to the building until given the all clear by the Emergency Services or someone in authority. Fire Fire extinguishers are located throughout the working environment including CO2 extinguishers for an electrical fire. Employees should leave the building in the event of a fire as soon a possible and only use fire extinguishers if they have the relevant training. Page no. 6 of 9 Hazards Smoking is forbidden anywhere in the office. Scalpel blades are kept in a single safe place and disposed of safely. It is the responsibility of all employees to ensure that they are stored and disposed of safely at all times. All flammable substances and solvents, e.g. Spray Mount, Display Mount, Lighter Fluid, Spray Paint are stored in one area marked Flammables. These must always be stored away immediately after use for safety. Clear Desk Policy Desks should be kept as clear as possible during the working day. At the end of each working day, the desk surface should, ideally, be clear. ENVIRONMENT Our approach As a strategy and communications consultancy, our impact on the environment from our own operations is relatively low. But the expectations of the global community are clear: climate change is a cross-industry issue and all industries must respond to the challenge. The sustainability work we do with our clients is where we can deliver most, but the way we run our own business must reinforce the sustainability advice we give clients. As the majority of our impacts are in the supply chain, we aim to encourage our clients and our suppliers to run their operations in a more sustainable and responsible manner. For example, advising our clients on printing processes, materials and papers that can minimise environmental impacts. As part of our belief that we can help companies to better manage their environmental impact, we demonstrate our commitment through active participation and reporting to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), as well as our reporting on the website. The two documents together form Salterbaxter’s Communication on Progress. In October 2011, we moved to larger premises and continued to grow as a company. We felt there was a need to reevaluate our Sustainability Programme because of our growing impact. As a result, we launched a new approach to environmental management. We reviewed our own operations in line with ISO 14001 thinking and identified key areas where we believe we have the biggest impact. Targets for these areas were allocated appropriately and we started reporting on a six-monthly basis. For our 2012 reporting, we revisited our previous approach and concluded that from a data gathering perspective and in order to align reporting with other internal activities, we will move towards an annual reporting process. The report we present here covers the whole of 2012. While we realise there may be a slight overlap of the data reported last year, we also would like to ensure a smooth transition towards annual reporting. As this marks the first full year at our new premises, 2012 will be our baseline year for reporting and tracking targets; from 2013 we will be able to give comparable data. Our performance Paper Progress in 2012: Our paper usage remains one of our greatest impacts and concerns. We managed to beat our 10% less paper purchased per employee target to have a total reduction of 27.2% in 2012. We recycle all waste paper. Next steps in 2013: Although all our paper is FSC and/or recycled in origin, we should be using less of it so have again set ourselves the target of reducing our paper purchased by another 10%. Waste Progress in 2012: We were within 1% of our 2012 target for general waste per person – a fantastic improvement. It shows that our targets are realistic and achievable but will require a stretch. In 2012 we had our recycling separately collected by First Mile and general waste only was collected by our landlord and sent to a Materials Recovery Facility (MRF). In 2012, the average waste to MRF was 30.7kg per person. From the total general waste that our landlord sends to MRF, we believe that upwards off 90% is reclaimed for recycling, reuse or turned into fuel. Due to a change of supplier mid-year we are continuing to work with our landlord to ensure that waste collection within our office building is as effective as possible. Page no. 7 of 9 Employee initiatives around this topic included Zero Waste Wednesday focusing on the amount of waste we produce daily, and how we can all reduce our impact. We also ran a special Secret Santa ‘Make, bake, create’ competition creating the opportunity to talk about the connection between waste and consumerism. Next steps in 2013: Our target for 2013 is to reduce our waste to MRF by 10% per person. However, we are aware that this target may change as we have begun working with the management team at Whiteley’s Shopping Centre, where our offices are located, to better understand the waste collection process and their own targets and achievements. If we feel confident that our waste, including recycling, would be suitably sorted and a significantly small proportion went to landfill, we may choose to use their system rather than our own. Electricity Progress in 2012: Our first full year in our new offices and our growth as a company has seen an increase in our electricity consumption. In 2012 we used an average of 2,758 kWh per employee. The main sources of our electricity consumption are heating, lighting, and office equipment. However, as our office is Grade II listed there are difficulties in making the building more energy efficient. While investigations into how we can make it more efficient are ongoing, we are focusing on what we can impact. We run an ongoing Switch it off campaign in the office, reminding people to switch off their computers, lights and air conditioning at the end of the day. This serves as a reminder that we all need to be more mindful of how we are using our equipment and lighting if we are to achieve our target. Next steps in 2013: We have set a target of 10% less usage per person in 2013. As our ability to impact our electricity consumption is limited due to the nature of the building, so this is likely to be very ambitious. Encouraging behaviour change through the Switch it off campaign will be key to us making a difference where we can. Carbon offsetting and travel Progress in 2012: We offset our carbon at source for the majority of our services and activities. We try to limit our impact as much as possible and then offset that which is essential. Our main printers are carbon neutral. For business transport, public transport is the first choice, with taxis that offset at source, second. We are an international business but aim to keep flights to a minimum and where possible prefer to opt for travel by train. In 2012, our use of couriers and bikes has remained fairly constant rather than growing at the same rate as our business, suggesting that more documents are being sent electronically rather than being physically sent to clients. Next steps in 2013: Travel continues to be one of our biggest contributors to our carbon emissions. We are investigating alternatives to physically travelling such as video conferencing. As we have clients outside of the UK as well as an office in Copenhagen, some international travel will always be necessary but we try to provide alternatives and keep the number of face-to-face meetings to a minimum without damaging our client relationships. We are reviewing how most effectively to offset our carbon emissions in partnership with Climate Care. Recycling Progress in 2012: At Salterbaxter we recycle as much as possible but we always strive to do better. We want to be able to trace where our waste is going and minimise our waste to landfill so currently our recycling is collected separately to our general waste rather than allowing the MRF to sort and reclaim our recycling. 2012 saw 98.8kg of recycling per person. The recycling includes waste electrical and toner/xyrons, lightbulbs as well as glass, plastic, cans, and paper. Copying and printing concerns mean that 100% of toner and ink cartridges are disposed of appropriately and recycled. Next steps in 2013: We have set a target to reduce our general waste by 10% so this may see our recycling increase over the next year. We will continue to recycle appropriately 100% of printing and electrical waste. ‘Use less’ will remain an important behaviour change campaign message internally. Our targets: KPI 2012 Baseline 2013 Target Paper purchased per 32.9 29.6 (10% less) employee kg Waste per person kg (to 30.7 27.6 (10% less) MRF) Electricity kWh per 2,757 2481.3 (10% less) employee Page no. 8 of 9 Environmental Policy Salterbaxter is committed to managing and reducing its environmental impacts. The biggest impact we have on the environment is through our supply chain and how we place print work with printers on behalf of our clients. Regarding our own operations, we monitor and manage other impacts of our office operations including paper use, energy use, and waste. Our targets can be reviewed on the If Only… website. Below we describe our paper and print policy. Paper Policy Our main paper suppliers comply with all environmental, legal and other requirements that apply to their activities, products and services. They make available a choice of recycled products as well as those originating from certified well-managed sources or operating accredited environmental management systems. Where possible a Chain Of Custody is implemented so paper products can be traced back to source. All suppliers are FSC/PEFC certified and this can be included on all printed materials as required. We are also looking into carbon neutral papers. All paper specified for our major reporting projects (annual reports, CSR reports, corporate brochures) and any major print components of large branding projects must adhere to the following as a minimum: • BE ECF (ELEMENTAL CHLORINE FREE) OR TCF (TOTAL CHLORINE FREE) • BE FSC OR PEFC ACCREDITED AND/OR RECYCLED WITH A MINIMUM OF 20% POST-CONSUMER WASTE • ANY VIRGIN PULP MUST BE SOURCED FROM SUSTAINABLY MANAGED FORESTS • THE MILLS WHICH PRODUCE THE PAPER SHOULD HAVE ISO 14001 ACCREDITATION Print Procurement Policy Where we have the buying decision, we aim to place the majority of our print with suppliers who are managing their environmental impacts in a progressive and transparent way. The proportion of print we assess is around 80% of our total and consists of all major reporting projects (annual reports, CR reports, corporate brochures) and any major print components of large branding projects. The process is managed through our key suppliers. We aim to place 100% of our print with suppliers who adhere to the following: • Have strong environmental credentials and commitment to innovation to constantly help clients to reduce their environmental footprint. • Demonstrate a robust waste management process achieving high rate of waste recycling (>80%). • Possess environmental accreditations: ISO 14001, EMAS, FSC and/or PEFC • Have achieved carbon neutral status. • Guarantee that printing inks are made from vegetable-based oils. • Make use of renewable energy sources. • Do not use IPA as part of the printing process or are keeping IPA emissions below 10%. The remaining 20% of our print total for smaller projects and other one-off items will be reviewed on a project-byproject basis. We need some flexibility in this area as the practicalities of finishing and production/capacity may mean placing the work with other specialists in the industry. Where we do not have the final buying decision we will always advise clients to follow these guidelines and will record where they are not able to do so. ISO 14001 is a key part of our criteria and although we understand the limitations of this system, we still feel it is a useful assurance process by which we can assess a printer’s commitment to environmental management. We may also consider other suppliers if their activities are transparent enough for us to assess without the ISO programme. Page no. 9 of 9
