New eyes for industry H1 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 TAMRON CSR Report 2013 Table of Contents Table of Contents, Company Outline… ………………… 1 Tamron’s CSR Management… …………………………… 2 Editorial Policy (1)This report was issued to keep our stakeholders including Message from the President………………………………… 3 customers, employees, shareholders, investors, business partners, local communities, public institutions, NGOs and Participation in the UN Global Compact………………… 4 NPOs of our activities for protecting the environment and discharging our social responsibilities. Feature Article：What Tamron Can Do Through Photography… … 5 (2)This reports covers activities at all the Tamron Group Relationships with Customers……………………………… 7 including Tamron Co., Ltd., Tamron Optical (Foshan) Co., Ltd., and overseas sales subsidiary companies (except for some Relationships with Business Partners… ……………… 10 information on environment data and so on). (3)Guidelines mainly referred in compiling this report: Relationships with Employees…………………………… 11 Environmental Report Guidelines, Ministry of the Environment (2012 version) Relationships with Shareholders and Investors……… 13 Greenhouse Effect Gas Measuring & Reporting Manual Version 3.3 (Version 2.4 2009 on emission coefficient factors). Management System… …………………………………… 14 Environmental Accounting Guidelines, Ministry of the Environment (2005 version). Relationships with the Environment…………………… 15 (4)We also referred to GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Environmental Objectives and Targets Achieved…… 17 and ISO 26000:2010 Manual on Business Entities’ Social Responsibility in extracting the needs for disclosing information Reducing CO₂ Emissions and Energy Consumption…… 18 to our stakeholders. (5)We worked on information disclosure sharing our perspectives Reducing Waste and Water Consumption…………… 19 with our stakeholders, by referring to the warranty processes in the AA1000 Warranty Standard. Relationships with Society……………………………… 20 (6)We selected the cover design to express our corporate attitude attempting to contribute to the environment of the Activities at Subsidiary Companies Overseas… …… 21 earth and the harmony with all stakeholders through lenses. Independent Third Party Opinion… …………………… 22 Company Profile 1 Trade Name : Tamron Co., Ltd. Head Office : 1385 Hasunuma, Minuma-ku, Saitama-shi, Saitama, Japan TEL : 048-684-9111 Founded : November 1, 1950 Incorporated : October 27, 1952 Capital : 6.923 billion yen President & CEO : Morio Ono Head Office (Saitama City, Saitama Prefecture) Employees : 2,295 (consolidated, excluding 3,843 temporary employees) 《Net Sales in the Recent Five Years》 Net Sales : 64.353 billion yen (consolidated, as of December 31, 2012) （Billion yen） Consolidated Listed : 1st Section, Tokyo Stock Exchange 70 64.3 62.5 60 56.6 58.5 Domestic Factories : One each in Hirosaki, Namioka and Owani in Aomori 49.8 50 Consolidated Subsidiaries : U.S.A., Germany, France, Hong Kong, China 40 (Shanghai, Foshan), Russia, Vietnam 30 20 Outlines of Business Operations 10 0 Commercial/ 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 industrial optics 14.2% 《Employees》 （person） Consolidated (regular employees) Component 12.9% 8,000 355 Consolidated (temporary employees) optics 7,000 406 572 450 3,843 6,000 Sales composition ratios 5,000 by business segment 4,000 7,198 6,005 (2012, consolidated) 3,000 5,571 5,472 2,000 2,295 1,000 0 Photographic 72.9% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 1 lenses 1. The sharp increase of the number of temporary employees in 2012 is due to changes Tamron Optical (Foshan) Co., Ltd introduced in its employee hiring pattern. TAMRON CSR Report 2013 Tamron's CSR Management For Enhancing Corporate Value Twelve Themes for Enhancing CSR Management Tamron's CSR management is conducted under our We have been working on our business operations basic corporate philosophy of contributing to the under twelve themes established for being a economy, society and environment by supplying company acknowledged by stakeholders. Through customers with quality products that serve as eyes for addressing these themes for CSR management, we industry. Our basic corporate philosophy advocates are discharging our responsibilities to contribute to performing all of our primary business operations economy, society and the environment, for being a based on The Action Declarations defining the stance company our customers select as a reliable supplier, the company should take toward stakeholders in other words, to be a company having power to be divided into five categories of “customers”, selected by customers1. “employees”, “shareholders”, “business partners” and “society”, and The Action Codes showing how all 1. This is one of our corporate objectives, a factor showing power to be selected and supported by customers. Tamron employees should act while dialoguing with our stakeholders, for conducting CSR management. Twelve Themes Association table Twelve Themes Relevant page The Action Declarations of Tamron ●From the customer perspective Compliance P13、16 Recognizing that customer satisfaction is of the highest importance, we will contribute to society by supplying Corporate Governance P13 safe,high-quality original products and services. Risk Management P14 ●From the employee perspective Environment P9、10、15 〜 19 In order to become self-reliant, each employee at Tamron works with a spirit of challenging diﬃculties, Information disclosure P13 maintains good communications with fellow workers for Quality Products/Safety P7 〜 9 creating a lively work environment, and strives to yield the best possible results at all times while observing the Occupational Safety & Health P11 〜 12 laws and regulations. Each and every employee at Tamron respects human Employment/Human Resources P11 〜 12 rights to support a good society as a good corporate 2 Human Rights P10、P11 〜 12 citizen. Social Contribution P5 〜 6、20 ●From the shareholders/investor perspective All of us working at Tamron strive to enhance Tamron s Information Security P13 corporate value through faithful management , maintain Private Information Protection P13 good communications with our stakeholders, and work on enhancing stakeholder conﬁdence to be a company worthy of stable investments. ●From the business partner perspective All of us working at Tamron observe the laws and regulations, aiming to establish relationships that ensure receiving a supply of quality materials and services from Power to be selected Corporate Value our partners through trans parent transactions, working to grow and contribute to society together with our Responsibility to Contribute to partners. Information disclosure ●From the society perspective Social Maintaining good communications with local communities, Contribution we will strive to contribute to their growth while Environment upholding their tradition and culture as a good corporate citizen. Quality Products/ Safety We will observe the laws and regulations, aiming at Employment/ Social and Environmental Issues Human Resources earning conﬁdence from society as a good corporate Occupational citizen. Safety & Health We will be up against all social anti-society forces and Private Information Protection organizations that pose threats to the public order and safety of our civil society. Information Security We will work hard in NGO and NPO projects to Human Rights establish a good society. Risk Management Compl ianc e Society Environment CSR Committee Corporate Governance Our CSR Committee meets monthly to closely watch Economy the progress of activities for pursuing the twelve themes. The committee is an organization under the direct command of our president. Economic Responsibility Representatives from all divisions at the headoffice and factories at home and abroad meet monthly through videoconferencing. Twelve Themes for Enhancing CSR Management TAMRON CSR Report 2013 Message from the President Contribution to Photographic and Imaging Culture Looking back on 2012, the year obliged us to muse on future anxieties from natural disasters at home and abroad, terror activities abroad and the European debt crisis. Under such circumstances, we continued to work on contributing to developing photographic and imaging culture as a photographic lens maker. We co-sponsored a photographic exhibition“Ikiru “We ( survive” ) – Post Tsunami”JPS (Japan Professional Photographers Society held to introduce pictures taken during the first year after the earthquake and tsunami that hit the Northeast of Japan on March 11, 2011. Also, to pass on the lessons learned from the disaster to the next generation not only at home but also abroad, we co-sponsored the same exhibition JPS held at the Photokina in Germany. Further more, we hosted the Railroad Scenery Photo Contest again in 2011 to contribute to revitalizing photographic culture as a company with our head office in Omiya, as well as our Macro Lens Photo Contest 2012 open to all macro photo photographers. For Global CSR Management We have continued to work had on practicing CSR management at home and abroad under our corporate philosophy of“Contributing to Society by Creating New Eyes for Industry”. In 2012, as for our environment objectives, we reduced our group CO₂ emissions by 6.2% compared to 2009 in basic unit on sales. In 2013, we will continue to work on reducing our CO₂ emissions by one percentage point annually on an average compared to 2012 so that we may reduce our group total CO₂ emissions by least seven percentage points by 2020 compared to 2012. Also, as part of our risk management program, we reviewed our BCP (Business Continuity Plan), refining risk management systems at our domestic factories. We also continued to promote product designs friendly to the environment, ensuring 3 compliance with related laws at home and abroad while pursuing CSR procurement by paying attention to mineral resource problems. Furthermore, we continued to work on pursuing DfE (Designs for Environment), successfully reducing the weight of our photographic interchangeable lenses by 7% on an average compared to 2011 and the cubic capacity by 8% . In order to be supported by customers, it is important to continuously work on improving our after-service system. In 2012, we established our global system to complete repair work within three days at all repair service facilities all over the world. In 2013 and beyond, we will continue to work on becoming a first-class lens maker capable of living up to expectations of customers all over the world in every aspect. President & CEO Tamron Co.,Ltd Management Always Values Employees Morio Ono At Tamron, we believe that our employees become possible to live up to customer needs and make social contribution as we pursue management that always values employees. We also know that respecting diversity is important in the era of expanding globalization. From this standpoint, we plan to improve our work environment to be more comfortable to women employees, while expanding the ratio of managerial-level women employees. To that end, we plan to study a program for establishing our own in-house nursery centers in the future. Supporting the United Nations Global Compact We established a sales subsidiary company in Russia in 2012 and plan to build a factory in Vietnam in 2013. In pursuing globalization in this way, we have continued to support the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact Initiative that serves as the basic code of conduct for all global companies, reflecting them on our Action Declarations. Also, we hired natives as supervisory employees of those subsidiaries to promote CSR management in line with the local conditions. In 2013 and beyond, we plan to strengthen our consciousness of human rights as we believe it will become more important in pursuing further globalization. In compiling this CSR Report, Ｗ Ｅ focused on communicating with our stakeholders. We would greatly appreciate your comments and suggestions for how we can further improve our CSR management. TAMRON CSR Report 2013 Participation in the UN Global Compact Tamron operates around the world, including a production base in China and subsidiary sales companies in Europe and America. Agreeing to the Global Compact（GC）, the international initiative proposed by the United Nations to support the Ten Principles related to human rights, labor, environmental protection and preventing corruption, Tamron became a supporter of the initiative in August 2007. The Ten GC Principles became pillars for establishing our CSR promotion structure. We will continue to conduct our business following The Ten Principles, fulfilling our social responsibility. For further details on the initiative, please visit the United Nation website at WEB WEB http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ COP Report（Communication on Progress） The following table describes our accomplishments and work at Tamron during 2012 in line with the Ten Principles. Principle Tamron’s Policies Actions Taken, Accomplishments in 2012 Page ① Business should support and espec ttheprotection ・We advocated support of basic human Human Rights P2 of internationally proclaimed rights in our Action Declarations. ・Established and adopted human rights Human Rights Protection & Labor Standard Management ・We declared respect for human rights and abolishment Regulations at our domestic ② Business should ensure that bases and Chinese factory. of discrimination in our Compliance Regulations. P11 〜 they are not complicit in ・We Established Human Rights Protection &Labor P12 human rights abuses Standard Management Regulations. ・ C o n d u c t e d internal hearing 4 surveys on CSR activities, based ・Periodically provided opportunities on EICC’s Code to discuss labor-management ③ Business should uphold the ・We declared respecting the right of o f C o n d u c t 1 . issues at times including joint freedom of association and our employees to organize (in our (Interviews with management council meetings P12 the effective recognition of the m a n a g e r i a l labor organization memorandum). and annual plan rollout meetings. right to collective bargaining employees at the ・Held social gatherings of the President head office, three and woman employees. Aomori factories ・We stipulated the importance of complying ④ Business should support the and Tamron with labor-related laws and regulations and ・Specified all business days as“No P11〜 elimination of all forms of Optical (Foshan). Labour maintaining a proper work environment for our overtime work days”(Head Office) P12 forced and compulsory labour For further detail, employees (in our Compliance Regulations). please refer to Page 10 of this ・Established a manual to check ⑤ Business should support ・We declared that we do not use child labor. report. age of applicants at time of the effective abolition of (We do not employ any workers under age P10 employment (Factory in China, child labour 15,which is stipulated in our employment rules.) ・ P r o v i d e d o u r hereinafter called“TOF” ) employees with ・We declared our targets for employing an opportunity ・Achieved challenged person ⑥B  usiness should support the physically challenged persons and our to learn more employment and female manager elimination of discrimination P11〜 policy to increase the ratio of female about the 12 promotion rate targets. in respect of employment and P12 managers in order to realize a diversified C S R T h e m e s ・Ratio of taking newbornbaby care occupation work place. (Held once to 86 leave: 100% employees) ・We declared our policy in our consolidated ・Incidences connected to contact with management policy to prevent environmental 1 . E I C C s t a n d s f o r Electronic Industry harmful chemical substances: Zero P9〜 deterioration through work such as the following: ⑦B  usiness should support a Citizenship Coalition. ・Provided an educational course on P10 (1)Reducing CO₂ emissions. preca utionary approach to It established the biodiversity (Once at Head Office to 49 (2)Reducing industrial waste. environmental challenges employees) P16〜 Environment (3)Finding alternative materials to harmful chemical Code of Conduct t o e n s u r e w o r k e r ・Participated in actions to protect local P20 substances. safety, fairness, ecological systems (Head Office) (4)Keeping biodiversity intact. ⑧ Business Should undertake environmental ・We declared our policy to clearly establish responsibility and initiatives to promote ・Reduced CO₂ emissions by 6.2 % , compared to our environment objectives and targets for business efficiency at greater environmental 2008 in basic unit per sales thefollowing: member companies responsibility ・Achieved waste emission reduction targets. P17〜 (1)Reducing CO₂ emissions in the electronic ⑨ Business should encourage ・Reduced product weight by 7% on an average. P19 (2)Reducing industrial waste emissions to industry. the development and diffusion ・Reduced product cubit capacity by 8% on ultimately achieve zero emissions of environmentally an average. (3)Promoting environmentally-friendly designs friendly technologies Anti-Corruption ⑩ B u s i n e s s e s s h o u l d w o r k ・We declared our policy to regulate acts of ・The Compliance Promotion Committee against corruption in all its endowment and political donations and held workshops for employees to learn P13 forms,including extortion terminate ties with anti-social forces in our more about compliance. and bribery Compliance Regulations and Action Declarations. TAMRON CSR Report 2013 Feature What Tamron Can Do Article F E AT U R E Through Photography As a photographic lens maker, Tamron supports activities to develop photographic and imaging culture for contributing to society through photography. 5 “Ikiru”– Post–Tsunami―Exhibition” Photo Masakazu Ikeda (JPS member) Tamron co-sponsored “Ikiru” (“We survive”) – ◎ Outlines of“Ikiru” – Post–Tsunami― Exhibition Post– Tsunami― Exhibition JPS (Japan Professional Period：From September 18 through 23, 2012 Photographers Society) held at Photokina from September 18 through 23 in Cologne, Germany to Venue：JPS booth at Photokina, Cologne, Germany introduce pictures taken during the first year after Host：JPS (Japan Professional Photographers Society) the earthquake and tsunami that hit the Northeast of Japan on March 11, 2011 as we thought it was Co-sponsor：Tamron Co., Ltd. important to let people all over the world know every day affairs and the state of progress of recovery in the JPS is a public interest incorporated association. disaster-hit areas. A number of people visited JPS’ JPS exhibited 116 selected images taken by 73 s booth during the exhibition period, leaving many professional photographers. messages reading, for example,“We were deeply impressed to see everyday affairs of people who are working hardily on reconstruction overcoming deep grief”. We will continue to work on contributing to society on a global basis through photography. TAMRON CSR Report 2013 The 5th Railroad Scenery Photo Contest contribute to revitalizing our local community and developing photographic culture as a company with our head office, a city known as The Railroad Town. We held a photo exhibition and showed the award winning photos at Omiya Sogo Department Store, working together with Saitama City, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Saitama City and the Educational Commission of Saitama City to make the exhibition an event rooted in the local community. Along with the newly established prize”Vehicle Body Photo Award”,”The 5th Railroad Scenery Photo Contest we held in 2012 was open to all from photo enthusiasts to photographers in general. We received 6,211 works altogether, up 9% from 2011, from photographers ranging from entry-level to Grand Prize (For Adults; Saitama City Mayor Prize) advanced amateurs and railroad photo enthusiasts. “Before dawn”, by Toshiyuki Nakano “I shot this scene at a 1/3-second shutter speed. I am surprised to see WEB http://www.tamron.co.jp/special/train2012/result.html the way Mount Fuji was captured in this way as a background.” Grand Prize (For Students, Saitama City Educational Board Superintendent Prize) “Before the sun goes down”, by Yoshiki Endo “I tried to capture the move of the train and the contrast between light and shadow before sunset” . 6 Humorous Photo Contest Award (Saitama City Chamber of Commerce President Award) “Early summer”, by Masatake Muguruma “Fish-on”in early summer morning” 9th Macro Lens Photo Contest For popularizing macro lenses further, we made our 9th Macro Lens Photo Contest (2012) open to all photographers without restricting manufacturers, accepting pictures as long as they were macro pictures. The contest was open to enthusiasts of nature photography of insects and plants and to those who love photography in general. A wide array of photographers entered the contest. We received 5,429 works, including macro shots finely capturing nature as well as warm pet shots and pictures of kids. We will hold photo contests in 2013 and beyond to continue to appeal to as many people as possible with the attraction of photography. WEB http://www.tamron.co.jp/special/macrocon2012/result.html Grand Prize, Macro Photo Contest “Pale blue fascination”, by Hideki Kashino (Flower in pale blue) TAMRON CSR Report 2013 Relationships with Customers Tamron is committed to contributing to society by supplying customers with safe, unique and quality products and services, putting the highest priority on satisfying customers, dealers and OEM customers. Major accomplishments in 2012 Tasks for 2013 ● We worked on developing products for new ● Creating unique products customers appreciate business fields, such as vehicle-built-in camera lenses. ● Further improvement of our after-service systems ● We worked on improving our after-service systems. Tamron Products Familiar to Everybody We make eyes for industry by commanding advanced optical technologies we have created For contributing to photographic and obtained over many years. culture and imaging technologies We contribute to the propagation and development of photographic culture and imaging technologies. For protecting security ・Lenses for DSLR cameras For supporting ・Lens units for video cameras industry ・Lens units for Compact digital cameras. 7 Contributing to our economy, We support factory automation For contributing to safety and security in society and environment and quality enhancement. everyday life, we make lens units. with eyes for industry ・Surveillance cameras (including IR cameras), ・Industrial lenses. ・Security cameras ・Vehicle built-in lenses. Tamron Products Highly Acclaimed by Experts In developing interchangeable lenses for DSLR (Digital Compensation) mechanism1. It is a versatile high-power Single Reflex) cameras, we have been stressing highzoom allowing handheld shooting of all scenes from power zoom lenses that enable photographers to respond wide-angle to telephoto. We also introduced the SP 24to varied photographic opportunities, from wide-angle 70mm F/2.8 Di VC1 USD (Model A007) featuring an antito telephoto, with just one lens.The 18-200mm F/3.5vibration mechanism for the first time in the world as 6.3 Di III VC we launched for Sony“mirrorless”cameras a fast standard zoom lens while delivering high optical in 2012 (Model B011) is a compact and lightweight performance. We received the following awards with E-mount measuring 62mm in filter diameter and weighing the two new zoom lenses. These two zoom lenses were a mere 460 grams while featuring a built-in VC (Vibration highly acclaimed by experts as follows. 《Awards Granted》 Model Awards Granted by TIPA Award 2012, Best Entry-level Lens for Compact Technical Image Press Association (Europe) System Cameras2 B011 Digital Camera Grand Prix 2012 Summer, Gold Digital Camera Grand-prix Evaluation Committee (Japan) Prize(Integrated Factors) EISA Award – European Zoom Lens of the Year 2012-20133 The European Imaging & Sound Association (Europe) A007 Digital Camera Grand Prix 2013, Gold Prize(Integrated Digital Camera Grand-prix Evaluation Committee (Japan) Factors) 1. VC stands for“Vibration Compensation”. The VC mechanism reduces cameraor hand-shake when capturing images with Tamron’s proprietary vibration compensation technology. 2. We received the TIPA Award for two consecutive years, following the SP 70-300mm F/4.5-5.6 Di VC USD (Model A005) introduced in 2011. 3. Tamron is the recipient of the EISA Award for seven consecutive years in a row from 2006. TAMRON CSR Report 2013 R e l a ti o n s h i p s w i t h C u s to m ers Quality Management System For Global Deployment of Efficient After-service Systems Tamron deploys manufacturing operations based on an In 2012, we worked global deployment of efficient afterintegrated quality management system. (Please refer to Page service systems, aiming at establishing a framework 14 of this report for further details.) Before being delivered capable of completing repairs within three days on a to customers, products go through various processes from global basis. Toward this end, we provided opportunities product planning reflecting customer needs, designing, to learn more about new products to repair technicians metal mold fabrication for plastic components to prototype at some international distributors with less experience. manufacturing and so on to name just a few. Design review is As a result, we successfully established a framework done at every stage of those processes in order to check if the capable of completing all repairs within three days at 42 products going through those stages are processed exactly as international distributors having after-service facilities. In specified in respective processes. In addition, heat, endurance 2013, we will continue to work on improving our afterand other tests as well as sequential sampling inspections are service systems, aiming at completing all repairs within done before the final products are delivered to customers. three days at all international distributors all over the world. We also continued to listen to opinions of the users of our products by proving free cleaning services at time Evaluation by Dealers and OEM Customers of photo shows not only at home but also in markets abroad, for feedback in product planning and so on. We conduct a Customer Satisfaction Survey annually by asking Also, in 2013, we started working on establishing a our OEM customers and dealers handling products under our new framework for user registration. The new program own brand for their assistance. In 2012, this survey showed that is expected to be launched in 2013, for delivering mail we improved our customer satisfaction concerning“quality” magazines on our new products and services while by 0.5 points to 5.1 points,“communication capability”and enabling the users of our products to check the state of “technical capability”by 0.3 points to 5.5 points and 5.1 points progress of repairs. respectively. The improvement was primarily possible due to the combined efforts for maintaining closer communications with OEM customers and enhancing quality of interchangeable lenses, in addition advanced technology introduced in new products launched in 2012. On the other hand, we lost 0.2 points in“delivery time” “price” , and“after-service”ratings 8 respectively, while losing 0.1 point in“response to complaints”. We will carefully review the opinions, feedback and suggestions from our customers to take proper measures for improvements. 《Results of Customer Satisfaction Survey》 The survey was conducted in 17 companies. 2010 2011 Overall 2012 6 Handling 5 Delivery repairs 4 Free cleaning service at the event 3 2 Response to complaints 1 Price 《For Listening to Opinions of Our Customers》 0 Reports, instructions Product inquiry Customer Reports, instructions Quality Service Feedback Management team Oﬃce Reporting Communications to product Suggestions planning, Customers ●Extracting design depts. quality problems ●Necessary Technical Development Questionnaire from steps capability strength customer complaints 1.Greatly dissatisfied 2.Dissatisfied 3.Slightly dissatisfied Mail magazine ●Customer ●Reflection 4.Slighly satisfied 5.Satisfied 6.Greatly satisfied (from 2013) service to products improveand services CommuniDevelopment Technical Response to Handling Overall Delivery Price cations strength capability Quality complaints repairs ments 2010 4.8 4.8 4.1 5.3 4.9 4.9 4.8 4.8 5.0 2011 4.8 5.2 4.3 5.2 4.6 4.8 4.6 4.9 5.0 2012 4.9 5.0 4.1 5.5 4.6 5.1 5.1 4.8 4.8 gap ＋0.1 -0.2 -0.2 +0.3 ±0 +0.3 +0.5 -0.1 -0.2 Providing better products and services to customers TAMRON CSR Report 2013 R e l a t i o n s h i p s w i th C us tomers Tamron’s DfE (Designs for Environment) For Supporting Safety in Motorized Society To continue to deliver products with designs friendly Tamron makes lenses for vehicle-built-in cameras to to the environment, we constantly conduct product support safety in motorized society. Vehicle-built-in assessment from the stage of designing. There are nine factors to consider in assessing designs, and cameras aid in driving cars, preventing various risks in achievement objectives are established based on driving. Tamron makes headlight lenses that spread light important factors among the nine factors. In 2012, we reduced the overall weight of all products developed for better front visibility, back-monitoring and aroundby 7% and overall cubic capacity by 8% 1. Also, to monitoring camera lenses to ensure safety in parking reduce impacts to human health and the environment, we constantly manage harmful chemical substances operations and lenses for human body sensing cameras based on“Environment-related Substance Management to avoid hitting pedestrians (including lenses for nighttime Regulations, our own internal regulations based on“the infrared surveillance cameras), in compliance with the ISO/ RoHS and the REAH Initiatives of the EU. Products with designs acknowledged as DfE designs wear the Tamron TS16949 quality management system o the automobile Eco Label and are reported on our website. industry and specific requirements of carmakers. In order to reduce waste from product manufacturing processes, we make rear caps for our interchangeable We will continue to work on developing better lenses for photographic lenses under our own brand from plastic supporting safety in the modern motorized society. runner materials. We started using the plastic runner materials 2 in 2010. The materials we introduced as Nighttime pedestrian recycled materials for rear caps in 2010 and used up to sensing camera lenses 2012 amounted to 56 tons (equivalent to 2.49 million Sensing camera lenses (including near infrared camera lenses) rear caps). We will continue to promote the use of (for monitoring white lines in parking operations) recycled materials while working on reducing waste. 1. On production basis, compared to 2012 2. Materials left in portions equivalent to paths to route resin for making plastic components WEB http://www.tamron.co.jp/envi/top/index.html 9 Headlight lenses Circumference monitoring (for making linear camera lenses beam of light) (for rearand around-viewing) VOICE Tamron Eco Label： The label symbolizes an eye gently looking at our economy, society and environment. The eyebrow symbolizes a flowing stream of air and water, Interview with Product Designer the pupul the green in the earth, and the tree in the pupil our work for the three Rs of“reduce” ,“reuse”and“recycle” . Automotive Optics & Component Business Unit, Design Engineering Dept. Hijiri Sakaki For Enhancing Technological Development Capability Our three factories in Aomori work on enhancing I engage in developing vehicle-built-in camera technological development capability, serving as mother lenses, including headlight lenses. When we started factories of our manufacturing subsidiary overseas. designing those lenses, we had to start scratch as Namioka Factory, for example, has been working it was a new field for Tamron. We worked on new on developing largeand medium-aperture3 molded developments, including technologies for injectionglass lens elements4 for DSLR and mirrorless cameras molding plastic lens elements with uneven thickness spreading rapidly in the global market, together with for making linear beam of light and forming multiple our manufacturing engineering headquarters. Different layers on lens elements in complicated shapes. from small-aperture elements, they need extreme Great accuracy and detail-oriented traceability are accuracy, and it becomes important to reduce time required in making vehicle-built-in camera lenses. required to press one time while minimizing variation in We could successfully develop those lenses one surface accuracy5. In 2012, our engineers at the factory after another with cooperation from production made prototypes repeatedly, working on improving departments. I was very happy when I saw our first manufacturing facilities for solving the problem. headlight lens was put on the front grill of a car on We will continue to work on enhancing our an assembling line at our customer. technological development capability for meeting I wish to challenge shortening takt time (time customer needs. for making one product) and stabilizing product 3. Mediumand large-aperture lens elements mean lenses measuring 20-50mm in diameter. quality, aiming at fully-automated production lines 4. Molded glass lens elements are lenses made by pressing softened optical glass in metal molds. eventually. 5. Surface accuracy means accuracy of curvature of lens elements. TAMRON CSR Report 2013 Relationships with Business Partners Tamron respects human rights, ensures compliance with laws and regulations, and establishes good relationships with business partners to grow and contribute to society together. Major accomplishments in 2012 Tasks for 2013 ● Investigation of means to ensure compliance ● Strengthening compliance with CSR Procurement with CSR Procurement (including Conflict minerals) ● Strengthening environment quality assurance system Business Partner Accreditation System For Maintaining Product & Environment Quality Tamron aspires for establishing good relations with all We have been closely watching for harmful chemical substances business partners for delivering high-quality products and to prevent using them in our products. We use a system to services to customers while contributing to society in check substances regulated by the RoHS Initiative of the EU accordance with our CSR policy together. based on environment data obtained from our suppliers2. In Since 2008, we have asked all suppliers and business 2012, we continued to internally implement analytical work partners to follow the Tamron Codes of Conduct that with advanced equipment including ICP-AES (Inductivity includes prohibiting child and forced labor and ensuring Coupled Plasma Atomic Emission Spectrometry) and GC-MS (Gas compliance with CSR procurement. In 2009 we also asked Chromatography Mass Spectrometry) to deliver safe products to all suppliers to assess their adherence to the codes. In 2010 our customers. we introduced our work for ensuring labor safety, sanitation, In addition, we asked all our suppliers to ensure compliance human rights protection and information security to all with our environment quality assurance system, and conducted our business partners. For maintenance and protection of document examinations and periodical on-site audits at product and environment quality1, we conducted a survey to domestic sites and overseas subsidiaries. check the work of our suppliers through on-site audits and We completed the audits and examinations as planned for document examination based on our assessment standards. 2012, recommended improvements as necessary and asked for In 2013 and beyond, we plan to check the work of our adherence to our standards. suppliers for social issues including human rights protection. As for the REACH Initiative, we will continue to ensure sufficient We will aim at contributing to society throughout our supply management of the regulated substances together with our chain, continuously working on quality, environmental and business partners, providing sufficient information to our 10 social issues. customers, consumers in general and the European Chemical 1. “Maintenance and protection of environment quality”as used in this report Agency. mean regulating the use of harmful chemical substances in products our suppliers deliver to us to below the threshold level stated in our standards. 2. Such data and documents as the certificate of non-use of harmful chemical substances, ICP analytical data and MSDS 《Procedures to Select Suppliers》 Request suppliers follow Tamron Supplier Codes of Conduct For Ensuring CSR Procurement covering aspects including labor safety,sanitation, environment protection, administration systems and ethical management in addition to promoting environment quality assurance We continued to work on CSR procurement through our CSR Procurement Committee taking the leadership role by joining Submission of reports by candidate business partners related domestic departments and Tamron Optical Foshan (TOF) describing results of voluntary evaluation of work to in China. In 2012, we reviewed replies to our questionnaires to follow the Tamron Supplier Codes of Conduct all related departments for enhancing the level of understanding Periodical evaluation of CSR procurement, holding internal workshops three times and Product quality, environment quality and a seminar by an outside lecturer once. A total of 48 employees NO engaging in procurement operations at domestic factories and process audits, documentary examination TOF participated in the workshops and the seminar, studying YES labor problems abroad, problems found at domestic sites, as Appointment as selected business partners well as related ILO treaties, laws and regulations. We then conducted questionnaire surveys with personnel and general affairs departments as well as environment-related and actual Implementation of CSR management by business partners following the Tamron production departments at the head office, three Aomori Supplier Codes of Conduct factories and TOF respectively, based on the EICC Standard3, for directly hearing our employees’opinions on related important issues. With this 〈History of Our Activities〉 approach, we could 2008 Requested all business partners to share“Tamron ascertain our method Supplier Code of Conduct” to check compliance 2009 Requested self-evaluation at respective business partners at our business 2010 Introduced case examples on especially important partners. aspects such as“labor safety and sanitation”and In 2013 and beyond, “human rights protection” we will continue to 2011 Held CSR Procurement Workshops for all business ensure CSR procurement. partners at home and abroad 2012 Continued to work on improving methods for Hearing held at TOF, China checking the state of compliance with our 3. EICC stands for Electronic Citizenship Coalition. It adopted a code of conduct Supplier Code of Conduct by our business partners applicable to all member electronic firms for ensuring labor safety, human rights protection and environment protection throughout their supply chains. TAMRON CSR Report 2013 Relationships with Employees Tamron fosters self-disciplined employees with the spirit of rising to the challenge of creating new ideas in a climate emphasizing ethics. Tamron strives to create a safe work environment that encourages work,based on fair evaluations, respect for human rights and mutual understanding. Major accomplishments in 2012 Tasks for 2013 ● Held various seminars to develop human resources ● Continued efforts to realize diversity in employment ● Studied means to realize diversity in employment For Developing Human Resources To cultivate human resources having spirits of selfemployees may make use of them as opportunities sufficiency and challenging, we provide seminars to enhance their capabilities, playing their respective to new graduates immediately after reemployment roles at their work sites and achieving their carrier as well as seminars for young employees with plans while keeping them motivated. working experience of one year, two years and three years. The seminars are divided into courses for development engineers, administration staffs, factory engineers and procurement personnel. The seminars thus provided immediately after employment and six months later, in one year, two years and three years after employment are appreciated by our employees as they become opportunities for them to review their carrier plans and stay motivated. Also, they become good opportunities for our employees to renew exchanges with other employees who joined our company in the same year but missed opportunities to see each other as they work at other sites. 11 We will continue to hold similar seminars so that our Seminars & Workshops Held in 2012 《Seminars & Workshops Held in 2012》 Stage Educational course contents Factory observation at 3 Aomori factories, business manner, basic knowledge on business transactions, New graduates rules of the company Six months after Mental attitude toward work, ways for staying motivated employment One year after Attitude of mind toward work, how to meet expectations of superiors (including social gatherings with employment the management to exchange opinions on the company and employees’own carrier plans) Three years after Seminars to deepen understanding on own characteristics, strengths and weaknesses, roles respective employment employees are expected to play and objectives for their own future For Creating a Safe and Comfortable Work Environment Tamron works hard to ensure safety and enhance the For mental health issues, we continued to hold psychological and physical health of employees and seminars so that employees may learn more about create a comfortable work environment. mental health care. In 2012, a total of 103 employees In 2012, recognizing the importance of administrating participated in the seminars. They learned about occupational safety, we enacted Labor Safety & the means for performing self-analysis and self-care Sanitation Regulations, organized the Tamron Labor measures through the seminars and consultation with Safety & Sanitation Committee and started patrolling contracted industrial physicians as well as interviews employee work sites with administrators to help with personnel department staffs so that they may prevent labor accidents. prevent emotional disorders. As a result, three occupational accidents and nine commute accidents arose in 2012.Since the numbers of minor traffic accidents during commuting by bicycle and motor bikes have become conspicuous, we implemented route cause analysis on each case and called employee attention to prevent similar cases. TAMRON CSR Report 2013 R e l a ti o n s h i p s w i t h E m p l o yees For Realizing Diversity and Good Life-Work Balance Relationships with Employees at Tamron Optical (Foshan) Interest in good life-work balance has been growing internationally as Tamron Optical (Foshan) (TOF), our main production diversity in human resources develops. Also, the problem of the declining base in China, continued to work on creating birthrate and growing elderly population has been rapidly increasing. comfortable work environment. Under these social situations, firms must work hard to support employees who take maternity leave or live with elders to care for. Tamron has been working on improving support for employees for good work-life balance. Efforts to Develop Human Resources Positive Use of Female Employees TOF continued to hold seminars and workshops for upgrading employee skills, including business base training courses and The total number of female employees at Tamron Japan as of seminars. In 2012, TOF held management training seminars eleven December 31, 2012 was 207, accounting for 19% of the total times to train 307 employees in total. The training seminars were number of employees. Tamron has positively employed divided into two courses, one for group leaders at administration female employees as long as they are competent. We departments to learn more about cost management and another will continue this approach to raise the ratio of female for assistant managers at production departments about related employees further. engineering Among the total number of employees, 90 employees techniques. 94% have children. Almost 100% of female pregnant employees of the employees took maternity leaves to take care of their newborn who participated babies. Since the number of female employees who raise in the seminars children is expected to increase further, efforts to promote appreciated the good life-work balance for our employees will certainly opportunities, result in enhancing the productivity of the whole company. saying“The seminars Tamron will continue to support our female employees’ were helpful to efforts to ensure compatibility between work and family find solutions for life with various plans including establishing an in-house problems at work. nursery center within the premise of the head office. Employees participated in management training At time of a social gathering held in September 2012 seminar at TOF among our president and female employees who are members of our labor union, there was a scene where 12 some female employees raised questions on their For Creating Safe Work Environment career development. Our president gave advice to them, expressing his intention to increase the number of female In 2012, TOF continued to periodically issue Safe Work managerial-level employees further. The gathering became Environment Newspaper for promoting labor safety a good opportunity for the management and female and sanitation as well as fire prevention, to enhance employees to share mutual opinions. We will continue to safety mind among our employees. Also, TOF presented work hard on creating a good work environment friendly improvement plans for 166 suggestions made as results to female employees. of safety patrols done once every month. As a result, the number of industrial accidents at TOF was reduced from VOICE three cases in 2011 cases to just one case in 2012. For Creating A Safe Work Environment Employee Interview TOF continued to work hard on creating a safe work Production Planning Section Manager, environment while letting its employees feel at home. Procurement Center, Production Feedback boxes are installed for obtaining employee Headquarters feedback and improving communications between labor Mariko Sato and management. Every month, the management reviews feedback and suggestions submitted by employees, When I was told about a plan to promote me to a posting replies on the company bulletin board. Also, section manager, I felt uneasy as I was not sure if I as done in 2011, TOF held a party every month to could live up to expectations, while being excited celebrate the birthdays born in that month as part of and exhorting myself to hang tough for the new its program for ensuring good work-life balance. TOF position. After having been promoted eventually, also continued to honor members of project teams who I also felt uneasy as I thought I might be treated contributed to operation improvements, by presenting in a special way as a woman manager. But all Presidential Awards. In such anxieties were proven to be unfounded. 2012, the Awards were My colleagues were kind enough to support me, given to the members thinking and acting together with me, and my of a project team who superiors who kindly cheered me up by saying worked on improving “Relax, take your mind off your tension”. I know jigs and tools used for I am here because of their support at that time. enhancing productivity I hope that the number of female managers will in assembling operations grow further at Tamron. I will continue to work and stabilizing dimensions hard to assist in creating a work environment that of components. is comfortable to all female employees. Recipients of presidential award TAMRON CSR Report 2013 Relationships with Shareholders and Investors We strive to enhance the corporate value of our company by pursuing faithful management and maintaining communications with our stakeholders including shareholders and investors. Corporate Governance １．Basic Policy We at Tamron have constantly pursued fair and ４．Outlines of Structure for Corporate Governance transparent management under our management philosophy since the foundation of the company General Meeting of Shareholders Election/dismissal Election/dismissal Election/dismissal and in line with our brand message, Contributing to Society by Creating Eyes of Industry , respecting the Accounting Auditor （auditors, external auditor） Coordination Accounting Auditor rights and equality of our shareholders and working Audit Coordination Audit hard on maintaining good relationships with all Coordination stakeholders. Board of Directors (directors, external director) President Internal Audit Board ２．Outlines of Structure for Ensuring Corporate Governance CSR Promotion Board Internal Audit Board Tamron is a company with a board of auditors. CSR Committee Management Meeting（MAC） We have fourteen directors (including two external Internal audid directors) and four auditors (including three external Compliance Committee Executive Oﬃcers auditors). Each department/Subsidiaries (1)Board of Directors Meetings of the board of directors are held twice a month in principle, attended by all directors and auditors, for reviewing the execution of duties by the Communications with Shareholders and Investors directors and deciding on important issues as set forth in the basic policy of the company and related We continued to disclose information at appropriate times and in laws and regulations.In 2012, we held board of compliance with related laws and regulations, while paying due 13 attention to fairness. We are working to ensure sound management directors’meetings 26 times. (2)Board of Auditors and transparency, and to obtain understanding and credence of all stakeholders. The board of auditors audits the processes of decision During 2012, as part of our IR work1, we held explanatory meetings making by the board of directors and the execution of on our financial statements twice for institutional investors and duties of directors by attending the board of director securities analysts, in meetings and checking the documents presenting addition to similar meetings their decisions. The board of auditors meets monthly held twice for individual in principle.In 2012, we held board of auditors’ investors. Also, we held meetings 15 times. conferences abroad twice to keep international (3)Executive Officer System investors similarly informed. Tamron introduced an executive officer system over 1. IR stands for investor relations and ten years ago. means providing shareholders and investors with information such as (4)Internal Control through Committee Meetings financial standing that is necessary for IR conference held for institutional investors We regularly hold monthly business discussion investors to make investing decisions. and securities analysts meetings (MAC meetings) attended by all directors, full-time corporate auditors and executive officers to discuss management issues and respond to the fast For Ensuring Compliance changing management environment. At Tamron, a meeting of the Compliance Committee (5)CSR Committee attended by the management and the Compliance We hold CSR Committee that is under direct control Promotion Committee organized under the Compliance by the president’s once a month. deciding on Committee is held monthly to promote compliance important issues including Risk management. on a company-wide basis. In 2012, we also held workshops for learning more about our compliance ３．Internal Control System action guidelines and related laws and regulations in performing our business operations, including the antiFor ensuring transparency of management, an monopoly law and the insider transaction regulation internal control reporting system has introduced. In law. In addition, we worked hard on promoting 2012, Under the Internal Control Reporting System, compliance as a group including subsidiaries overseas we submitted the report that proved effectively as our overseas operations expanded. We also worked functioning of internal control. on information security and protection of personal information that are included in the twelve CSR themes, based on our internal regulations. TAMRON CSR Report 2013 Management System We strive to enhance our product and service quality while reducing environmental load through our consolidated management system. Also, we avoid various management risks based upon our risk management system. Integrated Management System Triple Audit Systems for Surveillance and Finding Problems In 2010, we obtained unified certification applicable to We annually audit the implementation of the integrated management the Tamron Group including our overseas production system at the Head Office and the three Aomori factories to check the base of Tamron Optical（Foshan）, in addition to all our effectiveness of the system and continually improve it, which are our internal quality and environment audits. From the auditing, internal domestic sites:Head Office, Hirosaki Factory, Namioka auditors found some nonconformity cases and suggested improvements Factory and Owani Factory. Our management system at the Head Office and three Aomori factories. In addition to the internal has completely integrated ISO9001（quality）and ISO audit, the Head Office and three Aomori factories audit each other to 14001（environment）. We will continue to produce high check their systems and manufacturing processes. We periodically audit quality products that are safe and satisfy our customers, with contracted external audit organizations to maintain certifications while paying attention to the environment, under our while continually improving the integrated management system at Tamron. As a result of external audits implemented in 2012, the effectiveness of integrated management system. our policy management processes adopted at our domestic sites was assessed at level-3 on the whole on a scale of one to five, while the effectiveness of processes used at our production base in China was rated Integrated Management Policies at level-4. Points at issue as results of the triple audit systems have been promptly improved, and we are working on further improvements by As a member of the optical industry of the world, we deploying activities horizontally among our group companies. will continue to manufacture products meeting customer satisfaction and our goal of being Tamron Contributing to Society by Creating Eyes for Industry, while paying attention to environmental conservation. Risk Management 1. We will supply our customers with high quality and reliable products by using our originality, ingenuity and In 2008, we assessed all risks in our business operations and technology,pursuing sustainable growth with profits established our risk management policies. Since then,we have been arising out of delighting and satisfying our customers. operating our risk management framework under the ten themes of 2. In running our business, we will comply with all related compliance, employment, human resources, and so on. laws,standards and treaties at home and abroad, As for our BCP (Business Continuity Plan), we have established respecting the requests and demands postulated by our our own group system by consolidating systems employed at customers and the local community. our head office and three Aomori factories. We will continue to 3. We will work on preventing environmental contamination work on strengthening our risk management system by reviewing 14 through reducing CO₂, waste emissions and harmful the alternative plans being used at our company at present for chemicals while seeking alternatives and keeping component procurement, assembling, personnel required for recovery biodiversity intact. and seismic strengthening of manufacturing facilities and information 4. We will continue to work on improving the effectiveness systems, while asking for consultants’professional opinions. of our integrated management system. 5. To achieve this management policy, we will specifically set up our objectives and targets, periodically evaluating our achievement level. Tamron’ s Risk Management Policy 6.To enhance recognizing the importance of our integrated management, we will maintain good communications At Tamron, recognizing all possible risks that while providing sufficient education and training to all may affect our business, we are committed people working for Tamron. to all possible damage prevention in order to 7. We will closely cooperate with society in all countries minimize damage to the economy,our society and regions where we work and disclose information and our environment. In emergencies,we work as necessary on our quality assurance and environment to minimize damage and promptly recover by conservation. acting responsibly, providing continuous services December 7, 2009 to our customers for continuing growth. We aim Morio Ono, President & CEO for safety and ease of mind for all stakeholders including our employees, shareholders, customers and business partners. We will continue to provide opportunities for learning about risk management 《Consolidated Management》 to all employees so that they may work on risk management from a CSR perspective built on Representative properly recognizing the importance of the policy （Prosldent） Quality/ and their missions. Environment Committee September 30, 2009 Consolidated Administration Manager Morio Ono, Secretarial Oﬃce Representative Director & President（CEO） （CSR Promotion Board） Aomori Consolidated Omiya Consolidated Administration Manager Tamron Optical（Foshan） Administration Manager （representing consolidated administration managers of three Aomori factories） Consolidated Administration For Responding to Acute Emergency Secretarial Oﬃce Secretarial Oﬃce Secretarial Oﬃce （CSR Promotion Board） （Operation Promotion Section） （ISO Promotion Board） At our head office in head office, three factories in Aomori and TOF in China, evacuation and fire extinguishing drills Specialty Committee (Including sub-committees) are conducted every year with all employees participating as part of our risk management program. In addition, the Hirosaki Namioka Owani Tamron Optical units handling chemical substances train for emergency Omiya Head Oﬃce response when the chemical substances are leaked. We Factory Factory Factory （Foshan）Co., Ltd. also held an initial stage drill for earthquakes according to ※ Integrated internal auditors are working at our all sites, while integrated management our BCP, using the government's preliminary earthquake promotion committee members are fulfilling their missions at all domestic sites. flash announcement program. TAMRON CSR Report 2013 Relationships with the Environment We pay attention to protecting the environment in deploying our business operations, working to be acompany pursuing harmony with the environment. Major accomplishments in 2012 Tasks for 2013 ● Achieved CO₂ emission reduction targets through ● Implementing CO₂ emissions management various measures to save energy consumption measures and study of additional measures ● Enhanced material recycle ratio (Hirosaki Factory) ● Grasping environmental load our factory in Vietnam will put on Environmental Load Products are designed, prototypes made and metal and cleaning lens elements, generating polluted molds fabricated at the head office. In Japan, we also sludge and waste liquid containing melt chemicals. operate our Namioka Factory for manufacturing lens Our factories in Owani and Foshan also generate elements, Owani Factory for injection-molding plastic plastic runner materials1 while manufacturing plastic components and Hirosaki Factory for assembling final components used in peripheral lens parts,in addition products. We also operate Tamron Optical（Foshan） to waste liquid. in China as our manufacturing base abroad. The We emit CO₂ as we mainly use trucks for transporting factory in China is an integrated factory performing materials,parts and products between factories. In all operations ranging from component production to 2012, we reduced our energy consumption volume assembly. for gasoline and diesel oil used for transportation and We use electricity, heavy oil, kerosene and other our CO₂ emissions by 14% , by more efficiently using energy sources for developing, designing and trucks compared to 2011. manufacturing, emitting CO₂. Our factories in 1. Materials left in portions equivalent to paths to route resin for making plastic Namioka and Foshan use much water for polishing components INPUT 15 Scope of INPUT Items： Energy Water Transportation energy2 Head oﬃce（including Tokyo/Osaka sales Electric power 69,816,000kWh Clean water 824,000㎥ Diesel oil 224kℓ oﬃces）,three factories in Aomori,Tamron Optical（Foshan）,China（excluding Tamron Crude oil 237kℓ Sewage water 127,000㎥ Gasoline 70kℓ Optical（Foshan）as for waste entrusted Kerosene oil 21kℓ Total 969,000㎥ Total 294kℓ for intermediate treatment） Diesel oil 24kℓ Gasoline 2kℓ Raw/auxiliary materials 2. The energy consumption data for transportation LPG 2,000kl cover energy used by trucks for transporting Metal（brass, aluminum） Natural gas 107,000㎥ parts and ﬁnal products and commercial Glass 644,000GJ Plastic vehicles connecting ﬁve sales oﬃces in Japan. Chemicals（drugs, solvents, cleaners） The Tamron Optical（Foshan）, China data Paper Gas（nitrogen, oxygen, argon） covers company cars only. Copy paper 19t Electrical components Sites covered: 96% Cardboard （based on the total number of employees） Manufacturing raw materials/ Development, design and Transportation between factories and delivery to stores Customers parts at suppliers production at Tamron （logistics/business vehicles） O U T PU T We report amount of waste which was entrusted for intermediate treatment in Tamron CO2 Emissions Recycled CO2 Emissions during Transportation2 Optical（Foshan）, China below for reference. Electric power 35,782t-CO2 Paper 38t Diesel oil 588t-CO2 Crude oil 642t-CO2 Cardboard 37t Gasoline 163t-CO2 Tamron Optical（Foshan） , China Kerosene oil 52t-CO2 Metal 59t （estimated amount） Total 751t-CO2 Diesel oil 63t-CO2 Plastic 115t Industrial waste 589t Gasoline 4t-CO2 Grinding sludge 13t General waste 727t LPG 12t-CO2 Waste ﬂuid 124t Total 1,316t Natural gas 223t-CO2 Others 85t Total 36,778t-CO2 Total 471t Reference Guideline： Waste entrusted for intermediate treatment Products Greenhouse Eﬀect Gas Calculation/ Reporting Manual（Ver. 2.4）issued Industrial waste3 386t Total 2,399t by The Ministry for the Environmentn General waste 98t 3. The volume of industrial waste includes 4 tons of PRTR Total 484t (Pollutant Released & Transfer Registered) substance. One ton of the PRTR substance was also released into the atmosphere. TAMRON CSR Report 2013 R e l a t i o n s h i p s w i th t h e E n v i r o n ment Compliance Environmental Accounting Tamron regularly checks compliance with laws and The outlines of our environmental accounting in 2012 were regulations related to quality assurance and environmental as follows. In 2012, we invested 9.39 million yen as our protection in order to ensure the compliance of the entire global environment protection cost. This covers the renewal group. work of the air-conditioning system at the metal mold In March 2012, there was an environment-related incident fabrication department of our head office and installation of leakage of kerosene to a conduit outside the 2nd Hirosaki of a humidity control device in the vapor deposition equipment at our Namioka factory. Also, we paid a total Factory’s premise. This was due to an irregularity in the amount of 70.433 million yen as expenses for preventing external ductwork of a kerosene tank at the factory. We diffusion of asbestos following demolition of an old building recovered the kerosene flew out of the factory immediately at our head office, installation of a system to prevent after we knew the occurrence of the incident, installing an oil dispersion of kerosene flew out at our Hirosaki factory and fence around the conduit to prevent diffusion of the kerosene other measures for protecting the environment. left. Also, as soon as we found the incident, we reported the case to Aomori Prefectural Government in compliance with （unit : thousand yen) Environmental cost the Water Quality Contamination Prevention Law. As we Category Main work Economic Environmental Page took immediate measures, there was no adverse effect to the invested Expense effect conservation effect environment of the ambient area. In addition, as an action to Pollution ・Measures to prevent diffusion Ensuring prevent recurrence, we promptly changed the kerosene tank prevention 0 10,775 of asbestos (head office) ― environmental P16 ductwork to an internal ductwork. We will continue to check cost ・System check and maintenance Standards our premise, reinforcing activities to prevent occurrence of ・Renewal of an air-conditioning similar incidents in the future. Earth system (head office) environment ・Installation of a humidity Reducing energy P17 In 2012, at time of rebuilding the north wing of our head Cost with in conservation 9,390 37,976 control device in the vapor ― consumption P18 office, we also implemented activities to remove and business cost deposition equipment (Namioka factory) prevent diffusion of asbestos in compliance with the Air area Pollution Control Act, the Labor Safety & Sanitation Law, the Resource cycling 0 21,682 Reducing and recycling waste 550 Reducing and recycling waste (Enhanced material P19 Building Standard Law and other related regulations. Prior cost recycling ratio) to commencing the work to remove asbestos, we informed Sub9,390 70,433 ― 550 ― ― people of our neighboring area of the work, maintaining total adequate communications with the local government offices Upstream and Implementing audits 16 0 1,549 Green procurement ― P10 including the Saitama City Government Office and the downstream costs at business partners’ Saitama Labor Standard Office in compliance with the Air ・Maintenance and operation of Achieving Pollution Control Act and the Laws Related to Disposition & Management environmental management 0 43,231 systems ― environmental P17 Clearance of Waste. activity cost ・Environmental education objectives and targets The state of compliance of the laws and regulations including ・Expansion of green zones the above major laws and regulations is as stated below. R&D cost 0 155,570 Efforts for DfE ― Enhancing product P9 performance through DfE In 2012, we strengthened our activities to manage the harmful chemical substances and compile database with ・Support to local bodies’ Social activity activities for preserving Reducing disposed of reference to the additional substances regulated under the cost 0 882 nature (head office) ― garbage ― REACH Initiative of the European Community, confirming ・Cleaning neighboring areas that the content of SVHC substances that must be regulated Cost to prevent Prevention of diffusion of Recovered environment 0 127 kerosene flew out to external ― once polluted (Hirosaki P16 additionally was below the standard for reporting to the loal Environmental damage conduit (Hirosaki factory) factory) government office. Total 9,390 271,792 ― 550 ― ― 《Compliance at Respective Sites》 ＊Scope of Environmental Accounting Period: From January 1 through December 31, 2012 Premises covered: headquarters A Satisfactory B Insufficient (minor incident) C Non-compliance incident (including sales offices in Tokyo and Osaka）and three Aomori factories. ＊Labor costs are calculated based on the average wage. Head office Aomori Factorie Foshan3 ＊The economic effect in comparison with resource recycling costs is represented by a gain from metal waste sales. Energy saving（revised law） A A ― ＊Depreciation allowance is not calculated as an expense. CO₂emissions reduction A A ― Chemical substance management1 A A A Air A A A Education on Environmental Management System and CSR Water quality A2 B A In 2012, we continued to work on educating our employees about CSR and environmental Soil A A A management, regularly holding seminars on classification of wastes, energy saving, green Noise A A A procurement, green procurement and biological diversification toward the integrated Vibration A A A management promotion committee members serving as leaders at respective work sites. We have 49 such integrated management promotion committee members. We Odor A A A proposed opportunities for them to learn more about waste sorting, energy saving, green Occupational safety A A A procurement and biodiversity. The committee members undertake the role of conveying waste manageme A A A what they have learned to their colleagues in their work places and promoting energy saving including efficiently using air-conditioning. Also, targeted mainly to 86 employees 1. Laws related to managing and investigating chemical substances apply to who were unable to attend previous seminars, we gave an extra opportunity to learn domestic sites ; international directives including RoHS and REACH apply to about our CSR system, twelve CSR themes and tasks imposed on us. Also, at our head the entire group. office, we specified the third Friday of every month as a“No May Car Day”and specific 2. Values exceeded standard values at some points of measurement, but our days in summer and winter as“Eco-life Days”, supporting the environmental protection measures securely prevented contamination diffusion outside our facilities. promotion program Saitama Prefectural government advocates4. 3. Compliance with related laws and regulations enforced in China as well as 4. The total amount of CO₂ emissions we reduced in 2012 through“No May Car Days”and international regulations such as the RoHS and REACH initiatives. “Eco-life Days”was 12t-CO₂. TAMRON CSR Report 2013 Environmental Objectives and Targets Achieved In 2012, we worked on achieving the environmental objectives and targets for the last year of our phase-four environmental protection program, eventually achieving our CO₂ reduction targets. Achievement of Environmental Objectives and Targets for 2012 In 2012, we focused on reducing CO₂ emissions as the most respective work sites established their own reduction targets important environmental objectives of the Tamron group, as their operations and the products they handle differ. In deploying activities and managing reduction in terms of basic 2012, our respective sites achieved their targets except for unit per sales1. Our objective for 2012 was reducing CO₂ head office factory’s plan to reduce waste plastic materials. emissions by 5% in terms of our per-sales basic unit. We In 2013, we will continue to work on reducing industrial achieved the target by reducing emissions by 6.2% although waste and enhancing productivity under the leadership by our group CO₂ emissions increased compared to 2011. our waste reduction sub-committee and promotion of DfE Emissions were reduced compared to 2009 in terms of the designs by our integral design/manufacturing and assembling basic unit. As for measures for reducing CO₂ emissions, please engineering technology development sub-committee. For refer to Page 18 of this report. reducing industrial waste, our Waste Reduction Promotion For 2013 and beyond, we have established a new mid-range Sub-committee established and managed our reduction target. plan to reduce CO₂ emissions by 1% annually compared to Our Integrative Design/Manufacturing Engineering Promotion 2012 and in terms of basic units per sales and 7.7% in total Sub-committee, a cross-section organization to vertically by 2020. As our Vietnam factory is slated to start operations manage operations from design to manufacturing, established in 2013, we plan to assess what state CO₂ emissions from the and managed our target for promoting DfE designs. factory are in so that we may strengthen our management of CO₂ emissions as a group. For organizational structure, please refer to page As for environmental load other than CO₂ emissions, our 14(Consolidated Management System). 《CO₂ Reduction Targets Achieved and Three-year Plan》 A Achieved B Not Achieved 2010 2011 2012 Reduction target compared to 2009 -5％ -10％ -5％ （In terms of basic unit per net sales) Actual -6% -7% -6.2% 17 A B A Achievement 《CO₂ Reduction Targets from 2013 to 2015》 2013 2014 2015 Reduction target compared to 2012 -1% -1.99% -2.97% 《Environmental targets Achieved in 2012》 A Achieved B Not Achieved Targets Targets in 2012 Results in 2012 Achievment Head Office 3% reduction of metal scrap compared to 2010 Metal scrap reduction rate：35% (Mold & Tooling 3% reduction of waste plastic compared to 2011 A Reducing industrial Technology Center) (Waste at time of mold fabrication) Waste plastic growth rate：27% waste 2.5% reduction from the emissions volume in 2011 TOF in China Reduction rate：14％ A （per net sales unit） ・Promotion of DfE designs:Reduced gross Promotion of DfE ・Promotion of DfE weight by 7% and gross cubic volume by 8% All sites ・No environmental contamination compared to 2012(conventional products), A designs2 accidents on a total unit production basis ・Environmental contamination accidents: Zero 《Targets for 2013》 Targets Targets in 2013 Three Aomori Improvement of material recycling ratio : Reducing industrial factories 3% from the ratio in 2012 Waste 2.5% reduction from the emissions TOF in China volume in 2012( per net sales unit） ・Promotion of DfE Promotion of DfE All sites ・No environmental contamination accidents Total CO₂ emissions（ｔ－ CO₂） 1. Basic unit per sales: Consolidated sales（million yen） 2. Work to pursue light weight, compactness and the use of recycled materials in line with our product assessment regulations TAMRON CSR Report 2013 Reducing CO₂ Emissions and Energy Consumption Tamron strives to reduce CO₂ emissions and water consumption at factories based on our integrated Management. By-source CO₂ Emissions Energy Saving Activities Looking at sources of CO₂ emissions from the head office,three Aomori factories and Tamron Optical Head Office （Foshan）in China,electric power accounts for 97% , crude oil 2% and natural gas/kerosene/diesel oil/LPG/ At our head office, in addition to activities to save gasoline 1% altogether. Reducing power consumption energy consumption by switching unnecessary lights is the key to reduce CO₂ emissions. off during lunch time break and stricter administration of air-conditioning systems, several important measures were introduced in the past few years to save energy consumption. For example, we changed Electric power Crude oil Natural gas Diesel oil Kerosene LPG Gasoline our lighting system partially to an LED system in 2010, while introducing a new compressor operation administration system for metal mold fabrication Diesel oil Kerosene 0.1% 0.2% in 2011. In 2012, we renewed our air-conditioning LPG 0.03% system at our mold fabrication department, reducing Natural gas 0.6% Gasoline 0.01% its electricity consumption by 40% year-on-year. Crude oil 1.7% Namioka Factory Our Namioka factory uses a considerable amount of electricity as its operations include a process to deposit Electric power 97.3% thin film layers on lens elements handling chemical substances and metal materials in vacuum tanks. In 2012, it worked on a new project to reduce the use of unnecessary electricity by heaters by installing thermo sensors and heat controlling systems in the oil diffusion pumps of the evaporation depository machines. Previously, heaters had been constantly used with sensors set at 230 degrees C at its maximum temperature limit, but we renewed this to Transitional Changes in CO₂ Emissions 210 degrees C after installation of the new sensors in all 18 the 10 evaporation depository machines. As a result, we The total volume of CO₂ emissions during the past five years reduced the use of electricity at our Namioka factory by from our head office, three Aomori factories and Tamron about 20% compared to 2011. This achievement was made Optical (Foshan), our production base in China, has been by putting a plan proposed by the technology development increasing. department of our head office into practice. We will In 2012, our total CO₂ emissions increased by 10% continue to work on reducing electricity consumption by compared to 2011. CO₂ emissions from our domestic studying means to allow introducing the new processing production sites increased 14%, while emissions from our method to Tamron Optical (Foshan) as well. production base in China were up 9% year-on-year. This was mainly due to 20% increases of output from both domestic sites and Tamron Optical (Foshan), respectively. However, our CO₂ emissions in terms of basic units per sales decreased by 6.2% compared to 2009 with our efforts to save consumption of energy at our manufacturing facilities through stricter administration of operations of compressors and other manufacturing facilities with additional monitoring systems and by cutting use of standby electricity. In 2013, we will continue to work on enhancing our productivity and reducing energy consumption at our production facilities. Oil diffusion pump Head Office Hirosaki Namioka Basic Unit Owani Foshan 36,778 （t-CO₂) t-CO₂/ 35,000 32,537 33,364 sales （million yen） 29,997 30,507 30,000 0.57 0.57 0.57 0.60 0.61 0.48 25,000 0.50 20,000 20,555 21,947 24,212 25,413 27,725 0.40 15,000 0.30 10,000 919 620 593 595 0.20 535 5,501 5,013 4,639 4,447 5,267 5,000 0.10 987 891 1,012 968 1,055 2,035 2,036 2,081 2,001 2,136 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thermo sensor (Top view) TAMRON CSR Report 2013 Reducing Waste and Water Consumption We are working on reducing waste by enhancing production efficiency and improving business operations. Changes in Volume of Waste Water Consumption The total volume of industrial waste from our The total water consumption volume of our group has domestic business operations declined over the three been rising, following the output growth. This rise was years from 2009 to 2011, accompanying the decline because water consumption at TOF, our production base of our domestic production volume, but the volume in China, increased 18 percent compared to 2011 although increased by 3 percent in 2013. 1 By site, waste consumption at our Omiya head office and three Aomori from our Omiya head office increased 30 percent factories decreased by 3 percent compared to 2011 in from discarding unnecessary trays and other fixtures spite of some defects found in pumps and conduits. The following the construction of a new North Wing increase at TOF was mainly because of installing additional building. The three Aomori factories reduced waste lens polishing machines and increased output. We will despite increased output. The primary factor was the continue to work on reducing our group water consumption Hirosaki factory asking customers to return plastic by investigating increases and taking countermeasures. packages used for delivering production from TOF in China to domestic OEM customers and the volume of Head Oﬃce Hirosaki Namioka Owani Foshan Basic Unit returned packages decreasing. （thousand ㎥） 1,000 969 thousand ㎥ / sales Head Office Hirosaki Namioka Owani Recycling ratio 900 852 （billion yen） (Domestic) 98.5% 800 15.1 16 （ t） 98.4 764 722 800 98.0% 700 12.7 14.6 14 97.3 636 97.5% 700 160 549 96.8 600 10.7 12 97.0% 600 528 512 500 11.0 10 96.5% 467 484 500 92 74 368 96.0% 400 789 8 73 89 456 386 546 671 400 95.5% 300 6 224 300 95.4 95.3 214 206 19 95.0% 200 0.6 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.8 4 248 200 94.5% 100 166 149 161 165 162 2 163 145 97 100 121 110 94.0% 7 6 8 6 9 6 9 7 10 7 73 92 0 67 69 70 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 0 93.5% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 VOICE 1. TOF in China has been measuring industrial waste since 2008, but we are focusing on data consistency because of the difficulties of obtaining data on some products. We therefore report the waste reduction from domestic production sites. The estimated volume of industrial waste from TOF in 2012 Interview with Manager in Charge of is reported on page 15. Environmental Management at TOF Section Manager, General Affairs Division Reducing Waste from Business Operations Guanfa Lin Aiming at zero emissions2, our Waste Reduction Subcommittee continued to work on reducing waste and At TOF, we worked hard on reducing our CO₂ emissions in promoting recycling. The Hirosaki factory worked general and on the specific target of reducing industrial waste on enhancing the recycling ratio of plastic waste by 2.5 percent compared to 2011. To reduce CO₂ emissions, components3 as materials by increasing the number we focused on enhancing the COP 4 value of our freezing of packaging trays since April 2012. The first step machines by minimizing the loss of compressed air from our was strengthening operations to classify plastic waste general air-conditioning system, while regulating individual aircomponents, outsourcing the task of recycling them conditioning systems. We partially changed the lighting at our as plastic materials. As a result, the recycling ratio factory to LED lights. As a result of these countermeasures of plastic waste material increased from 39 to 56 and our everyday work to save energy, we reduced our CO₂ percent. emissions by 8 percent, compared to 2011, per basic sales unit. In 2013, our other factories in Aomori and abroad will To reduce industrial waste, we took measures including take the same step and enhance our group material recycling component packaging boxes. As a result, we reduced recycling ratio. industrial waste by 14 percent, compared to 2011, per basic sales unit. 2. The term zero emissions as used at Tamron means that the volume of Also, as TOF uses chemical substances, we renovated our industrial waste recycled as materials is 98 percent or higher. Our use of exhaust and ventilation systems to create a healthier work recycled materials in 2012 was 99.7 percent. 3. Material recycling means recovering used products from markets and waste environment. from manufacturing operations for reprocessing and reusing them as materials. 4. COP stands for Coefficient of Performance, which is the average This concept is separate from thermal recycling, which means burning waste energy consumption efficiency ratio in a refrigerated stock area. to reuse the heat as thermal energy. TAMRON CSR Report 2013 Relationships with Society To grow together with society and continue to be patronized, Tamron also works to support and participate in social events and culture activities. Growing Together with Local Communities Contributions of the Three Aomori Factories Plastic Bottle Collection Our three factories in Aomori continued to work on We have continued to collect empty plastic bottles recovering pull tops as part of our efforts to contribute for donating the money received from selling them for to local communities. The total volume of pull tops we procuring polio vaccine. The total volume of plastic have recovered since 2005 reached 311 kilograms. bottles we donated since 2008 was equivalent to The pull tops collected were donated to the social polio vaccinations for 545 children. welfare associations of local areas for supporting social events and buying nursing care products. Classes for Children Each factory continued to regularly contribute to the neighboring area. The factory in Hirosaki co-sponsored Since 2008, we have continued to offer classes to arouse the Hirosaki Nebuta Festival, while the factory in elementary school children’s interest in science, including classes Namioka supported the Namioka Kitabatake Festival for learning about environmental protection. Our employees and the Owani factory supported the Owani Hot create educational programs and four to five employees serve Spring Summer Festival. as a teaching team. In 2012, in addition to continuing programs including a course of observing how the nature of soap bubbles changes depending upon differences in chemical substances, our Nature Restoration employees thought of creating cameras from milk cartons, a theme closely related to Tamron as a photographic lens manufacturer. Our Omiya head office continued to support the nature restoration that the Children at elementary schools in Saitama City successfully made Saitama Prefecture Ecological System Conservation Society deploys together cameras from milk cartons, shouting with surprise at seeing images with local citizen groups at the Shibakawa 1st Flood Control Reservoir and in captured with the cameras. The children feel more familiar with the peripheral area. Years ago, the area called Minuma Tambo located in the science from observing reservoir area was a wetland full of nature with a number of white herons phenomena with tools they flying. Our head office in Omiya is located in an adjacent area. As a result make themselves. of the continuing work of the society and local groups, the Minuma Tambo We will continue to area is recovering. A number of living creatures including white herons and contribute to our local 20 even short-toed eagles now visit the area to feed. communities with similar classes for school children to learn more about science. VOICE Science class Interview with Director of Community Hall Shibakawa 1st Flood Control Reservoir Nanasato Community Hall, Sponsoring Wheelchair Track and Field Athletes Saitama City Mr. Noboru Hagiwara Tamron sponsors wheelchair track and field athletes Wakako Tsuchida and Kotaro Hokinoue. While physically I was pleasantly surprised to learn that we can challenged, they have been working hard to realize make cameras from milk cartons. One Tamron their dreams to become international athletes, giving employee taught each group of four school children strength to and inspiring and they smoothly worked on making cameras. many people. Impressed As this was a science class, Tamron employees by their challenging spirit, explained about constructing camera lenses. The our company sponsored explanation seemed a little difficult to understand, their participation in the but the children experiencing and understanding London Paralympic Games the process of reversing images captured upside 2012 held from August 29 down on the image planes of their cameras helped through September 9. Athlete Kotaro Hokinoue in competition to encourage their interest in science. Another strong point of the class was the children being able to bring home the actual cameras they made to tell their families and take pictures with their very own cameras. I hope that Tamron will continue to help children learn more about science by providing opportunities to see manufacturing sites and holding seminars to take pictures with digital cameras. Two wheelchair athletes Athlete Wakako Tsuchida in competition TAMRON CSR Report 2013 Activities at Subsidiary Companies Overseas Tamron's subsidiaries abroad continued to work to strengthen their relationships with their communities. Tamron Europe GmbH (TEG) Tamron Optical (Shanghai) (TOS) In Germany known as a tourism-oriented country In increasingly aging China, the number of people who emphasizing principles of environmental protection, wish to enjoy photography after retirement has been solar power generation systems have been becoming increasing. Interest in photography classes has been popular after introducing a fixed system for growing for learning more about selecting equipment purchasing generated electric power. TEG installed and photographic techniques. In 2012, in line with 334 solar panels on the roof of our building when the basic policy of social contribution of the Tamron expanding the building in February 2011 to reduce group, Tamron Optical (Shanghai) started to support CO₂ emissions through in-house power generation. local photo culture clubs by sending our employees Our power generation in 2012 reached 62,749 kWh, to teach about cameras, interchangeable lenses and which we sold to a power company in Cologne for photographic know-how. Many participants greatly about 20,000 euros. The aggregate amount of electric appreciated the lessons from our employees, with power we generated after installing the solar panels comments like the following:“We appreciated the has reached 14,525 kWh. lessons as we could increase our knowledge of TEG also continued to contribute to society by photographic equipment. We wish to make the use of presenting photographic lenses to photography this knowledge for improving our photographic skills”. schools and donating money to pediatric cancer hospitals. Also, employees at TEG participated in Business Run, a marathon held in Cologne that invites participants from local firms. A total of approximately 10,000 people, including 15 people from TEG participated in the 5 km race, wearing uniforms bearing their company logos, supporting the event for vitalizing the local community. At TEG we will continue to work on making Tamron a company firmly linked with the local community that treasures the environment. Photography class held by Tamron Optical (Shanghai) 21 Tamron USA (TUS) In 2012, Tamron USA held fifteen free photography classes for promoting photographic culture. Our employees served as teachers, providing basic knowledge on photographic equipment and giving participants tips on photography. Many participants, especially beginners who make up the majority of the participants, appreciated the classes. We also continued to work on environmental protection. As part of our program to reduce CO₂ emissions, we made our photographic exhibition Solar panels on the TEG roof booth fixtures 40 percent lighter compared to our previous booth. Our marketing team led the project, Generated electricity display focusing on environmental protection from the stage of planning and designing for making the booth lighter and reducing CO₂ emissions by saving energy required when hauling it. We will continue to work on environmental protection in deploying our marketing operations here in the United States. TEG employees participated in Business Run Photography class held by TUS TAMRON CSR Report 2013 Independent Third-Party Opinion 【Current Position】 【Academic Societies】 Professor, Faculty of Engineering, Senior General Member of Sustainable Management Forum Toyama Prefectural University of Japan, an academic member of Japan Association for Human & Environmental Symbiosis, The Japanese Society of Senior Counselor, Policy Making, Environmental Education, Japan Institute of Tourism Research, Toyama City The Japanese Society for Quality Control, Japan Society of Civil Engineering, The Institute of Life Cycle Assessment Japan, 【Academic Background】 Japan Logistic Society, Public Policy Study Association Japan, Graduated from the Department of Management, Japan Association for Communication, Information & Society, Faculty of Commerce, Chuo University in 1989, and Society of Environmental Science Japan, Japan Tourism visited 80 countries of the world as a journalist. Promotion Academic Conference Majored in and completed his master’s in comprehensive policy at the Comprehensive 【Committees】 Policy Study Course, Graduate School of Chuo Exploratory committee on management and operation of University,and started to work as a bench scientist national parks (Ministry for the Environment) in 2006, an at the Political Measure & Culture Comprehensive explanatory committee on Japan-ASEAN environmental Professor action plans in conjunction with public transportation Research Lab of Chuo University in 1999. Noriyasu Kunori Associate professor at the Research & Development (Land, Infrastructure and Transportation Ministry) in 2009, a Organization, Chuo University, in 2001. verification committee for establishing objective systems for Professor in charge of a new course at the evaluating scenic spots working on reducing environmental Graduate School, Faculty of Engineering, Chuo load (Land, Infrastructure and Transportation Ministry) in University in 2006. 2009. In current position since 2009. Also a professor at The Open University of Japan. 【Scientific Papers】 Environmental Education from School to In-house Seminars 【Areas of Specialization】 at Businesses(Journal of the Academy of Environment Environmental management, CSR, environmental Management), 2003 (Paper received Environmental policy, environmental education, sustainable Management Academy’s Distinguished Research Work tourism Award), and a lot of books and research literatures have been published. Environmental Protection and CSR Governance in Deploying Global Operations I was given this opportunity to submit my third-party opinion on protection for employees in the framework of ESD (education for Tamron’s work in 2012 as I did last year. sustainable development). 22 Tamron deployed sound business operations in 2012, steadily As for relationships with society, the majority of the stakeholders achieving revenue growth under the continuing deflationary love Tamron. Tamron improving its rating in general on its customer economy. The growth was primarily through component optics and satisfaction survey shows that it is now highly valued as a reliable photographic interchangeable lens businesses that serve as core maker of quality products with sufficient communication capability. competences. Tamron also established a factory in Vietnam and a In addition, Tamron has been putting CSR procurement into sales base in Russia, aiming to be a global company with group total practice throughout its supply chain together with its suppliers and sales of 100 million yen. Tamron pursued separating after services business partners in accordance with its Supplier Code of Conduct. from competitors by being able to complete all repair services within In addition to its commitment to compliance with rigid European three days on a global basis. initiatives banning the use of harmful chemical substances, Tamron Tamron is becoming a global company in this way. In deploying its has decided not to use conflict minerals that are often used in many business operations globally, people at Tamron must remember precision products, demonstrating that the company recognizes the CSR governance and environmental protection. Tamron declared importance of risk management. supporting the 10 principles of the United Nation’s Global Compact For gender diversity, Tamron has steadily progressed by promoting Program, while pursuing CSR governance under its 12 CSR themes female employees to managers and planning in-house day-care through its internal CSR committee and in line with its Code of centers for employees’children. Overseas subsidiaries also worked Conduct that involves all stakeholders. I interviewed people at hard on educating their employees and creating comfortable work Tamron to ascertain if Tamron was actually following this. environments, but they should stay alert as situations change For environmental protection, Tamron has made steady rapidly, particularly in developing countries. At overseas factories in achievements in accordance with ISO 14001. In order to continue particular, maintaining good communications with employees and to grow in the coming low-carbon society, Tamron is now in the the community is essential, in addition to the basic requirements of stage of fundamentally reviewing its manufacturing and material reducing CO₂ emissions, saving energy and enhancing productivity. flow systems. In order to pursue its goal in this direction, Tamron Tamron is entering an era as a global company, committed to should consider education on CSR governance and environmental working for stakeholders all over the world. Editors’Postscript In compiling this report, we tried to report our Editors at Head Office accomplishments, focusing on communications with our stakeholders. We focused more on our work to contribute to society including our contributions to photographic and imaging culture as well as our relationships with society. We also tried to make this report easier to read by using universal fonts. We will continue to work on social issues, including CO₂ emissions on a global basis, listening to independent third-party Editors at Tamron Optical(Foshan） opinions. Editors at Three Aomori factories TAMRON CSR Report 2013 23 TAMRON CO., LTD. CSR Implementation & Administration Board 1385 Hasunuma, Minuma-ku, Saitama-city, Saitama 337-8556 TEL:（048）684-9190 FAX:（048）684-9472 E-mail: e-report@tamron.co.jp URL: http://www.tamron.co.jp TAMRON CSR Report 2013
