SoftSkills Management Consultants Communication on Progress Year: 2013 STATEMENT SoftSkills is a firm of Management Consultants with its Head office in Lagos, Nigeria. The firm has a special focus on imparting soft skills that managers generally have difficulty defining, measuring and managing. Our goal is to assist organizations to motivate and inspire their employees to peak performance as evidence has shown this to be the key drive for successful corporate performance. SoftSkills Management Consultants has a crop of reputable corporate citizen as her staff at all levels. As a member of the Global Compact, our aim is to implement the ten principles in our business policies. Business policies of like terms as the ten principles are embraced by the board of our company. Through our support of the United Nations Global Compact, we also aim to move the agenda forward on performance related to human rights, labour rights, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. Documented in this report is the summary of the progress we have made against these principles and we will continue to follow them up in future 11th May,2013 Wonuola Adetayo, Date Managing Director/ CE Contact: Wonuola Adetayo11th May, 2013Email: wonutayo2002@yahoo.com Phone: 2348029990258 1|Page S/N Global Compact Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the Performance Principle upcoming Year Indicator 1 Businesses In SoftSkills, all our workers are treated with fairness. Satisfactory should support Promotion is on merit and unbiased remuneration for their and respect the time at work. We consistently strive to create world class protection of atmosphere for our business processes. Our workforce is internationally gender balanced and females are treated with equal respect. proclaimed human rights; 2 Business makes Our business processes and policies are within the stipulated Excellently done sure that they are Human right law in Nigeria. Our terms of engagement and not complicit in mode of operations are within Nigeria and ILO that guarantees human rights non-violation of human rights of employees in whatever forms. abuses. We ensure that we are in alignment with Nigerian Constitution. 3 Businesses All our staff members have the freedom to join any association Excellently done should uphold of their choice without intimidation. Some of our members the freedom of belong to Chartered Institute of Personal Management (CIPM), association and Nigeria and Society of Human Resource Management, USA. the effective None of our staff member was coaxed to come to the office. recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4 The elimination of Our Workplace is void of staff intimidation. Our job offer letter Excellently done all forms of forced is well explicit enough for our new staff. Job description, and compulsory targets, KPI and expectations are jointly agreed and clearly labour; started. 5 The effective We discourage child labour in our work environment. None of Excellently done abolition of child our Staff member is below the legal working age – 18 years old. labour; The youngest staff on our payroll is 26 years old. 6 The elimination of We have an up-to-date records on recruitment, training and Excellently done discrimination in promotion of our staff. Going through the documents, it has a 2|Page respect of transparent view of opportunities for employees and their employment and progression within the organization occupation. 7 Businesses To encourage a precautionary approach to environmental Excellently done should support a challenges, we have a developed code of conduct for our precautionary business operations and it is committed to upholding good approach to health and the environment. HSE Policy in place, HSE meeting environmental and audit are carried out regularly. challenges; 8 Undertake SoftSkills is known to measure, track and communicate our Excellently done initiatives to development in incorporating sustainability. We identify with promote greater and support activities of organisation, corporate bodies and environmental NGO that promote environmental sustainability. responsibility; 9 Encourage the SoftSkills is knowledge firm, one of the ways we help to diffuse Excellently done development and an environmentally friendly technologies includes informing diffusion of our communities on the advantages of recycling and also by environmentally recycling our used paper materials instead of thrashing or friendly burning them. We try to reduce the use of paper materials by technologies. using CD Disc and emails, sms and other IT enabled devices for communication. 10 Businesses It is our standard practice never to give or collect bribes for the Excellently done should work jobs we do or the projects we solicit for. Part of the training and against all forms HR intervention to clients is hinged on good governance, work of corruption, ethics, professionalism and good corporate citizenship. including extortion and bribery. 3|Page
