16 August 2013 To our stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Ayeyarwady Bank (AYA Bank – a financial institution in Myanmar), through our daily business activities and our stakeholder relationships, reaffirms our support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas covering Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption issues. In Ayeyarwady Bank's first Communication on Progress, please find a description of our actions and steps taken to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategies, culture and our daily operations. Additionally, we commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Than Zaw Managing Director Ayeyarwady Bank Limited 1 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure Businesses are not complicit in human right abuses Assessment, policy and goals AYA Bank respects and fully supports the principles underlying universal Human Rights, including the right to equal opportunity and non-discrimination, and we are also committed to ensuring that all our employees receive fair treatment and respect. AYA Bank has published our very own Employee Handbook that details our employees' rights and resources within the organisation, written in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The Employee Handbook is revised on a regular basis to ensure that we take into consideration of the organisation’s growth and reflects any encountered experiences to help maintain timely and accurate provisions for the protection of stakeholders. Implementation AYA Bank fully respects written policies concerning human rights and provides equal opportunities for employment. Our internal regulations cover respecting human rights and preventing potential abuses and we follow all these regulations in every communication with our employees or candidates. AYA Bank announces all our vacancies publicly anddoes not discriminate in employment based on gender and race. All our employees can raise an objection or make a complaint about the incidents of human right violations towards any of their colleague. In order to facilitate such cases, the company has created a special mail box, staffcommittee@ayabank.com.mm; whereby all requests, feedback, questions are addressed. The mail box is checked by AYA Bank's Corporate Development Team that deals with the requests, working alongside the relevant units of the company that the requests, feedback or questions pertain to. AYA Bank also places emphasis on the importance of awareness raising or training of employees on human rights. Communication on the employee matters are placed regularly in our internal communication channel – monthly newsletters as well as through our regular circulars and emails. AYA Bank also respects the well-being of our employees and the community as a whole. The Corporate Development Team, together with the Human Resource Team, oversees the organisation's CSR agenda, supporting education and healthy and active lifestyles. Measurement of outcomes During this reporting period, no cases of human rights violations or complaints were reported. AYA Bank's activities for the well-being of our employees as well as our customers and the community in which we operate in can be seen under the following instances: Keeping the Hospital Clean AYA Bank employees voluntarily and actively support the maintenance and upkeep of the cleanliness of the Yankin Children Hospital, on a weekly basis, which was donated by Ayeyarwady Foundation, Ayeyarwady Bank's designated foundation in March 2011. Give Life, Give Blood 2 AYA Bank is an active participant when it comes to giving back to the society. AYA Bank held its second Blood Donation Drive on 19 January 2013. In order to ensure that our employees are kept healthy, vitamin pills were given out to registered donors a week in advance, and a healthy food-pack was given out on the actual day of donation. An Apple A Day Keeps the Doctor Away On World Health Day – 7 April 2013, AYA Bank gave out apples to all our employees and walk-in customers at the bank branches to celebrate the World Health Day. A total of more than 7000 apples were distributed. AYA Bowling An event to promote bonding within and for a healthy lifestyle, the bank takes initiatives to organise events such as the Bowling event, which was actively participated by all AYA staff. LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, policy and goals All employees of AYA Bank are given a contract of employment that states the terms and conditions of employment, including pay rates and overtime pay arrangements, standard terms and conditions of employment, as well as employee’s rights and disciplinary procedures. AYA Bank emphasizes on transparency within the organisation the bank recognizes that it is important to foster an organisation culture based on respect and trust. Implementation AYA Bank has written guidelines to ensure that Labour Rights are respected and in cases of violation of Labour Rights, the relevant authorities within the organisation resolve such cases with the best interest of the neglected party at heart. The Bank also has effective communication system in place for Complaints/ Suggestions to allow for communication between the Top Management and the Staff and also consults staff on a continuous basis. Measurement of outcomes AYA Bank's Corporate Development team and the Senior Management team work hand in hand to ensure that all employees across our Head Office level and at branches are given access to the same resources. AYA Bank stresses on the importance of equality at workplace and encourages freedom of speech and diversity in the workplace. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 3 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, policy and goals The AYA Bank’s board of directors and the management committee is fully aware of the importance of environmental risk as well as its threat to current and future environment. So, AYA’s top management team is carefully planning the implementation of corporate policies to protect environment. AYA Bank emphasizes on using resources in a sustainable manner. Our aim is to promote environmentally sound technologies within our Bank and stakeholders. Implementation AYA Bank is implementing the centralized electronic communication through intranet, emails and shared network drives to reduce paper usage. All AYA offices are installed with energy saving lights to promote clean energy in the environment. Measurement of outcomes AYA Bank's Corporate Development team monitors expenditures on paper usage and electric bills on quarterly basic to ensure that AYA Bank always cares for the environment. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals AYA Bank places a great importance to the transparency of relationship between staff, customers and third parties, in particular, to the integrity of its staff. Bribes are not accepted or solicited or mediated for a third party. Gifts may not be accepted or given in connection with the performance of work. Implementation AYA Bank creates a corporate culture based on honesty and openness. Policies are communicated to employees via standard internal communication tools. The Bank also has effective communication system in place for Complaints/ Suggestions to allow for communication between the Top Management and the Staff and also consults staff on a continuous basis. Measurement of outcomes AYA Bank's Corporate Development team and the Senior Management team work hand in hand to ensure that all employees across our Head Office level and at branches are given access to the same resources. AYA Bank stresses on the importance of equality at workplace and encourages freedom of speech and diversity in the workplace.
