Sustainability report 2012 Content Steel manufacturing is energy and resource-intensive and has an impact on the environment globally and locally. SSAB’s high strength steels offer advantages for sustainable growth. SSAB’s environmental strategy is ­ long-term in nature and based on efficiency and innovation. One challenge facing the steel industry is to secure important competence in the future. Developing opportunities in a global and safe work environment are critical. SSAB’s activities 2012 Systematic sustainability work Business overview Sustainability in SSAB 29 The year in brief 1 SSAB in a sustainable world 30 Comments by the CEO 2 Policies and guidelines 32 Drivers and challenges 4 Governance 33 Strategy and targets 6 SSAB’s offering 34 Stakeholders 9 Systematic environmental work 35 Efficient processes 36 Employees and competence 40 Suppliers 44 Economic value creation 10 SSAB in the community 45 GRI table 46 Swedish Steel Prize 11 Steel Talk ABC – a glossary 48 SSAB as a partner and supplier 14 Addresses 49 Focus: Emission rights 15 Focus: Logistics 16 The environment 18 Profitable environmental work 19 Focus: Baltic Sea sulphur directive 21 Social responsibility 22 High performing organization 23 Focus: Work environment and health 27 Focus: Visits to suppliers 28 About this report SSAB’s Sustainability Report 2012 reflects the most important aspects A complete content index, in accordance with Global Reporting of SSAB’s activities from a sustainability perspective. The report covers ­Initiative (GRI), is presented on pages 46–47, and SSAB has selfevents that occurred during the 2012 calendar year. Reported data declared the reporting to be Application Level C. SSAB’s Sustainability has been compiled during the reporting period and covers all business Report 2012 also constitutes Communication on Progress (CoP) areas and subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated. The environmental data reporting to Global Compact, where activities and results related to refers mainly to the Swedish and North American part of operations. Global Compact principles are reported through cross-reference to The Sustainability Report is published in Swedish and English. In the a selection of GRI indicators. In the event of questions or comments, event of differences between the English translation and the Swedish please contact SSAB at info@ssab.com. original, the Swedish Sustainability Report shall prevail. A stronger, ­ lighter and more ­sustainable world SSAB Americas SSAB is a global leader in value added, high Share of the Group’s strength steels. SSAB offers products developed in close cooperation with its customers to create a stronger, lighter and more sustainable world. 41% 75% sales EBITDA 58% 16 % capital employed registered number of employees Niche products Proposed dividend Operating cash flow share of total shipments per share 2012 38 % 2012 SEK 1.00 2012 SEK 4 ,929m Domex is a structural steel for Hardox is an abrasion-resistant Docol is a construction steel for Weldox is a steel for transport solutions, and is aimed steel for maximum payload, lighter, safer solutions in the stronger, lighter structures and is at the transportation industry. lifespan, and automotive industry, e.g. in the suitable for e.g. cranes. operational certainty. form of safety components. For more information about our brands and products see Prelaq is a pre-painted steel Armox is a protection steel Toolox is a tempered www.ssab.com which can be used for roofs and for personal safety. pre-hardened tool and panels and is available in a wide machine steel. range of colors. SSAB EMEA Share of the Group’s 38% 12% SSAB APAC Share of the Group’s sales EBITDA 6% 7% 33% 72 % sales EBITDA capital employed registered number of employees 4% 2% capital employed registered number of employees Försäljning total 2012 Sales, total • Sales of SEK 38,923 (44,640) SEK million SEK m 250 60,000 • Operating profit/loss of SEK –96 (2,512) million OMX Stockholm • Profit/loss after financial items of SEK –693 (1,998) million 50,000 200 SSAB A • Earnings per share of SEK 0.05 (4.82) 40,000 • Operating cash flow of SEK 150 4,929 (2,821) million 30,000 and cash flow from current operations of SEK 3,925 (2,200) million 20,000 • A dividend is proposed of100 SEK 1.00 (2.00) per share 10,000 50 0 08 09 10 11 12 Sales 0 08 09 10 11 12 The share’s performance Class A share Nasdaq OMX Stockholm Source: Six Trust Operating profit and margin SEK 250 SEK m % OMX Stockholm 10,000 30 SEK m % 8,000 25 200 10,000 SSAB A 30 20 SEK m % 6,000 25 10,000 8,000 30 150 15 4,000 20 8,000 6,000 25 10 2,000 15 100 20 5 6,000 4,000 15 0 1008 09 10 11 12 0 Profit 4,000 2,000 50 10 –2,000 5 -5 Margin 2,000 0 08 09 10 5 11 12 0 Profit 0 08 09 10 11 0 0812 09 10 11 12 0 Profit Margin –2,000 -5 –2,000 -5 Margin Source: Six Trust Class A share Nasdaq OMX Stockholm Source: Six Trust The year in brief SSAB’s strategy focuses on high strength steels globally. We have a leading position in our domestic markets, North America and the Nordic region. Through development of new application and aftermarket services we cooperate with our customers. SSAB’s goal is to be a leading steel producer in terms of profitability globally. Through the accomplished strategic investments in 2012, we have further strengthened our positions within high strength steels. We work continuously to be a high performing organization, with focus on a safe and stimulating workplace. Increased share of niche Focus on increased efficiency Increased commitment ­products Environmental work focused on short-term A Group employee survey reveals a positive SSAB's high strength steels create an and long-term gains in terms of resources trend, despite the fluctuations in the ­improved total economy for the customers. and the environment. ­economy. p.10 p.18 p.22 ssab sustainability report 2012 The year in brief 1 2012 was a weak year for the steel industry, but with our focus on increased customer cooperation, product development and flexibility, we continue to build a strong and sustainable SSAB. We translate our vision of “a stronger, lighter and more sustainable ­operations in Sweden. This process unavoidably generates large world” into actions every day. Our customer cooperation projects ­emissions of carbon dioxide, despite the fact that from an inter­ where we develop new ways of using steel, simplified production national perspective SSAB's steel production is among the most ­processes, and new end products, contribute to a stronger, lighter and ­efficient in minimizing emissions. Thus, it is worrying that the new more sustainable world. ­regulations governing emission rights, which the EU is in the process of Through the use of our high strength steels, excavator buckets introducing, will probably mean that we will not receive an allocation and dumpers become more abrasion resistant and last longer. Truck corresponding to our production capacity. In the long term, this means beds can be made lighter , while passenger cars with side impact that steel production may only increase in those countries where beams made of high strength steels become safer. emissions are not regulated, and of course this will benefit neither the It is in this way that SSAB contributes to a more sustainable world, European steel industry nor the environment. irrespective of how the global economy is developing. It is also concerning that the regulations governing shipping fuel During the past year we have updated our strategy. Just as prein the Baltic Sea, North Sea and English Channel are now being viously, the strategy focuses on our high strength steels. In order to ­sharpened compared with transportation on other seas. This means retain our leading position, we continuously develop new steel grades increased costs for Swedish industry, since there are currently no and new services. The ability to develop value added services through ­well-functioning alternative means of transport. It is not possible to an expanded service offering is important. We develop maintenance transport by rail much greater volumes than we do today, and transservices within wear steels, while at the same portation of steel by truck would be much time strengthening the cooperation with the »Our customer cooperation more costly, both for the industry and the customers. I would claim that SSAB's ­projects where we together environment. Thus, it is important that the ­customer offering in the form of process infrastructure will be developed so that we development, design and product develop­develop new ways of using steel, can transport our products in a safe and ment is unique in the steel world. new and simplified production environmentally friendly manner. We have a leading position in our ­processes, and new end products, It has been a challenging market to deal domestic markets, North America and the with during the year. At the beginning of the Nordic region. We shall retain this position contribute to a stronger, lighter year, an efficiency program was introduced in and at the same time increase our business and more s­ ustain­able world.« the Swedish operations aimed at creating in emerging markets. Our objective is that conditions for profitability even when we are high strength steels shall account for 50 percent of the shipments in not producing at full capacity. Among other things, this involved a 2015, with the addition that 35 percent of those shipments shall go to review of our production methods and a 10 percent reduction of emerging ­markets. ­positions among the white collar staff. During the latter part of the In order to reach the strategic targets, we continue to develop our year, we also gave notice of a reduction of 450 positions mainly within business and our employees. A safe, accident-free work environment production. The program also includes a review of what constitutes is an important basis for SSAB’s ability to be an attractive workplace. core operations, and which activities need not necessarily be carried Our work method creates conditions for increased flexibility, which out in-house. All in all, the entire program is to be completed during improve the quality in all respects. the first quarter of 2013. In addition, we have reached agreements with SSAB is a member of UN´s Global Compact, thereby making clear a large part of our employees in Sweden regarding reduced work hours the responsibility we assume as regards the environment, people and and pay during a six-month period. The understanding for the communities that are affected by our operations. This report consti­ ­situation demonstrated by our employees have been very valuable. tutes a part of our communication about how we operate based on We probably cannot count on any particularly rapid recovery in ­Global Compact principles. We will continue to support the UN Global demand, but we can ensure that we meet the challenges in the best Compact and its principles. Work is continuing on incorporating those possible manner. During the first half of 2012, SSAB was one of the principles into our strategy and ensuring that they become part of our most profitable steel companies in the world. We will regain that culture and our day-to-day operations. ­position. With our investments in place, our strategy for growth, and During the year, our strategic investment programs were realized. our skilled employees, I'm convinced that we will succeed. SSAB shall We have inaugurated the new quenching line in Mobile and now will be a winner in the steel world – also when times are tough. ­produce two of our most advanced grades of steel, Hardox and ­Weldox, in a plant which is likely the best in the US, and probably in the entire world. This, together with the production of thick plate in O ­ xelösund and the new quenching line in Borlänge, where we are producing thinner material, means that we offer the market a range of quenched and tempered steels, the breadth of which is unique in the world. Martin Lindqvist Iron ore and coal are the most important input materials in the President and CEO 2 Comments by the CEO ssab Sustainability report 2012 » With our investments in place, our strategy for growth and with our skilled employees, I am ­convinced that we will s­ ucceed.« ssab sustainability report 2012 Comments by the CEO 3 A world of steel Drivers and challenges Steel makes possible infrastructure, construction and transportation which move the society forward and contributes to economic and social development. At the same time, demand for efficient use of resources, efficiency and less impact on the environment increases. By applying a solution-oriented focus, it is possible to turn global challenges into opportunities. By encouraging innovation and through close cooperation with its customers, SSAB and its high strength steels contribute to a more sustainable society. Environmental issues are global, and so are the application and needs among SSAB's customers and its customers’ customers. The higher the use of high strength steels, the greater positive impact on the environment. Increased competition for competence All figures regarding The industry as a whole is facing a challenge when it comes to global use of steel ­securing important competence in the future. Surveys indicate that are ­derived from in the western world interest in studying natural sciences and the World Steel ­engineering is in decline, and unless this trend is reversed there is Association, 2012 a risk of competence shortages in the future. Consequently, ­competition is increasing to attract jobseekers possessing desired competence, and there are increased demands on employers to be able to offer an attractive workplace with developing o ­ pportunities. Great potential in the transport sector Transportation The world is dependent on transportation. People, products and goods around the world are being carried by various means of transport every ­accounts for 20% day. Transportation accounts for 20 percent of total global primary energy use and approximately 13 percent of greenhouse gas emissions. Steel enables safer transportation through increased protection for passengers and freight. The use of high strength steel in transportation of total global primary vehicles means that the weight and thereby fuel consumption can be energy use 13% reduced, which contributes to reduced emissions. New, i­ nnovative designs can further increase the efficiency of the vehicle. From a product life cycle perspective, there is potential to reduce p ­ assenger car greenhouse gas emissions by almost 70 percent. Steel is also crucial in of greenhouse gas emissions the design of new, high-speed rail transport. 4 Drivers and challenges ssab Sustainability report 2012 Competition and carbon dioxide restrictions The EU carbon dioxide emission rights trading system is becoming increasingly restrictive as regards the allocation of emission rights. At the same time, European steel companies are competing in the global market. A distortion of competition runs the risk of hampering ­European production. To achieve an efficient global change in carbon dioxide emissions requires that more countries introduce a correspon­ding system; but yet no global political agreements have been reached. Pressure is increasing on the US and Asia to introduce regulations. In 2012, Australia declared its intention to link its trading system with the European system, which is one step towards an increased international climate work. Suppliers and raw materials DEVELOPMENT AND GROWTH IN THE SOCIETY Changes in the price of iron ore pellets, coal and scrap metal are In recent years, China and other emerging markets have demonstra­affected by the balance between supply and demand. In the long term, ted incredibly rapid growth and a need to develop their infrastructures demand is increasing for efficient use of resources and utilization of in a sustainable and maintainable manner. An increasing population by-products in both the production and user stages. The objective is requires safe and stable buildings in which to study, work and live. to secure access to raw materials from reliable suppliers with a high ­Global urbanization demonstrates that growth is taking place in level of responsibility for both people and the environment. The ability ­metropolitan areas and ever greater numbers of people are living of companies to impose requirements and monitor conditions at their within smaller areas. The use of high strength steels in production suppliers constitutes an important confidence issue. Stringent ­instead of standard steels generates many advantages for both require­ments regarding safe working conditions are imposed, customers and the environment – fewer resources are used, and ­particularly in respect of the raw materials industry, which is often the structures are lighter, stronger and more durable. More than associated with a risk prone work environment. 50 ­percent of global steel production goes to construction. Resource efficiency and recycling Steel is one of the most recycled construction materials in the world. When all sectors are ­considered, over 70 percent of steel is recycled globally. Efficient use of resources is an issue which has a bearing on both the economy and the environment. Obsolete steel structures give rise to new raw materials, instead of generating waste. In addition to surplus energy, the steel production process also gives rise to a number of by-products. For example, slag is processed into new products with various areas of use instead of being deposited in landfills, and energyrich gases become electricity and district heating instead of being burnt off. The industry’s objective is to minimize waste and to deposit in landfills as little waste as possible. CARBON DIOXIDE AND TECHNICAL DEVELOPMENT Renewable energy The world steel industry accounts for almost 7 percent of the global is increasing carbon dioxide emissions. In Sweden, SSAB accounts for a large Structures for exploiting renewable energy share of the country's total emissions. SSAB discharges on average would not have reached their current state 1.2 tonnes of carbon dioxide per tonne of produced steel, compared of development without steel. New technowith the global average of 1.8 tonnes. With currently known logic innovations continue, with steel as an ­technology, carbon dioxide emissions from iron ore-based steel important part of the solution. Wind towers, production can be reduced only marginally. Increased demands for solar power plants and wave power plants all reduced carbon dioxide emissions require new steel production require durable and strong structures in technology. To achieve a more radical reduction in emissions both order to convert the forces of nature into carbon dioxide capture and storage is required. Extensive research clean energy and to distribute the energy to and development is taking place within these areas. where it is needed. ssab sustainability report 2012 Drivers and challenges 5 Strategy for long-term value creation SSAB’s target is to be one of the most profitable steel companies in the world and thereby create a long-term presence in the business. Similarly to the entire steel industry, SSAB is affected by the macroeconomic climate and the severe fluctuations in economic activity of recent years. The Group’s work is focused on achieving increased efficiency and greater flexibility in the ­organization. SSAB’s strategic objectives are global leadership within high strength steels, a leading position in the domestic markets and the ability to offer leading value added services. Vision Values A stronger, The customer's business in focus We always take an active interest in the customers’ business and seek long-term relationships. By sharing knowledge, lighter and more together we create value. True sustainable world We are dedicated and proud of what we do. We build strong relationships by being o ­ pen-minded, straightforward and honest and by sharing information and knowledge. Together with our customers, we will go further Always ahead than anyone else in realizing the full value of lighter, We are result-oriented. To achieve the h­ ighest performance stronger and more durable steel products. we always proactively seek to be innovative and enhance our expertise further. » Nowadays, there is high awareness of sustainability ­issues. Attractive jobseekers, not least young people, ­often choose employers who have a strong sustainability agenda. ­Therefore, SSAB's sustainability work results not only in benefits for the environment and our customers, but also strongly contributes to our ability to retain and recruit the personnel we need.« Sverker Martin-Löf, Chairman of SSAB, on SSAB’s sustainability work in the report Sustainable Value Creation 6 Strategy and targets ssab Sustainability report 2012 Leading within Flexibel Flexible high strength steels verksamhet operations Flexibel High performing Leading in domestic markets verksamhet organization Superior Leading in value Flexibel added services customer verksamhet experience Strategy Global leadership within high strength steels High strength steels provide the customer with advantages by making ­possible stronger, lighter and more durable products and solutions. Through new uses and innovative applications, SSAB’s steel can provide customers with both productivity and environmental benefits and a longer lifespan for the products themselves. These aspects are particularly important for customers at a time when major focus is being placed on resource efficiency and cost savings. Strong market position Europe, North America and Asia are three important strategic markets for SSAB. In Europe and America, where the markets are mature, a gradual switchover is taking place from standard steels to high strength steels. In the emerging markets, Asia, Latin America and Russia consumption of high strength steels is expected to grow. The Nordic region and North America are SSAB's domestic markets, with significant local production. SSAB is the leading supplier of strip steel in the Nordic region, while in North America it is the leading supplier of heavy plate. Proximity to the customers and relationships with them, as well as short delivery times, are of importance to retain the market positions. Leading value added services SSAB offers its customers added value through an extensive service ­offering connected to its products. For example, by strengthening the ‘Wear services’ offering within wear steels, cooperation between SSAB and the customer is enhanced. ssab sustainability report 2012 Strategy and targets 7 Targets Targets for the niche products Results for 2012 Niche products as a share of the Group’s In 2012, the share was 38% (37) total shipments in 2015: 50% Shipments to Asia as a share of total niche product In 2012, the share was 10% (12) shipments in 2015: 20% Environmental targets Development in 2012 Reduction in carbon dioxide emissions per tonne Preliminary results show that the target has been achieved. of produced steel by 2012 (base year 2008): 2% However, the production rate in 2012 was uneven due to the weak economic growth. Social responsibility targets Development in 2012 Annual reduction in lost time injuries: In 2012, the efforts focused on systematic safety work have shown a positive trend in terms of the at least 5% number of lost time injuries and accident frequency. On a Group level, there were 7.5 (9.2) lost time injuries per million worked hours. Performance dialogues conducted with at least In 2012, 88% (96) of the employees had performance dialogues. 90% of all employees each year »  The Environmental Council has produced proposals for new targets covering carbon dioxide, energy and depositing issues. The work of disseminating these proposals within the organization is beginning in 2013.« Kim Kärsrud, Group Environmental Director, SSAB External undertakings SSAB is a signatory to the UN's Global ­Compact and supports its 10 principles within the areas human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-­corruption. Guidelines and policies are described on page 32 and on www.ssab.com. 8 Strategy and targets ssab Sustainability report 2012 Transparency and confidence Motto in dialogue with stakeholders Openness is critical in creating confidence in the dialogue with various stakeholders. Through dialogue in the relationship with its stakeholders, SSAB obtains feedback about its business, identifies important issues, and has the opportunity to be proactive. » As investors, we appreciate the opportunity to have an impact on the inside of the business and the opportunity for dialogue with companies. At SSAB's Investor meeting in Borlänge focuses on sustainability Shareholders and investors represent a group of stakeholders with a growing interest in sustainability issues and sustainability work. SSAB plant in Borlänge, steel production takes place in meets regularly with investors in order to discuss and answer to processes which impose rigorous demands for ­questions about its sustainability work. In the autumn, a visit in safety awareness and constant improvements in ­Borlänge was arranged for some twenty analysts. Sustainability issues the efficient use of resources in order to dominated the agenda. mitigate the impact on the environment. When we meet companies, the fact that SSAB’s CEO and colleagues discussed sustainability issues that the CEO and senior management make have a clear connection to the business, such as customer benefits, the connection between the sustainaenvironmental efficiency improvements and their economic outcome, bility work and profitability and revesafety work, logistics for achieving increased synergies and on-time nues, from both risk and environmental deliveries, strategic competence development , business ethics, and perspectives, send an important signal.« the supplier chain. Pär Löfving, Senior Analyst ­ Responsible investments, DnB Acknowledgement of transparency Analyses of SSAB’s sustainability work have qualified the share to be Based on its work within the environment area, included in a number of sustainability indices. Inclusion in such indices social issues and corporate governance, represents an acknowledgement of the work that SSAB is conducting SSAB is included in the OMX GES Sustainability Sweden Index and the OMX GES Sustainability and that its information is transparent. This makes the share attractive Sweden Ethical Index. The index is produced by the Stockholm Stock Exchange for investors who have particular preferences in terms of a company's Nasdaq OMX in cooperation with the analyst firm GES Investment Services. risk management work and broader perspective. Dialogue with ssab’s stakeholders Read more Stakeholder Forum Issues on pages Owner Investor meetings for shareholders • Sustainability strategy 6–8, 19–20, and analysts • Economic development 25–26, 28, 44 • Safety issues • Risks at suppliers • Climate issues Employees Performance dialogues, • Feedback regarding results and performance 6–8, 23–27, Employee surveys, information • Planning of development opportunities 40–42 ­meetings • Work environment and safety • Strategic issues Customers Knowledge Service Center, • Profitability and environmental advantages 11–14, 16, 34 Customer seminars and trade fairs, with high strength steels Swedish Steel Prize • Exchanges of knowledge • On-time deliveries and quality Community Local consultation with residents, • Permit matters 19–20, 35–39, 45 media, environmental groups and • Impact on local communities ­politicians • Environmental impact • Exchange of information Public agencies Industry organizations, research • Emission trading rights and competition conditions 15, 19–20, 35–39 and organizations ­cooperation projects, consultation • Technical developments and negotiations in permit matters • Reporting of environmental matters Suppliers Purchasing meetings, conferences, • Contract questions concerning human rights and the environment 16, 28, 44 visits to suppliers • On-time deliveries and quality ssab sustainability report 2012 Stakeholders 9 Economic value creation SSAB’s offering The strategic objective of increasing the share of high strength steels means delivering continued productivity and environ­mental benefits to the customers through stronger, lighter and more durable solutions. Through a clear strategy, SSAB ­creates new, innovative solutions based on the by-­ products from steel production, thereby closing the eco-cycle. Swedish Steel Prize For every winner of the Swedish Steel Prize, A COMPETITION WITH PEDIGREE This year's winner of the Swedish Steel Prize was the 14th winner in the there are a large number of other contribu­history of the competition. Since 1999, SSAB has awarded the prize tions, all of which express SSAB's vision of a to ­innovations which utilize the qualities of high strength steels in order to stronger, lighter and more sustainable world. achieve important efficiency improvements – primarily in terms of ­productivity, costs, and the environment. The aim of the competition is to inspire Each year, contributions are received from a number of different ­solutions that contribute to improvements ­industries and many different countries. This reflects the great potential for within different industries and areas of use. solutions made of high strength steel, and the prestige that nomination in the competition carries with it. The winner is awarded SEK 100,000, together with a trophy. THE ENVIRONMENT’S ROLE IN THE ASSESSMENT All submitted contributions are assessed based on a number of established criteria which include applicability, profitability, environmental benefits, performance, and inventive steps. The advantages provided by the new design must result in such a reduced impact on the environment, longer product life, lower costs and strengthened competitiveness, both for the individual company and for the entire industry or society in general. Swedish Steel Prize 11 Swedish Steel Prize winners over the years Shared vision of the opportunities offered by steel winners of the swedish Steel Prize 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 A-Ward Deere & Company Van Reenen Labrie Environ­ Kuhn Baryval Fiat and Wagon Attachments Ltd. Steel Ltd mental Group, Inc. Serviplem Automotive By using high The US company Van Reenen Steel The garbage truck The French comThe Spanish The Italian company strength Hardox Deere & Company Ltd from South manufacturer Labrie pany Kuhn was the ­company Baryval Fiat and the rolesteel, the winner (John Deere) won Africa, with its conEnvironmental winner with its lawn Serviplem’s forming specialist from New Zealand with a harvester tribution in the form Group, from Canada, mower constructed ­contribution in the company Wagon has developed a which utilizes high of a lighter and with a new vehicle of advanced high form of a new semiAutomotive jointly flexible system for strength steels in more durable platmodel which can strength steels, trailer with concrete developed an upper compressing and order to achieve form for dumper significantly which provides an mixer drum, with a collision safety packing scrap metal increased productitrucks within the increase the payimproved operating significant reduction beam which satisfies in containers which vity and satisfy more mining industry. load thanks to an economy as well as in weight, generates the most stringent is of major rigorous environ­ optimized structure ergonomic and productivity and collision safety importance for the mental requirein high strength environmental environmental requirements while recycling industry. ments. steels. benefits. savings at at the same time ­construction sites. saving resources, space and the ­environment. 12 Swedish Steel Prize ssab Sustainability report 2012 »We are pleased to announce our first winner from New Zealand. A-Ward demonstrates the advantages of high strength steels with an innovative and well-planned solution. Productivity and service life have been improved significantly and their products contribute to a more sustainable society.« K-G Ramström, chairman of the Swedish Steel Prize jury, and SSAB’s Chief Technical Officer 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 CMT Trim Trends Co. LLC Su-Dan Corporation Jindo Corporation Lear Corporation Ameron Bromma and Superior Trailer International B.V. Conquip AB CMT from Sweden The US company Works The Korean comLear Corporation Ameron InternatioThe Swedish comwon with its contaiTrim Trends’ battery Both of the winners pany Jindo was from Italy was nal from Holland, pany Bromma Conners which are chaholder creates come from the US awarded the prize rewarded for its rear won with its tubular quip received the racterized by low ­conditions for more automotive industry. for its steel contaiseat design based product for the petprize for its portweight, high abraenvironmentally Superior Trailer ner which weighs on high strength rochemical industry based lifting beam sion resistance, and ­efficient vehicles in Works’ contribution approximately the steel which, despite which can withstand for containers, where good profitability for the form of hybrid was a new truck platsame as an alumistrength and high very high pressures dead-weight on the customers. motors which require form which provides num container, but performance, also and ­creates benefits some models has large operating improved transportawith a significantly reduced the weight in terms of safety, been reduced by up ­batteries. tion economy and a lower production by 25 percent cost, handling and to 40 percent and reduced impact on cost. ­compared with ­assembly. lifting capacity the environment. ­corresponding increased by up to By choosing high designs. 80 percent. strength steels, ­Su-Dan Corporation eliminated a complicated production stage. ssab sustainability report 2012 Swedish Steel Prize 13 Stringent demands A reliable partner and supplier FIAT AND IKEA CHOOSE SSAB AS SUPPLIER Innovation through Shipments During the year, two of SSAB's customers carried out supplier audits with positive results. The ability ­cooperation Thousand tonnes 6,000 to live up to rigorous demands in terms of quality, Thanks to SSAB’s skills and know-how 5,000 sound working conditions and environmental ­regarding the use oftonnes Thousand applications, together 4,000 6,000 ­performance constitutes an important hallmark of with its customers SSAB is able to develop 3,000 quality, and is an increasingly decisive factor in the solutions which5,000utilize the properties of high 2,000 eyes of purchasing departments. At the beginning strength steels. 4,000Thus, the number of of the year, IKEA visited Borlänge in order to carry ­development projects carried out together 3,000 1,000 Standard ste out an audit of SSAB’s work within the areas of the with customers throughout the world 0 08 09 10 11 12 Niche steel 2,000 environment, health, and social responsibility. The ­represents a gauge of success. There was a 1,000 Standard steel grade awarded was ‘very good’. 70 percent increase in the number of 0 09 10 11 12 Niche steel Fiat carried out a similar supplier assessment ­development projects08in 2012. during the autumn and, in its audit, awarded SSAB the highest grade. According to Fiat, SSAB’s w ­ ork with continoues improvements is world-class. SSAB’s greatest competitive strength lies in its high quality steel products and its unique know-how regarding the ­properties of the steel. Value creation requires the Company to live up to its customers’ demands for uncompromising ­integrity, sound working conditions, and a production which is as ­environmentally efficient as possible. NEW SMART ROOFING SHEET, SHARED RESULT NO CONFLICT MINERALS IN SSAB’S STEEL A new roofing sheet with environmental advantages was launched in 2012. ’Conflict minerals’ is a term used for minerals from areas Prelaq Green Coat is an example of how close cooperation with customers and characterized by large-scale internal strife, where the mining others can create interesting solutions. The development is the result of a of minerals risks contributing to, or financing, continued ­cooperation project with KTH (the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm), conflict and violation of human rights. This is a subject that Akzo Nobel and Lantmännen. The main advantage is that the paint on the has been discussed intensively at an international level, ­coated sheet to a large extent is comprised of components from renewable including at the UN. Minerals from the Congo (including gold, plant oils, in contrast to using fossil oils. tin, tungsten, and tantalum) are examples of conflict In Europe, 150,000 tonnes of paint are used annually for coating steel ­minerals. In the US, the Securities and Exchange Commission sheet, with the paint traditionally being produced with chemicals derived from (SEC) requires that public companies disclose whether they fossil oils. The new product provides the sheet metal industry with an important use conflict minerals in their products or production. SSAB competitive advantage in the market. Tests conducted over a number of years does not use conflict minerals and, upon requests, provides demonstrate that the paint is as durable as other coatings. customers with certificates affirming this. DIRECT AND INDIRECT VALUE »Steel provides more generated value SSAB’s operations and business create both direct and than 2 million jobs ­indirect economic value. In addition to direct value generated in the form of profits to the shareholders and wages and directly and creates Wages and salaries 48% Wages and salaries 48% Social security Social security salaries to employees, SSAB is a part of the community’s an additional expenses expenses Dividends 19% 19% Dividends 4 million jobs in to shareholders 9% economic cycle. SSAB contributes to the local economies in to shareholders 9% Interest payments Interest to lenders 7% payments those places where it operates through taxes and charges. ­related industries« to lenders 7% Reinvested in the Company 17% Reinvested The Company also contributes to the local economy in the Company 17% through its purchasing and by contracting locally. World Steel Association 14 SSAB as a partner and supplier ssab Sustainability report 2012 Focus: Emission rights An economic control tool for climate work The EU emission rights trading system utilizes market forces in order to achieve a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions and is a control tool for achieving climate goals. Since there is a price on emissions, there is an increased economic incentive to invest in measures that reduce emissions. The system provides an opportunity to contribute to improvements releated to emissions outside the EU, thereby reducing global emissions. New trading period the volume covered by the allocated D ­ evelopment Mechanism) and are financed SSAB is covered by the EU’s emissions rights ­emission rights. This is partly due to the fact by various parties and audited by trading system, and 2013 begins a new that SSAB has invested in more efficient ­independent authorized public accountants ­trading period which extends up to and ­production processes, and is also a result of who report to the UN. ­including 2020. The EU is now decreasing the the Company not having produced at full The emission reduction certificates (CER cap for greenhouse gas emissions compared capacity due to the global economic climate. rights) are issued by the UN based on what with the previous trading period. The rate Some of the emission rights that have not each project has actually generated in terms of emissions is such that the EU guarantees been used have been sold in the regulated of emission reductions. The aim is to imple­fulfillment of its target of achieving a market for trading in emission rights. No ment improvement projects which otherwise 20 percent reduction in emissions in 2020, emission rights were sold in 2012. would not have taken place, thereby compared with 1990. In addition, the trading ­contributing to reduced emissions and more system covers new sectors, such as the Global improvements sustainable development globally. ­aviation industry. Industries which operate One aspect of the way in which the economic SSAB is entitled, and has chosen, to in the global market and risk relocating forces of the trading system work is that ­substitute some of the emission rights ­production outside the EU in the event costs SSAB and other companies included in the ­submitted to the emissions register with CER become too high, can obtain a free system have the possibility to exchange rights. This means that SSAB has indirectly ­allocation of emission rights up to the best ­allocated emission rights for so-called CER participated in, and financed, projects for European performance level. The steel (Certified Emission Reduction) rights. These reducing emissions in other countries. Since ­industry is one of those industries. are emission rights that are linked to a carbon dioxide is a global issue with a global ­voluntary emissions reduction project in a impact, the measures are of importance for Reduced emissions are rewarded developing country and is conducted within the environment wherever they are carried During some of the years the system has the scope of project-based mechanisms out. The trading system creates economic been in place, SSAB's operations have had provided for in the Kyoto protocol. Such incentives for companies to make these lower emissions of greenhouse gases than ­projects are referred to as CDM (Clean undertakings. ssab sustainability report 2012 Focus: Emission rights 15 Focus: Logistics The environment and economy go hand-in-hand within logistics SSAB’s business depends on good communications and functioning logistics in order to ensure ­on-time deliveries. Sustainability in the society is based on good infrastructure. Thus, efficient and long-term transportation solutions – what SSAB refers to as “sustainable transportation” – constitute the basis for a well-functioning society. SSAB EMEA’s logistics work is conducted through strategic plans and solutions and in dialogue with the business community and the politicians. Stable infrastructure Acting together for change ­ chieving society’s climate and environ­ a is important for profitability Historically, disruptions in the rail traffic are mental objectives, since more goods can be The railway plays a key role in the production primarily due to capacity, and maintenance transported by rail, instead of by road. and supply chains of SSAB and other large related problems attributable to too little Swedish companies. For example, every day investments in the sector. Important freight Strategic logistics efficiency work SSAB ships approximately 6,000 tonnes of lines are affected by bottlenecks. SSAB, SSAB works to achieve more efficient transsteel by rail from Luleå to Borlänge. When together with other large Swedish companies portation where reliability and foreseeability the entire logistics chain functions it (among other, through the Confederation of play a key role. When evaluating logistics strengthens competitiveness. Conversely, Swedish Enterprise’s Swedish Shippers’ solutions, the main drivers are cost, the envidisruptions have significant impact on Council), is acting to achieve a positive ronment, and service level. The way in which ­competitiveness. Robust stretches and hubs ­development. Focus is on the need for a these factors are interlinked is illustrated by are valued hundreds of millions SEK for SSAB. long-term strategy for investments in SSAB's work on improved transportation A stop in an important hub such as Malmö infrastructure. This is important in order to corridors in Western Europe. By directing the can have major consequences. Conversely, achieve the overall aims of a transportation traffic to important hubs in Europe, SSAB has ­stability in the infrastructure is of great value. policy – a transportation supply structure for created more efficient and reliable transporRail traffic disruptions are also costly individuals and the business community tation, while at the same time achieving cost from an environmental perspective. In order throughout the country which is efficient savings. The change has resulted in reduced to deliver on time, companies are forced to from a macroeconomic perspective and transportation work, which is also a benefit use more flexible solutions involving means ­sustainable in the long term. from an environmental perspective. of transport with a greater impact on the The starting point for this work should be SSAB has also worked together with environment, such as trucks. This example new, improved macroeconomic models suppliers of transportation services to exploit demonstrates how increased efficiency and which correctly reflect the benefit to society empty return journeys in order to ship freight. environmental considerations are often two provided by freight transportation. It is Here, too, political decisions are important in sides of the same coin. Resource-efficient important that political decisions take into order to make accurate information available solutions are often beneficial for the account the bigger picture and safeguard and to facilitate the development of such a ­environment as well as being cost efficient. Swedish competitiveness. system. SSAB is working to improve the load From an environmental perspective, ratio of the vehicles, thereby contributing to investment in railway as a means of transport fewer journeys, lower fuel consumption and, in constitutes an important means for turn, a reduced impact on the environment. » A well-functioning railway system is essential for both companies and society in general – it benefits growth and constitutes an important element of climate and energy policy in Sweden. SSAB has achieved good results within the logistics area. We are also ­working actively to achieve an improved infrastructure and improved political direction within the transportation sector which will provide opportunities for the future.« Per Bondemark, Head of Logistics at SSAB EMEA 16 Focus: Logistics ssab Sustainability report 2012 SSAB’s distribution network in 2010. The work on ­improved transportation corridors has changed the ­picture. The map shows SSAB's ­distribution ­network in 2012. ssab sustainability report 2012 Focus: Logistics 17 The Environment SSAB’s environmental work Environmental improvement work continued during the year. Work in 2012 focused on promoting environ­mental, energy and climate issues. Long-term focus is p ­ laced on efficiency improvements and innovations which reduce the environmental impact from production. Profitable environmental work Reduces use of resources and generates cost savings More scrap metal in Luleå The establishment of Merox, a subsidiary which processes ­by-products from steel production, in Luleå has contributed to the blast furnace being able to use scrap metal as a complement to iron ore pellets, also during the winter. Previously, the piles of scrap metal attracted moisture and froze during the winter. Merox has coordinated work related to material flows in tempera­tures down to –35°C. In addition, in 2012, ­briquettes produced by Merox from ­by-products from Oxelösund replaced parts of the iron ore as a raw material in Luleå. Savings of costs and resources continued with focus on identifying an optimal mix of scrap metal, LD slag and briquettes. MOBILE AWARDED GREEN PRIZE Environmental work during the The US industry organization, the American Steel Manuyear focused on efforts which can facturers Association (SMA), awarded SSAB in Mobile the 2012 Achievement in Environmental S ­ tewardship generate gains in terms of and Recycling Award. SMA recognizes in particular resources and the e ­ nvironment in SSAB’s extensive recycling program and a number of both the shorter and longer term. other projects, such as waste minimization, lime re­cycling, and energy efficiency improvements. The Several investments and projects award is part of SMA’s efforts to highlight the importance carried out in previous years are of environmental stewardship in the steel industry. now s­ howing clear results. Used car tires substitutes coal in the electric arc furnace in Mobile. ALLOCATION OF EMISSION RIGHTS 2013–2020 SSAB has been notified by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency regarding a preliminary allocation of emission rights which corresponds to approximately 75 percent of the allocation in the preceding period. The proposal by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency must be approved by the EU Commission in order to enter into force. China utilizes gas In Kunshan, SSAB APAC has installed regenerative thermal oxidation (RTO) equipment which handles gases and waste heat from the painting line. The Heating stoves generate double gain At the beginning of 2012, SSAB was able to observe the full gases are recycled through the use, in preheaters and a drying oven, effect of the investment in heating stoves at the smaller blast of the heat which is generated when the gases are burned. The investment furnace in Oxelösund. The gains are significant from both an represents a focus on recycling within SSAB APAC. An internal environmental and economic perspective. The savings were ­environmental organization is also under development. calculated to SEK 75–120 million per year, but overall the savings are larger. The heating stoves provide a more even and RESIDUAL HEAT BECOMES DISTRICT HEATING stable operation of the blast furnace, which is more efficient At the end of 2012, a new energy recycling plant was opened in Finspång. and reduces the impact on the environment. The stoves make Through the use of the flue gases from the organic coating line, 1,500 singlethe hot blast air which is injected into the blast furnace even family homes in Finspång can be provided with district heating (equivalent to hotter, and consequently less injection coal and coke per tonne 10 MW). The municipal company Finspångs Tekniska Verk defrayed the cost of produced iron are required in the hot metal process. This of, and owns, the facility which delivers energy in the district heating network. reduces carbon dioxide emissions. ssab sustainability report 2012 Profitable environmental work 19 Baltic Sea carbon dioxide capture and storage project In 2012, SSAB decided to participate in a CCS (Carbon dioxide Capture and Storage) project in the Baltic Sea region. The project, BASTOR 2, is expected to end in 2014. The project involves studying whether carbon dioxide can be stored in the deep sandstone formations that are found beneath the bed of the Baltic Sea. The project takes a holistic approach and will describe consequences from both environmental and societal perspectives, and also legal aspects. In addition, possible infrastructure requirements for the transportation of carbon dioxide will be studied. SSAB, together with a number of other Swedish industrial companies, participates in the project, which is supported by the Swedish Energy Agency and Global CCS Institute. ULCOS-BF AND HISARNA PERMIT MATTERS AND DIALOGUE WITH GOVERNMENT AGENCIES SSAB participates in two European cooperation projects within As part of the EU's Industrial Emissions Directive (IED), the so-called BREF ULCOS, both of which are aimed at achieving a 50 percent reducdocument (BAT Reference Documents) for the steel industry was translated tion in carbon dioxide emissions generated in conjunction with during the year. It describes what are considered to be the best available steel production. One of the projects, called ULCOS-BF, involves techniques (BAT) in the various process stages in the production of steel. One an entirely new type of blast furnace in which carbon dioxide can important point is that the emission values which can be achieved when using be captured for storage. The preparations for converting one of best available techniques will become binding values, equal to conditions, in ArcelorMittal’s blast furnaces in France into a demonstration plant each steel company’s permit to conduct operations. Commencing 2014, the have proceeded in accordance with the plan to bring the plant IED will apply to operations in Sweden that are subject to a permit requirement. into operation before the end of 2015. However, in the autumn of SSAB will partially finance the taking of test samples to investigate any 2012, ArcelorMittal announced that it did not intend to start the contamination around the Dannemora mine, where SSAB has conducted furnace. SSAB and other project participants are studying the ­operations in the past. possibilities for continuing with the project. The second project, SSAB in Oxelösund has conducted extensive studies into emissions into called HIsarna involves an entirely new type of process for pro­ the air and water, energy efficiency and noise in the immediate surroundings. ducing hot metal, is being conducted on a pilot scale. During the These studies were submitted to the Land and Environmental Court in the form year, a number of tests were carried out at the facility, which is of 12 trial period studies. SSAB in Luleå has carried out a number of studies into located at Tata Steel’s steelworks in IJmuiden in the Netherlands. emissions of, among other, dust and sulphur, which have been reported to the same authority. Decisions are expected in 2013. SSAB Americas continues to engage in dialogue with local and federal ­authorities, both directly and through industry associations, to ensure they recognize the operational impact of proposed environmental legislation and changes to environmental regulations. VANADIUM PROJECT TOGETHER WITH MISTRA CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENTS IN SSAB AMERICAS During the year, the eight-year long Steel Eco-Cycle project, The environmental managers of Mobile and Montpelier are participating in which was partially financed by Mistra, came to its conclusion. cross-functional teams of people from across the organizations, to identify In one of the sub-projects, SSAB together with LKAB and potential efficiency measures, including waste minimization and recycling oppRautaruukki supported research on vanadium, in a project manaortunities, as part of an effort to reduce operational costs in the steel works. ged by Swerea Memos. The research covers from basic research In Montpelier, a new baghouse for the melt shop was put into operation. to industrial trials and the impact of vanadium on the environHaving this additional baghouse capacity in place is beneficial not only from an ment. Vanadium is present in the iron ore which SSAB uses, and operational standpoint, but also from a safety and environmental aspect. The it has been a challenge to find ways to utilize the vanadium, which new baghouse improves the working conditions for the melt shop significantly is a useful alloying agent for the steel industry. The vanadium by evacuating larger volumes of particulates generated during the melting and ­normally ends up in steel slag, and thus the possibilities to use the refining of steel scrap in the electric arc furnaces. slag are limited. The research has resulted in a new method for the production of a commercial vanadium product, and this can now Read more about the systematic environmental work and be implemented incrementally in SSAB's processes. compiled figures for the year in the section on pages 35-39 20 Profitable environmental work ssab sustainability report 2012 Focus: Baltic Sea Sulphur Directive New sulphur directive imposes stricter requirements The new sulphur directive, with its stringent maritime fuel requirements regarding the Baltic Sea, North Sea and English Channel, is intended to strengthen protection of the sensitive maritime ­environment. At the same time, it will have consequences on the competitiveness of, among others, many Swedish companies. Part of the criticism is that the directive imposes differing conditions for the various seas within the EU. Already strongly protected Total change-over in the long term switchover to marine fuel in accordance with The EU's sulphur directive, which impacts on The background to the directive lies in a the directive will result in increased costs of SSAB’s maritime transport, is a decision which decision from the International Maritime SEK 13-28 billion in respect of retained has proven to be problematic. Critics believe Organization (IMO) regarding sulphur dioxide ­traffic. The same report assesses the that the marine environment in the Baltic Sea restrictions in maritime transport. In the ­environmental benefit of the decision as is already protected through the current long-term, the similar restrictions will apply equivalent to approximately SEK 7 billion. requirements regarding the sulphur content to all seas, but implementation will take place of shipping fuel. The current requirement of at different speeds. The waters around the Dialogue and cooperation 1.0 weight percent can be compared with coast of North America are subject to similar Individual enterprises or companies which ­global limits of 3.5 percent for 2012–2020. requirements regarding low sulphur levels in are disproportionately disadvantaged by the The new sulphur directive requires that marine fuel as apply in the Baltic sea. new rules have the possibility to request an the sulphur content in the fuel of vessels exemption. A number of countries, such as ­plying the Baltic Sea, North Sea and English Protection or hindrance? France and the UK, have already sought Channel be reduced to 0.1 percent in 2015. In the short-term, the directive risks leading exemptions. On the other hand, outside this specially to an imbalance between players in the SSAB is cooperating with the rest of ­protected area, a reduction to only ­European market. In the long-term, its impact Europe on these issues, among other things 0.5 percent is required, and this will not on the environment may be more negative through participation in networks such as enter into force until 2020. than positive since, in order to avoid the European Shippers Council and by This means that players within the EU’s ­becoming uncompetitive, for economic supporting initiatives such as the Trans maritime areas will be competing on unequal reasons the industry might be forced to use of European Transport Network (TEN-T), which terms, which could be considered to contraroad transport more than maritime transport. is aimed at linking together transportation dict the EU's fundamental principle of free In a report from 2009, the Swedish networks within the EU. competition in the internal market. ­Maritime Administration calculates that the ssab sustainability report 2012 Focus: Baltic Sea sulphur directive 21 Social responsibility People and the community The year has involved structural changes at SSAB and ­continued work to achieve higher flexibility in the organization. The Voice employee survey, covering the entire Group, ­demonstrates that the long-term work is generating results. High performing organization With a focus on a safe and stimulating workplace VOICE ’12 REVEALS CONTINUED POSITIVE TREND During the year, SSAB conducted the Voice ’12 employee survey across the entire Group. This is the third time since 2008 that a full-scale Voice survey has been ­carried out. The survey is intended for all employees. Voice constitutes an important tool for managers at all levels with respect to continued improvement work and development of leadership. This year’s survey was conducted in 12 languages and the 86 percent response rate was the highest ever. Results from Voice have shown a positive trend, despite fluctuations in the ­economic climate and the internal measures taken to reduce costs. The Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI), a gauge of how satisfied employees are with SSAB as an employer, increased from 84 percent in 2010 to 89 percent in 2012. One of the ­strategic objectives of the work on achieving a high performing organization is to achieve an ESI of more than 90 percent by 2015 at the latest. One explanation for the positive trend lies in the improvement work which has been carried out since the last Voice survey in 2010. Employees in all business areas are also demonstrating increased commitment, expressed as energy level and clarity with respect to their own goals and the Company's goals. 89% One of the cornerstones in SSAB's strategy is a high ­performing organization. This involves long-term work on developing and strengthening the performance culture, zero tolerance as regards accidents, and continuing to be an SATISFIED EMPLOYEES ­attractive knowledge company. Developing employees and creating exciting career opportunities are important priorities. New network for female managers Together with nine companies in Sweden, SSAB participates in a diversity i­ nitiative called Battle of the Numbers, which is aimed at increasing the number of women who hold senior corporate management positions. This is a way of contributing to achieving, in the long-term, greater equality in the sourcing of managers, increased profitability and competitiveness. The companies operate in different industries and represent in total 570,000 employees. Ten future or current female managers from each of the participating companies will act as internal consultants and be included in a network of 100 women. Their task is to produce proposals as to the specific work that each of their companies can do to achieve increased diversity, taking into consideration career paths and work life balance. Proposals are to be presented to each relevant Group management. Within SSAB, in 2012 women accounted for 18 percent of the managers, and 23 percent of the managerial candidates. ssab sustainability report 2012 High performing organization 23 ORGANIZATION AND FLEXIBILITY IN SWEDEN SSAB works to reduce costs and create higher flexibility in the organization, in order to adapt operations to the prevailing economic climate. During the spring, a review of the organization and white collar staffing was initiated, resulting in a reduction in the number of ­positions. Towards the end of 2012, a program was introduced involving a reduction of work hours and pay for employees in the Swedish operations. The program extends for six months and covers approximately 70 percent of all employees in Sweden. In addition to the reduction of positions among the white collar staff, in October 2012 a notice of a reduction of 450 positions, mainly within production, was given. The notice of INCREASED STRATEGIC FOCUS redundancy covers 200 employees in During the year, systematic work was initiated to identify future competence requirements ­Borlänge, 150 in Oxelösund and 100 in Luleå. based on strategic initiatives. The aim is to identify, in a structured manner, where critical SSAB is cooperating with the Trygghetsrådet ­competence exists in the company and where it will be needed in the future. In an initial phase, outplacement service in order to support those SSAB focuses on a number of critical competence areas in order to establish the methods and employees covered by the redundancy in way of working in mapping competences against demand. ­finding new employment. The successful implementation of the global capital expenditure projects for increased high strength steel production capacity is an acknowledgement of the Group’s ongoing work with competence development and safety. Exchange of competences within the Group together with a strong focus on safety have been crucial factors behind the efficient implementation of SSAB's major projects in 2012 – the quenching line in i Mobile, the quenching line in Borlänge, the new finishing line in Kunshan, and increased capacity in Oxelösund. Important starting point SSAB has a comprehensive approach to the introduced in the autumn of 2012. The issue of training and education within the ­training covers the entire Group and is for e-learning Group and, during the year, established a focused on SSAB’s Code of Business Ethics ­global platform for delivering and adminis­ and ethical approach, Instructions regarding tering e-learning. At the same time, the the prohibition of bribery and the Whistle­possibilities to offer ever more training blower reporting routine. The training is ­internally in the form of e-learning are under ­available in three languages – Swedish, review. In the long-term, this might result in ­English and Chinese. The purport of the e-learning modules for the mandatory Company’s guidelines is explained through ­training stages in the production process, and the use of graphics and in clear, simple also for further training within specialist areas. ­language. Employees conducting the During 2012, SSAB worked on two ­training are presented with a number of important e-learning training courses. ­ethical dilemmas in which SSAB's guidelines SSAB's sales staff will be offered supplemenserve as guidance. At the end of 2012, more tary training about products through a than 20 percent of employees had underThrough graphics and clear language in an e-learning course, SSAB's employees are module which is planned to be launched at gone the training course. The objective is ­educated and trained regarding the Code of the beginning of 2013. The other training that, in 2013, 75 percent of all employees will Business Ethics. course, which relates to business ethics, was have taken the course. 24 High performing organization ssab sustainability report 2012 Hosting international safety conference In spring 2012, SSAB was honored to host the annual safety conference for member companies of World Steel Association. During three days in Stockholm delegates from 27 companies from across the world met and ­shared experiences from safety work, exchanging advice and best-practice. This illustrates the importance of, and commitment to, workplace safety in the steel industry. Ahead of the conference, members were invited to submit their programs of safety excellence that embody the World Steel Association’s safety principles, for instance on how to prevent lost time injury. During the conference outstanding achievements were recognized. SSAB – A POSITIVE EXAMPLE IN THE SWEDISH DEBATE During 2012, SSAB participated in the ­Swedish debate concerning work environment issues in the steel industry as a whole. SSAB was invited to the Almedalen week (an important forum in Swedish politics) to talk about safety work, with a focus on ­changes in attitudes and the importance of systematic surveying of accidents and risks. The seminar during politicians’ week in ­Alme­dalen was arranged by AFA Försäkring, which has developed the MIA reporting system together with the steel and metal industry. CONTRACTOR REPORTING OF ACCIDENTS AND NEAR ACCIDENTS In SSAB Americas every contractor that is engaged for business or any contractor that wishes to be considered for business must register in the purchase system. Since 2012, it is compulsory to complete a questionnaire regarding the contractor’s safety preparedness, documentation that testifies to their safety programs being on par with SSAB Americas’ program and requirements, and finally to provide a historic safety track record. As from 2012, SSAB EMEA’s 10 largest contractors are required to report in the same reporting system as SSAB. A pilot project has been started in Borlänge. The contractors must report risk observations, accidents and near accidents, and the results are analyzed by the local work environment committee for contractors. The aim is to increase safety in the workplace for both contractor employees and SSAB employees. In Luleå, SSAB has also created a work environment forum for contractors. It provides the possibility for collaboration and dialogue in jointly identifying ­solutions to safety challenges. The forum serves as a complement to the webbased safety training. ssab sustainability report 2012 High performing organization 25 SAFETY PLAN IN PLACE IN CHINA In SSAB APAC, safety work has been a priority from the start. A safety committee meets quarterly and the safety plan for 2012 focused on implementing policies for occupational health and safety, and to develop guidelines to support employees. As part of the systematic work SSAB has identified a number of improvement areas highlighted in so-called safety messages. There are also weekly “safety walks” when the area supervisors walk the workshop area to review safety, and each month an employee is recognized as a “safety star”. In addition, SSAB held various safety training sessions, including firefighting and first aid. The safety work will be subject to third party assessment. Another focus in 2012 has been on safety training for ­contractors in APAC, and there is a contractor safety hand book to inform about SSAB standards. SAFETY AWARD TO SSAB AMERICAS The Steel Manufacturers Association (SMA) in the US presented SSAB in Mobile with its most prestigious safety award, the Don Daily SMA Achievement in Safety, for 2012. SSAB in Mobile was recognized for efforts related to contractor safety, program implementation, training, and continuous improvement. The award is a reward to companies that emphasize safety and move the EAF steel industry forward in its safety stewardship. Work environment management system »Why zero vision? We are in SSAB EMEA convinced that ­successful During the year, work was concluded on implementation and certification of the Swedish safety work promotes plants in accordance with OHSAS 18001, work environment management system. ­long-term productivity.« All Swedish plants are now certified. The work has contributed to further strengthening Martin Lindqvist, President and CEO procedures for safer work methods, creating clear instructions, and safer workplaces. During 2012, SSAB EMEA conducted safety audits of all major operations outside Sweden; in Poland, the Netherlands, the UK, Italy and South Africa. The aim was to ­ascertain the progress of safety work at each center and to exchange experiences. One example from the South African operations is “Toolbox talks”, in which specific situations or issues are discussed at regular gatherings at the workplace. This can mean, for example, Read more about our work with that routines concerning fall protection or personal safety equipment are d­ iscussed in employees and competence in the groups. During the year, the plant in Johannesburg, South Africa also became OHSAS section on pages 40–43. 18001 ­certified. 26 High performing organization ssab sustainability report 2012 Focus: Work environment and health More preventive health care As a cost saving measure within SSAB EMEA, most employees in Sweden agreed to a t­ emporary reduction of work hours and pay at the end of 2012. At the same time, SSAB is investing resources in preventive health care and offers a number of different activities in which employees can participate during part of their time off work. The good health of its employees is of strategic importance for SSAB. The reduced work hours p ­ reventive health care program. The range is to qualify for the competition, the employees and pay program varied and includes gym training as well as must participate in at least four activities. The offer, which was made to full-time riding, skiing, golf, and countryside walks. The winner will be announced in October. employees, was to accept a reduction of “Day-to-day physical exercise is work hours to 80 percent of a full-time important when it involves activating the Preventive health care ­position and to receive 90 percent of the body. It's a question of doing things which – a strength in recruitment pay. The program runs from December 2012 create well-being and provide strength and SSAB has a long tradition of engaging in up to no longer than the middle of June 2013, energy. Since the matter is highly individual, ­preventive health care work, and it is natural and represents an important cost saving it's even more pleasing that we’re able to to utilize this possibility to stimulate ­measure. In connection with the program, offer this range of activities. The goal is to the ­additional activities among employees SSAB has offered the employees a voluntary reach out also to those people who have not which promote good health. preventive health care program where it is trained or exercised previously,” says Kerstin “Our preventive health care work has possible to devote four hours per week to Hammarlund, who is a rehabilitation been pointed out as a distinguishing feature various activities. The idea is to incentivize ­coordinator at Oxelösund and responsible in our recruitment work for the past several more employees to take part in physical for the preventive healthcare part of the years. Potential employees view it positive, training and a more active, healthy lifestyle. reduced work hours program at the plant. and it’s something that those of us at SSAB As an example, Korpen in Oxelösund has have felt pride in. The fact that the company Large range of activities launched a challenge called the “Oxelösund is now strengthening the program during At SSAB’s production plants in Sweden, a Classic”, which starts in March 2013. Each a period of reduced work hours sends a large range of activities is being offered in month, the challenge will involve some signal that it is important,” says Kerstin order to encourage participation in the ­activity in the form of a competition. In order ­Hammarlund. ssab sustainability report 2012 Focus: Work environment and health 27 Focus: Visits to suppliers Site visits in Australia SSAB regularly visits important suppliers of raw materials around the world. During the spring of 2012, SSAB EMEA’s buyers with technical responsibility for purchases of coal and coke visited, among others, two Australian coal suppliers in order to inspect their plants and production, and to conduct quality controls. The environment and safety were important issues at these visits. Part of the routine technical experts with responsibility for coal also being made regarding social aspects Regular monitoring of important suppliers and coke purchases at SSAB EMEA. and environmental aspects of the operaconstitutes a prerequisite for being able to tions. conduct product quality controls. It also A new supplier “The open pit mine we visited is located ­provides an opportunity to monitor other One of the coal producers visited in Australia in a barren area with limited development. important issues connected to the procesis a first-time supplier to SSAB, with its first Coal mining has a large impact on the envises and operations. One of the Australian delivery having been made in 2012. Before ronment, but consequently is also strictly coal producers has been a supplier to SSAB entering into any collaboration, SSAB visits regulated; the environmental regulation is at for several years, and their environmental the facility and the actual mine where the raw least as extensive as in Sweden. Work is and safety work, and relations with the local material comes from. ­carried out regularly to restore environments community, are well documented. During the The agreement was also preceded by affected by the mining, and this has actually course of the visit, the company presented checking against the risk assessment which resulted in a more varied landscape and its overall sustainability work, as well as work has been made by SSAB, with consideration richer vegetation compared with the original focused on the relevant mining operations. being given, among other factors, to human environment”, says Dan Hedkvist who, “It’s almost self-evident that we receive rights, working conditions, and corruption. together with Katarina Pein, is one of the this type of information nowadays when we SSAB has had long experience with other buyers with technical responsibility for coal visit suppliers whose operations have a major suppliers from Australia and is familiar with and coke purchases within SSAB EMEA. impact on the environment or are conducted conditions and regulations in the country. In “We inspect the supplier’s entire pro­ in a risk prone work environment. This is addition, the supplier has completed a selfduction chain in order to monitor technology something that has changed in recent years assessment form regarding, among other, its and quality. In this case, it also involved and we believe that it reflects the fact that environmental and social responsibility work. ­visiting their port and coal terminal on the the suppliers have experienced increased coast. The surrounding environment there is pressure from us, the buyers, and also that it The environment – an obvious issue more sensitive, with rainforest and coral is obvious for them to do so if they wish their The primary reason for the visit to the new reefs. Here, too, we were favourably business to enjoy the confidence of public supplier was to conduct an initial inspection ­impressed by the high standard of the authorities, employees and local communiof all parts of the operations from a technical company's environmental and safety work.” ties,” says Katarina Pein, one of SSAB´s and quality perspective, with observations 28 Focus: Visits to suppliers ssab sustainability report 2012 Sustainability in SSAB SSAB in a sustainable world 30 Employees and competence 40 Policies and guidelines 32 Suppliers44 Governance33 SSAB in the community 45 SSAB's offering 34 GRI table 46 Systematic environmental work 35 Steel Talk ABC – a glossary 48 Efficient processes 36 Addresses49 SSAB in a sustainable world rs 5– ea 25 00y yea 15–1 ❼ rs Recycling 0. 5– 5y ea rs ❶ Raw materials Iron ore pellets ❷ Steel plant Coal/Coke Blast Electric arc furnace furnace ❻ Usage Alloys Coal Slag ❸ By-products Distribution ❺ ❹ Continuous casting and rolling 30 SSAB in a sustainable world ssab sustainability report 2012 Raw materials The steel industry plays a key role in the products made of standard steels. ❶ Responsibility in the supplier stage development of society, and SSAB's high This has major advantages for both the Raw materials are SSAB's most important strength steels possess several advantacustomers and the environment. purchases. The Swedish company LKAB ges from a sustainability perspective. The steel industry is energy-intensive supplies iron ore pellets. Scrap metal is With efficient production, SSAB is well and dependent on natural resources. purchased locally in the US. Metallurgical positioned in a global market in which Increasingly stringent environmental coal is secured from suppliers in Australia focus is placed on the environment and demands experienced by SSAB's custoand the US. Injection coal is sourced from sustainable growth. SSAB's focus on high mers are an important driving force a mine in Russia, while coke comes from strength steels contributes to attain its leading to the use of high strength steels. Japan. Alloys are purchased from some vision – A stronger, lighter and more The attainment of the same goals using 30 suppliers. Work is underway to coordinate ­sustainable world. fewer resources constitutes a pre­ purchasing processes and introduce into Through the use of high strength requisite for sustainable growth. SSAB’s contracts with suppliers principles regarding steels, customers are able to produce strategy unites economic growth with labor standards and human rights. products which use less material, are sustainable development. more durable, stronger and lighter than Processing ❷ Efficient and safe steelworks ❸ Market for by-products ❹ Continuous casting and rolling Two different processes are used in the proThe exact process control in the steel In the continuous casting line, large volumes duction of SSAB's steels: iron-ore based pro­production processes gives rise to by-proof water are used to cool down the molten duction in blast furnaces and scrap-based ducts. In Sweden, SSAB Merox develops high steel. The cooling water circulates in closed production in electric arc furnaces. The value products based on by-products from systems. The water is purified through impact on the environment can be mitigated the steel operations. The work is aimed at ­sedimentation and filtration before it leaves by constantly improving and increasing the returning the by-products to the processes, the plant area. The steel strands are cut into efficiency of the various stages of the steel internally or through external sales, and slabs and placed on cooling racks before production. Within the steel industry, there are identifying new areas of use as alternatives being transported to the rolling mill for a number of cooperation projects aimed at to depositing. ­processing into strip or plate. The heating reducing the impact on the environment and furnaces use natural gas, coke oven, gas, climate from the production processes. The LPG, oil and electricity. safety of employees and contractor employees stands high on the agenda. Distribution Usage Recycling ❺ Efficient transportation ❻ A stronger, lighter and ❼ Part of the eco-cycle and intelligent logistics more sustainable world Steel is one of the most recycled materials in Most of SSAB's raw materials, slabs and endSSAB’s high strength steels have many areas the world. SSAB's plants in the US produce products are shipped by railway and by boat. of use in society. High strength steels build steel which is based solely on recycled scrap The logistics departments have the objective stronger, lighter and more durable solutions. metal. Certain amounts of coal and natural of making the transportation as efficient as From a life cycle perspective, the high gas are used in the production process, but possible in order to save money and help strength steels generate lower carbon electricity is mainly used for melting the steel save the environment. The use of return ­dioxide emissions than standard steels, scrap. All in all, carbon dioxide emissions are freight between plants and shipping ports is while providing an improved total economy. less than 1/10 of the emissions generated one way of achieving more efficient Achieving the same goals using fewer when steel is produced from iron ore. ­transportation systems. Increasing load ­materials is important, not least in capacity on the railways represents another ­conjunction with infrastructure development alternative. in emerging economies. ssab sustainability report 2012 SSAB in a sustainable world 31 Policies and guidelines SSAB has adopted an Environmental s­ takeholders and in the market. The provicritical sustainability issues in a systematic and Sustainability Policy. The Policy sions of the Code take precedence over all way. Several different management systems ­establishes the most important ambitions other policies on a business area or subsidiand tools are used to effectively control the for SSAB's sustainability work and covers ary level and, in certain cases, may be more operations in accordance with SSAB's objecthe environmental and social aspects far reaching than laws and regulations. tives, the Environmental and Sustainability which play a key role in a sustainable SSAB’s Code of Business Ethics provides Policy, and the Code of Business Ethics. development of SSAB's business. SSAB's guidance within: ­Systems developed in-house as well as Code of Business Ethics provides guide­ • Employee health and safety third-party certified systems are in place. lines on how SSAB is to act vis-à-vis • Diversity and internationally recognized The environmental and climate work ­stakeholders and in the market. labor law guidelines takes place primarily within the scope of the • Business ethics and integrity ISO 14001 environmental management Environmental and Sustainability Policy • Human rights ­standard and via local energy management SSAB has adopted an Environmental and • Stakeholder and community relations systems. The OHSAS 18001 standard for ­Sustainability Policy in order to support the • The environment ­systematic health and safety work is being day-to-day work in the organization. The • Communication gradually implemented at all production Policy essentially entails the following: plants. • SSAB shall continue to develop products Diversity and equality of opportunity issues Environmental risks and work environand services in cooperation with c­ ustomers, are addressed in a separate policy. SSAB ment risks are covered by SSAB's internal risk so as to actively contribute to an environhas issued special Instructions regard­ing controls and internal audits. Insurable risks mentally sound and profitable business; the prohibition of bribery. On a number of within the scope of SSAB's property and • SSAB attaches importance to efficient use occasions in recent years, SSAB has ­liability insurance are analyzed annually of raw materials and energy, while ­discovered that personnel have abused their together with the insurance companies. ­minimizing the generation of waste; position or acted in a disloyal or criminal Sound management of risks associated with • SSAB shows respect for employees and fashion. SSAB has thereupon acted to injury to individuals and damage to the provides a safe and fulfilling work investigate the events and concluded that ­environment and plants is a sine qua non for ­environment; ignorance or deliberate criminality have been being able to take out insurance cover. • Transparency and openness are sought involved. The consequences have been, for after. example, dismissal and prosecution. Whistleblower A whistleblower function for the entire Group Code of Business Ethics Risk awareness and systematic work allows all employees to report serious SSAB’s Code of Business Ethics lays down Management systems and action plans ­irregularities and violations of SSAB's guidelines for SSAB's behavior vis-à-vis ensure that the Group carries out its work on various policies. 32 Policies and guidelines ssab sustainability report 2012 Governance SSAB’s organization is characterized by President and other members of the the Company on ownership issues, and is a decentralized work method in which Company’s senior management, to be deciresponsible for the evaluation of the work responsibilities and powers are, to a large ded upon at the Annual General Meeting. of the Board. In addition, the Chairman is degree, delegated to the respective responsible for regular contacts with the ­business areas and subsidiaries. SSAB is THE BOARD’S RULES OF PROCEDURE President and for ensuring that the Board listed on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm and Each year, the Board adopts rules of proceof Directors performs it duties. complies with its Rule Book for Issuers dure including instructions to the President and applies the Swedish Code on Corpowhich, among other things, govern the alloCOMPOSITION OF THE BOARD rate Governance (the “Corporate Code). cation of work between the Board and the According to the by-laws, the Board shall President. consist of no fewer than five and no more General meeting The rules of procedure also regulate the than ten directors elected by the General The General Meeting is the Company’s manner in which Board work is allocated Meeting. The Board is quorate when more ­highest decision-making body; it is where among the directors, the frequency of Board than one-half of the total number of shareholder influence in the Company is meetings, and the allocation of work among ­directors are present. Taking into consideraexercised. Board committees. The rules of procedure tion the Company’s operations, phase of state that there shall be a compensation development and circumstances in general, The board’s responsibilities committee and an audit committee. Prior to the Board must have an appropriate The overall task of the Board of Directors is to each Board meeting, the directors receive a ­composition which is characterized by manage the Company’s affairs on behalf of written agenda and full documentation to ­diversity and breadth as regards the the shareholders in the best possible ­manner. serve as a basis for decisions. At each Board ­expertise, experience and background of its The Board of Directors shall ­regularly assess meeting, a review is conducted regarding the members. New directors undergo an the Group’s financial ­position and evaluate current state of the business, the Group’s ­introduction course to rapidly acquire the the operational ­management. The Board of results and financial position, and prospects. knowledge which is expected in order to best Directors d ­ ecides, among other things, on Other issues addressed include competition promote the interests of the Company and questions concerning the Group’s strategic and the market situation. The Board also its shareholders. focus and organization, and decides on regularly monitors the health and safety work, important capital expenditures (exceeding including the Group’s accident statistics. SEK 50 m­ illion). More information regarding c ­ orporate CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD Each year, the Board shall prepare progovernance in SSAB can be found on The Chairman of the Board of Directors posals for guidelines regarding determinawww.ssab.com ­presides over the Board’s work, represents tion of pay and other compensation for the Important external and internal rules and Shareholders/ policies which affect corporate governance: Nomination Committee General Meeting External auditors Significant internal rules and policies • By-laws • The Board’s rules of procedure, Board Compensation Committee Audit Committee incl. instructions to the President and of Directors instructions to board committees • Accounting manual Financial Guidelines and finance policy President and Other • Code of Business Ethics Group Executive Internal audit Committee Significant external rules • Swedish Companies Act • Swedish Accounts Act Business areas Distribution operations • Swedish Annual Reports Act • Rule Book for Issuers Nasdaq OMX SSAB SSAB SSAB Stockholm, www.nasdaqomx.com Tibnor EMEA Americas APAC • Swedish Corporate Governance Code, www.bolagsstyrning.se ssab sustainability report 2012 Governance 33 SSAB’s offering SSAB’s high strength steels provide fuel consumption. A truck platform with a continuous transfer of technology between advantages in the form of stronger, frame built of SSAB high strength steels the business areas. ­lighter and more durable solutions. becomes almost 1,300 kg lighter compared Through an established dialogue This leads to improved total economy, with standard steels. This means a reduction ­between SSAB and its customers, new a ­reduced impact on the environment, of 30 tonnes in carbon dioxide emissions ­products are developed which meet the and products with a longer lifespan. The over the life of the truck. needs of the ­various markets. SSAB has by-products from the steel production SSAB’s high strength steels have many Knowledge ­Service Centers in the different ­processes are used in new, innovative different areas of use within most industrial business areas. The aim is to strengthen solutions. This contributes to closing the sectors. Many of the applications have a SSAB's position as a leading producer of high eco-cycle and to create new ­markets direct role to play in the transition towards strength steels, while at the same time for SSAB. a more sustainable society. Rapid infra­ ­developing the markets in North and Latin structure development is taking place in America and Asia through advanced Beneficial for the economy emerging economies. At the same time, ­offerings based on SSAB's cutting edge and the environment natural resources are limited and increased expertise. The centers allow numerous SSAB’s high strength steels provide an importance is being attached to achieving customers to develop production efficiency improved economy and environment in all the same goal using less material. The autoand product design in close ­cooperation with stages. From a life cycle perspective, the high motive industry is developing lighter cars and SSAB. Local process ­development within the strength steels generate lower carbon cars with greater load capacity in order to various production units is also carried out at ­dioxide emissions than standard steels. Light reduce fuel consumption. Steel is also incluSSAB's major ­production centers. and durable steel designs save material and ded in the constructions for renewable energy, both in the production and user energy plants, such as wind towers, solar The market ­stages. High strength steels are stronger power plants, and various types of hydro­ In 2012, SSAB delivered 1,585 (1, 713) than standard steels. Consequently, less power plants. ­thousand tonnes of niche products, represteel is used in the manufacture of a product, senting 38 (37) percent of the Company’s which also reduces emissions. Research and development shipments. SSAB’s strategy is to increase By replacing standard steels in a dumper SSAB has a Research and Development shipments of niche products to 50 percent platform, through the use of SSAB's high Council tasked with leading the development of total shipments in 2015. In 2012, 160 (214) strength steels it is possible to reduce the and realizing the potential of high strength thousand tonnes of niche products were weight significantly. A weight reduction of steels. The Council coordinates work within delivered to Asia, representing 10 (12) eight tonnes can lead to a ten percent cut in the area and is entrusted with ensuring a ­percent of shipments. Sales per business area Shipments Thousand tonnes 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 SSAB EMEA 38% 2,000 SSAB Americas SSAB EMEA 38%41% SSAB SSAB Americas APAC 6% 41% 1,000 Standard steel Tibnor 15% 6% SSAB APAC Tibnor 15% 0 08 09 10 11 12 Niche steel 34 SSAB's offering ssab sustainability report 2012 Systematic environmental work Steel production involves the large-scale The Environmental Council, which meets each and carbon footprint from production use of energy and resources and has a quarter, includes representatives from the ­processes. Some of the most important significant impact on the environment, three b ­ usiness areas SSAB EMEA, SSAB ­cooperation partners include: both globally and locally. SSAB's environ­Americas and SSAB APAC, as well as the subsi• The industry cooperation project ULCOS mental strategy is long term and based on diaries Tibnor, Plannja and Merox. The Council (Ultra-Low Carbon dioxide Steelmaking) efficiency improvements and innovation is chaired by SSAB's Environmental Director. • The Swedish Energy Agency and the in order to mitigate the environmental ­Swedish Environmental Protection Agency impact from production. Industry-wide Environmental management system • The institutions Swerea MEFOS, Swerea cooperation is important for identifying and local environmental work KIMAB, and IVL Swedish Environmental the solutions of tomorrow. The objective is that the business areas Research Institute themselves shall handle the day-to-day • The PRISMA skills center Most important environmental aspects environmental work. Each business area and • Mistra In Sweden, SSAB's blast furnaces are among subsidiary has a separate environmental • The Swedish Steel Producers’ Association the largest sources of emission in the country. department which is responsible for monito• Eurofer and Euroslag SSAB’s steelworks are among the most ring compliance with laws and agreements • US Department of Energy and US ­efficient in the world in terms of minimizing and handling permit matters. It is also ­Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) emissions, but there is still some room for responsible for taking measurements and • American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI) further improvement. The impact on the local the reporting of environmental data. • World Steel Association environment in the vicinity of SSAB's plants All manufacturing units work with has decreased significantly in recent decades. environ­mental management systems that Environmental permits and legislation Technical developments and increasingly are certified in accordance with ISO 14001 and SSAB’s operations are subject to environ­­­ stringent external demands dictate constant each production plant center has identified mental permits with hundreds of environ­ improvements in the operations. its most important environmental issues. mental conditions governing, among other The most important environmental ­Targeted activities are carried out within these things, production levels, emissions into the aspects for SSAB are: areas in order to achieve improvements. air and water, noise levels, and rules r­ egarding • Reduced emissions into the air of carbon ­Self-inspection programs ensure monitoring landfill sites. All production units comply with dioxide, nitrogen oxides, sulphur oxides of the local environment at all of SSAB's the respective local environmental requireand dust ­production plants, e.g. by collecting water, air ments and the Group holds mandatory • Reduced emissions into water of nitrogen and noise samples. The results are reported environ­mental damage as well as liability and suspended substances to the relevant supervisory authority. ­insurance covering damage to third parties. • Efficient use of raw materials and energy The maximum permitted production • A reduction in the volume of process Research cooperation projects levels for the Swedish operations are shown waste sent for depositing Within the steel industry, a number of diffein the table. In North America, production rent cooperation projects are underway levels are determined in the form of maxiSSAB had a target of reducing carbon dioxide aimed at reducing the environmental impact mum permitted hourly production volumes. emissions per tonne of produced steel by 2 percent in 2012, compared with 2008 as base Permitted production at the Swedish plants year. The preliminary indications are that the Thousand tonnes Locality Permitted production Production 2012 target has been reached, thanks to increased Coke Luleå 1,100 652 efficiency in operation of the blast furnaces in Oxelösund 530 396 both Oxelösund and Luleå. However, an uneven Hot metal Luleå – 1) 1,927 Oxelösund 2,000 879 rate of production due to the economic c­ limate Slabs Luleå 3,000 1,803 has pulled in the opposite direction. Oxelösund 1,900 882 Hot-rolled steel Borlänge 3,200 1,720 Environmental organization Oxelösund 820 532 The Company has a joint group organization, Pickled steel Borlänge 2,500 1,133 Cold-rolled steel Borlänge 1,400 717 the Environmental Council, for coordinating Annealed steel Borlänge 650 415 issues concerning the external environment. Metal-coated steel Borlänge 400 284 The Environmental Council focuses on the Organic-coated products Borlänge 140 74 overarching and strategic environmental Köping 30 15 work, and monitoring of that. Finspång 2) 40 17 1) Not regulated. 2) Unit million m2. ssab sustainability report 2012 Systematic environmental work 35 More efficient processes reduce environmental impact 1. From iron ore to steel Coal/Coke Iron ore pellets Blast furnace LD converter Raw materials Hot metal Crude steel Coal undergoes dry distillation in the coking plant to In the blast furnace, the iron pellets are mixed with In the LD converter, the carbon content of the hot produce coke. Energy-rich gas is formed which can be coke, lime and additives. Liquid hot metal and slag metal is reduced through the addition of oxygen used as fuel in furnaces and combined heat and are poured off from the lower part of the furnace. which binds the carbon. Contaminants are reduced power plants. Other usable by-products include tar, The slag is separated and constitutes an important through the use of lime. The process creates a surammonium sulfate, benzene, sulphur and sulphuric by-product. The energy-rich gas which exits from plus of heat, and scrap metal is added to achieve acid. The dust content in the emissions from the the top of the blast furnace, and also the coke oven cooling. From the LD converter, the steel is poured coking plant is measured and reduced to a minimum. gas as well as the LD-gas in Luleå, is purified and into steel ladles, where alloys are added. The tempeIron ore pellets from LKAB are transported by rail to used as a source of energy in the steel production. rature and composition of the steel are fine tuned. Luleå and from there by ship to Oxelösund. The iron This meets approximately 50 percent of the electriOne half of the slag from the converter is returned to ore in the pellets is magnetite, which emits heat during cal power needs in the Swedish operations. In addithe blast furnaces. The slag contains 15–20 percent production; consequently, less energy is used than in tion, district heating is delivered to external parties. iron and 40 percent lime, which reduces the need to the case of hematite-based pellet production. purchase iron ore and limestone. 2. From scrap steel to steel Scrap steel Electric arc furnace Raw materials Crude steel In the US, scrap steel is purchased on the open marScrap metal is melted in electric arc furnaces where amounts of coal and natural gas are used in the ket. SSAB’s two electrical steel plants in Montpelier the melted scrap becomes new crude steel. Both electric arc furnace, which generates carbon and Mobile have been located based on the potenMobile and Montpelier have twin furnaces in which ­dioxide, but by no means to the same extent as tial market and access to scrap metal raw material. the scrap in one of the vessels is pre-heated using when steel is produced from iron ore. A large This strategy minimizes the environmental impact of natural gas, while the scrap in the second vessel is ­percentage of the coal required is derived from transportation since all plants have access to railmelted using electricity through an electric arc recycled coal residue, which has thereby reduced ways. In North America, the inland waterway system being formed with an extremely high temperature the quantity of deposited waste and replaced up to is also used. when the high tension voltage is connected. Certain 60 percent of purchased coal. 36 Efficient processes ssab sustainability report 2012 Ladle metallurgy Processing In ladle metallurgy, the crude steel is finely adjusted in accordance to specific Coal recipes and through the addition of alloying materials. Whether the steel is to be Alloys hard or soft is determined in the ladle metallurgy process. The SSAB recipe Temperature books contain almost 500 different steel grades. In the continuous casting line, the steel is converted from liquid to solid form. The water used for cooling circulates in closed systems. The steel strands are cut into slabs, which are subContinuous casting line sequently rolled into strip or plate. The heating furnaces use coke oven gas, LPG, oil and electrical power. In North America, the various heating furnaces for steel slabs primarily use natural gas as a source of energy. The combustion generates certain emissions of carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxides. Rolling http://www.ssab.com/Steel-making-process Steel processes the production of electricity. and Luleå and to 15 percent of the houseTwo different processes are used in the International comparisons show that holds in Borlänge. ­production of SSAB’s steels – ore-based in SSAB’s blast furnaces are at the forefront as blast furnaces and scrap-based in electric regards low carbon dioxide emissions per Less carbon dioxide with recycled steel arc furnaces. The processes have different tonne of hot metal. There are several Steel is one of the most recycled materials in conditions from a carbon footprint perspecreasons for this; the use of high-grade raw the world. SSAB's plants in the US produce tive. The impact on the environment can be materials in the form of iron pellets, high steel based exclusively on recycled scrap mitigated by constantly improving and quality coke and efficient production prometal. Small amounts of coal and natural gas ­increasing the efficiency of the various cesses in which the blast furnaces produce are used in the production process, but ­stages of the steel production process. without disruption. In order to utilize the raw mainly electricity is used for melting the SSAB’s work is also aimed at reducing waste materials as much as possible, a large numscrap metal. All in all, carbon dioxide by recycling by-products in the processes ber of usable by-products are also produced, ­emissions are less than one-tenth of the or by identifying new areas of use as an including slag and gas purification dust. In emissions generated in conjunction with iron ­alter­native to depositing. addition, the excess heat and gases formed ore-based steel production. in the processes are used. SSAB uses approximately 20 percent The blast furnace process generates Certain by-products which contain coal, scrap metal in conjunction with steel produccarbon dioxide lime and/or iron can be returned directly to tion in Sweden, and 100 percent in the US. SSAB EMEA’s steel production is blast the processes, and in this way SSAB reduces The Swedish operations have little scope ­furnace-based. Hot metal is produced by the waste from the production process and the to increase the percentage of recycled scrap reduction of iron ore, through coal and coke need for new coal, iron ore pellets and lime. metal. However, it is possible to recycle to a being added to the blast furnaces. The The energy-rich coke oven and blast furnace greater degree the scrap generated in the ­process gives rise to carbon dioxide. gases which cannot be used in the steel prosteel production process. This reduces raw With current technology, it is not posduction are used in combined heat and material costs and carbon dioxide emissions, sible to produce steel without carbon dioxide power plants, among other things to supply since less hot metal need be produced. being formed. The process has been contiSSAB with approximately 50 percent of the Within SSAB, a number of projects are nuously developed and improved to become electricity needs at the Swedish operations. underway with the aim of increasing the extremely efficient, with waste energy being In addition, district heating is supplied to over volume of finished steel relative to the utilized in the form of district heating and for 70 percent of the households in Oxelösund ­produced volume of crude iron. ssab sustainability report 2012 Efficient processes 37 Electricity Oil+LPG+NG District heating Electricity 592 kWh 726 kWh 220 kWh 129 kWh Others 115 kg Materials and energy balance as well as carbon dioxide Coal and Coke 386 kg “To gas” 552 kg Carbon dioxide emissions 1,264 kg emissions from the ­production of one tonne of steel in the SSAB Group in Purchased Scrap 548 kg By-products 359 kg 2012. The flows also include Blast Furnaces and Electric Processes and the heat and power plants in Arc Furnaces furnaces 666 kg Luleå and Oxelösund, which primarily use residual gases Steel plates 1,000 kg from SSAB’s operations. Iron ore 862 kg Heat and power plant 598 kg Oxygen 99 m3 Argon Air Water Waste heat Waste and useful by-products mental reasons. At SSAB, this waste largely reusing the Company’s by-products such Thanks to the exact processes involved, steel consists of flue purification gas and steel slag as scrap, iron-rich dust and slag in SSAB's production gives rise to a number of valuawhich cannot be used due to its physical or own processes, where they replace iron ore, ble, high quality by-products. SSAB develops chemical characteristics. The waste is either coal and coke and, to a certain extent, also and sells by-products in the Swedish market destroyed or deposited. The management alloying agents and lime. Approximately through its subsidiary Merox. and monitoring of the company's deposition 45 percent of the total volume of byOngoing research areas are aimed at sites are strictly regulated by governmental products is used in this way. Where this is not identifying new areas of use and conditions agencies. Deposited waste must be handled possible, needs are identified on other for converting additional material into in such a way that these resources, too, ­markets, such as agriculture, steel and ­relevant offerings to the market. One might be utilized in the future. ­chemical industries, where the material can example is the zinc-rich dust from the be sold as products. This applies to approx­electric arc furnaces in North America, which Merox in SSAB’s value chain imately 35 percent of the total volume. now goes to a recycling plant instead of Thanks to expertise and long experience Merox is a flexible company with a small being deposited into landfills. regarding the properties of the by-products business organization. Most of the sales There are waste products from the and how they can be utilized to the best organization is located in Oxelösund where, ­production processes for which at present effect, Merox creates added value for SSAB. just as in Luleå, production, marketing, there is no environmentally or economically Merox is a resource company in Sweden research and development have been justified area of use, or which should be whose main task is to manage and develop brought together under one roof. removed from the use cycle for environ­ SSAB's eco-cycle. This is done primarily by Absolute emissions 1) Country 2) Volume 20121) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Dust Sweden Tonne 542 583 748 551 888 919 942 Nitrogen oxide Sweden Tonne 1 ,158 1,315 1,392 1,118 1,657 1,709 1,801 Carbon dioxide Sweden3) 4) Thousand tonne 4, 403 5,806 5,974 3,711 6,187 6,410 6,229 Carbon dioxide USA5) Thousand tonne 666 675 688 – – – – 1) The information for 2012 is preliminary. 2) The reporting with respect to Sweden covers operations at the plants in Oxelösund, Borlänge and Luleå. With respect to Luleå, emissions are also included from LuleKraft AB (which is 50-percent owned by SSAB), the operations of which are based on SSAB's process gases. 3) Carbon dioxide emissions from the Swedish operations correspond to those reported to the EU trading system; this does not include transportation. 4) Due to a lower rate of production, Oxelösund has built up a stock of its own-produced coke. Accordingly, the reporting system has been adjusted in order that figures reported for future i­ ndividual years will better correspond to actual emissions. Adjustments apply commencing 2008 but are included only in the carbon dioxide emissions reported for 2012, which thus are 395 thousand tonnes lower than the actual emissions. This is balanced by the fact the emissions reported for the period 2008–2011, particularly for 2011, are larger than the actual emissions. 5) 2010 was the first year in which the US authorities requested information regarding carbon dioxide emissions from SSAB’s plants in Mobile and Montpelier. 38 Efficient processes ssab sustainability report 2012 The sales organization possesses a breadth gravel and crushed rock also results in plants in Montpelier and Mobile, the locaof skills within widely differing areas and ­greater demand for the material. tions were chosen based on the potential ­markets. Through cooperation with external A general increase of interest in closing market and access to the scrap metal raw parties, such as Cementa in the ground the eco-cycle creates great opportunities material. This strategy minimizes the impact ­stabilization market, Merox creates for Merox. This is the focus of a number of on the environment since all plants have ­conditions for being able to jointly deliver research projects into the way in which access to railways. In North America, the high-quality products. ­by-products from the steel industry might inland waterway system is also used. One of SSAB strategic aims is to achieve be used in other operations. increased flexibility. In times of high Merox has expanded its operations and ­production rates, a large flow of by-products is now located at both of SSAB's steel is obtained which can be allocated for ­production centers in Sweden, Oxel­ösund ­external use or used again in the production and Luleå. The result is the development of process. When production is slower, SSAB new know-how concerning methods and saves costs through greater use in the processes, and the creation of a useful ­production process of raw materials derived ­contact network on the market. This creates from by-products. increased synergies and enhances the ­possibility to close the eco-cycle to an ever Challenges and opportunities greater degree. Steel production generates large volumes of slag which are sometimes difficult to sell. Railways, an important means Factors such as research, social changes, of transport legislation, the price of carbon dioxide, and Transportation takes place primarily by railpolitical decisions determine the value way and ship, but also by truck. All of SSAB’s ­derived from the use of such slag. With an business areas have their own logistics increased focus on carbon dioxide, the slag departments with the objective of making can be attractive for the cement industry transportation efficient and economical. since it then represents a carbon dioxideIn Sweden, raw materials are transported neutral alternative due to the fact that, to Luleå and Oxelösund by railway or ship. For more info about the technically speaking, the carbon dioxide Transportation of slabs between the produc­environ­mental work and highlights emissions occur during the steel production tion plants takes place by railway. Prior to the during the year, see pages 18–21. process. Focus on reduced use of natural construction of SSAB's two electrical steel Carbon dioxide 1) 2) Nitrogen oxide 1) Dust 1) Thousand tonnes Tonnes Tonnes 8,000 2,000 1,000 7,000 800 6,000 1,500 5,000 600 4,000 1,000 3,000 400 2,000 500 200 1,000 0 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 0 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 0 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 Process Heat and power plant 1) The reported data covers the Swedish operations at the plants in Oxelösund, Borlänge and Luleå. With respect to Luleå, emissions are also included from the half-owned LuleKraft, which bases its operations on SSAB’s process gases. Transportation is not included. The information for 2012 is preliminary. 2) With respect to the Swedish plants, the emissions correspond to those reported within the EU’s trading system. ssab sustainability report 2012 Efficient processes 39 Employees and competence Sourcing competence for the future followed up, feedback given, new goals set, One important aim of the activities is to represents a challenge for the steel and individual development is planned. en­courage more young people to choose ­industry and SSAB. SSAB is ­actively technical and engineering educations. By ­working to be an a ­ ttractive employer Leadership ­experiencing at an early stage the reality at a and to promote the availability of the SSAB conducts an annual management technology-based company, young people right competence on the labor market. review. All managers and potential managers can be attracted to studying engineering. For ­Opportunities to develop in an exciting in the Group are evaluated based on SSAB's example, via the Tekniksprånget project, global and safe work e ­ nvironment are manager criteria and individual performance ­students graduating from high school natural ­critical factors. relative to the demands of the position. One science and ­engineering programs will be important aim of the management review is ­offered a four-month internship at a Swedish Overall priorities to ensure that there are suitable internal cantechnology-based company. Tekniksprånget In order to achieve the overall strategic didates for every vacant managerial position, provides SSAB with the possibility to contribute objective of being a high performing thereby facilitating exchanges of experience to increased knowledge about, and increased ­organization, SSAB engages in systematic and skills development within the Group. The interest in, careers within engineering. work on prioritized issues: results from the management review are used • Employee development actively during the year to plan development Equal opportunity and diversity • Leadership work and as a support in organization deveSSAB operates in a traditionally male-domi• Long-term sourcing of competence lopment activity and succession planning. nated industry. The aim is that the percen• Equality of opportunity and diversity tage of female employees in the group shall • Safety in the work environment Initiatives for long-term sourcing be reflected in the percentage of female • Preventive health care of competence managers. SSAB is working with, among SSAB is a knowledge-based company whose other things, mentor programs and female There are several strategic targets, for example: success depends on the competence of current networks in order to promote career oppor• to achieve an annual reduction of at least and future employees. Various activities are tunities for women within the Group; read 5 percent in lost time injury ­carried out to promote access to competence: more about Battle of the Numbers on page • at least 90 percent of employees shall • SSAB works actively vis-à-vis schools, 23. Within SSAB, there are number of have an annual performance dialogue colleges and universities in Sweden employees who have been identified as through the University & College Group, potential managers of the future; since Results and feedback a cross-functional team comprising almost one quarter of them are women, this Clarity concerning goals, anticipated employees from different functions. represents a favorable basis for increasing ­performance and feedback are central to • SSAB’s participation in the Tekniksprånget the percentage of female managers. SSAB’s strategic focus on being a high project, which was initiated by Industri­ Follow-up since 2000 of the endeavors ­performing organization. Individual developvärden and Nordstjernan and includes of potential future managers in ­Sweden ment plans and annual performance approximately ten industrial companies. shows that women and men who have under­dialogues between employees and super­ • Cooperation with other Swedish compagone the ­program for managerial candidates visors are a prioritized area for SSAB. It is in nies in order to meet Chinese university continue to stay in head positions to the the performance dialogue that results are students in Beijing and Shanghai. same extent, irrespective of gender. Number of employees at year-end Average number of employees, gender breakdown 2012 2011 Change, % Number of SSAB EMEA 6,504 6,742 –4 employees Women, % SSAB Americas 1,394 1,338 4 2012 2011 2012 2011 SSAB APAC 220 171 29 Parent Company Tibnor 797 798 – Sweden 57 52 51 50 Other 63 58 9 Subsidiaries Total 8,978 9,107 –1 Sweden 6,402 6,644 20 19 USA 1,273 1,239 12 12 Other 963 895 29 29 Total 8,695 8,830 20 19 40 Employees and competence ssab sustainability report 2012 Personnel expenses Personalkostnader Age breakdown Equal opportunity SEKm % Age % 6,000 30 25 60– 5,000 25 20 50–59 4,000 20 40–49 15 3,000 15 30–39 10 2,000 10 20–29 –19 5 1,000 5 0 08 09 10 11 12 0 2,000 1,200 400 400 1,200 2,000 0 09 10 11 12 Personnel expenses White-collar employees Percent of female employees Share of sales Blue-collar employees Percent of female managers ssab sustainability report 2012 Employees and competence 41 This confirms that the development was as all Swedish plants within SSAB EMEA became been a slightly negative development in positive for female c­ andidates as it was for certified and there are also long-term plans 2012, ­indicating a trend which SSAB wishes male candidates, even if in total there were as regards SSAB APAC. In practice, a stanto break. The focus on preventive health care fewer female than male candidates. dardized health and safety management within the scope of the reduced work hours Two out of the ten members of the Group system means that SSAB has in place joint program in SSAB EMEA provides an example Executive Committee are women. The policies, procedures and documentation. of how SSAB is expanding preventive health ­composition of the management teams in the This strengthens the organization’s ability to care work and encouraging more people to business areas also reflects breadth in address safety issues systematically. participate in preventive health care ­diversity factors. This sends signals to the rest Within the Group, Tibnor is also OHSAS ­activities. Within all parts of the business, of the organization and, together with the 18001-certified. SSAB offer some form of preventive health increased internal mobility, in the long-term care to employees and this is an area in contributes to increased diversity on all levels. Preventive health care which the Group is continuing to focus SSAB has a strong commitment to improved efforts. Zero tolerance program health, and a number of proactive health care SSAB's ambition is to be one of the world's projects are being carried out. Examples Employee surveys leading steel companies as regards health include support for hiking paths in the vicinity It is important for SSAB that employees are and safety. SSAB possesses the technical of the steelworks in Montpelier and Mobile, a able to speak their mind and contribute their and practical conditions for achieving this. project involving the municipality in the form of views on the business and how it should be Hazardous work situations have been a preventive health care center in Oxel­ösund, developed. SSAB carries out regular ­gradually eliminated. Strict routines and as well as the HälsoSAM work environment and employee surveys covering all employees. ­procedures are in place in respect of any ergonomy health project in Luleå. HälsoSAM The survey constitutes an important tool hazard­ous elements which it has not been now serves as a model for the systematic work in the implementation of improvement work possible to eliminate. At the same time, work environment work also in Borlänge. within the organization. Based on results from is also taking place to improve safety the employee surveys, each supervisor devises through increased understanding, attitudes Accidents and sick leave improvement plans which address areas for towards safety, and behavior which affects During 2012, the efforts focused on systemadevelopment. Every second year, an employee safety. tic safety work have shown a positive trend in survey is carried out covering the entire Group. Important aspects of the program terms of the number of lost time injuries and include regular reminders through training accident frequency. Within SSAB EMEA, the Whistleblower courses, meetings, information campaigns, work has led to appreciable improvements SSAB employees should feel a responsibility exchange of experiences and follow-up. in accident statistics. The OHSAS 18001 to act in the event irregularities are ­certification creates conditions for further un­covered. Since 2010, a whistleblower OHSAS 18001 certified work environimprovements. The operations in North ­system has been in place for the entire ment management system and safety ­America show remarkably low accident Group, to which employees can anony­ All units within SSAB Americas – production ­figures and are an industry leader in terms of mously report serious irregularities and plants as well as cutting lines – are certified in safety work. ­violations of the Company’s various policies. accordance with OHSAS 18001. During 2012, With respect to sick leave, there has During 2012, ten complaints were made to the whistleblower function, of which six ­matters have thus far resulted in measures Sick leave Number of accidents being taken by SSAB. In 2012, and e-learning % of worked time Per million work hours course was launched in order to ensure 10 5 ­awareness of the whistleblower ­function and 4 8 how it is used. See more on page 24. 3 6 2 4 2 1 For more information regarding 0 08 09 10 11 12 0 08 09 10 11 12 employee activities and special events in 2012, see pages 23–27. 42 Employees and competence ssab sustainability report 2012 ssab sustainability report 2012 Employees and competence 43 Suppliers The raw materials that SSAB uses in steel to act in relation to suppliers, customers and Assessment and measures production constitute the strategically other business partners. Work is taking place on developing a joint most important purchases. Purchases purchasing system for the Group. With a joint are made from a number of suppliers Systematic identification purchasing system for the Group, improved throughout the world. of the supplier risks conditions will be created for the continued During 2012, a strategy was formulated for work on monitoring suppliers. Guidelines and governance the entire Group governing the identification When the identification of supplier risks SSAB has a procurement policy which governs of supplier risks. The strategy places is completed and the purchasing system is in all of the Group’s purchases. SSAB is a ­suppliers in various risk categories based on place, those suppliers who are placed in the ­member of the UN's Global Compact and its the countries in which the suppliers operate. risk class medium level or high level will be principles are applied in the work with It elucidates risks relating to, for example, required to complete a self-assessment ­suppliers. SSAB’s Code of Business Ethics human rights, labor conditions and questionnaire. Through the self-assessment, reflects Global Compact principles and repre­corruption. SSAB will obtain more information about, sents the most important control document SSAB has more than 10,000 suppliers, for example, social conditions and environas regards work with suppliers. The Code of and SSAB EMEA alone has approximately mental conditions at the suppliers. SelfBusiness Ethics places particular emphasis on 6,000 suppliers. The risk identification assessment questionnaires have previously the abolition of forced labor and child labor. ­survey is in progress. SSAB EMEA’s risk been used within SSAB, but in the future In its contacts with suppliers, SSAB ­identification survey has prioritized suppliers SSAB will have a single questionnaire for the ­communicates the Code of Business Ethics of raw materials. Stringent quality requireentire Group. and encourages the suppliers to comply with ments and long-term business relationships During 2012, SSAB has informed and and respect the Code. SSAB has also provide the purchasing organization with a trained the purchasing organizations within ­developed Instructions regarding the good insight into conditions at the suppliers. SSAB EMEA, Tibnor and Plannja about the ­prohibition of bribery. The Instructions Within SSAB Americas, SSAB APAC, Tibnor ongoing work on developing a common ­provide employees with clear information and Plannja, work is also taking place aimed ­strategy for identifying supplier risks. Training on how SSAB defines bribery and improper at matching suppliers against the risk map. courses are also being planned in SSAB benefits, and how employees are expected Americas and SSAB APAC. Sources of SSAB's raw materials Iron ore pellets SWEDEN Injection coal RUSSIA Scrap metal USA Metallurgical coal Coke JAPAN SSAB purchases iron ore pellets from a Swedish supplier, LKAB. Metallurgical coal is purchased from a small number of major suppliers in Australia and the US, while injection coal is sourced from Metallurgical coal AUSTRALIA a specific mine in Russia. Scrap metal is purchased locally in the US. Coke is purchased in Japan. Alloying agents are purchased from some 30 different suppliers 44 Suppliers ssab sustainability report 2012 SSAB in the community SSAB is engaged in the ­community in the localities where it operates. The Company aims to contribute to and support local and international projects of importance to its employees and its local presence. SSAB maintains an open dialogue with politicians, governmental agencies, the media and the public with the aim of ­contributing to knowledge about steel and steel production. Supporting local communities At the localities where it operates in Sweden, SSAB contributes to creating a wide range of recreational activities which can be enjoyed by SSAB's employees and their families. Examples include sponsorship of local sports organizations and an exchange of knowledge Photo: Marcus Frendberg Photo: Anna Lundqvist with schools. SSAB also has the possibility of supporting associations in which employees SSAB EMEA supports Lion’s large spring participate also as v­ olunteers in the annual are involved, primarily within sport and culture. ­market in Oxelösund, which attracts 20,000 Fill the Bus campaign which SSAB initiated in visitors. Among other things, SSAB assists with 2005 in order to provide children from Christmas present donated a ­financial contribution, and the profit from the ­disadvantaged homes with textbooks and to children market always goes to Lion’s help activities. school material. SSAB EMEA and the head office have jointly The employees in Montpelier sponsor and entered into a cooperation project with the Tibnor supports Totalskidskolan support The Make-a-Wish Foundation, an SOS Children's Villages organization to In Sweden, Tibnor cooperates with Totalskidorganization which aims to provide support to ­support a children’s village in the Central skolan in Åre. This is a non-profit organization very sick children. Broader support from the ­African Republic, one of the poorest countries which has the aim of providing disabled Company in Montpelier also goes to The in the world. Specifically, SSAB is contributing people of all ages with a chance to ski or learn ­Community Foundation of Greater Muscatine, to building a family house for ten to twelve to ski based on their own circumstances. In which supports small local organizations and orphaned and abandoned children in a village addition to a financial contribution, there is charitable projects in the region. called Bullerbyn. This is the third children's a cooperation in conjunction with various ­village in that country which SOS Children's customer and supplier activities at which Disaster aid Villages is involved in constructing, and Totalskid­skolan often holds inspiration In the event of crisis situations which severely SSAB's building (one of twelve buildings) is ­presentations. hit communities and their inhabitants, SSAB is expected to be completed in 2014. SSAB able to lend a hand and provide support in chose to give this Christmas present to its Strong employee involvement ways other than through purely financial employees, and they will be able to monitor its in SSAB Americas ­contributions. Following the disaster in the progress through regular information on the SSAB Americas engages in extensive work to wake of the earthquake in Haiti, during a period Company’s intranet. The initiative has been support the local communities in the areas of two years, SSAB and Plannja assisted in the very much appreciated. around its facilities. This involves financial rebuilding work by contributing roofing sheet contributions to a number of different for schools, homes and hospitals. SSAB EMEA’s local activities ­projects as well as initiatives by committed For several years, SSAB EMEA has supported employees. the Peace & Love Festival in Borlänge. SSAB Employees support The United Way with has been involved in the Clean Town project donations, and SSAB makes matching and the objective is that Peace & Love will be ­contributions. In Mobile, money equivalent to SWEDEN Sweden's cleanest festival. SSAB also the savings realized by recycling car tires for ­participates in the Festival’s “Meeting point”, energy instead of ­primary fossil fuel is SSAB is a partner company to SOS Children's Villages. which addresses sustainability matters. ­donated to an education fund. Employees ssab sustainability report 2012 SSAB in the community 45 GRI table SSAB self-declares the report to be Applireporting of data. Acquired companies are a supplement to the 2012 Annual Report, cation Level C in accordance with the GRI included in the report commencing the date the table also includes references to that (Global Reporting Initiative) guidelines for on which a controlling influence is obtained. information, as indicated by the initials ‘AR’. reporting on sustainability work. SSAB is Reporting is in accordance with the same The GRI table contains all core indicators, as engaged in producing joint key performance principles as in previous years. well as those additional indicators that SSAB indicators for the entire Group. The business The table below states where informahas considered to be relevant for its areas and subsidiaries covered are revealed tion sought in GRI is available in the 2012 ­operations. This is based on the Company’s regularly and in connection with the Sustainability Report. Since the Report is most important sustainability issues. Page Degree of Page Degree of GRI GC reference reporting GRI GC reference reporting 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 4.5 Principles for compensation to senior executives AR 42 nnn 1.1 CEO statement 2–3 nnn 4.6 Processes for avoiding conflicts of interests in 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks 4–5, 11–13, the board 33, AR 47, 51 nnn and opportunities 1, 7–9 AR 44–45 nnn 4.7 Processes for determining the qualifications of board members AR 47,50 nnn 2. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 4.8 Mission, values, Code of Conduct, etc. 1–10 6, 32 nnn 2.1 Name of the organization Cover page nnn 4.9 The board's monitoring of the sustainability 2.2 Primary brands, products and services Edge, cover page nnn work 33, AR 55 nnn 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 33 nnn 4.10 Processes for evaluating the board's own performance 33, AR 47, 50 nnn 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters 49 nnn 4.12 Endorsement of external voluntary codes, 2.5 Countries where the organization operates 49 nnn principles or other initiatives 8 nnn 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 33 nnn 4.13 Memberships in associations 8, 35 nnn 2.7 Markets Edge, back page nnn 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 9 nnn 2.8 Scale of the organization Edge, cover page nnn 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 2 nnn stakeholders with whom to engage 9 nnn 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period 9, 19, 26 nnn 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 9 nnn 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement 9 nnn 3. REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period Edge, cover page nnn 5. ECONOMIC INDICATORS 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Edge, cover page nnn EC1. Direct economic value generated and 3.3 Reporting cycle Edge, cover page nnn distributed 14 nnn 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the EC2. Risks and opportunities for the organization report Edge, cover page nnn due to climate changes 7 4–5, 15 nnn 3.5 Process for defining report content 6–9, 46 nnn EC3. Coverage of the organization's defined beneEdge, cover page, fit plan obligations AR 90 nnn 3.6 Boundary of the report 46 nnn EC4. Financial assistance received from 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or Edge, cover page, government AR 75–76 nnn boundary of the report 46 nnn EC6. Policy, practices and proportion of 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, Edge, cover page, spending on locally–based suppliers nnn subsidiaries, etc. 46 nnn EC7. Local hiring and proportion of senior 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements Edge, cover page, management hired from the local community nnn of information provided in earlier reports 46 nnn EC8. Infrastructure investments and services 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting Edge, cover page, provided for public purposes 45 nnn principles regarding scope, boundaries, etc. 46 nnn 3.12 GRI table 46–47 nnn 6. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS EN1. Materials used by weight or volume 8 35, 38 nnn 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT EN2. Percentage of recycled input materials 8–9 37, 38 nnn 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 33 nnn 4.2 The Chairman of the Board's role in the organiEN3. Direct energy consumption by primary source 8 38 nnn zation 33 nnn EN4. Indirect energy consumption by primary 4.3 Independent and/or non–executive board source 8 38 nnn members 33, AR 51 nnn EN5. Energy saved due to conservation and 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees efficiency improvement 8–9 19, 36, 37 nnn to provide recommendations to the board 33, AR 47, 49, 57 nnn EN6. Initiatives to provide energy–efficient or renewable energy based products/services 8–9 37 nnn 46 GRI table ssab sustainability report 2012 SSAB is a signatory to the UN Global Global Compact’s principles Compact (GC) since 2010 and Human rights 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of ­supports its ten principles. Activities 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection employment and occupation. of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Environment and results related to Global 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to rights abuses. environmental challenges; and ­Compact principles are reported Labor standards 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater below through cross-reference to 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association environmental responsibilities; and and the effective recognition of the right to collective 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of a selection of GRI indicators. bargaining; and environmentally friendly technologies. 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Anti-corruption labor; and 10. Businesses should work against corruption in 5. The effective abolition of child labor; and all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Page Degree of Page Degree of GRI GC reference reporting GRI GC reference reporting EN8. Total water withdrawal by source nnn HR2.Suppliers that have undergone screening on human rights, and actions taken 1–6 44 nnn EN10. Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 8–9 31 nnn HR4. Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken nnn EN11. Location/scope of land owned near protected areas/areas of biodiversity value nnn HR5. Operations where freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at EN12. Impacts of products and operations on significant risk and actions taken 1–3 44 nnn biodiversity nnn HR6. Operations identified as having EN16. Direct and indirect greenhouse significant risk for incidents of child gas emissions 8 38–39 nnn labor and actions taken 1–2, 5 44 nnn EN17. Other relevant indirect greenhouse HR7. Operations identified as having gas emissions nnn significant risk for incidents of forced or comEN18. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse pulsory labor and actions taken 1–2, 4 44 nnn gas emissions 7–9 8, 19–20, 35–37 nnn SO1. Programs for evaluating the operation's EN19. Emissions of ozone–depleting substances nnn impacts on communities 9 nnn EN20. NO, SO and other significant SO2. Business units analyzed for risks related air emissions 8 38–39 nnn to corruption 10 32, 44 nnn EN21. Total water discharge 8 31 nnn SO3. Employees trained in the organization's EN22. Waste by type and disposal method 8 38–39 anti–corruption policies and procedures. 10 24 nnn nnn EN23. Number and volume of significant spills 8 201) SO4. Actions taken in response to incidents of cornnn ruption 10 32, 42 nnn EN 26. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services 7–9 11–13 SO5. Participation in public policy development nnn and lobbying 7–9 9, 16, 21, 25, 35 nnn EN27. Products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed SO8. Monetary value of fines for nnn non–compliance with applicable laws AR 98 nnn EN28. Fines and/or non–monetary sanctions for non–compliance with environmental laws PR1. Life cycle stages in which health and nnn safety impacts of products and services EN29. Environmental impact of transports 8 16–17, 39 nnn are assessed 1 30–31 nnn PR3. Type of products and service information 7. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS required by procedures, and percentage of products subject to such information requiLA1. Total workforce by employment type, rements nnn contract and region 40 nnn PR6. Programs for adherence to laws, LA2. Rate of employee turnover by age group, standards and voluntary codes for gender and region 6 40 nnn marketing communications nnn LA4. Percentage of employees covered by PR9. Monetary value of fines for non–compliance collective bargaining agreements nnn with regulations concerning the use of LA5. Minimum notice period(s) regarding products and services nnn operational changes nnn LA7. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, work–related fatalities per region 1 8, 42 nnn 1) There were no significant spills in 2012 LA8. Education, training, prevention and risk–control programs in place 1 26, 27, 42 nnn LA10. Average hours of training per year per employee 10 24, 26, 27 nnn LA13. Composition of governance bodies and employees according to diversity 33, 40–42, indicators 6 AR 47–49 nnn Explanation of degree of reporting: LA14. Ratio of basic pay of men to women nnn n n n Fully reported HR1. Investment agreements that include human n n n Partially reported rights clauses 1–6 44 nnn n n n Not reported ssab sustainability report 2012 GRI table 47 Steel Talk ABC – a glossary A Advanced high strength steels – Multi-phase steels which Heat treatment – Heating and cooling a steel product in such a ­ rocess. For plate, sheet and strip, these include the slabbing mill, p ­contain martensite, bainite and/or retained austenite to achieve ­manner as to obtain desired conditions or properties hot rolling mills, cold rolling mills, and temper mills. Any operating an improved balance of strength and formability as compared to Hematite –Fe2O3, non-magnetic iron ore or blood ore unit that reduces gauge by application of loads through revolving conventional high strength steels cylindrical rolls; operation can be hot or cold. The elevated High strength steels – Strong steel with high resistance to tensile After-treatment – Heat treatment, cooling, etc., in order to endow ­temperature rolling mill is the Hot Mill and is capable of reducing stress before fatigue and breaking may occur the steel with certain qualities; also galvanizing, organic coating, the gauge of a slab 92–99% Hot dip galvanization – Method for adding a rust protection and ­cutting to size Roll pass – Number of times a billet or slab passes through a pair surface layer. For example, adding zinc and aluminum in hot molten Alloy – A substance composed of two or more metals of rollers form on the steel. The opposite to zinc-plating, an electrochemical Alloy Steel – An iron-based mixture is considered to be an alloy method of applying a coat of molten zinc to the surface of steel for Rougher – Two rough cylindrical rollers which press the steel to steel when manganese is greater than 1.65%, silicon over 0.5%, the purpose of enhancing corrosion resistance thinner dimensions prior to hot rolling copper above 0.6%, or other minimum quantities of alloying Hot metal – The name for the molten iron produced in a blast Runner – Ceramic-lined spout for controlling molten, hot metal ­elements such as c­ hromium, nickel, molybdenum, or tungsten are furnace. It proceeds to the basic oxygen furnace in molten form or present. An enormous variety of distinct properties can be created is cast as pig iron S Scrap – Ferrous (iron-containing) material that generally is for the steel by substituting these elements in the recipe ­re-melted and re-cast into new steel Hot strip rolling mill –A mill for rolling heated slabs through a Alloying material – Material that is added to the molten metal series of rolling stands to produce sheet steel in coil form SEN – Submerged entry nozzle, a ceramic pipe which protects the during the steelmaking process and which combines with iron or steel from exposure to air, in conjunction with casting Hot rolling – A metalworking process in which slabs are heated to other metals and changes the metal's qualities Sheet pile – Long structural sections with a vertical interlocking high temperatures and then deformed between rollers to form Annealing – A thermal cycle involving heating to, and holding at a ­thinner ­cross-sections ­system that creates a continuous wall. The walls are most often ­suitable temperature and then cooling at a suitable rate, for such used to retain either soil or water ­purposes as reducing hardness, improving machinability, I Injection coal – Coal powder which is injected into the blast Shot blasting – Cleaning and descaling metal by means of a ­facilitating cold working, producing a desired microstructure, or ­furnace under high pressure without being converted to coke stream of abrasive powder or shot. The shot can be sand, small obtaining desired mechanical or other properties Iron ore pellets – Iron ore particles rolled into small balls and steel balls of ­various diameters, granules of silicon carbide, etc Application – Area of use; a product which uses a certain grade of ­compacted by heating Sintering – A process that combines iron-bearing particles, once steel recovered from environmental control filters, into small pellets. Applications engineer – Trained specialists in the qualities of the L Ladle – A “bucket” lined with refractory (heat resistant) bricks, Skirt – Pipe around the blast furnace for the supply and allocation material and its areas of use; problem solvers and developers used to transport molten steel from process to process in a steel of hot blast air, also known as a bustle pipe plant Slab furnace – Furnace for heating steel slabs to rolling B Blast Furnace – Continuously operating shaft furnace for the Ladle change – Switch from an empty to a full container of steel ­temperatures reduction of iron ore. The end product in the blast furnace is called Ladle Metallurgy Furnace (LMF) – An intermediate steel processing pig iron or hot metal Slabs – The most common type of semi-finished steel, used for unit that further refines the chemistry and temperature of molten production of flat steel products Blast air – Heated air which is blown into the blast furnace under steel while it is still in the ladle. The ladle metallurgy step comes after high pressure Slag – Solution of mainly liquid oxides. Flux such as limestone may the steel is melted and refined in the electric arc or basic oxygen be added to foster the congregation of undesired elements into a furnace, but before the steel is sent to the continuous caster C Carbon dioxide – CO2, colorless gas, soluble in water to form slag. Because slag is lighter than iron, it will float on top of the pool, Ladle treatment method – Different methods for ladle metallurgy where it can be skimmed ­carbonic acid; included in carbonated drinks and comprises 0.03% of the ­atmo­sphere and is identified as a greenhouse gas LD converter – Oxygen steelmaking process employing a Slitting – A metalworking process involving shearing which is typically ­converter (vessel) and top blowing oxygen lance to refine the blast employed to cut a wider steel coil into one or more narrower coils Carbon monoxide – Colorless and odorless energy-rich gas which furnace hot metal into crude steel burns with a blue flame; noxious. Upon combustion, carbon dioxide Smelting reduction process – Process for smelting and removing is formed Low alloyed steel grades – A steel, other than a carbon steel, that unwanted substances from, for example, metal raw materials requires the minimum content for each specified alloying element Carbon steel – Unalloyed steel Special steel – Alloyed steel to be lower than the applicable limit for the definition for alloy steel Charging – The act of loading material into a vessel. For example, Standard steels – Steels with lower strength (yield strength iron ore, coke, and limestone are charged into a blast furnace; a M Magnetite – Fe3O4, magnetic iron ore 235–275 N/mm2). Used within more conventional applications basic ­oxygen furnace is charged with scrap and hot metal, and an within the ­engineering industry and building sector Martensitic steel – Steel with a very hard form of steel crystalline electric arc furnace is charged with steel scrap and fluxes structure called martensite that is formed by displacive trans­ Steckel mill – A four-high reversing rolling mill, the Steckel mill Coilbox – Rolling machinery; box for coiled steel employed to formation. The martensite is formed by rapid cooling (quenching) allows the rolling of a large slab by providing heated coil furnaces or promote temperature uniformity during the hot rolling process of austenite which traps carbon atoms that do not have time to boxes on both sides of the mill to store the increased length Coiler – Mechanical part which captures plate, sheet or strip from diffuse out of the crystal structure ­produced during ­rolling the rolling mill and coils it Material design – Control of the steel chemical composition and Steel – Alloy of iron and carbon with a carbon content of less Coke – Dry distilled coal, the basic fuel consumed in blast furnaces ­processing to achieve a microstructure that offers a combination than 1.7% in the smelting of iron ore of properties desirable for an intended product or application Steel bath – The hot, molten steel in a container Cold rolling – Metalworking process in which the thickness of a Metallurgy – The science and technology of metals Steel shuttle – Train system for transportation of steel slabs sheet, strip or plate is reduced by rolling at ambient temperature Microalloying – In the case of advanced fine grain steels with between Luleå, Borlänge and Oxelösund production facilities Continuous casting – A process by which molten metal is solidified ­particularly stringent yield strength and tensile strength Strand – The continuous cast slab within the continuous casting into a semi-finished billet, bloom, or slab for subsequent rolling ­requirements, small quantities of annoying agents such as niobium, machine prior to cutting into individual slabs Construction steel – See structural steel vanadium, or t­ itanium are added Strength – Properties related to the ability of steel to oppose Corrosion protection – The minimization of corrosion by coating applied forces. Forms of strength include withstanding imposed loads Mold – Casting mold N Niche products – In SSAB’s case without a permanent change in shape or structure and resistance to with a protective metal advanced High strength steels and quenched and tempered steels stretching Cowper stoves – Heating apparatus; ceramic towers used for ­pre-heating blast air O Ore car – Railcar for transportation of lump ore, iron ore Structure – The steel's molecular form following different treatment ­concentrate or pellets methods; crystalline structure. May also refer to the size, shape, and Crude steel – Steel in its solidified state directly after casting. This arrangement of phases within the steel is then further processed by rolling or other treatments, which can Oxide scale – An oxide of iron which forms on the surface of hot change its properties rolled steel Structural steel – Steel intended for, e.g. load-bearing structures, e.g. crane girders. Important qualities include strength, weldability, Cutting station – Place for cutting the steel strand into slabs Oxygen lance – Pipe-shaped lance for treatment using oxygen ­bendability and toughness D Decarburization – In oxygen-blown steelmaking processes, the P Pair of rollers – A pair of cylindrical rollers for rolling steel to Strip – Thin, flat steel that resembles hot-rolled sheet, but it is ­reduction of the hot metal’s carbon content during refining by the ­thinner dimensions under high pressure normally narrower (up to 300 mm, or 12” wide) and produced to use of gaseous oxygen more closely controlled thicknesses Particulates filter – Purification plant for gas or air in which Desulphurization – Method for removing sulphur from the hot ­particulates are separated and condensed for recycling Surface treatment – Cleaning, polishing or coating of surfaces; for metal; for example, through the addition of calcium carbide or example, through galvanization or organic coating Phases – Steel has different crystal structures at various magnesium oxide ­temperatures and the phase(s) present depend on heat treatment, T Temper Mill – A type of cold-rolling mill, usually a four-high, single Dry distillation process – Combustion without entry of oxygen alloy quantity, hardening, quenching, etc. Best known are the stand mill, used to provide a relatively light cold rolling reduction to Dual-phase steel (DP) – High-strength steel that has a one soft ­martensite (quick h ­ ardening) phase, ferrite phase (pure iron) hot rolled, cold rolled, or coated flat steel products to improve ­(ferrite) and one hard (martensite) microstructure which allows for ­austenite (non-magnetic) phase and bainite phase flatness, minimize surface disturbances such as coil breaks, and to desired combination of good formability with high strength Pickling line – A processing line which chemically removes oxide or alter ­mechanical properties scale from the steel surface to obtain a clean surface for Tempering – Heating to 200–500°C degrees in order to make E Electric arc furnace (EAF) – Steel-making furnace where scrap is ­subsequent processing steel tougher and less brittle ­generally 100% of the charge. Heat is supplied from electricity that Plate – Flat rolled steel product which is typically classified as over Tensile strength – Ability to withstand tensile stress. arcs from the graphite electrodes to the metal bath 1,200 mm (48”) in width and 4.5 mm (0.180”) in thickness (See Strength) F Fatigue – The progressive and localized structural damage that Process gas – Gas from metallurgical processes; often energy rich Thermo-mechanical treatment – Heat treatment/quenching of occurs when a material is subjected to cyclic loading at stresses Process methods – Methods for extracting raw materials and the steel in order to achieve special material qualities considerably below the ultimate tensile strength ­manufacturing products in a continuous cycle without disruption Torpedo – Cylinder-shaped brick-lined railway car used for Formatting – Marking, wrapping or cutting the steel into desired Process water – Water from cooling or treatment in the ­transporting hot, molten metal dimensions ­processes. Always undergoes purification and can often be Tundish – An intermediate container in the casting process to Four-high rolling mill – Mechanical equipment; comprises four ­re-circulated facilitate ladle change without disruption in the process ­cylindrical rollers with extremely high pressure which press slabs Profiled – Profiled (or corrugated) steel which is pressed in order to into plate by repeatedly rolling backwards and forwards corrugate the steel V Vacuum Degassing – An advanced steel refining facility that Protection steel – Structural steel with ballistic qualities removes oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen under low pressures (in a G Galvanization – The process of applying a protective zinc coating vacuum) to produce high quality steel for demanding applications to steel or iron, in order to prevent rusting or corrosion Q Quenched and tempered steels – Hardened or toughened steel. SSAB's ­quenched and tempered steels are also high strength W Wear resistance – Ability to resist the erosion of material from the H Hardening – Process that increases the hardness of steel, i.e. the ­surface as a result of mechanical action, e.g. abrasion and friction degree to which steel will resist cutting, abrasion, penetration, R Recycling – Return of used products or byproducts to enter a new bending, and stretching cycle of production and use Wear steel – Steel with qualities adapted to withstand wear, e.g. abrasion Hearth – Lower part of the blast furnace; area for collection of Reduction agents – Carbon or hydrogen used to remove oxygen molten hot metal from iron ore to produce iron Rolling mill – Any of the mills in which metal undergoes a rolling 48 Steel Talk ABC – a glossary ssab sustainability report 2012 Borlänge Oxelösund Production: Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Photo cover: Magnus Fond. Print: Elanders in Falköping. Paper: Arctic Matt. Luleå Addresses Kunshan Kunshan Luleå Borlänge Oxelösund Montpelier Kunshan Mobile BUSINESS AREAS SSAB AMERICAS Sales offices Steel mills SSAB EMEA Rolling mills SSAB APAC Steel Service Centers REAS MERICAS Sales offices Steel mills MEA Rolling mills PAC Steel Service Centers BUSINESS AREAS SSAB AMERICAS Sales offices Steel mills SSAB EMEA Rolling mills Group offices: Business Areas/Subsidiaries: SSAB APAC Steel Service Centers SSAB AB SSAB EMEA SSAB APAC Plannja AB Box 70 SSAB AB SSAB Swedish Steel (China) Co. Ltd. 971 88 Luleå, Sweden 101 21 Stockholm, Sweden Box 70 No. 123 Yuanfeng Rd. Phone +46 10 516 10 00 Phone +46 8 45 45 700 101 21 Stockholm, Sweden Kunshan 215300, China Fax +46 10 516 11 82 Fax +46 8 45 45 725 Phone +46 8 45 45 700 Phone +86 512 5012 8100 www.plannja.se Visiting address: Fax +46 8 45 45 725 Fax +86 512 5012 8200 Klarabergsviadukten 70, D6 www.ssab.com SSAB Americas Tibnor AB SSAB Enterprises, LLC Box 600 801 Warrenville Rd., Suite 800 169 26 Solna, Sweden Lisle, Illinois 60532, USA Phone +46 10 484 00 00 Phone +1 630 810 4800 Fax +46 10 484 00 75 Toll free +1 877 594 7726 www.tibnor.se Fax +1 630 810 4600 Who are the employees ① Fredrik Haglund After having ② Anna Norfjell at head office in ③ Gani Mohammed Abdul is on the front cover? familiarized himself with Tibnor’s Stockholm enjoys the varied nature a General Proposal Engineer in organization as a consultant, it was of her work as Cash Manager within Borlänge. He’s attracted by the an easy decision for Fredrik Haglund, the Group. She has come to the ­opportunity to participate in driving Vice president Logistic & production realization that it’s not possible to forward development in the industry Tibnor, to choose to take fully foresee what’s going to happen. by being able to offer customers part in the implementation of the This means that it’s never possible to the combination of thin and strong change proposals. Four years later, be really fully trained; instead, people steels. During his seven years within Fredrik is a member of Tibnor’s are constantly developing within their the Group, Gani has experienced management team and sits on the area of work. Anna works together, working within production driven by ① ② ③ boards of the Norwegian affiliated on a daily basis, with different parts the aspiration is to achieve the highest companies, within which he of the ­organization and appreciates quality, and has also served customers strives to create new customer value. the friendly atmosphere at work and together with his dedicated colleagues the open dialogues that take place at the Knowledge Service Center. These with ­colleagues in Stockholm, around ­experiences have made him the right Sweden, and throughout the world. person, within the Shape concept, to develop products tailored to the ­customers’ specifications. Greenhouse gases emitted though the production of this printed matter, including paper, other materials and transport, were offset through investments in the equivalent amount of certified reduction units in the Kikonda Forest Reserve Forestation project in Uganda.
