Kee ping our e ye on the ne xt le v el F I N A N C I A L , E N V I R O N M E N TA L A N D S O C I A L P E R F O R M A N C E ANNUAL REPORT 2012/13 JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC Kee ping our e ye on the ne xt le v el Group Highlights Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information About us 3 Consolidated Group performance 70 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 179 Organisational structure 4 Capital resources and liquidity 78 The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility 185 Year at a glance Portfolio movement and evaluation 82 Report of the Auditors 187 Operating highlights and significant events 5 Industry group analysis 85 Income statement 188 Financial achievements and goals 5 Industry group financial highlights 85 Statement of financial position 190 Performance highlights 6 Transportation 86 Statement of cash flow 191 Chairman’s message 7 Leisure 89 Statement of changes in equity 193 Property 94 Notes to the financial statements 195 Governance Consumer Foods & Retail 97 Economic value statement 281 Board of Directors 12 Financial Services 101 Group Executive Committee 14 Supplementary Information Information Technology 105 Group Operating Committee 15 History of the John Keells Group 283 Other, including Plantation Services 109 Corporate governance 17 Decade at a glance 284 Share information 112 Indicative US Dollar financial statements 285 Sustainability Integration and Risk Management Triple bottom line discussion and analysis Sri Lankan economy 287 Sustainability integration 48 Our investors 120 Group real estate portfolio 288 Reporting on sustainability 48 Our people 124 Group directory 290 Sustainability performance highlights 49 Our environment 134 Memberships, certifications and awards 295 Sustainability policy and framework 50 Our ethics 146 GRI content index 300 Performance on sustainability Our products 150 Glossary of financial terms 307 agenda 59 Our community 154 Notice of meeting 310 Short and medium term sustainability agenda 62 Form of proxy 311 Risk management 66 Corporate information IBC THIS YEAR WE HAVE CHOSEN TO TITLE OUR ANNUAL FINANCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE REPORT “PROGRESSIVE”, BECAUSE THAT WAS THE WORD WE FELT BEST DESCRIBED OUR ATTITUDE TOWARDS THE FAST CHANGING WORLD WE FUNCTION IN TODAY. WE KNOW THAT KEEPING PACE IS NOT ENOUGH. WE HAVE TO STAY AHEAD. THIS WE DO BY LOOKING AT ACCEPTED IDEAS IN ORIGINAL WAYS; BY TAKING ON THE MANY CHALLENGES OF LEADERSHIP AND BY UNDERSTANDING THE SOCIAL, ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES WHICH ARE FUNDAMENTAL TO ANY WELL GOVERNED ORGANISATION. BEING “PROGRESSIVE” MEANS THAT OUR IMPROVEMENT IS CONTINUOUS, OUR ACCELERATION RELENTLESS ALONG THE AVENUES OF INDUSTRIES WE CHOOSE TO TRAVEL. WE BELIEVE THAT WE ARE ON THE RIGHT TRACK AS WE HAVE SPENT YEARS BUILDING IN THE INDUSTRY EXPERIENCE AND SPECIALISED SKILLS THAT STRENGTHEN US NOW. YET WE ARE VERY CONSCIOUS OF THE DANGERS OF TAKING OUR SUCCESS FOR GRANTED. THAT IS WHY WE ARE NEVER SATISFIED WITH WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED. EVERY DAY WE SEEK NEW PROSPECTS FOR EXPANSION AND CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT IN A CONSTANT, RESTLESS SEARCH FOR WAYS IN WHICH TO DRIVE OUR COMPANY FURTHER AHEAD. OUR FORWARD THINKING MODEL DEMANDS THAT WE CONSTANTLY SCALE GREATER HEIGHTS; THAT IS THE APPROACH THAT NOW SEES THE GATES OF OPPORTUNITY WIDE OPEN FOR US TO PROGRESS THROUGH TO A WHOLE NEW LEVEL OF VALUE. Annual Report 2012/13 l 1 PROGRESSIVE Introduction to the Report This 2012/13 Annual Report is a reflection of the integrated approach of management, encompassing a Triple Bottom Line performance for the period 1st April 2012 to 31st March 2013. This Report is the Group’s second integrated Annual Report, covering not only the financials, but also the economic, environmental and social performance, as well as the overall corporate governance framework, the risk management process, the risks and opportunities identified by the company and an overview of the Group’s strategic direction. The Group has considered all its subsidiary and associate companies in capturing its financial performance. For the purpose of reporting its sustainability performance, the Group has considered the companies in its sphere of influence, which are the legal entities for which the Group remains accountable and has direct control. The companies not included for reporting on sustainability performance are companies in which the Group does not exercise significant management control, nonoperational companies, investment companies and companies only holding land. Such companies have been clearly identified in the reporting boundary specified in the Group Directory. The information contained in this Report is in compliance with the laws and regulations pertaining to the financial reporting standards issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) and comply with the laws and regulations of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) and subsequent revisions to date, the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code (formerly known as Combined Code of 2010) to the extent they are practicable in the context of the nature of our diverse businesses and their risk profiles. The financial statements in this report are prepared in accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS) issued by CA Sri Lanka and have been prepared on an accruals basis and under the historical cost convention unless otherwise specifically stated. For all periods up to and including the year ended 31st March 2012, the Group prepared its financial statements in accordance with the previous version of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLAS) which were effective up to 31st March 2012. The financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2013 are the first annual financial statements prepared and presented in accordance with the new version of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS) immediately effective from 1st April 2012. With the convergence to SLFRS/LKAS, the financial statements pertaining to the year ended 31st March 2012 also have been restated in accordance with SLFRS/LKAS. These SLFRS/LKASs have materially converged with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). The financial statements are also based on a concept of “going concern” with understandability, relevance, materiality and reliability being the basic framework. Accounting policies and notes set out in the Financial Information section of this Report form an integral part of the financial statements. With regard to the Group’s sustainability performance, the data measurement techniques and the basis of calculation including assumptions and estimations applied in the compilation of such sustainability performance indicators are in accordance with standard industry practices and the indicator protocols provided under Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GRI 3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Such measurement techniques and assumptions have been specified under each relevant sustainability performance indicator and justification for any deviations in any particular case is clearly stated. 2 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Group Highlights About us John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) is the largest listed company on the Colombo Stock Exchange, with business interests primarily in Transportation, Leisure, Property, Consumer Foods & Retail, Financial Services and Information Technology, among others. Started in early 1870s as a produce and exchange broking business by two Englishmen, Edwin and George John, the Group has been known to constantly realign, re-position and re-invent itself in pursuing growth sectors of the time. JKH was incorporated as a public limited liability company in 1979 and obtained a listing on the Colombo Stock Exchange in 1985. Having issued Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) in 1994 which were listed on the Luxemburg Stock Exchange, JKH became the first Sri Lankan company to be listed overseas. The Group’s investment philosophy is based on a positive outlook, bold approach, commitment to delivery and flexibility to change. JKH is also committed to maintaining integrity, ethical dealings, sustainable development and greater social responsibility in a multi-stakeholder context. JKH is a full member of the World Economic Forum and a participant of the United Nations Global Compact Initiative. The holding company of the Group John Keells Holdings PLC is based at 130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2 and the Group has significant operations and businesses located across Sri Lanka as well as in the Maldives and India. Our corporate vision Building businesses that are leaders in the region Our values t Innovation changing constantly, re-inventing and evolving t Integrity doing the right things always t Excellence constantly raising the bar t Caring fostering a great place to work t Trust building strong relationships based on openness and trust Annual Report 2012/13 l 3 PROGRESSIVE Organisational Structure INDUSTRY Financial Other including Transportation Leisure Property Consumer Information Plantation GROUP Foods & Retail Services Technology Services Ports & Property Consumer Plantation City Hotels Development Insurance IT Services Shipping Foods Services SECTORS Transportation Sri Lankan Banking and Office Other Resorts Real Estate Retail Leasing Automation Maldivian Stock IT Enabled Resorts Broking Services Destination Management Hotel Management “Essence” of hospitality management PRIMARY BRANDS* Corporate Corporate Group Business Group Human Finance & Group Group Tax Communications Process Review Finance Resources CENTRE Strategy FUNCTIONS Legal & New Business Strategic Group Sustainability & John Keells Enterprise Risk Group Treasury Research Secretarial Development & Information Group Initiatives Technology Management JOHN KEELLS FOUNDATION Note: Market segments served by the industry groups are discussed in the Group Directory section of the Report. Certifications and awards won by the industry groups are found in the Memberships, Certifications and Awards section of the Report. * Brands owned by the companies are shown within the respective industry groups. 4 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Year at a Glance 7XMZI\QVOPQOPTQOP\[IVL[QOVQÅKIV\M^MV\[ May 2012 for 2012 for the seventh time since the December 2012 t Union Assurance announced an industry first inception of the survey in 2005. t John Keells Holdings PLC was adjudged for innovative mobile solutions through the the winner of the Gold Award in the launch of a SMS gateway – “Union connect”, “Overall Excellence in Financial Reporting” designed to make life insurance transparent, category at the 48th Annual Report Awards convenient and accessible to policy holders. competition organised by the Institute of t Opened a Keells Super outlet in Kalubowila. Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. t Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo topped the 1 t Fitch Ratings reaffirmed John Keells Brand Finance list as the “Most Valued Holdings PLC’s National Long-Term rating at Hospitality Brand” in Sri Lanka. “AAA(lka)” with a “Stable” outlook. t The rebranded “Cinnamon Citadel” was opened following an extensive refurbishment. t Union Assurance PLC successfully concluded t Opened a Keells Super outlet in Havelock a one for seven rights issue in December Road. 2012, and raised Rs.750 million at Rs.70 per July 2012 share. October 2012 t Disposed a 40 per cent stake in John Keells t JKH secured the number one spot in January 2013 Logistics Lanka and a 60 per cent stake the Business Today Magazine’s “Top 20” t Opened a Keells Super outlet in Maharagama. in John Keells Logistics India to Norbert rankings for the eighth time since 1999. Dentressangle along with management control. February 2013 t Launched the 200 room five star resort hotel t John Keells PLC, the tea and rubber broking August 2012 “Cinnamon Bey”. arm of John Keells Holdings, initiated and t Keells Food Products PLC successfully raised Rs.1.02 billion via a rights issue in order to t Launched an online learning portal, hosting deployed “e-Gavel”, a tablet-based application, fund the acquisition and expansion of a new e-learning modules and an e-library for for capturing real-time tea auction information. meat processing plant in Pannala. employees. t The 140,000 square foot “K-Zone” mall along September 2012 November 2012 with a Keells Super outlet was opened in the t The Group invested Rs.224 million during t JKH was awarded the Golden Peacock Global suburban city of Ja-Ela, north of Colombo. the financial year in the associate company Award for Sustainability. March 2013 Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd which is the parent t John Keells Foundation announced the t Walkers Tours launched Asia’s first Carbon company of a domestic airline operating first free corporate digital art gallery for Neutral Fleet. under the brand name “Cinnamon Air”. Sri Lankan artists to showcase their work t John Keells BPO Alpha (Pvt) Ltd disposed its t Production commenced at the newly acquired throughout the year. stake in Quatrro FPO Solutions (Pvt) Ltd. meat processing facility in Pannala. t JKH was ranked first in the LMD Magazine’s “Most Respected Entities in Sri Lanka” survey Financial Achievements and Goals Achievement Indicator (%) Goal 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 EBIT growth >20 18.4 24.6 44.5 EPS growth (fully diluted) >20 24.3 17.1 55.5 Cash EPS growth (fully diluted) >20 7.3 23.8 30.8 Return on capital employed (ROCE) 15 15.2 15.6 14.7 Return on equity (ROE) 18 15.1 14.8 15.1 Net debt (cash) to equity 50 (8.1) (9.2) (6.2) Annual Report 2012/13 l 5 PROGRESSIVE Year at a Glance Performance highlights SLFRS/LKAS SLFRS/LKAS SLAS Year Ended 31 March 2013 2012 Change % 2011 Earnings highlights and ratios Group revenue consolidated Rs. million 85,557 77,690 10 60,500 Group revenue including associates Rs. million 94,600 86,107 10 69,824 Group profit before interest and tax (EBIT) Rs. million 16,856 14,236 18 11,425 Group profit before tax Rs. million 15,775 12,820 23 10,629 Group profit after tax Rs. million 13,590 10,978 24 9,063 Group profit attributable to shareholders Rs. million 12,201 9,687 26 8,245 Dividends * Rs. million 2,982 2,314 29 1,869 Diluted earnings per share Rs. 14.22 11.44 24 9.77 Cash earnings per share Rs. 14.97 13.95 7 11.27 Interest cover No. of times 15.6 10.1 54 14.4 Return on equity (ROE) % 15.1 14.8 2 15.1 Pre-tax return on capital employed (ROCE) % 15.2 15.6 (3) 14.7 Financial position highlights and ratios Total assets Rs. million 159,118 134,458 18 110,292 Total debt Rs. million 20,117 20,054 0 14,641 Net debt (cash) ** Rs. million (8,223) (7,348) (12) (4,168) Total shareholders' funds Rs. million 89,819 71,338 26 59,587 No. of shares in issue millions 857 844 2 630 Net assets per share *** Rs. 104.78 83.22 26 69.51 Debt / equity % 19.9 25.0 (20) 21.8 Net debt (cash) / equity ** % (8.1) (9.2) 12 (6.2) Debt / total assets % 12.6 14.9 (15) 13.3 Market / shareholder information Market price of share as at 31st March (actual) Rs. 247.00 206.00 20 285.60 Market price of share as at 31st March (diluted) Rs. 247.00 206.00 20 214.20 Market capitalisation Rs. million 211,739 173,889 22 179,840 Enterprise value ** Rs. million 203,516 166,541 22 175,672 Total shareholder return % 21.6 (2.5) 964 57.4 Price earnings ratio (PER) (diluted) No. of times 17.4 18.0 (3) 21.9 Dividend payout % 40.1 49.0 (18) 32.2 Dividend per share Rs. 3.5 3.0 17 3.0 Dividend yield % 1.4 1.3 7 1.4 Sustainability indicators Carbon footprint MT 69,403 69,280 0 65,524 Carbon footprint per Rs. million of revenue MT 0.81 0.89 (9) 1.08 Water consumption m3 1,660,870 1,830,547 (9) Not tracked Lost days as a percentage of total man days % 0.032 0.045 (53) 0.058 Training per employee Hours 46.00 40.00 15 30.00 Community engagement No. of persons impacted 28,402 28,025 1 17,648 Waste recovered / recycled / reused as a percentage of non hazardous waste % 43 37 16 Not tracked Total energy consumption GJ 654,655 649,696 4 631,769 Other Economic value generated Rs. million 97,060 86,420 12 69,786 Economic value distributed Rs. million 84,667 76,412 11 61,100 Employees Rs. million 9,507 8,091 18 6,873 Government Rs. million 3,910 3,595 9 3,194 Others Rs. million 71,250 64,726 10 51,036 Economic value retained Rs. million 12,393 10,008 24 8,686 Total employees (excluding associate companies) Number 13,224 11,956 11 11,389 * Cash dividends paid during the year ** Customer advances in the Property Development sector and quoted market equities relating to UA life fund has been excluded *** Net assets per share has been calculated, for all periods, based on the number of shares in issue as at 31st March 2013. 6 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Chairman’s Message I am pleased to present the Summarised below are the key financial Property, all industry groups achieved ROCEs in Integrated Annual Report and highlights of our operating performance during excess of the Group’s hurdle rate of 15 per cent. the Statement of Accounts for the year under review. Leisure which accounts for 37.1 per cent of the total capital employed of the Group improved its the Financial Year ended 31st t (SPVQSFWFOVFJODSFBTFECZQFSDFOUUP ROCE to 14.0 per cent. March 2013. The integrated Rs.85.56 billion nature of the Report epitomises The Annual Report contains discussions on the the Group’s recognition of, and t (SPVQQSPýUCFGPSFUBY 1#5 JODSFBTFECZ macro-economic factors, the impact on our 23 per cent to Rs.15.78 billion continued aspiration towards, the businesses as well as a detailed discussion and social, economic and financial t 1SPýUBUUSJCVUBCMFUPFRVJUZIPMEFSTPG analysis of each of the industry groups. As such, responsibilities which are the parent increased by 26 per cent to I will focus on a high level summation of the fundamental to a viable and wellRs.12.20 billion performance of each industry group during the governed entity. Our inherently t /FUDBTIþPXGSPNPQFSBUJOHBDUJWJUJFT financial year 2012/13. “progressive” attitude ensures decreased by 11 per cent to Rs.14.72 Transportation Industry Group that our search for growth is billion The Transportation industry group reported continuous, our approach is t 3FUVSOPODBQJUBMFNQMPZFE 30$& XBT revenues of Rs.25.11 billion and a PAT of socially responsible and our pursuit 15.2 per cent compared to 15.6 per cent in Rs.3.40 billion, contributing 26 per cent and 25 of improvement is relentless. I the previous year per cent to Group revenue and PAT respectively. believe it is this “progressive” The 2012/13 PAT increased by 9 per cent over t 3FUVSOPOFRVJUZ 30& XBTQFSDFOU mind-set that has enabled the the previous year. The performance was driven compared to 14.8 per cent in the previous Group to continuously create value year by the Ports and Shipping business, which in for all its stakeholders. t %FCUUPFRVJUZSBUJPJNQSPWFEUPQFS cent from 25.0 per cent DILUTED EPS For the financial year 2012/13, Group profit before tax (PBT) was Rs.15.78 billion, this t *OUFSFTUDPWFSJODSFBTFEUPUJNFTGSPN 10.1 times Rs.14.22 being a 23 per cent increase over the PBT of t %JMVUFEFBSOJOHTQFSTIBSFJODSFBTFECZ +24% Rs.12.82 billion recorded in the previous year. per cent to Rs.14.22 The profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent was Rs.12.20 billion, a 26 per cent t $BTIFBSOJOHTQFSTIBSFJODSFBTFECZQFS spite of a marginal decline in volumes resulting increase over the Rs.9.69 billion reported in the cent to Rs.14.97 from relatively subdued global economic previous financial year. conditions and reduced trade volumes locally, t 5PUBMTIBSFIPMEFSSFUVSOT 543 BUQFS witnessed improved profitability on account of cent outperformed the All Share Price Index It should be noted that the finance income efficiency improvements and cost reduction (ASPI) which increased by 5.8 per cent of Rs.4.77 billion for the year includes Union initiatives. The bunkering business performed Assurance PLC’s life and general insurance t $BSCPOGPPUQSJOUQFSPOFNJMMJPO3VQFFTPG well although profitability was impacted to an funds’ interest income of Rs.2.66 billion, which revenue decreased by 9 per cent to 0.81 extent as a result of a strengthening Rupee net of related costs has been reflected under the MT during the second half of the year. During the Financial Services operating segment results. year, the Group entered into a joint venture in In reviewing the portfolio of the Group, it is respect to its freight forwarding businesses in observed that the reliance on a single industry The recurring PBT for the financial year India and Sri Lanka with Norbert Dentressangle group, as was the case a few years ago, 2012/13, excluding fair value adjustments on S.A of France. The transaction involved the has reduced with Transportation and Leisure investment property and capital gains on share disposal of a 40 per cent stake in John Keells accounting for 21.9 per cent and 34.0 per cent disposals, was Rs.13.54 billion, an increase of Logistics Lanka and a 60 per cent stake in of EBIT respectively. These two businesses 19 per cent over the recurring PBT of Rs.11.41 John Keells Logistics India. Our associate collectively account for 55.9 per cent of EBIT billion in the previous year. On a similar basis, operating under the brand name “Cinnamon Air” which is marginally above the share of capital the recurring profit attributable to equity holders purchased two Cessna amphibian aircraft during employed in these businesses which is 51.2 per of the parent was Rs.10.31 billion, representing the year. Cinnamon Air will have scheduled cent of the total capital employed. It is pleasing an increase of 21 per cent over the Rs.8.54 domestic flights departing from the country’s to note that with the exception of Leisure and billion recorded in the previous year. Annual Report 2012/13 l 7 PROGRESSIVE Chairman’s Message main international airport, thus improving rates. The overall prospects for tourism in the Consumer Foods and Retail Industry connectivity and adding to the tourism country remain promising. Whilst we welcome Group infrastructure of the country. Operations of the the commencement of certain initiatives to Consumer Foods and Retail recorded revenues airline are expected to commence shortly. market the destination, we reiterate our belief of Rs.24.27 billion and a PAT of Rs.2.05 that a sustainable, focused marketing strategy billion, contributing 26 per cent and 15 per Leisure Industry Group with the full involvement of all stakeholders cent to Group revenue and PAT respectively. The Leisure industry group achieved revenues is required to ensure that the relevant visitor The 2012/13 PAT decreased by 14 per cent of Rs.20.59 billion and a PAT of Rs.4.77 segments are attracted. over the previous year. The 2012/13 PAT billion, contributing 22 per cent and 35 per includes Rs.1.28 billion of non-recurring THE cent to Group revenue and PAT respectively. items as against Rs.1.31 billion in the With a PAT growth of 29 per cent in 2012/13, previous year. The Consumer Foods sector Property group Leisure maintained its position as the largest encountered challenging market conditions contributor to Group PAT. Tourist arrivals into Sri during the year as a result of lower discretionary embarked Lanka grew by 17 per cent crossing one million consumer spending coupled with adverse arrivals for the calendar year 2012. In terms weather conditions in the country during the of the composition of arrivals, Western Europe and South Asia continued to be the dominant on its newest third quarter of the financial year. Ice cream volumes witnessed marginal growth, while generating markets. The growth rate in arrivals from South Asia slowed down, while the newly venture “7th the carbonated soft drink volumes were below Sense” expectations. Keells Food Products acquired a emerging tourism markets of Eastern Europe meat processing facility in the Pannala industrial and East Asia demonstrated significant growth zone. A total of Rs.1.02 billion was raised for momentum. this acquisition and further expansion of the facility via a two for one rights issue priced at Growth in PAT was primarily driven by the Rs.60 per share. performance of the City Hotels where both Property Industry Group Cinnamon Grand and Cinnamon Lakeside The Property industry group recorded revenues The Retail business implemented a new increased market share. Construction of the of Rs.3.17 billion and a PAT of Rs.1.19 billion, way forward strategy which included a 240 room select service business hotel to contributing 3 per cent and 9 per cent to comprehensive programme to re-merchandise be operated by the Hotel Management arm Group revenue and PAT respectively. The and refurbish outlets, coupled with the rolling of the Group is on schedule and is expected 2012/13 PAT is a 28 per cent increase over out of many process initiatives and international to commence operations during the second the previous year. The 475 unit OnThree20 best practices. Retail witnessed robust same quarter of the financial year 2014/15. Sri residential development is progressing on store sales growth in addition to revenues Lankan Resorts extended its portfolio further schedule. Revenues were recognised during the emanating from the new outlets opened during with the opening of the 200 room Cinnamon year, although lower than in the previous year the year. A value added tax of 12 per cent was Bey Beruwala, re-launching Cinnamon Citadel on account of the revenue recognition cycle. imposed on retail businesses with turnover Kandy (formerly Chaaya Citadel Kandy) following The Property group embarked on its newest exceeding Rs.500 million per quarter with an extensive refurbishment and re-branding venture “7th Sense”, a high-end residential effect from January 2013. As there were no Cinnamon Wild Yala (formerly Chaaya Wild development of 65 apartment units located in a transitional provisions made available to allow Yala). Revenues of Sri Lankan Resorts increased prime residential area in Colombo. Construction for the claiming of input VAT on the closing during the year driven by an increase in has already commenced and the project stocks as at 31st December 2012, the Retail average room rates, although occupancies is scheduled for completion by April 2015. sector experienced a significant one-off negative were below expectations as witnessed across Construction of the 140,000 square foot K-Zone impact in the fourth quarter. the industry. The hotel operating profits of Sri mall in Kapuwatta, Ja-Ela, was completed in Lankan Resorts were negatively impacted by the February 2013 and some tenants have already Financial Services Industry Group increase in finance expenses arising primarily moved in. Progress continues to be made on our The Financial Services industry group recorded from the higher levels of debt utilised to fund plans for a large scale development on one of revenues of Rs.11.11 billion and a PAT of the construction of Cinnamon Bey and the our existing sites. Rs.1.40 billion, contributing 12 per cent and 10 refurbishment of Cinnamon Citadel. Maldivian per cent to Group revenue and PAT respectively. Resorts experienced growth on the back of The 2012/13 PAT increased by 20 per cent over improved occupancies and stable average room the previous year. Union Assurance reported 8 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information a strong performance in both life and non-life strategy focusing on the flexibility of the product has also been presented in the reconciliation segments through the introduction of new offering. Despite the relatively subdued global statements and accompanying notes to the products and a greater focus on enhancing economy, the Business Process Outsourcing reconciliation. distribution capabilities. During the year, Union (BPO) business in India has developed a strong Assurance raised Rs.750 million through a sales pipeline through the acquisition of new Employees rights issue of one ordinary share for every customers with the business now reaching a The success of the JKH Group has been built seven shares held at a price of Rs.70 per share critical mass in terms of scale of operations. The around our loyal and committed employees in order to strengthen the capital base. Despite Group divested its stake in the associate Quattro who demonstrate passion and a “progressive” attitude towards delivering value. The emphasis on values, integrity and conduct is evidenced “Our loyal and committed employees who demonstrate in the strong governance and performance passion and a “progressive” attitude towards management framework of the Group which is aimed at inculcating a performance oriented delivering value.” culture founded on ethical and transparent behaviour. The Governance and Our People sections of the Report explain the policies, procedures and systems in place. challenging market conditions resulting in FPO Solutions (Pvt) Limited for a consideration liquidity constraints in 2012, Nations Trust Bank of US Dollars 4.5 million. Sustainability grew its market share and continued its growth Sustainability has been mainstreamed into trend. The bank took further steps to strengthen Other Including Plantation Services our business model and this is our second its presence within the SME sector through The Plantation Services sector reported integrated report which we have produced in branch expansions and successfully grew its revenues of Rs.2.97 billion and a PAT of Rs.260 conformance with best practice. Our Report has SME lending portfolio, while maintaining a low million, contributing 3 per cent and 2 per cent to obtained the “GRI Application Level Check”. impairment ratio. Group revenue and PAT respectively. The PAT for 2012/13 increased by 77 per cent compared to I am pleased to announce that this year too we Although the stock broking business recorded the previous financial year. Plantation Services have been able to make significant progress an improved market share during the year, was positively impacted by the increase in tea on the agenda items reported in last year’s volumes in the Colombo Stock Exchange prices following supply shortages in key black integrated Annual Report, with regard to declined significantly compared to the previous tea producing countries. In addition to the energy management, Green Globe and LEED financial year. The stock broking business will Plantation Services sector, Others comprise of certifications, training and development and continue with its strategy to focus on the foreign the holding company and other investments. community engagement. This year, our carbon and institutional investor segments. Overall, this segment reported revenue of footprint is 69,403 MT, which has grown, Rs.3.55 billion and a PAT of Rs.548 million. in absolute terms, as a result of increased Information Technology Industry operational activities. However, the carbon Group IFRS convergence footprint per every one million Rupees of The Information Technology industry group The financial statements for the year ended 31st revenue declined by 9 per cent to 0.81 MT. The posted revenues of Rs.6.80 billion and a PAT March 2013 have been prepared and presented Group’s water footprint this year amounts to of Rs.238 million, contributing 7 per cent in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting 1,660,870 cubic meters, while the total waste and 2 per cent to Group revenue and PAT Standards (SLFRS/LKAS) which have materially generated amounts to 7,868 MT, a 9 per cent respectively. The 2012/13 PAT represented converged with the International Financial and a 6 per cent reduction respectively. The a 261 per cent increase compared to the Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the Group has provided 46 hours of training per previous year. In the Office Automation business, International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). employee which is a 15 per cent increase in the Samsung mobile phones continued to witness This Annual Report is our first published under number of training hours provided compared to high volume growth, while the Toshiba copier the new IFRS guidelines and the previous year’s last year. Continuous training and awareness on business overcame increased competition to financials have been restated for comparative staff health and safety was carried out during maintain market share. The performance of purposes. The Report also covers the key policy the year, with special emphasis being placed the Software Services business improved as changes as required for first time adoption. The on high risk areas and this has resulted in the a result of the acquisition of new customers effect of the transition from the previous Sri number of occupational injuries being reduced through the adoption of an aggressive marketing Lanka Accounting Standards (SLASs) to SLFRSs by 15 per cent, compared to the last year. Annual Report 2012/13 l 9 PROGRESSIVE Chairman’s Message In our pursuit of focused sustainable development, we will continue to maintain a THERE Arts and Culture The 20th anniversary of the annual open air art constant focus on conserving energy and water, minimising our carbon footprint, disposing were over fair (Kala Pola) was celebrated showcasing the 5,800 volunteer artwork of 344 artists to approximately 30,000 waste more responsibly, enhancing staff visitors. A new website displaying the work by instances health and safety conditions and training, a number of local artists was launched with a ensuring ethical business practices and the view to promoting Sri Lankan art. An e-platform during operation of a comprehensive enterprisewas also introduced as a common forum to wide risk management process. The Group’s enable artists to market their work throughout 2012/13 robust sustainability and risk management the year. process, through its enterprise-wide risk and sustainability systems, create awareness within Our Volunteers the workforce, facilitates regular reporting, and During 2012/13, there were over 5,800 establishes the basis for global benchmarking volunteer instances for the activities conducted and review of key performance indicators. The John Keells Vision Project under the auspices of the Foundation and by the The Group’s Sustainability Committee meets Under this initiative a total of 613 cataract businesses themselves. regularly. surgeries were conducted and 1,387 spectacles donated in the year under review. The John Conclusion During the year in review, the Group also carried Keells Vision Project continued to extend its Your Board declared a final dividend of Rs.1.50 out an independent stakeholder engagement programmes in the Northern and Eastern per share to be paid on 17th June 2013. under the AA1000 SE Standard and an internal provinces of the country and held eye camps in Voice of Employees stakeholder study, which Nachchikuda, Mannar and Mullaitivu. I wish to place on record my appreciation of helped us further substantiate the material the contribution made by Steven Enderby who issues from a Group perspective and formulate The Final Step stepped down from the Board and I welcome policies and frameworks in addressing these Ashroff Omar who joined the Board, in March In collaboration with the career guidance unit concerns. 2013. of the University of Jaffna and the University Grants Commission, a university soft skills Corporate Social Responsibility In conclusion, on behalf of the Board of initiative was conducted in March 2013 at the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is an Directors and all employees of the John University of Jaffna. The workshops received integral part of our business and permeates Keells Group, I thank all our stakeholders for an overwhelming response with 521 students throughout the organisation. Considering the the support extended during the year. Whilst becoming eligible to receive certificates. diversity and geographical breadth of the there is no doubt that the year ahead of us businesses within the Group we recognise the will be very challenging as a result of the English Language Scholarship Programme responsibility we have in ensuring we make a external environment, I am confident that our During the year, a total of 974 school children in positive difference in the communities that we “progressive” mind-set will enable us to meet 20 locations completed the “English for Teens” operate in. At JKH, our CSR focus continues these short term challenges in continuing to scholarship. A new advanced level course was to be on six key areas: namely, Education, create sustained value. introduced for students who achieved an Honor Health, Environment, Community and Livelihood pass at the foundation tier. This new programme Development, Arts and Culture and Disaster Finally, I thank my colleagues on the Board has commenced in 8 districts of the country. Relief. and the Group Executive Committee for their guidance and support during the past year. HIV/AIDS Awareness Campaign The CSR initiatives of the Group are administered by the John Keells Foundation The Foundation, through this initiative, has (Foundation), a company duly incorporated targeted employees of the John Keells Group, under the law and also registered as a communities around our business locations, “Voluntary Social Service Organisation” with the other corporate entities, Most at Risk Persons Ministry of Social Welfare. Whilst further details (MARPs) and the general public. A total of 3,059 Susantha Ratnayake are available in the Social Responsibility section persons were educated during the financial Chairman of this Report, some of the highlights of the year under review, bringing the total number Foundation’s work during the year are: of persons educated since the launch of the 28 May 2013 project to 12,774. 10 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com GOVERNANCE Keeping our eye on the next level COMMITTED GO O D G O V E R N A N CE SH AP ES OUR FUTU RE PE RF ORM ANCE PROGRESSIVE Board of Directors Susantha Ratnayake of Cape Town, South Africa. He is a member Tarun Das Chairman-CEO of the committee of the Ceylon Chamber of ** Director Commerce, Chairman of its Taxation Sub Susantha Ratnayake was appointed as the Tarun Das has spent his professional career Committee and also serves on its Economic, Chairman and CEO of John Keells Holdings in the development and promotion of Indian Fiscal and Policy Planning Sub Committee. He PLC (JKH) in January 2006 and has served Industry. Starting in November 1963 with the is a Director of several companies in the John on the JKH Board since 1992/93. He is Keells Group and the outgoing President of the predecessor body of Confederation of Indian also the Chairman of many of the listed and Sri Lanka Institute of Directors. Industry (CII) he was the Director General un-listed companies within the Group. He and Chief Executive of CII from April 1967 is the Chairman of the Ceylon Chamber of Franklyn Amerasinghe to May 2004 and Chief Mentor from June Commerce, Vice Chairman of the Employers’ * Director 2004 to October 2009. His leadership of the Federation of Ceylon and serves on several Appointed to the Board during 1999/2000, organisation over three decades has led to clusters of the National Council for Economic Franklyn Amerasinghe is the former CEO and strengthening business and strategic ties Development. He has over 35 years of Director General of the Employers’ Federation between India and the world. He is Member, management experience, all of which is within of Ceylon. He was thereafter attached to the Council of IITs, Ministry of Human Resources the John Keells Group. International Labour Organisation as a senior Development; Member, Kerala State Planning specialist in the social dialogue sector in Board, Kerala Government; Member, IndoUK Ajit Gunewardene charge of Employer’s Organisations in East Round Table, Ministry of External Affairs; Deputy Chairman Asia up to October 2002. A Bachelor of Law Member, Advisory Group, Expert Committee Ajit Gunewardene is the Deputy Chairman and a lawyer by profession, he is currently on Prasar Bharati. He is the Founding Trustee, of John Keells Holdings PLC and has been a a consultant and trainer in social dialogue, Council on Energy Environment and Water member of the Board for over 20 years. He human resource management, corporate social (CEEW);Vice President and Treasurer, World is a Director of many companies in the John responsibility and industrial relations, both in Wildlife FundIndia (WWF); Member, Board Keells Group and is the Chairman of Union Sri Lanka and abroad. He has also authored of Trustees, Public Interest Foundation (PIF); Assurance PLC. He is a member of the board books on a wide range of subjects and Trustee, Sasakawa India Leprosy Foundation of SLINTEC, a company established for the published papers in some international and (SILF); Member, Board of Governors, Rajiv development of nanotechnology in Sri Lanka local journals. He is a Founder Trustee of the Gandhi Indian Institute of Management, under the auspices of the Ministry of Science Association for Dialogue & Conflict Resolution. Shillong; Member, Board of Governors, Indian and Technology. He has also served as the He was also one of the Founder Directors of Council for Research on International Economic Chairman of the Colombo Stock Exchange. Ajit the Skills Development Fund. Relations (ICRIER); Member, Executive has a degree in Economics and brings over 31 Committee of the Board, ICRIER; Member, Apex Dr. Indrajit Coomaraswamy years of management experience. Council on India@75, Confederation of Indian ** Director Industry (CII); Trustee, India@75 Foundation; Ronnie Peiris Dr Indrajit Coomaraswamy was appointed Member, Singapore India Partnership Group Finance Director to the John Keells Holdings PLC Board in Foundation (SIPF); Founding Trustee, Aspen February 2011. He was an official in the Appointed to the John Keells Holdings PLC Institute India; Lifetime Trustee, The Aspen Central Bank of Sri Lanka from 1974-1989. He Board in May 2003, Ronnie Peiris has overall Institute, USA; Member, Board of Governors, worked in the Economic Research, Statistics responsibility for the Group’s Finance and East West Center. He is the Co-Chair of the and Bank Supervision Divisions. During this Accounting including Taxation, the Information US – India Strategic Dialogue; Co-Chair, time he was also seconded to the Ministry Technology, Corporate Finance and Treasury Indo-US-Japan Strategic Dialogue; Co-Chair, of Finance and Planning (1981-89). He was functions and Group Initiatives. He was employed by the Commonwealth Secretariat IndiaIsrael Forum; Member, IndiaSingapore previously the Managing Director of Anglo from 1990-2008. During that time he held Strategic Dialogue; Member, India-China American Corporation (Central Africa) Limited the positions, inter alia, of Director, Economic Strategic Dialogue; Member, IndiaTurkey in Zambia. Ronnie has over 40 years of Affairs Division and Deputy-Director, SecretaryForum. He is Member, International Advisory finance and general management experience General’s Office. He was subsequently Interim Board of ACE Insurance(USA); Member, India in Sri Lanka and abroad. He is a Fellow Director, Social Transformation Programme Advisory Board of VOITH (Germany); Member, of the Chartered Institute of Management Division, Commonwealth Secretariat (JanIndia Advisory Board, JCB (UK). Accountants, UK; Association of Chartered July 2010). He completed his undergraduate Certified Accountants UK and the Society degree at Cambridge University and obtained of Certified Management Accountants, Sri his Doctorate at the University of Sussex. Lanka and holds an MBA from the University 12 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Ranjit Gunasekara Sithie Tiruchelvam ** Director ** Director Ranjit Gunasekara was appointed to the Appointed to the Board in January 2007, Board in July 2011. A chartered accountant Sithie Tiruchelvam, is a Lawyer of the Supreme by profession, his career includes a spell of Court of Ceylon, and specialises in corporate seventeen years overseas where he worked for law, intellectual property law and labour law. seven years with Coopers & Lybrand in Zambia She has obtained her LLB from the University and Botswana before leaving as an Audit of Ceylon in 1966, and was admitted to the Senior Manager. He then joined the Lloyd’s Supreme Court as an Advocate in 1968. She is Insurance Broking Group, Minet, as Financial a Founding Partner of the law firm Tiruchelvam Controller of its Botswana operations before Associates. She has been listed as a leading transferring to Minet’s head office in London lawyer in corporate and commercial matters by where he served as Financial Controller/ Chamber Asia Pacific. She currently serves on Executive Director of Minet International the board of Central Corporate & Consultancy Holdings. On returning to Sri Lanka in 1994, he Services (Pvt.) Limited, the Nadesan Centre joined NDB, and retired as its Chief Financial for Human Rights through Law and the Family Officer in 2004. He has served on the boards Rehabilitation Centre. of NDB and several of its group companies and on the city hotel subsidiaries of the John Keells Group. Ashroff Omar ** Director Ashroff Omar is a Director of Phoenix Ventures Limited, Chief Executive Officer of Brandix Lanka Ltd and serves as Director on many of its subsidiary companies. He was the founder Chairman of The Joint Apparel Association Forum (JAAF) and former Chairman of the Sri Lanka Apparel Exporters Association. He serves as a Director of the Sri Lanka institute of Nanotechnology (SLINTEC), Board of Directors of the United States-Sri Lanka Fulbright Commission and Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Garments Export Development Board (EDB). He is the Hon. Consul General of the Republic of Finland, a Chartered Member of The Textile Institute International, United Kingdom and a Senior Member of the Society of Plastics Engineers, Connecticut, USA. * Senior Independent Non-Executive ** Independent Non-Executive Annual Report 2012/13 l 13 PROGRESSIVE Group Executive Committee Dilani Alagaratnam Sanjeeva Fernando Suresh Rajendra President President President Dilani Alagaratnam, President, Group HR, Legal Sanjeeva Fernando is responsible for the Suresh Rajendra is responsible for the Property & Secretarial, has overall responsibility for the IT industry group and Plantation Services group and oversees the Sustainability and Group Human Resources, Legal & Secretarial sector. He possesses over 26 years of senior the Enterprise Risk Management functions and Corporate Communication functions of managerial experience in diverse businesses of John Keells Holdings PLC. He has over 20 John Keells Group. A lawyer by profession, she and capacities. He joined the John Keells years of experience in the fields of finance, has been with John Keells Holdings PLC for Group in 1993 and has headed the Group’s property and real estate, travel and tourism, 21 years and is a law graduate and a holder printing and packaging businesses, bunkering and business development acquired both in of a Masters Degree in Law. Currently she is businesses and has served as head of the Sri Lanka and overseas. Prior to joining the the Chairperson of the Steering Committee on Transportation and Logistics sector overseeing Group, he was the Head of Commercial and Human Resources and Education of the Ceylon the Group’s airline, travel, freight forwarding, Business Development for NRMA Motoring & Chamber of Commerce and member of the shipping & bunkering businesses in Sri Services in Sydney, Australia, Director/General National Labour Advisory Committee. Lanka, India and the Maldives. Sanjeeva Manager of Aitken Spence Hotel Managements was also given the responsibility of setting (Pvt) Ltd. and also served on the boards of the Krishan Balendra up and developing the Group’s IT Enabled hotel companies of the Aitken Spence Group. President Services business (BPO) in Gurgaon, India and Suresh is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Krishan Balendra has responsibility for the resided in India from 2007 until 2012 whilst Management Accountants, UK. Retail sector and John Keells Stock Brokers. overlooking the rest of the IT businesses in He started his professional career at UBS the Group. A printer by profession, Sanjeeva Warburg, Hong Kong, in investment banking, qualified from the London School of Printing focusing primarily on equity capital markets. and is a member of the London Institute of After a four year stint in Hong Kong, he Printing. continued his career in corporate finance at Aitken Spence & Co. PLC, Sri Lanka prior Jitendra Gunaratne to joining JKH. Krishan holds a law degree President (LLB) from the University of London and an Jitendra Gunaratne is responsible for MBA from INSEAD. He is the Chairman of the the Consumer Foods sector. Prior to his Colombo Stock Exchange. appointment as President, he overlooked the Plantations and Retail sectors. His 32 years Romesh David of management experience in the Group also President covers Leisure and Property. Jitendra holds a Romesh David has been with the Group for Diploma in Marketing. He is the President of 33 years during which he has served in the the Beverage Association of Sri Lanka and the Leisure, Domestic & International Trade, IT and Chairman of the Steering Committee for Food Transportation sectors of the Group. He is a and Beverage of the Chamber of Commerce. member of the Ports, Shipping, Aviation and He also serves as a member of the Advisory Logistics Steering Committee of the Ceylon Committee on Consumer Affairs of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce and is currently the Chamber of Commerce. Chairman of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport – Sri Lanka Branch. He serves on the Executive Committee of the Council for Business with Britain, the Advisory Council of the Sri Lanka Freight Forwarders Association and the Executive Committee of the Indo Lanka Chamber of Commerce. He is a past Chairman of the Sri Lanka Freight Forwarders’ Association and the Council for Business with Britain. Note : The Group Executive Committee is currently a nine member team including the three Executive Directors and the above members. 14 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Group Operating Committee Gihan Cooray Sanjeewa Jayaweera Chandrika Perera Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Gihan Cooray, Head of Corporate Finance & Sanjeewa Jayaweera, Chief Financial Officer for Chandrika Perera was appointed as the Chief Strategy, also heads the Group Treasury function the Consumer Foods & Retail industry group, Financial Officer of the Leisure industry group and John Keells Capital the investment has been with the Group for 20 years, during in March 2005. She has been with the Group banking arm of the Group. Gihan holds an MBA which he served in the Resort Hotels sector of for 30 years. She held the position of Group from the Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of the Leisure industry group and was the Sector Financial Controller from 1999 to 2005. A Management at Rice University, Houston, Texas. Financial Controller for Resort Hotels from 1998 Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants He is an Associate member of the Chartered to 2005. Prior to joining the Group, Sanjeewa of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) and the Society of Institute of Management Accountants, UK, a was based in the United Kingdom and worked Certified Management Accountants, Sri Lanka, certified management accountant of the Institute for several years as an Audit Manager. she holds an MBA (finance) from the University of Certified Management Accountants, Australia of Southern Queensland. Chandrika serves and has a Diploma in Marketing from the Jayantissa Kehelpannala as a committee member of the Accounting Chartered Institute of Marketing, UK. Executive Vice President Standards Committee and the Business School Jayantissa Kehelpannala, Sector Head Sri Lankan of CA Sri Lanka and is also a member of the Sujiva Dewaraja Resort Hotels, has over 30 years of experience in Steering Committee on Income Taxes. Executive Vice President the leisure industry both in hoteliering and inbound Sujiva heads the Information Technology sector. tourism. He is currently the Chairman of the Hotels Mano Rajakariar Since passing out as a Chartered Management & Tourism Employers Group of the Employers’ Executive Vice President Accountant in London in 1980, Sujiva’s career Federation of Ceylon and represents them at the Mano Rajakariar, has been the Group Financial has taken him from the UK to the Middle East, EFC Council Meetings and is a member of the Controller since April 2005. He has been with USA and back to Sri Lanka. Over the past Wages Board for the Hotel and Catering Trade. the Group for over 17 years in many capacities 22 years, he has held board level positions In addition, he is also the President of the Tourist including serving as the Sector Financial within listed and unlisted subsidiaries of Hotels Association of Sri Lanka (THASL) and Controller of the Plantations sector and two of Sri Lanka’s largest public companies, represents the Association at the Committee of heading the Shared Services implementation spanning multiple industries. He has held Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. He is a member of within the Group. He has over 25 years of office in numerous Trade Chambers, Advisory the Tourism Cluster of NCED (National Council for experience in audit, finance and general Committees and Industry Bodies including Economic Development) under the purview of the management acquired both in Sri Lanka and SLASSCOM, of which he is currently the Ministry of Finance & Planning. overseas. Mano is a Fellow member of the Chairman. He is a Fellow of Chartered Institute Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka of Management Accountants, UK and an Vasantha Leelananda (CA Sri Lanka) and the Chartered Institute of Associate of the Chartered Institute of Bankers, Executive Vice President Management Accountants, UK. He currently London (ACIB). He also completed his MBA in Vasantha Leelananda is Head of the serves as a member of the Examinations Pennsylvania, USA. Destination Management sector and counts Committee, the Financial Reporting Faculty, over 34 years in the leisure industry with the the National Conference Technical Committee Roshanie Jayasundera-Moraes John Keells Group. He served as the Managing and the Urgent Issues Task Force (UITF) of the Executive Vice President Director of Walkers Tours from 1997 to 2005 CA Sri Lanka. Mano is also a member of the Roshanie Jayasundera-Moraes, Chief and heads the travel operations in Sri Lanka Financial and Regulatory Steering Committee Marketing Officer of the Property sector, has and India. Vasantha holds an MBA from the of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. been with the Group since 1991. She was University of Leicester. He is a past President with the Airlines sector of the Transportation of the Sri Lanka Association of Inbound Tour Waruna Rajapaksa industry group, before being appointed as head Operators (SLAITO), a board member of the Executive Vice President of the Group’s retail business in November Sri Lanka Convention Bureau from 2003 Waruna Rajapaksa, Head of New Business 2003; which sector she served till 2012. Since to 2007 and served as a board member of Development and Group Initiatives, has over last year she has moved over to the Property the Sri Lanka Institute of Tourism and Hotel 27 years of experience in Sri Lanka and in sector. A holder of a Diploma in Marketing from Management from 2007 to 2010. He is a the UK, primarily in management consultancy, the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM), board member of the Responsible Tourism project finance and audit. Prior to joining the UK, Roshanie also holds an MBA from the Partnership which is affiliated to the Travel Group in 2002, he worked for the Government Post-Graduate Institute of Management of the Foundation UK and a board member of the at the Bureau of Infrastructure Investment, University of Sri Jayawardenepura, Sri Lanka. American Chamber of Commerce (AMCHAM). Informatics International Ltd (UK) and at Annual Report 2012/13 l 15 PROGRESSIVE Group Operating Committee Ernst & Young. Waruna is a Fellow member Science in Electronics & Telecommunications of the Chartered Institute of Management Engineering with First Class Honours from Accountants, UK, and an Associate member University of Moratuwa. He is reading for his of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) at Sri Lanka. He also holds an MBA from City International School of Management, Paris at University Cass Business School, London, UK. present. He is a Chartered Engineer, Chartered He is also a member of the Energy Committee IT Professional and a Fellow of the British of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. Computer Society. He has active memberships in several other professional institutions and is Sunimal Senanayake a visiting faculty member for several postExecutive Vice President graduate programs. He is also the Chair of the Sunimal Senanayake, Head of Human SLASSCOM CIO Council and is actively involved Resources of the Leisure group and Head of with the ICTA and the Presidential Task Force the Maldivian Resorts sector has over 30 years on IT in steering IT to greater heights within of experience in the leisure industry, both in the country. hotels and inbound tourism. He served as the Managing Director of Walkers Tours Limited Devika Weerasinghe from 1991-1997. He is a past President of Executive Vice President the Sri Lanka Association of Inbound Tour Devika Weerasinghe, Chief Financial Officer of Operators (SLAITO) and has held many the Transportation industry group previously positions in travel trade related associations held the position of Sector Financial Controller and committees. He has also been a member of the Transportation sector. She also served as of the Tourist Hotels Classification Committee the Sector Financial Controller of the Airlines and Chairman / Member of the Advisory Board SBU of the Transportation sector during the of the Sri Lanka Institute of Tourism & Hotel period 1998-2004. An Associate member Management. of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants-UK, Devika also holds a bachelors Ramesh Shanmuganathan degree in Business Administration, from the Executive Vice President University of Sri Jayawardenepura. Ramesh Shanmuganathan is the Group’s Chief Information Officer and member of the Group Suran Wijesinghe Management Committee for the Information Executive Vice President Technology industry group and has over 19 Suran Wijesinghe, joined the Group in January years of experience in the ICT industry both 2004 as the Sector Financial Controller of the in Sri Lanka and the USA, with the last 12 Financial Services industry group and was years in C-level management. Prior to this appointed as the Chief Financial Officer of the he has served in the Group’s IT sector as the same industry group in July 2010. He has over CEO of Keells Business Systems Limited since 30 years of experience in the fields of audit, 2001 and Head of Strategy / New Business financial and general management, which has Initiatives of John Keells Computer Services been acquired while serving in organisations Ltd since 2004 until he assumed duties as both locally and overseas. Suran is a Fellow the Group’s CIO in January 2006. Ramesh member of both the Institute of Chartered is a Hayes-Fulbright Scholar and holds to Accountants of Sri Lanka and the Chartered his credit a MSc (Information Technology & Institute of Management Accountants of UK. Computer Science) with Phi Kappa Phi Honours He currently serves as a committee member of from Rochester Institute of Technology (New the Urgent Issues Task Force (UITF) of the CA York, USA), Master of Business Administration Sri Lanka. from Postgraduate Institute of Management, University of Sri Jayewardenepura, Bachelor of Note: The Group Operating Committee is currently a 22 member team consisting of the Group Executive Committee and the above members. 16 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Corporate Governance t EJTDVTTJPOPOUIF+,)$PSQPSBUF “We believe that the creation and optimisation of Governance Framework and its elements sustainable stakeholder value, within a framework t 3FHVMBUPSZDPNQMJBODFDIFDLMJTUTBOE+,) actions of compliance with the law, should be the objective t #PBSE$PNNJUUFF3FQPSUT UUFOEBODFPG of governance” meetings / Independent Directors’ interests JKH Corporate Governance John Keells Group Corporate all nominees to the Group’s recognition Framework Governance Philosophy scheme to live the JKH values. The Corporate Governance Framework of The Group corporate governance philosophy, the Group entails 3 key components as founded on a culture of performance, within a The Group’s “Progressive” stance on corporate summarised below and the ensuing discussion framework of compliance and conformance, governance philosophy goes beyond mere is sequenced to highlight the different has been institutionalised at all levels in the conformance with regulations, towards elements that combine to ensure a robust and Group through a strong set of corporate values performance enhancement, in enabling a sound governance framework. and the written Code of Conduct. sustainable value creation. Towards this end, the John Keells Group has established an 1. Internal Governance Structure – All employees, senior management and the integrated governance mechanism which components that are embedded within Board of Directors are required to embrace this spans across the entire organisation structure the Group in order to execute governance philosophy in the performance of their official in the form of strategic planning, resource related initiatives, systems and processes. duties and in other situations to uphold the allocation, accountability and assurance. 2. Assurance – supervisory module of the Group’s image and reputation. The corporate governance discussion within Group Corporate Governance Framework. The emphasis placed on the Group’s values is this Report comprises of; exemplified through the principle that requires Corporate Governance Framework LEVEL INTERNAL GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE ASSURANCE REGULATORY Board of Directors and Integrated Governance FRAMEWORK Senior Management Committees Systems and Procedures Senior Companies Act Strategy Independent No. 7 of 2007 Formulation and Director Mandatory compliance Human Resources Chairman & Decision Making Process Nominations and Compensation the Board of Committee Listing Rules of GROUP Committee Directors People and Talent the Colombo Stock Management Audit Committee Exchange (CSE) Audit Mandatory compliance Committee Employee Performance Governance Employee The Code of Best Chairman-CEO Participation Practice on Corporate Governance as published Stakeholder by the Securities and Group Executive Committee (GEC) Management Exchange Commission and the Institute of GROUP + Chartered Accountants, INDUSTRY/ Group Operating Committee (GOC) Internal Control FUNCTION Effective & Sri Lanka Transparent Voluntary compliance INDUSTRY/ Communication FUNCTION Group Management Committee (GMC) JKH Code of Recommendations SECTOR/ Conduct of the UK Corporate FUNCTION/ Sector Committee IT Governance Governance Code SUB SECTOR as practicable in the context of the nature of BUSINESS/ Management Committee businesses and FUNCTION/ Integrated Risk External Audit risk profiles BU/ Management Voluntary compliance Employees DEPT t MM#PBSETVCDPNNJUUFFTBSFDIBJSFECZ*OEFQFOEFOU%JSFDUPSTBQQPJOUFECZUIF#PBSE t )VNBO3FTPVSDFTBOE$PNQFOTBUJPO$PNNJUUFFJTBUUFOEFECZ$IBJSNBO$&0PG+,) t VEJU$PNNJUUFFJTBUUFOEFECZ$IBJSNBO$&0PG+,) (SPVQ'JOBODF%JSFDUPS (SPVQ'JOBODJBM$POUSPMMFS )FBEPG(SPVQ#VTJOFTT1SPDFTT3FWJFXBOE&YUFSOBM VEJUPST t (0$BDUTBTUIFHMVFCJOEJOHUIFWBSJPVTCVTJOFTTFTXJUIJOUIF(SPVQUPXBSETJEFOUJGZJOHBOEFYUSBDUJOH(SPVQTZOFSHJFT Annual Report 2012/13 l 17 PROGRESSIVE Corporate Governance 3. Regulatory Framework – regulatory accountable for the total Group, industry/ Board of Directors and Senior structure within which the Group operates function groups, the sectors/functions Management Committees towards conforming to established and the business units/sub-functions Board of Directors and Board Subgovernance related laws, regulations and respectively. Committees best practices. Clear definitions of authority limits, The Board of Directors, along with the Chairman, responsibilities and accountabilities are is the apex body responsible and accountable Internal Governance Structure set and agreed upon in advance to achieve for the stewardship function of the Group. Introduction greater operating efficiency, healthy debate, The Directors are collectively responsible for The Internal Governance Structure freedom of decision making and expediency. upholding and ensuring the highest standards of encompasses two main pillars as illustrated in corporate governance and inculcating ethics and the corporate governance framework diagram. 2. Integrated governance systems and integrity across the Group. procedures 1. Board of Directors and Senior The Board has delegated some of its functions Management Committees Promote good governance within the wider to Board Committees, while retaining final context of achieving sustainable success Executive authority is devolved and decision rights pertaining to matters under the which is beyond mere conformance with delegated through a committee structure purview of these committees. the regulations. ensuring that the Chairman-CEO, Accordingly, certain functions of the Board Presidents, Sector/Functional Heads and are delegated through the Board Committees, Profit Centre/Function Managers, are enabling the committee members to focus on their designated areas of responsibility and impart knowledge and oversight in areas where they have greater expertise. The Company has The Chairmanship / Membership of Board Sub-Committees – 2012/13 3 Board sub-committees. Chairmanship Membership Year of Appointment to the Board 1. Audit Committee 2. Human Resources and Compensation Human Resources and Human Resources and Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee 3. Nominations Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Board responsibilities Compensation Committee Compensation Committee Notwithstanding the functioning of the Board Committees, the Board of Directors is collectively responsible for the decisions and Executive actions taken by these Board sub-committees. S Ratnayake Chairman-CEO 1992/93 √ A Gunewardene Deputy Chairman 1992/93 The John Keells Group Corporate Governance R Peiris Group Finance Director 2003/04 Framework expects the Board of Directors to: Senior Independent Non-Executive t &OTVSFUIBUOPPOFQFSTPOIBTVOGFUUFSFE F Amerasinghe 1999/00 √ √ powers of decision making. Independent Non-Executive t 3FDPHOJTFUIBUUIFNFUIPETFNQMPZFEUP I Coomaraswamy 2010/11 √ √ achieve goals are as important as the goals T Das 2000/01 √ themselves. S Enderby * 2005/06 √ √ t .BJOUBJOTUSPOHHPWFSOBODFQSBDUJDFTXIJDI R Gunasekara 2011/12 √ √ facilitate commercial advantages, especially A Omar ** 2012/13 through a lowering of cost of capital. S Tiruchelvam 2006/07 √ √ t 4USFOHUIFOTUBLFIPMEFSDPOGJEFODF  * Resigned with effect from 8th March 2013 particularly investors, both institutional and ** Appointed with effect from 1st March 2013 individual as well as the banks. 18 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information t .BLFCVTJOFTTEFDJTJPOTBOESFTPVSDFBMMPDBUJPOT JOBOFGGJDJFOUBOEUJNFMZNBOOFS XJUIJOUIFTVTUBJOBCJMJUZGSBNFXPSLPGUIF+PIO,FFMMT(SPVQ whilst ensuring transparent and ethical dealings which are in compliance with the laws of the country and the standards of governance expected by the stakeholders. t &ODPVSBHFQSPBDUJWFEJTDVTTJPOTXJUIUIFSFMFWBOUSFHVMBUPSZCPEJFTUPGBDJMJUBUFUIFJNQMFNFOUBUJPOPGNBUUFSTQFSUBJOJOHUPHPWFSOBODFBOE related business reforms in Sri Lanka and other jurisdictions where the Group has major business interests. t 0QU XIFOQSBDUJDBM GPSFBSMZBEPQUJPOPGCFTUQSBDUJDFT Non-Executive/Independent Directors and the Board balance Collectively, the Non-Executive Directors (NEDs) bring a wealth of experience and add value through their knowledge, arising from domestic and/ or international experience, and specialised functional know-how, ensuring adequate Board diversity in accordance with the principles of Corporate Governance. In order to avoid potential conflicts or bias, the Independent Directors adhere to best practices as illustrated below in addition to making a general disclosure of interests every year and also changes thereto. 0RIOR TO !PPOINTMENT /NCE !PPOINTED $URING OARD -EETINGS Nominees are requested to make Directors obtain Board clearance prior to: Directors who have an interest in a matter known their various interests that s !CCEPTING A NEW POSITION under discussion: could potentially be in conﬂict with the s %NGAGING IN ANY TRANSACTION THAT COULD s %XCUSE THEMSELVES FROM DELIBERATIONS interests of the Company. create a potential conﬂict of interest. on the subject matter. !LL .%$S NOTIFY THE #HAIRMAN #%/ OF s !BSTAIN FROM VOTING ON THE SUBJECT ANY CHANGES TO THEIR CURRENT OARD matter (abstentions, where applicable, representations or interests. from decisions, are duly minuted). Report of the Senior Independent Director (SID) The date of the first appointment of all the independent directors were under 9 years, with the exception of Messrs Amerasinghe and Das. In keeping with the requirements of regulators, the Board, after due consideration, recommended that the said two Directors be still considered Independent and be capable of acting independently and without bias, as members of the Board. The Independent Directors decided that in order to facilitate their work, and specifically to enable a frank discussion on issues of specific concern to the Non-Executive Directors, that a quarterly meeting was appropriate. These meetings usually preceded the quarterly Board meetings and generated the interest anticipated. After each meeting, the Independent Directors had a wrap up meeting with the Chairman/CEO-JKH PLC and apprised him of any concerns or suggestions. The Independent Directors also showed that they were actively following the work of internal management committees whose minutes are circulated to the whole Board. The system ensures that there is great transparency and interaction between the Executives and the Non-Executive members of the Board. The Ombudsperson has reported to me that there have been no issues which showed any mismanagement, unfair treatment or justified discontent on the part of any employee or ex-employee. The Independent Directors would like to thank members of the Management Committees for their co-operation and particularly the members of the GEC and Executive Directors for their openness and co-operation. Franklyn Amerasinghe Senior Independent Director 28 May 2013 Annual Report 2012/13 l 19 PROGRESSIVE Corporate Governance Chairman-CEO The Group’s Chairman also plays the role of the Chief Executive Officer, combining the two roles to achieve optimum results. The Chairman-CEO had structured direct discussions with the Non-Executive Directors during the year, subsequent to meetings convened by the SID with the NEDs. Issues arising from these discussions have been actioned in consultation with the persons concerned. The Board has, subject to pre-defined limits, delegated its executive authority to the Chairman-CEO who exercises this authority through the Group Executive Committee (GEC), which he heads and to which he provides leadership and direction. Given the fact that the two roles are combined, duties performed by the Chairman-CEO are twofold as illustrated below; Chairman’s Role Chief Executive Officer’s Role t -FBETUIF#PBSEGPSJUTFGGFDUJWFOFTT t &YFDVUFTTUSBUFHJFTBOEQPMJDJFTPGUIF t 4FUTUIFUPOFGPSUIFHPWFSOBODFBOEFUIJDBM Board framework t (VJEFTBOETVQFSWJTFT&YFDVUJWF%JSFDUPST t &OTVSFTUIBUDPOTUSVDUJWFXPSLJOHSFMBUJPOT towards striking a balance between their are maintained between the Executive and Board and Executive responsibilities Non-Executive members of the Board Chairmant &OTVSFTUIBUUIFPQFSBUJOHNPEFMPGUIF t &OTVSFTXJUIUIFBTTJTUBODFPGUIF#PBSE Group is aligned to the short term and long CEO term strategies pursued by the Group Secretary that; Board procedures are followed t &OTVSFTUIBUTVDDFTTJPOBUUIFWFSZTFOJPS Information is disseminated in a timely level is planned manner to the Board Appropriateness of combining the roles of Group Executive Committee (GEC) Sector Heads, Functional Heads and other Chairman and CEO The Group Executive Committee is the overlay Senior Managers, The appropriateness of combining the roles structure that implements, under the leadership t $BSFFSNBOBHFNFOUPGTFOJPSFYFDVUJWFT of Chairman-CEO was established after and direction of the Chairman-CEO, the policies (Assistant Vice President and above) rigorous evaluation and debate internally and and strategies determined by the Board, manages, through delegation and empowerment, Enablers of the JKH Operating model externally. The appropriateness continues to the business and affairs of the Group, makes be discussed periodically, and in the minimum, A key responsibility of the members of the GEC portfolio decisions and prioritises the allocation once a year. On the basis of these discussions is to act as the enablers of the operating model of capital, technical and human resources. and the findings that emerged from a review of the Group. Towards this end, GEC members, by the Boston Consulting Group, the Board particularly the Presidents, not only play a Composition deems that combining the two roles is more mentoring role, but are totally accountable for appropriate for the Group at present, in As at 31st March 2013, the 9 member GEC the business units and functions under their meeting stakeholder objectives, being a large consisted of the Chairman-CEO, the Deputy purview. The members of the GEC are well conglomerate operating in a dynamic business Chairman, the Group Finance Director and the equipped to execute these tasks and bring in a environment. As the head of the Group Presidents of each business/function. wealth of experience and diversity to the Group Executive Committee (GEC), the Chairmanin terms of their expertise and exposure. CEO provides the overall direction and policy / Key responsibilities execution framework for the Board’s decisions t )BWJOHSFTQPOTJCJMJUZGPSUIFQFSGPSNBODFPG Succession planning by the GEC via this structure. Experience has proved that their respective businesses/verticals/functions The GEC oversees the succession planning this structure has enabled him to effectively t 3FDPNNFOEJOHUPUIF#PBSEOFXCVTJOFTT process which is well tested and a pool of balance his role as the Chairman of the Board opportunities potential successors for key positions are and the CEO of the Company/Group. t TTJTUJOHUIe Chairman-CEO in succession identified and earmarked proactively for specific planning and appointment of Presidents, training and development as is necessary. 20 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Group Operating Committee (GOC) At the GMC level and above, the focus is more aligned to headline financial and non-financial The GOC provides a platform to share learning indicators, strategic priorities, and risk management, the use of IT as a tool of competitive on issues across industry groups, sectors, advantage, new business development, continuous process improvements and management of the business units and functions. It is also the human resources. forum to discuss Group strategy, Group initiatives and Group best practices. The main Responsibility for monitoring and achieving plans as well as ensuring compliance with Group purpose of this committee is to act as a glue, policies and guidelines rests with the Presidents, Sector Heads, and the Chief Executive Officers that binds the various businesses within the of each Group company and heads of functions at the corporate centre, at the business unit and Group towards identifying and extracting function levels. Group synergies. The GOC also acts as a communication channel in disseminating Group level information to the sectors / business units. Group Industry / Management President t 4USBUFHZGPSNVMBUJPO Function Committee Composition t 1FSGPSNBODF monitoring As at 31st March 2013, the 22 member GOC t $BSFFSNBOBHFNFOU consisted of the Chairman-CEO, the Deputy Industry / Sector and succession Chairman, the Group Finance Director, the Function / SBU EVP Committee planning (below AVP Presidents and the Executive Vice Presidents. / Sector level) t 3JTLNBOBHFNFOU Group Management Committee / Sector t *NQMFNFOUBUJPOPG Committees / Management Committees Business Unit / Management VP / AVP / Group initiatives Function / Committee Manager These committees operate under the oversight of the GEC and are dedicated and focused towards designing, implementing and monitoring the best practices in their respective industry groups, sectors, functions, strategic business units or even at departmental level where appropriate and material. Integrated governance systems and procedures Key objective Strategy Formulation and Decision Making Process The underlying intention of forming these Integrated governance systems and procedures committees is to encourage the respective People and Talent Management business units to take responsibility and accountability to the lowest possible level, via Employee Performance Governance suitably structured committees and teams in a management by objectives setting. Stakeholder Management Scope Effective and Transparent Communication The agendas of these committees are carefully structured to avoid duplication of effort and IT Governance ensure that discussions and debate are complementary both in terms of a bottom-up Integrated Risk Management and top-down flow of accountabilities and information. Illustrated is the structure of the three committees, where the responsibility and accountability of the effective functioning of these committees is vested upon the GEC, the Sector / Functional heads and the Profit Centre / Function Managers as applicable. Annual Report 2012/13 l 21 PROGRESSIVE Corporate Governance Strategy formulation and decision making process Step 5 Strategy formulation and evaluation cycle Business performance during the second half of the financial year as well as the full financial year is evaluated against the reforecast plans 5. Performance 1. Formulating business and targets at the end of the financial year. evaluation of the strategy, objectives second half/full year and risk management for each BU for the In addition to the periodic performance review financial year by the GEC, frequent and detailed performance evaluations take place at regular intervals at business unit / sector / industry group levels. Continuous performance The outcome of such performance evaluations monitoring at BU/sector/ are a key determinant in awarding short term industry group level incentives to employees. 4. Reforecasting the targets for the second 2. GEC approval half of the year and GEC approval Project appraisal and decision making process The Group’s investment appraisal methodology ensures the involvement of all key stakeholders 3. Business performance that are relevant to the evaluation of the decision. evaluation of the first six months against target In this manner; t TFWFSBMWJFXT PQJOJPOTBOEBEWJDFBSFPCUBJOFE Step 1 prior to making an investment decision Businesses of each industry group carry out a detailed analysis on the following aspects when t BIPMJTUJDWJFXJTUBLFOPOUIFDPNNFSDJBM formulating strategies for the financial year; viability and potential of any project including operational, financial, funding, t DVTUPNFSBOETUBLFIPMEFSOFFETBOEUIFFYQFDUBUJPOTPGUIFTPDJFUZBTBXIPMF risk and tax implications t PSHBOJTBUJPOTDBQBCJMJUJFTUPHFOFSBUFUIFSFRVJSFEQSPEVDUTBOETFSWJDFT t BMMJOWFTUNFOUEFDJTJPOTBSFNBEFUISPVHI t PQQPSUVOJUJFTBOEUISFBUTUIBUBSJTFGSPNDPNQFUJUJWFFOWJSPONFOUT a committee structure where no single t SJTLTBTTPDJBUFEXJUIJOUIFPQFSBUJOHMBOETDBQF individual has unfettered decision making powers over investment decisions. Formulated strategies are presented to the GEC by the respective business units for approval and the approved strategies are then translated into financials where the annual plans, key performance indicators (KPI) and targets for each business unit are set. Step 2 NO SINGLE individual The GEC approves the strategies and plans after having evaluated the industry landscapes in which the businesses operate and the competencies possessed by the businesses. The GEC also ensures that the business units are equipped with the structures and resources required to achieve optimum results and also facilitates the achievement of Group synergies. has unfettered Step 3 decision Upon the completion of the first half of the financial year, the GEC evaluates the performance of the businesses against the plan with deviations being noted along with the identification of corrective action. making powers Step 4 A reforecast of the annual plan for the second half of the financial year is presented to the GEC for approval, having taken into consideration changes taking place at both macro and micro levels. 22 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information The Group’s project appraisal and execution process flow is depicted below: EVERY Project Feasibility Review Due Board/GEC step is taken to ensure Origination Study by the GEC Diligence Approval Project origination The project could originate within the Group from an operating committee compliance with the such as the GEC, GOC, GMC or it could stem from a particular business unit, the Group’s New Business Development division (NBD) or Corporate Finance (CF) functions. Alternatively, projects could also originate from external sources such as a public advertisement, Request for Proposal (RFP) or a call for an Expressions of Interest which could trigger a new investment opportunity. rules and regulations Additionally, when and where required, special multi-disciplinary teams / committees / task forces are formed based on requirements / issues arising unexpectedly to manage the issues at hand more effectively. These teams mostly comprise of young, talented employees who work under the leadership of a much senior employee who carries substantial industry experience. Being part of these teams also provide valuable training and development experience to the members. “Project teams mostly comprise of young, talented compliance with the relevant rules and employees who work under the leadership of a much regulations. As appropriate, written authority and approvals will be obtained. senior employee who carries substantial industry experience.” Where the project is part of a privatisation, the entire process will be conducted in line with the directives of the relevant administrative authority as communicated through Feasibility study If there is an interest in principle, the President under whom the project falls or a expressions of interest, request for proposals, GEC appointed committee will engage the CF or NBD functions to work with other relevant persons pre-bid meetings and official approvals and in the Group in preparing a detailed feasibility report covering key business considerations within correspondence. the framework of sustainability. Final approval by the Board / GEC Subject Review by the GEC Following discussion at a GMC, where applicable, the feasibility report is then to the project satisfying all the criteria as discussed by the GEC and, if found to meet the Group’s strategic and financial objectives as well as highlighted above, the final approval to fulfilling the criteria of the four filters of portfolio management as defined by the Group (refer Portfolio proceed will be given by the Board. However, Movement and Evaluation section), will be forwarded to the Board (if the investment is beyond to ensure speedy decision making, the GEC the authority limits of the GEC) for approval in principle to proceed to detailed due diligence and is empowered to approve such proposals in negotiation stage. terms of the decision rights with the Board being kept informed. Due diligence Once approval in principle is obtained, a multi-disciplined project team will proceed to the next phase of investigation which would focus on detailed operational, commercial, Unbiased decision making Each Director / financial and legal due diligence. Discussions will also commence with regulatory and licensing GEC member has a continuing responsibility to authorities, financial institutions and possible partners as being relevant and deemed necessary. determine whether he or she has a potential or Social and environmental impacts will also be considered in ensuring the sustainability of the actual conflict of interest arising from external business and the communities impacted by it. associations, interests in material matters and personal relationships which may influence his Where the transaction involves the transfer or lease of land, title searches would be conducted for judgment. Such potential conflicts are reviewed both private and public land. In the case of public land, every step would be taken to ensure by the Board / GEC from time to time. Annual Report 2012/13 l 23 PROGRESSIVE Corporate Governance People and talent management Moreover, the Group provides a safe, secure t %FDJTJPOSJHIUTBSFEFGJOFEGPSFBDIMFWFMJO The John Keells Group believes that and conducive environment for its employees, order to instill a sense of ownership, reduce shareholders’ long term interests are well allows freedom of association and collective bureaucracy and speed-up the decision served by involving employees actively in bargaining, prohibits child labour, forced or making process. safeguarding the Group corporate governance compulsory labour and any discrimination t CPUUPNVQBQQSPBDIJTUBLFOJOUIF framework, where the employees are based on gender, race or religion or other preparation of annual and five year plans encouraged and empowered to positively and promotes workplaces which are free and the Group also ensures employee contribute towards upholding the principles of from physical, verbal or sexual harassment, involvement and empowerment in the Corporate Governance. all of which compliment effective corporate process. (Businesses that may not have a governance. five year plan will however have a resource In this context, the Group engages employees allocation plan). at various levels in the internal governance Employee involvement and empowerment structure. Policies, processes and systems t &NQMPZFFSFMBUJPOTBSFEFTJHOFEUPFOBCMF  t 5PQNBOBHFNFOUBOEPUIFSTFOJPSTUBGG have been put in place to ensure effective and facilitate, high accessibility by all are mandated to involve, as appropriate, recruitment, development and retention of employees to every level of management. all levels of staff in formulating goals, employees as the Group is committed to hiring strategies and plans. and developing individuals who possess the required competencies. Employee performance governance Employee performance governance practices at the John Keells Group are instrumental in attracting and retaining the employees of the correct caliber who can effectively contribute to the achievement of organisational objectives. JKH Group’s employee performance governance framework is illustrated below; JKH Group compensation policy Performance Management Satisfaction “Pay for performance” “More than just a workplace” Greater prominence is given to the incentive component of Continuously focuses on creating a sound work environment the total target compensation of the management covering all aspects of employee satisfaction Compensation Policy t $PNQFOTBUJPODPNQSJTFTPGGJYFE CBTF QBZNFOUT TIPSUUFSNJODFOUJWFTBOEMPOHUFSNJODFOUJWFT t )JHIFSUIFBVUIPSJUZMFWFMXJUIJOUIF(SPVQ IJHIFSUIFJODFOUJWFDPNQPOFOU t (SFBUFSUIFEFDJTJPOJOGMVFODJOHDBQBCJMJUZPGBSPMF IJHIFSUIFXFJHIUHJWFOPOPSHBOJTBUJPOBMQFSGPSNBODFBT opposed to the individual performance. t -POHUFSNJODFOUJWFTJOUIFGPSNPG&NQMPZFF4IBSF0QUJPOT &401  Internal Equity External Equity t 3FNVOFSBUJPOQPMJDZJTCVJMUVQPOUIFQSFNJTFPGFOTVSJOH t 'JYFEDPNQFOTBUJPOJTTFUBUDPNQFUJUJWFMFWFMTVTJOHUIF equal pay for equal roles. median, 65th percentile and 75th percentile of the best comparator set of companies (from Sri Lanka and the t .BOBHFSBOEBCPWFMFWFMSPMFTBSFCBOEFEVTJOHUIF region, where relevant) as a guide. Mercer methodology for job evaluation on the basis of the relative worth of jobs. t Regular surveys are done to ensure that employees are not under / over compensated 24 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Pay for performance At JKH, the employees are rewarded with a “The Group provides a safe, secure and conducive performance based scheme that is determined environment for its employees.” as follows: Manager and above levels – given the relatively higher level of decision making authority, the With effect from 1st January 2012 due to the has geared itself to ensure that the social performance is measured annually on welladoption of SLFRSs/LKASs the cost of ESOPs programmes of the Group are consistent with defined individual as well as organisational need to be charged. There was no ESOP award the principles of sustainable development. objectives and metrics which reflect, and in the current financial year. are positively correlated to, the Company’s This Integrated Report, combines the financial and objectives, thereby aligning employee, Stakeholder management sustainability reporting framework and achieved management and stakeholder interests. The JKH Board views effective stakeholder the “application level check” of B+ of the GRI management as a vital aspect in safeguarding requirements in line with GRI-G3 guidelines for the Assistant Manager and Executive level – the John Keells Group’s corporate governance current financial year ending 31st March 2013. measured only by the individual performance philosophy. rating as it is difficult for these individuals to Effective and transparent communication directly influence the performance of their Employee relations Employee communication respective business units. HR units are designed in a manner that enables The Group is continuously working towards high accessibility by any employee to every introducing innovative and effective ways of Equity sharing level of management. Constant dialogue and employee communication and employee awareness. Share options have been offered to employees at facilitation is also maintained relating to workdefined career levels based on pre-determined related issues as well as matters pertaining to The importance of communication top-down, criteria which are uniformly applied across the general interest that could affect employees bottom-up, and lateral communication in gaining eligible levels. Such options are offered at the and their families. The Group follows open-door employee commitment to organisational goals volume weighted market prices prevailing on the policies for its employees and key stakeholders and values has been conveyed extensively and date of the offer. and this is promoted at all levels of the Group. intensively through various communiqués issued by the Chairman-CEO and the management. As per the historical data, the financial benefit of Dialogue with shareholders the long term incentive scheme (ESOP) had been Whilst employees have many opportunities to The Company has a well-developed investor far greater than that of short term incentives interact with senior management, the Group relations programme to address the information and these long term incentives are instrumental has also created formal channels for such needs of investment institutions and analysts in inculcating a sense of ownership in the JKH communication through feedback as described regarding the Company, its strategy, performance Group amongst the employees. The Group has below: and competitive position. Additionaly the Group proposed a new ESOP scheme, for shareholder has opened up several channels to ensure sound t Skip level meetings Employees at approval as at the date of this Report, to communication with the shareholders. Assistant Manager and all levels above can further improve alignment with the businesses represented by the employee receiving the grant discuss matters of concern with superiors Other stakeholders: Corporate social via the introduction of a performance condition who are at a level higher than their own responsibility and sustainability immediate supervisor in an open but based on the employee’s achievement against The Group recognises that it exists not only confidential environment. pre-defined targets. to maximise long term shareholder value but t 360 degree evaluation opinion is obtained The equity sharing scheme at JKH has also to look after the rights and appropriate in the form of a 360 degree evaluation for primarily paved the way for: claims of many non-shareholder groups such employees at Manager and AVP and above as employees, consumers, clients, suppliers, t *NQSPWFEFNQMPZFFDPNNJUNFOUBOECVZJO levels. lenders, environmentalists, host communities to management goals t 0OMJOF'PSVNused as a means of and governments. t MJHONFOUPGJOUFSFTUCFUXFFOFNQMPZFFT knowledge sharing and gathering new and shareholders The John Keells Foundation, the vehicle used suggestions for new business opportunities t &NFSHFODFPGBNPSFUSBOTQBSFOU by the Group in developing and implementing and improvements. governance mechanism the Group’s involvement in “the community” Annual Report 2012/13 l 25 PROGRESSIVE Corporate Governance t %JSFDUFNBJMBEESFTTUPUIF$IBJSNBO t TUBZJOHWJTJCMFBOECVJMEJOHSFMBUJPOTIJQT enables employees to bring to the Chairman’s t GPDVTJOHPOUIFMPOHUFSNWJFXBOETUSFOHUIPGUIF(SPVQTGJOBODJBMQPTJUJPO notice any transgression of Group values t SFTQPOEJOHUPRVFSJFTBOEDMBSJGZJOHPODPODFSOTPGJOWFTUPST when other established avenues have not yet t DPPSEJOBUJOHNFEJBSFMBUJPOTBOEJOWFTUPSDPNNVOJDBUJPOT yielded results. In addition to the above tasks, the Deputy Chairman and the Head of Investor Relations conduct t &YJUJOUFSWJFXT mandated for all Executive regular road shows to existing and potential investors across the Asia Pacific, Europe and the USA and above level where all such reports and the matters discussed, and issues raised at these meetings are brought to the attention of the are forwarded to the respective President GEC and/or to the Board, as appropriate, and addressed. and EVP for their comments which are subsequently discussed by GEC. The Senior Independent Director is also available to meet and/or discuss with shareholders t :PVOHGPSVNcomprise of groups of young regarding any concerns/conflicts that arise during the course of the financial year. ladies and gentlemen at various levels within the Group that meet with the Executive Information technology (IT) governance Directors once every 2 months. This is an The JKH Group believes that “information technology” (IT) is a strategic asset and as such it needs to be effective means of encouraging two way managed to leverage competitive business benefits for the Group. To achieve the same, the information communication. The concept has now been technology Governance within the JKH Group is built upon the following set of primary objectives: further broad-based with each industry group/ sector having its own “young forums”. t -FWFSBHJOH*5BTBTUSBUFHJDBTTFU Benefit from IT t $SFBUJOHBOiBHJMF*5HPWFSOBODFNPEFMw t 7PJDFPG&NQMPZFFTVSWFZ Annual employee t $SFBUJOHCFUUFSBMJHONFOUCFUXFFOCVTJOFTT satisfaction survey being a dip stick survey. and IT t 4SJ-BOLBT#FTU$PNQBOJFTUP8PSL'PS BUSINESS t $SFBUJOHHSFBUFSCVTJOFTTWBMVFXJUIUIF Capital VALUE Cost 2013 Study A study by Great Place to Work Invested in IT of IT investments in IT ADDED Initiative in partnership with LMD has selected t $SFBUJOHBTUSPOH*5HPWFSOBODFBOE the John Keells Group as one of the top 15 regulatory framework through a coherent companies to work for in Sri Lanka for the set of policies, processes and adoption Risk year 2013. It was evident from the feedback from IT of best practices in line with world-class that JKH employees trust the people they work organisations for, have pride in what they do and enjoy the company of the people they work with. The basic philosophy of the IT governance is based on business value creation vis-à-vis capital, t $PSQPSBUFDPNNVOJDBUJPOT The primary benefit, cost and risk. goal of corporate communications is to enhance and safeguard the “John Keells” The IT governance is based on the model depicted below in aligning IT value, accountability and corporate brand. Accordingly, it engages in performance; and risk management across the Group through well-defined governance structures, activities to build the brand amongst both procedures, policies. current and prospective employees in addition to creating awareness amongst the general IT Value public at large. Communiqués of the corporate and communications team take the form of periodic Alignment news bulletins via the intranet, the group Deliver business value website and the Newsletter, amongst others. Investor communication IT Performance Accountability Governance Management The Investor Relations team of the Group is responsible for maintaining an active Sustainability of business value Deliver business value dialogue with shareholders, potential investors, investment banks, stock brokers and other Risk interested parties, towards developing an Management effective investor communication channel. The Investor Relations unit of JKH is responsible for; Sustainability of business value 26 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information The IT governance framework used within the Group leverages best practices and industry leading t *OUFHSBUJOHBOEBMJHOJOHBDUJWJUJFTBOE models such as CoBIT (Control Objectives for Information and Related Technology), ISO 35800, processes related to planning, policies/ ISO27001, ISO 9000:2008, COSO (Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway procedures, culture, competency, internal Commission) /BCP (Business Continuity Planning), ITIL (Information Technology Infrastructure audit, financial management, monitoring Library), in providing a best of breed framework as illustrated below. and reporting with risk management. t 4VQQPSUJOHFYFDVUJWFTNBOBHFSTJO moving the organisation forward in a IT Governance CobiT COSO/BCM cohesive integrated and aligned manner to improve performance, while operating Risk & BC Management effectively, efficiently, ethically, legally, and within the established limits for risk taking. Service Security The detailed Risk Management report of the Management ITIL ISO27001 Management Annual Report describes the process of risk management as adopted by the Group and the Process identified key risks to the achievement of the Management ISO 9001:2008 Group’s strategic business objectives. Further details on the risk management hierarchy can be found in the Sustainability Integration section of Based on the IT governance framework the Group IT strategy map is drawn as detailed below, this Report. Drivers and Objectives Architectural Products and Results Assurance Views The “Assurance” element is the supervisory Contextual  IT strategy module of the Group corporate governance  IT and business alignment Business Model  Services catalogue framework, where a range of assurance 8IZ  IT blue print mechanisms such as monitoring and  Business requirements  Change management benchmarking are used, with effectiveness  Organisational consideration Contextual Process Model  TCO and business case tests carried out, and corrective actions being 8IBU  Benefit / risk identification  Trade-offs and alternatives proposed and implemented.  Partnership and collaboration Logical System Model  Priority refinement )PX Senior Independent Director  System requirements  Standards and constraints Component Model  Solution enablement 8JUI8IBU Audit Committee  Governance  Advocacy Operational  Best practices Lifecycle  Congruent methodologies ASSURANCE Management Employee Participation in Assurance Continuous Improvements Internal Control JKH Code of Conduct All of the above is governed through layered and nested committees, cascading from the GEC to the Group IT Management Committee to the Group IT Operation Committee with well-defined roles External Audit and responsibilities at a Group, sector and business unit level. Senior Independent Director Integrated Risk Management Considering the combined role of the ChairmanThe GEC has adopted a Group-wide risk management programme with focus on wider sustainability CEO, the presence of the Senior Independent development, to identify, evaluate and manage significant Group risks and to stress-test various risk Director is important to ensure the adherence scenarios. The programme ensures that a multitude of risks, arising as a result of the Group’s diverse to corporate governance principles, and that operations, are effectively managed in creating and preserving shareholder and other stakeholder wealth. governance within the Board is preserved as stakeholders have an independent party to voice The steps taken towards promoting the Group’s integrated risk management process are; their concerns on a confidential note. Annual Report 2012/13 l 27 PROGRESSIVE Corporate Governance The Senior Independent Director meets with other Non-Executive Directors, without the “The Audit Committees also assess the effectiveness of presence of the Chairman-CEO on an annual basis to evaluate the effectiveness of the the risk review process and systems of internal control Chairman-CEO or the Board as appropriate. on a regular basis.” Audit Committee Refer Audit Committee section. way forward. The Chairman-CEO or the Senior Internal Control Independent Director is expected to take such Internal compliance Employee participation in Assurance steps as are necessary to ensure that the 8IJTUMFCMPXFSQPMJDZ complainant is not victimised for having invoked A quarterly self-certification programme this process. requires the Presidents of the industry groups, The employees can report to the Chairman Sector Heads and the Chief Financial Officers through a communication link named “Chairman of industry groups or the heads of finance of Securities trading policy Direct”, on any concerns about unethical behavior sectors to confirm compliance with financial and any violation of Group values. Employees The Group’s securities trading policy prohibits standards and regulations. reporting such incidents are guaranteed all employees and agents engaged by JKH complete confidentiality and such complaints are who are aware of unpublished price sensitive The Presidents of the industry groups, sector investigated and addressed via a select committee information from trading in JKH shares or the heads and the CEOs of business units are under the direction of the Chairman. shares of other companies in which the Group required to confirm operational compliance has a business interest. with statutory and other regulations and key Ombudsperson control procedures, and also identify any The Board, GEC, GOC as well as certain significant deviations from the expected norms. The Ombudsperson entertains complaints from identified employees in senior executive roles an individual employee or a group of employees System of internal control who are privy to JKH’s results, in part or in of alleged violations of the published “Code full, prior to their availability to the public, are The Board has, through the involvement of of Conduct” if the complainant feels that the prohibited from trading during periods leading the Group Business Process Review function, alleged violation has not been addressed up to the release of quarterly and annual taken steps to obtain assurance that systems satisfactorily. results, new investments, particularly mergers designed to safeguard the Company’s assets, and acquisitions, announcements of scrip maintain proper accounting records and The findings and the recommendations of issues and dividend payments. provide management information, are in place the Ombudsperson arising subsequent to an independent inquiry is confidentially and are functioning according to expectations. The Group adopts a zero tolerance policy against communicated to the Chairman-CEO or to the employees who are found to be violating this policy. The risk review programme covering the Senior Independent Director upon which the internal audit of the whole Group is outsourced. duty of the Ombudsperson ceases. Monitoring of financial data Reports arising out of such audits are, in the The actual financial performance is compared first instance, considered and discussed at The Chairman-CEO or the Senior Independent against the original plan on a monthly basis and the business / functional unit levels and after Director, as the case may be, will place before a reforecast is done where necessary at Group review by the sector head and the President of the Board; Management Committee, Sector Committee, the industry group are forwarded to the relevant i. the decision and the recommendations Management Committee and Departmental Audit Committee on a regular basis. Further, the ii. action taken based on the recommendations Committee levels. Audit Committees also assess the effectiveness of the risk review process and systems of iii. where the Chairman-CEO or the Senior The Presidents and Executive Vice Presidents, internal control on a regular basis. Independent Director disagrees with any or all of the findings and or the the CEOs of business units and managers of JKH Code of Conduct recommendations thereon, the areas of functions are able to view online, the information relevant to their areas of responsibility. The The objectives of the Code of Conduct are disagreement and the reasons thereof. Chairman-CEO and the GEC are able to view key further affirmed by a strong set of corporate financial information for all Group companies on values which are well institutionalised at In situation (iii) the Board is required to consider all levels within the Group and linked to the a real time basis via the Group ERP system. the areas of disagreement and decide on the reward and recognition schemes. 28 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information The Group values are found in the About Us The audit and non-audit fees paid by the this Corporate Governance Report, and where section of the Annual Report and are/have been Company and Group to its auditors are necessary, deviations have been explained as consistently referred to by the Chairman-CEO, separately classified in the Notes to the provided within the rules and regulations. Presidents, Sector Heads and Business Unit Financial Statements of the Annual Report. Heads during employee, agent and other key Outlook stakeholder engagements, in order to ensure the Regulatory Framework Whilst JKH acknowledges the importance values are deeply rooted through enhanced clarity Compliance of compliance and conformance, it will and simplicity to facilitate better understanding. The Board through the Group Legal division, place equal, or even greater, importance in the Group Finance division and its other maintaining a governance/operating model JKH Code of Conduct operating structures, strives to ensure that which contributes to meeting and/or exceeding t MMFHJBODFUPUIF$PNQBOZBOEUIF the Company and all of its subsidiaries performance expectations. It is in this light Group and associates comply with the laws and that, we will continuously create operating t $PNQMJBODFXJUISVMFTBOESFHVMBUJPOT regulations of the countries they operate in. structures which are agile and flexible in applying in the territories that the aligning the Group to the constantly changing Group operates in The Board of Directors has also taken all needs of the dynamic local, and global, t $POEVDUPGCVTJOFTTJOBOFUIJDBM reasonable steps in ensuring that all financial environment. manner at all times and in keeping with statements are prepared in accordance with acceptable business practices the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/ As has been described in this section, our t &YFSDJTFPGQSPGFTTJPOBMJTNBOE LKAS) issued by the Institute of Chartered performance orientation is reflected in our integrity in all business and “public” Accountants of Sri Lanka and the requirements Operating Model with special emphasis on personal transactions of the Colombo Stock Exchange and other areas such as formulation of strategy, regular applicable authorities. review, empowerment of employees, attraction External Audit of the right skills, retention of talent, risk Ernst & Young are the external auditors of the The Board is aware of the growing importance of management and project appraisal, approval Holding Company as well as many of the Group the disclosure of critical accounting policies as and implementation, just to name a few. companies. They also audit the consolidated a part of good governance and opine that there financial statements. The individual Group are no instances where the use of such concepts Going forward, this performance orientation companies also employ KPMG Ford, Rhodes, would have a material impact on the Company’s will be founded on a base of Sustainable Thornton & Co, Pricewaterhouse Coopers, Deloitte and the Group’s financial performance. Development. The Sustainability Performance and Touché, India and Luthra and Luthra, India. Highlights as described in page 49 evidence Information in the financial statements of the the importance attached by the Group in this The audits have been distributed in a manner Annual Report are supplemented by a detailed regard. that gives adequate coverage to the Group Management Discussion and Analysis which auditor. In addition to the normal audit explains to shareholders the strategic, operational, As was indicated in the Annual Report of services, Ernst & Young and the other external investment, sustainability and risk related aspects 2011/12, we believe that there will emerge a auditors, also provided certain non-audit of the Company that have translated into the new type of corporate information and control services to the Group. However, the lead/ reported financial performance and are likely to architecture in the form of more specialised consolidator auditor would not engage in any influence future results. Board Groups and Advisory Stakeholder services which are in the restricted category Councils comprising of employees, lead as defined by the CSE for external auditors. All This Report has been prepared as per the rules customers, suppliers and various others. such services have been provided with the full and regulations stipulated by the Corporate Our ever evolving governance structures will knowledge of the respective Audit Committees Governance Listing Rules published by the recognise, and incorporate, these emerging and are assessed to ensure that external Colombo Stock Exchange (revised in 2013) and trends in our efforts to attract resources at the auditor independence is not compromised. also by the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. best prices. The Board has agreed that, such non-audit The Group has also given due consideration JKH will continue to conduct its services should not exceed the value of the and adhered to the Code of Best Practice on affairs, under a Stakeholder Model total audit fees charged by the subject auditor Corporate Governance Reporting guidelines within the relevant geographic territory. The and in a spirit of Sustainable jointly set out by the Institute of Chartered external auditors also provide a certificate of Development, with integrity, Accountants of Sri Lanka and the Securities independence on an annual basis. transparency, fairness and efficiency. and Exchange Commission in preparation of Annual Report 2012/13 l 29 PROGRESSIVE Corporate Governance Statement of Compliance under Section 7.10 of the Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) on Corporate Governance (Implemented on 1st April 2009 and includes amendments to date) CSE Rule Compliance JKH Action Status 7.10 Compliance a./b./c. Compliance with Corporate Governance  The Group is in compliance with the Corporate Governance Rules and any Rules deviations are explained where applicable. 7.10.1 Non-Executive Directors (NED) a./b./c. At least 2 members or 1/3 of the Board,  6 out of the 9 Board members are NEDs. The JKH Group is conscious of the whichever is higher should be NEDs need to maintain an appropriate mix of skills and experience in the Board and to refresh progressively its composition over time, in line with needs. 3 Executive Non Executive 6 7.10.2 Independent Directors a. 2 or 1/3 of NEDs, whichever is higher  All Non-Executive Directors are Independent. shall be “independent” b. Each NED to submit a signed and dated  Independence of the Directors has been determined in accordance with CSE declaration of his/her independence or Listing Rules and the 6 Independent Non-Executive members have submitted non-independence signed confirmation of their independence. 7.10.3 Disclosures relating to Directors a./b. Board shall annually determine the  All Independent Non-Executive Directors have submitted declarations as to independence or otherwise of NEDs their independence. c. A brief resume of each Director should be  Refer Board of Directors section. included in the annual report including the directors’ experience d. Provide a resume of new Directors  Detailed resume of the new Independent Non-Executive Director appointed appointed to the Board along with details during the financial year was submitted to the Colombo Stock Exchange. 7.10.4 Criteria for defining independence a. to h. Requirements for meeting the criteria to  Refer Summary of Directors’ interest. be an Independent Director 7.10.5 Remuneration Committee a.1 Remuneration Committee shall comprise  The Human Resources and Compensation Committee (equivalent of the of NEDs, a majority of whom will be Remuneration Committee with a wider scope) only comprises of Independent independent Non-Executive Directors. a.2 One Non-Executive Director shall be  The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is the Chairman of the appointed as Chairman of the Committee Committee. by the board of directors b. Remuneration Committee shall  The remuneration of the Chairman-CEO and the Executive Directors recommend the remuneration of the CEO is determined as per the remuneration principles of the Group and and the Executive Directors recommended by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee. 30 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information CSE Rule Compliance JKH Action Status c.1 Names of Remuneration Committee  Refer Board Committees. members c.2 Statement of Remuneration policy  Refer Human Resources and Compensation Committee Report. c.3 Aggregate remuneration paid to EDs and Aggregate remuneration; NEDs  EDs – Rs.142.8 million NEDs – Rs.14.7 million 7.10.6 Audit Committee a.1 Audit Committee (AC) shall comprise  The Audit Committee comprises only of Independent Non-Executive Directors. of NEDs, a majority of whom should be independent a.2 A NED shall be the Chairman of the  Chairman of the Audit Committee is an Independent Non-Executive Director. committee a.3 CEO and CFO should attend AC meetings  The Chairman-Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller and the External Auditors attended most parts of the Audit Committee meetings by invitation. a.4 The Chairman of the Audit Committee or  The Chairman of the Audit Committee is a member of a professional one member should be a member of a accounting body. professional accounting body b. Functions of the Audit Committee shall include; b.1 Overseeing of the preparation,  The Audit Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight presentation and adequacy of disclosures responsibilities for the integrity of the financial statements of the Company in the financial statements in accordance and the Group with SLFRS/LKAS b.2 Overseeing the compliance with financial  The Audit Committee has the overall responsibility for overseeing the reporting requirements, information preparation of financial statements in accordance with the laws and requirements as per the laws and regulations of the country and also recommending to the Board, on the regulations adoption of best accounting policies b.3 Ensuring the internal controls and risk  The Audit Committee assesses the role and the effectiveness of the Group management, are adequate, to meet the Business Process Review Division which is largely responsible for internal requirements of the SLFRS/LKAS control and risk management b.4 Assessment of the independence and  The Audit Committee assesses the external auditors’ performance, performance of the Entity’s external qualifications and independence auditors b.5 Make recommendations to the board  The Committee is responsible for appointment, re-appointment, removal of pertaining to external auditors external auditors and also the approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement c.1 Names of the Audit Committee members  Refer Board Committees shall be disclosed c.2 Audit Committee shall make a  Refer Report of the Audit Committee determination of the independence of the external auditors c.3 Report on the manner in which Audit  Refer Report of the Audit Committee Committee carried out its functions. Annual Report 2012/13 l 31 PROGRESSIVE Corporate Governance Code of Best practice of Corporate Governance jointly issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC) and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) (Issued on 1st July 2008) A. Directors Rule Compliance JKH Action Status A.1 The Board A.1 Company to be headed by an effective Board  The JKH Group is headed by an effective Board of Directors who are to direct and control the company responsible and accountable for the stewardship function of the Group. A.1.1 Regular Board meetings  The Board of JKH meets at least once a quarter. A.1.2 Board should be responsible for matters  Powers specifically vested in the Board to execute their responsibility including implementation of business include; strategy, skills and succession of the t 1SPWJEJOHEJSFDUJPOBOEHVJEBODFUPUIF$PNQBOZJOUIFGPSNVMBUJPOPGJUT management team, integrity of information, strategies, with emphasis on the medium and long term, in the pursuance internal controls and risk management, of its operational and financial goals. compliance with laws and ethical standards, t 3FWJFXJOHBOEBQQSPWJOHBOOVBMCVEHFUQMBOT stakeholder interests, adopting appropriate t 3FWJFXJOH)3QSPDFTTFTXJUIFNQIBTJTPOUPQNBOBHFNFOUTVDDFTTJPO accounting policies and fostering compliance planning. with financial regulations and fulfilling other t QQPJOUJOHBOESFWJFXJOHUIFQFSGPSNBODFPGUIF$IBJSNBO$&0 Board functions t .POJUPSJOHTZTUFNTPGHPWFSOBODFBOEDPNQMJBODF t 0WFSTFFJOHTZTUFNTPGJOUFSOBMDPOUSPMBOESJTLNBOBHFNFOU t %FUFSNJOJOHBOZDIBOHFTUPUIFEJTDSFUJPOTBVUIPSJUJFTEFMFHBUFEGSPN the Board to the executive levels. t 3FWJFXJOHBOEBQQSPWJOHNBKPSBDRVJTJUJPOT EJTQPTBMTBOEDBQJUBMFYQFOEJUVSF t QQSPWJOHBOZBNFOENFOUTUPDPOTUJUVUJPOBMEPDVNFOUT t QQSPWJOHPGUIF+,)FRVJUZEFCUTFDVSJUJFT A.1.3 Act in accordance with the laws of the  The Board seeks independent professional advice when deemed necessary. country and obtain professional advice as During the year under review, professional advice was sought on various and when required matters, including the following: t *NQBDUTPO+,)TCVTJOFTTPQFSBUJPOTBTBSFTVMUPGUIFDVSSFOUBOE future economic, geo-political shifts. t Employee satisfaction survey and participation in employee compensation and benefit surveys done to ensure that JKH is “More than just a work place”. t -FHBM UBYBOEBDDPVOUJOHBTQFDUT QBSUJDVMBSMZXIFSFJOEFQFOEFOUFYUFSOBM advice was deemed necessary in ensuring the integrity of the subject decision. t .BSLFUTVSWFZT BSDIJUFDUVSBMBOEFOHJOFFSJOHBEWJTPSZTFSWJDFTBT necessary for business operations. t DUVBSJBMWBMVBUJPOPGSFUJSFNFOUCFOFGJUTBOEWBMVBUJPOPGQSPQFSUZ including that of investment property. t *OGPSNBUJPOUFDIOPMPHZDPOTVMUBODZTFSWJDFTQFSUBJOJOHUPWFSTJPO upgrades of the Group-wide enterprise resource planning system. t 4QFDJGJDUFDIOJDBMLOPXIPXBOEEPNBJOLOPXMFEHFSFRVJSFEGPS identified project feasibilities and evaluations. A.1.4 Access to advice and services of the  To ensure robust deliberation and optimum decision making, the Directors Company Secretary have access to the services of the company secretaries whose appointment and/or removal is the responsibility of the Board. 32 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Rule Compliance JKH Action Status A.1.5 Bring independent judgment on various  Collectively, the Non-Executive Directors bring a wealth of value adding business issues and standards of business knowledge, ranging from domestic and international experience to functional conduct know-how, thus ensuring adequate Board diversity in accordance with principles of corporate governance. Furthermore, every member of the Board brings independent judgment on various business issues. A.1.6 Dedication of adequate time and effort  Allowing for Non-Executive Director involvement in various Board Committees and time spent by them in considering various matters that require discussion and decision in between the formal Board meetings, the Company estimates that Non-Executive Directors devote approximately a minimum of 30 full time equivalent days each, to the Group during the year, with more than 15 per cent of the time devoted for strategy formulation. A.1.7 Board induction and training  In instances where Non-Executive Directors are newly appointed to the Board, they are apprised of the: t 7BMVFTBOEDVMUVSF t 0QFSBUJPOTPGUIF(SPVQBOEJUTTUSBUFHJFT t 0QFSBUJOHNPEFM t 1PMJDJFT HPWFSOBODFGSBNFXPSLBOEQSPDFTTFT t 3FTQPOTJCJMJUJFTBTB%JSFDUPSJOUFSNTPGQSFWBJMJOHMFHJTMBUJPO t 5IF$PEFPG$POEVDUEFNBOEFECZUIF$PNQBOZ t #SJFGPOJNQPSUBOUEFWFMPQNFOUTJOUIFCVTJOFTTBDUJWJUJFTPGUIF(SPVQ A.2 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer A.2.1 Justification for combining the roles of the  The appropriateness of combining the roles of the Chairman-CEO was Chairman and the CEO established after rigorous evaluation and debate both internally and externally. The appropriateness continues to be discussed periodically, and in the minimum, once a year. Refer Chairman-CEO section for more details A.3 Chairman’s role A.3.1 The Chairman should ensure Board  The Chairman is instrumental in: proceedings are conducted in a proper t -FBEJOHUIF#PBSEGPSJUTFGGFDUJWFOFTT manner t 4FUUJOHUIFUPOFGPSUIFHPWFSOBODFBOEFUIJDBMGSBNFXPSL t &OTVSJOHUIBUDPOTUSVDUJWFXPSLJOHSFMBUJPOTBSFNBJOUBJOFECFUXFFOUIF Executive and Non-Executive members of the Board. t &OTVSJOHXJUIUIFBTTJTUBODFPGUIF#PBSE4FDSFUBSZUIBU#PBSEQSPDFEVSFT are followed and information is disseminated in a timely manner to the Board. A.4 Financial acumen A.4 The Board should ensure the availability within  Two Board members hold memberships in professional accounting bodies. it of those with sufficient financial acumen and knowledge to offer guidance on matters of Refer Board Member Profiles for more information. finance. A.5 Board balance A.5.1 In the event the Chairman and CEO is the  As at 31st March 2013, the Board consisted of 9 Directors, with a majority same person, Non-Executive Directors should being Non-Executive, Independent Directors. As at the last Annual General comprise a majority of the Board. Meeting of JKH held on the 29th of June 2012, the Board consisted of 9 Directors out of which 6 were Non-Executive Independent Directors. Annual Report 2012/13 l 33 PROGRESSIVE Corporate Governance Rule Compliance JKH Action Status A.5.2 Where the constitution of the Board of N/A Not applicable as the JKH Board comprises more than two Non-Executive Directors includes only two Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are independent. Directors, both such Non-Executive Directors should be “Independent”. A.5.3 Definition of Independent Directors  All the Independent Directors of the JKH Board are independent of management and free of any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with or could reasonably be perceived to materially interfere with the exercise of their unfettered and independent judgment. A.5.4 Declaration of Independent Directors  Each Non-Executive Director has submitted a signed and dated declaration of his/her independence. A.5.5 Board determinations on independence or  Refer Summary of Non-Executive / Independent Directors’ Interest. non-independence of Non-Executive Directors. A.5.6 In the event the Chairman and the CEO is the  The Company has appointed a SID. Considering the combined role of the same person, the Board should appoint one Chairman-CEO, the presence of the Senior Independent Director ensures of the Independent Non-Executive Directors adherence to corporate governance principles, and that governance within the to be the “Senior Independent Director” (SID) Board is preserved as stakeholders have an independent party to voice their concerns on a confidential note. A.5.7 The Senior Independent Director should make  The Senior Independent Director meets with other Non-Executive Directors, himself available for confidential discussions without the presence of the Chairman-CEO on an annual basis to evaluate with other Directors who may have concerns the effectiveness of the Chairman-CEO or the Board as appropriate. Further, in the last year regular meetings of the NEDs have taken place to discuss issues of relevance to them, and which are followed by discussions with the Chairman-CEO, to ensure that there is a quick response to any need expressed by the NEDs. A.5.8 The Chairman should hold meetings with the  The Independent Directors continue to have their annual meeting exclusively Non-Executive Directors only, without the where they evaluate their performance, that of the Board in general, Executive Directors being present and identify issues for the future. This is followed by a meeting with the Chairman-CEO and issues brought up have been adequately addressed. A.5.9 Where Directors have concerns about the  All the Board meeting proceedings are comprehensively recorded in the matters of the Company which cannot be Board Minutes. unanimously resolved, they should ensure their concerns are recorded in the Board Minutes. A.6 Supply of information A.6.1 Board should be provided with timely  The Board is provided with; information to enable it to discharge its t *OGPSNBUJPOBTJTOFDFTTBSZUPDBSSZPVUUIFJSEVUJFTBOESFTQPOTJCJMJUJFT duties effectively and efficiently. t *OGPSNBUJPOVQEBUFTGSPNNBOBHFNFOUPOUPQJDBMNBUUFST OFX regulations and best practices as relevant to the Group’s business. t &YUFSOBMBOEJOUFSOBMBVEJUPSPQJOJPOT t &YQFSUTBOEPUIFSFYUFSOBMQSPGFTTJPOBMTFSWJDFT t 5IFTFSWJDFTPGUIF$PNQBOZTFDSFUBSZ t 1FSJPEJDQFSGPSNBODFSFQPSUT t DDFTTUPTFOJPSNBOBHFNFOUVOEFSBTUSVDUVSFEBSSBOHFNFOU A.6.2 Timely submission of the minutes, agenda  Board agendas are dispatched 2 weeks prior to the Board meeting leaving and papers required for the board meeting. ten clear calendar days for the Directors to read the material. 34 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Rule Compliance JKH Action Status A.7 Appointments to the Board A.7 Formal and transparent procedure for Board  Board appointments follow a transparent and formal process within the appointments purview of the Nominations Committee. A.7.1 Nomination Committee to make  It is the responsibility of the Nominations Committee to identify and propose recommendations on new Board suitable candidates for the appointment of Non-Executive Directors to appointments the Board of JKH, to keep with the target board composition and skill requirements. The Nominations Committee also manages the process of appointing the Chairman and Deputy Chairman of the Company. A.7.2 Assessment of the capability of Board to  The emerging needs, combined with the objectives and the strategies set for meet strategic demands of the Company the future are considered key when identifying skill sets required by potential Board members, especially skills that may not be readily available within Sri Lanka. Based on these requirements the Nominations Committee scans the external environment to identify potential candidates that can add value to the existing Board. Currently the Board members have varying qualifications in economic, environmental and social topics and are involved in many committees and associations that serve the business community as a whole. A.7.3 Disclosure of new Board member profile and  Refer Board Member Profiles and Independent Director’s Interests for more interests information. A.8 Re-election A.8/ Re-election at regular intervals and should  t 5IF&YFDVUJWF%JSFDUPSTBSFBQQPJOUFEBOESFDPNNFOEFEGPSSFFMFDUJPO A.8.1/ be subject to election and re-election by until their prescribed Company retirement age. A.8.2 shareholders t 5IF/PO&YFDVUJWF%JSFDUPSTBSFBQQPJOUFEGPSBUFSNPGUISFFZFBST JEFBMMZ up to a maximum of three terms each, subject to the age limit as per statutory provision at the time of re-appointment following the end of term. t 0OFUIJSEPGUIF%JSFDUPST FYDFQUUIF$IBJSNBO$&0 SFUJSFCZSPUBUJPO on the basis prescribed in the articles of the Company. A Director retiring by rotation or a Director who is subject to appointment is eligible for reelection by a shareholder resolution at the AGM. t 5IFSFTPMVUJPOTGPSUIF (.UPCFIFMEPOUI+VOFDPWFSSF election of: A Gunewardene, who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company. I Coomaraswamy, who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company. A Omar, who retires in terms of Article 91 of the Articles of Association of the Company. T Das who is over the age of 70 years and who retires in terms of section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007. A.9 Appraisal of Board performance A.9.1 The Board should annually appraise itself on  The Board continued with its annual Board performance appraisal in its performance in the discharge of its key 2012/13. This is a formalised process of self-appraisal, whereby each responsibilities member assesses, on an anonymous basis, the performance of the Board A.9.2 The Board should also undertake an annual under the areas of; self-evaluation of its own performance and t 3PMFDMBSJUZBOEFGGFDUJWFEJTDIBSHFPGSFTQPOTJCJMJUJFT that of its Committees t 1FPQMFNJYBOETUSVDUVSFT t 4ZTUFNTBOEQSPDFEVSFT t 2VBMJUZPGQBSUJDJQBUJPO t #PBSEJNBHF Annual Report 2012/13 l 35 PROGRESSIVE Corporate Governance Rule Compliance JKH Action Status A.9.3 The Board should state how such  The scoring and open comments are collated by the SID, and the results are performance evaluations have been analysed to give the Board an indication of its effectiveness as well as areas conducted that required addressing and/or strengthening. Despite the original anonymity of the remarks, the open and frank discussions that follow, including some Directors identifying themselves as the person making the remark, reflects the keenness of the Board. A.10 Disclosure of information in respect of Directors A.10.1 Profiles of the Board of Directors  Refer Board profiles section Director’s interests Board meeting attendance Board Committee memberships A.11 Appraisal of the Chief Executive Officer A.11.1/ Appraisal of the CEO against strategic targets  The Human Resources and Compensation Committee appraises the A.11.2 performance of the Chairman-CEO on the basis of pre-agreed goals for the Group, set in consultation with the Board, covering the following broad aspects. Group’s Performance Against goal Against peers Creating and adding shareholder value   Success in identifying and implementing projects  Sustaining a first class image   Developing human capital  Promoting collaboration and team spirit  Building sustainable external relations   Leveraging board members and other stakeholders  Ensuring good governance and integrity in the Group   B. Directors Remuneration Rule Compliance JKH Action Status B.1 Remuneration procedure B.1.1 The Board of Directors should set up a  The Human Resources and Compensation Committee replaced the former Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee which was primarily focused on the remuneration policies and practices of the Executive Directors and the CEO / Chairman. The Human Resources and Compensation Committee is entrusted with the following duties and responsibilities: t 3FWJFXBOEBQQSPWBMPGUIFPWFSBMMDPNQFOTBUJPOBOECFOFGJUQPMJDZGPS the Group. t 3FWJFXQFSGPSNBODF DPNQFOTBUJPOBOECFOFGJUTPGUIF$IJFG&YFDVUJWF Officer, the other Executive Directors and Key Executives who support, and implement at an apex level the overall business strategy and make recommendations thereon to the Board of Directors. t 3FWJFXBOENPOJUPSUIFQFSGPSNBODFPGUIF$PNQBOZTUPQUBMFOU for purposes of organisational growth and succession planning, with particular emphasis on succession at Key Executive level. For the purposes of this Report, the terms “compensation” and “remuneration” have been used in reference to cash and non-cash benefits received in consideration of employment (excluding statutory entitlements such as Employees Provident Fund and Employees Trust Fund contributions), unless otherwise qualified. 36 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Rule Compliance JKH Action Status B.1.2 Remuneration Committees should consist  The Human Resources and Compensation Committee only consists of Nonexclusively of Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors and is headed by the Senior Independent Director. B.1.3 The Chairman and members of the  Refer Board Committees Remuneration Committee should be listed in the Annual Report each year. B.1.4 Determination of the remuneration of Non Compensation of NEDs is determined in reference to fees paid to other Executive Directors NEDs of comparable companies. NEDs receive a fee for devoting time and expertise for the benefit of the Group in their capacity as Director and additional fees for either chairing or being a member of a committee. NEDs do not receive any performance/incentive payments and are not eligible to participate in any of the Group’s share option plans. Non-Executive fees are not time bound or defined by a maximum/minimum of hours committed to the Group per annum, and hence are not subject to additional/lower fees for additional/lesser time devoted. B.1.5 The Remuneration Committee should  The remuneration of the Chairman-CEO and the Executive Directors is consult the Chairman and/or CEO about its determined as per the remuneration principles of the Group. At this higher proposals relating to the remuneration of level, the benchmark weightage between individual and organisation other Executive Directors performance in establishing compensation is as high as 20:80. The “Cash” compensation element of remuneration comprises of salary, provident fund contributions, short term incentive plans and other non-share based benefits. The Executive Directors, like other eligible employees receive employee share options (ESOPs) based on role responsibility and actual performance. During the financial year, there was no ESOP award. The last ESOP award was made in December 2011. None of the Executive Directors or members of the GEC are involved in influencing or determining their own compensation packages. B.2 The level and makeup of remuneration B.2.1 Performance related elements in pay  The remuneration of Executive Directors has a significant element which is to structure and alignment to industry practices variable. This variability is linked to the peer adjusted consolidated Group B.2.4 bottom line and expected returns on shareholder funds. During the financial year, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee conducted a market survey of Executive Director remuneration with a view to assessing the appropriateness of compensation with market benchmarks. Having taken into account the complexities associated with the Group, it was established that the compensation is in line with the market. Benchmarking exercises of this nature will continue to take place in the future at regular intervals. B.2.5 Executive share options should not be  No share options were granted during the year. However, in the event of offered at a discount granting share options, such options are granted at the volume weighted average market price on the date of award. Annual Report 2012/13 l 37 PROGRESSIVE Corporate Governance Rule Compliance JKH Action Status B.2.6 Designing schemes of performance-related  The increasing trend of the variable component of compensation paid to remuneration Executive Directors over the last 3 years is depicted below. % 100 80 66 44 45 60 Variable Fixed 40 20 34 56 55 0 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 B.2.7/ Compensation commitments in the event of  None other than for; B.2.8 early termination of the Directors (1) NEDs; Director fees payable if any, allowing for notice as per contract. (2) EDs; As per their employment contract like any other employee. B.2.9 Level of remuneration of Non-Executive  Compensation of NEDs is determined in reference to fees paid to other NEDs Directors. of comparable companies. The fees received by NEDs are determined by the Board and reviewed annually. B.3 Disclosure of remuneration B.3/ Disclosure of remuneration policy and  In accordance with the guidelines of the Securities and Exchange Commission B.3.1 aggregate remuneration of Sri Lanka aggregate remuneration paid to Executive and Non-Executive Directors during the financial year 2012/2013 is disclosed as follows; Total Non-Executive Director remuneration (Company) Rs.14.7 million Total Executive Director remuneration (Company) Rs.142.8 million C. Relations with Shareholders Shareholders have the opportunity at the JKH AGM, to put forward questions to the Board and to the Chairman-CEO of JKH and the chairmen of the various Board sub-committees to have better familiarity with the Group’s business and operational workings. Rule Compliance JKH Action Status C.1 Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting (AGM) and conduct of General Meetings C.1.1 Counting of proxy votes  Complied C.1.2 Separate resolution to be proposed for each  Complied item C.1.3 Heads of Board subcommittees to be  All the Non-Executive Directors who are the heads of Board subcommittees available to answer queries are available to answer queries C.1.4 Notice of Annual General Meeting to be sent  Notice of the AGM and related documents are sent to shareholders along to shareholders with other papers as per with the Annual Report within the specified period. statute The contents of this Annual Report will enable existing and prospective stakeholders to make better informed decisions in their dealings with the Company. 38 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Rule Compliance JKH Action Status C.1.5 Summary of procedures governing voting at  Complied General meetings to be informed C.2 Major transactions C.2.1 Disclosure of all material facts involving any  All material and price sensitive information about the Company is promptly proposed acquisition, sale or disposition of communicated to the Colombo Stock Exchange, where the shares of the assets Company are listed, and released to the employees, press and shareholders. The Group also publishes three months ended, six months ended, nine months ended and twelve months ended interim reports. D. Accountability and Audit Rule Compliance JKH Action Status D.1 Financial reporting D.1.1 Disclosure of interim and other price The Board of Directors, in consultation with the Audit Committee, have taken sensitive and statutorily mandated reports to all reasonable steps in ensuring the accuracy and timeliness of published Regulators information and in presenting an honest and balanced assessment of results in the quarterly and annual financial statements. All price sensitive information has been made known to the Colombo Stock Exchange, shareholders and the press in a timely manner and in keeping with the regulations. D.1.2 Declaration by the Directors that the company  Refer Annual Report of the Board of Directors. has not engaged in any activities, which contravene laws and regulations, declaration of all material interests in contracts, equitable treatment of shareholders and going concern with supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary D.1.3 Statement of Directors’ responsibility  Refer Statement on Directors’ Responsibility D.1.4 Management Discussion and Analysis  Refer Management Discussion and Analysis D.1.5 The Directors should report that the  The Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Audit committee, is business is a going concern, with supporting satisfied that the Company has sufficient resources to continue in operation assumptions or qualifications as necessary. for the foreseeable future. D.1.6 Remedial action at Extraordinary General  In the unlikely event that the net assets of the Company fall below a half of Meeting (EGM) if net assets fall below 50 per shareholders’ funds, shareholders would be notified and an extraordinary cent of value of shareholders’ funds. resolution passed on the proposed way forward. D.2 Internal control D.2.1 Annual review of effectiveness of system of  The Board has taken necessary steps to ensure the integrity of the Group’s internal control and report to shareholders accounting and financial reporting systems and internal control systems as required. remain effective via the review and monitoring of such systems on a periodic basis. Annual Report 2012/13 l 39 PROGRESSIVE Corporate Governance Rule Compliance JKH Action Status D.2.2 Internal Audit function  The internal audit function in Group companies is not outsourced to the external auditor of that company in a further attempt to ensure external auditor independence. The Auditors’ report on the financial statements of the Company for the year under review is found in the Financial Information section of the Annual Report. The role of the internal auditor has transformed into a value adding function instead of a mere “policing” function, where audit findings form an integral input in modifying and improving internal processes. Thereby, the Group Business Process Review function is a key contributor in achieving operational excellence and value addition across the diverse businesses among the Group. D.3 Audit Committee D.3.1 The Audit Committee should be comprised  The Chairman and the members of the Audit Committee comprise of of a minimum of two Independent NonIndependent Non-Executive Directors only. Executive Directors or exclusively by Non-Executive Directors, a majority of whom should be Independent, whichever is higher. The Chairman of the Committee should be a Non-executive Director, appointed by the Board. D.3.2 Terms of reference, duties and  The Audit Committee has the overall responsibility for overseeing the responsibilities preparation of financial statements in accordance with the laws and regulations of the country and also recommending to the Board, on the adoption of best accounting policies. The Committee is also responsible for maintaining the relationship with the external auditors and for assessing the role and the effectiveness of the Group Business Process Review division. D.3.3 The Audit Committee to have written terms  The Audit Committee has written terms of reference outlining the scope. of reference covering the salient aspects as stipulated in the section. D.3.4 Composition of the Audit Committee,  Refer Audit Committee Report. independence of the Auditors D.4 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics D.4.1 Availability of a Code of Business Conduct  The written Code of Conduct, to which all the employees including the Board and Ethics and an affirmative declaration of Directors are bound by, engrains the desired behaviors of JKH staff at that the Board of Directors abide by such executive and above level, particularly the senior management. This is being Code. constantly and rigorously monitored. D.4.2 The Chairman must certify that he/she is  The Chairman affirms that there have not been any material violations of any of not aware of any violation of any of the the provisions of the Code of Conduct. In the instances where violations did take provisions of this Code. place, or were alleged to have taken place, they were investigated and handled through the Company’s well established procedures which, among others, include direct and confidential access to an independent, external Ombudsperson. 40 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Rule Compliance JKH Action Status D.5 Corporate governance disclosures D.5.1 The Directors should include in the Company’s  Refer Corporate Governance section. Annual Report a Corporate Governance Report E. Institutional Investors Rule Compliance JKH Action Status E.1 Shareholder voting E.1.1 A listed company should conduct a regular and  The Company has a well-developed investor relations programme to address structured dialogue with shareholders based the information needs of investment institutions and analysts regarding the on a mutual understanding of objectives. Company, its strategy, performance and competitive position. E.2 Evaluation of governance disclosures E.2.1 When evaluating Companies’ governance  The institutional investors are kept informed on any changes to the Group arrangements, particularly those relating to Board governance structure. structure and composition, institutional investors should be encouraged to give due weight to all relevant factors drawn to their attention. F. Other Investors Rule Compliance JKH Action Status F.1 Investing divesting decisions F.1.1 Individual shareholders, investing directly in  The Company, through its Investor Relations division maintains an active shares of companies should be encouraged dialogue with shareholders, potential investors, investment banks, stock to carry out adequate analysis or seek brokers and other interested parties. independent advice in investing or divesting decisions. Any concerns raised by a shareholder are addressed promptly at the department level and are forwarded, when necessary, to the GEC for consideration and advice. Analyst reports are circulated among the GEC, as and when available, and its contents debated. The Senior Independent Director is available to meet and / or discuss with shareholders regarding any concerns/conflicts that arise during the course of the financial year. F.2 Shareholder voting F.2.1 Individual shareholders should be  All steps are taken to facilitate the exercise of shareholder rights at AGMs, encouraged to participate in General including the receipt of notice of the AGM and related documents within the Meetings of companies and exercise their specified period. Shareholders exercise their voting rights for the election voting rights. of new Directors, new long term incentive schemes or any other issue of materiality that requires a shareholder approval. Annual Report 2012/13 l 41 PROGRESSIVE Corporate Governance Board committee reports Report of the Audit Committee Financial Reporting The Audit Committee has reviewed and discussed the Group’s Role of the Committee quarterly and annual financial statements prior to publication The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in with management and the external auditors, including the fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for the integrity of the extent of compliance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, financial statements of the Company and the Group, the internal the appropriateness of its accounting policies and material control and risk management systems of the Group and its judgmental matters. The Committee also discussed with the compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, the external External Auditors and management the matters communicated auditors’ performance, qualifications and independence, and to the Committee in terms of Sri Lanka Auditing Standard 260 the adequacy and performance of the internal audit function, – Communication of Audit Matters with those charged with which at John Keells is termed Group Business Process Review Governance. Division (Group BPR). This is detailed in the terms of reference of the Committee which has been approved by the Board and is This is the first year for which the financial statements reviewed annually. have been presented in compliance with the new Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS), which have materially The Committee’s responsibilities pertain to the Group as converged with the International Financial Reporting Standards a whole. However, in discharging its responsibilities the (IFRS). Considerable effort and planning has gone into ensuring Committee places reliance on the work of other Audit that this transition has taken place smoothly. Committees in the Group, to the extent and in the manner it considers appropriate, without prejudicing the independence of The External Auditors were engaged to conduct a special those Committees. purpose audit of the Group’s interim financial statements for the six months ended 30th September 2012, with special focus The effectiveness of the Committee is evaluated annually on compliance with the new accounting standards, including by each member of the Committee and the results are the reporting requirements for first time adoption. This special communicated to the Board. purpose audit covered a review of all quoted subsidiary Composition of the Committee and meetings companies and significant non-quoted companies of the Group. The Audit Committee comprised of four independent nonThe results of the audit were discussed with management and executive directors for most of the year. In March 2013, Mr. the auditors. Steven Enderby resigned from the Board. The Head of the Group Internal Audit, Risks and Controls BPR Division served as the Secretary to the Audit Committee. The Committee reviewed the adequacy of the internal audit The Audit Committee held seven meetings during the financial coverage for the Group and the internal audit plans for year. Information on the attendance at these meetings by the the Group with the Head of the Group BPR Division and members of the Committee is given on page 45. The Chairman/ management. The internal audit function of most Group Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance Director, the Group companies is outsourced to leading professional firms under the Financial Controller and the External Auditors attended most overarching control of the Group BPR Division. parts of these meetings by invitation. The outsourced Internal The Group BPR Division regularly reported to the Committee on Auditors and other officials of the Company attended these the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls in the Group meetings on a needs basis. and compliance with laws and regulations and established The activities and views of the Committee have been policies and procedures of the Group. Reports from the communicated to the Board of Directors quarterly through outsourced internal auditors on the operations of the Company verbal briefings, and by tabling the minutes of the Committee’s were also reviewed by the Committee. meetings. 42 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information The Sustainability and Enterprise Risk Management Division Auditors and the level of audit and non-audit fees received by (SRM) reported to the Committee on the process for the the Auditors from the John Keells Group. The Committee also identification, evaluation and management of all significant risks reviewed the arrangements made by the Auditors to maintain faced by the Group. The report covered the overall risk profile their independence and confirmation has been received of the Group for the year under review in comparison with that from the Auditors of their compliance with the independence for the previous year, and the most significant risks from a guidance given in the Code of Ethics of the Institute of Group perspective together with the remedial measures taken to Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. manage them. The performance of the External Auditors has been evaluated Formal confirmations and assurances have been received from and discussed with the senior management of the Company the senior management of group companies on a quarterly and the Committee has recommended to the Board that Ernst & basis, regarding the efficacy and status of the internal control Young be re-appointed as the Lead/Consolidation auditors of the systems and risk management systems, and compliance with Group for the financial year ending 31st March 2014, subject to applicable laws and regulations. approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. The Committee reviewed the whistleblowing arrangements for the Group and had direct access to the Ombudsman for the Group. The effectiveness and resource requirements of the Group BPR Division was reviewed and discussed with management. Ranjit Gunasekara External Audit Chairman The External Auditors’ letter of engagement, including the scope Audit Committee of the audit, was reviewed and discussed by the Committee 28 May 2013 with the external auditors and management prior to the commencement of the audit. Other members: ' NFSBTJOHIF *$PPNBSBTXBNZ The External Auditors kept the Committee advised on an ongoing basis regarding any unresolved matters of significance. Before the conclusion of the audit, the Committee met with the external auditors to discuss all audit issues and to agree on their treatment. The Committee also met the External Auditors without management being present, prior to the finalisation of the financial statements. The External Auditors’ final management reports on the audit of the Company and Group financial statements for the year 2011/12, together with management’s responses, were discussed with management and the auditors. The Committee is satisfied that the independence of the External Auditors has not been impaired by any event or service that gives rise to a conflict of interest. Due consideration has been given to the nature of the services provided by the Annual Report 2012/13 l 43 PROGRESSIVE Corporate Governance Board committee reports (contd.) Report of the Human Resource & Compensation Committee The Committee comprised of the undersigned and the following Independent Directors: Mrs. S Tiruchelvam Dr. I Coomaraswamy Mr. A R Gunasekera The invitees for meetings included the Chairman-CEO-JKH PLC, Group Finance Director and the President responsible for Human Resources. The Committee was ably supported by Ms. Linda Starling who acted as Secretary. Three meetings were held during the calendar year and on occasions information provision and debate took place by an exchange of correspondence. All decisions were taken after serious deliberation and healthy debate. The committee interacted among themselves as well as with the Executive Board Members when the necessity arose. The Committee also made requests from time to time from the President, Group Human Resources, JKH PLC in order to facilitate the work of the Committee. During the year under review there was also a special presentation made by the President/Head of HR which satisfied the Committee of the strategies adopted and the processes in place to ensure proper development of the employees and the fairness of terms and conditions of their employment. The Committee responded to its enhanced scope of activity and ensured that the implementation of Board policies and strategies took place as planned. There is now closer contact between the Committee and the HR function in understanding structures in place for compensation, career development and performance management. The Committee also ensures that there have been no disputes with employees regarding their treatment. A report from the Human Resource & Compensation Committee continues to be a standing Agenda Item at the quarterly Board Meetings. The Chairman of the Committee reports any matters pertaining to the Committee at each Board Meeting drawing attention to matters where the Board has to be updated. The Board has now introduced a HR Management Report as a regular item in the Board Pack. The Committee ensured that the Board complied with the Companies Act in relation to Director Compensation, especially the requirements of section 216. The “pay for performance” scheme is carefully monitored and the Chairman-CEO-JKH PLC, briefs the Committee of the employee compensation and how it compares with the market. The compensation scheme continues to be a key to employee motivation and satisfaction. The turnover of staff is minimal. The Committee also met, as is the practice, to examine the performance of the Chief Executive and his evaluation of the Executive Directors and members of the Group Executive Committee (GEC). They were evaluated on fixed and measurable criteria which had been pre-agreed with them individually. The team performed well and the results have been exceptional. The Committee also recommended that the Board approves a new Employee Share Option Plan. This Plan will be placed for approval before the Shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company. In conclusion, I wish to thank my colleagues, Mrs Sithie Tiruchelvam, Dr. Coomaraswamy and Mr A R Gunasekera, for their valuable contribution to the work of the Committee and our Secretary, Linda Starling for her excellent work. Franklyn Amerasinghe Chairman Human Resource & Compensation Committee 28 May 2013 Other members: I Coomaraswamy, R Gunasekera, S Tiruchelvam 44 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Report of the Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee, as of 31st March 2013, consisted The committee continues to work closely with the Board in of three Independent Directors and the Chairman-CEO of John reviewing, regularly, its skills based on the immediate and Keells Holdings PLC (JKH); emerging needs. The skills needs of the company are also discussed by the Board during the Annual JKH Board Evaluation. The mandate of the committee remains;During the year, the committee recommended to the Board that t 5PSFDPNNFOEUPUIFCPBSEUIFQSPDFTTPGTFMFDUJOHUIF Mr. Ashroff Omar be appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Chairman and the Deputy Chairman. Director. This recommendation was accepted by the Board. t 5PJEFOUJGZTVJUBCMFQFSTPOTXIPDPVMECFDPOTJEFSFEGPS appointment to the Board as Non-Executive Directors. t .BLFSFDPNNFOEBUJPOPONBUUFSTSFGFSSFEUPJUCZUIF Board. During the period under review the committee had one formal Tarun Das meeting with all members in attendance and several informal Chairman discussions. Nominations Committee 28 May 2013 Other members: S Ratnayake, S Tiruchelvam Board meeting/Board Committee meeting attendance Attended/Eligible to Board Meetings 25.05.2012 26.07.2012 03.11.2012 30.01.2013 Attend Executive S Ratnayake Chairman-CEO √ √ √ √ 4/4 A Gunewardene Deputy Chairman √ √ √ √ 4/4 R Peiris Group Finance Director √ √ √ √ 4/4 Senior Independent Non-Executive F Amerasinghe √ √ √ √ 4/4 Independent Non-Executive I Coomaraswamy √ √ √ √ 4/4 T Das √ √ √ √ 4/4 S Enderby* √ √ √ √ 4/4 R Gunasekara X √ √ √ 3/4 A Omar** N/A N/A N/A N/A 0/0 S Tiruchelvam √ √ √ √ 4/4 Audit Committee 17.05.2012 23.05.2012 25.07.2012 16.08.2012 08.11.2012 28.01.2013 14.02.2013 Total R Gunasekara (Chairman) √ X √ √ √ √ √ 6/7 F Amerasinghe √ √ √ √ √ √ √ 7/7 I Coomaraswamy √ √ √ √ √ √ √ 7/7 S Enderby* √ √ √ √ √ √ √ 7/7 Note: Any absences are excused in advance and duly minuted. The absent members are immediately briefed on the discussions and actions taken during the meeting * Resigned with effect from 8th March 2013 ** Appointed with effect from 1st March 2013 Annual Report 2012/13 l 45 PROGRESSIVE Corporate Governance Board meeting/Board Committee meeting attendance (contd.) Human Resources and 04.04.2013 29.06.2012 14.02.2013 Total Nominations Committee 21.02.2013 Total Compensation Committee F Amerasinghe (Chairman) √ √ √ 3/3 T Das (Chairman) √ 1/1 I Coomaraswamy √ √ √ 3/3 S Enderby* √ 1/1 R Gunasekara √ √ √ 3/3 S Ratnayake √ 1/1 S Tiruchelvam √ √ √ 3/3 S Tiruchelvam √ 1/1 Note: Any absences are excused in advance and duly minuted. The absent members are immediately briefed on the discussions and actions taken during the meeting * Resigned with effect from 8th March 2013 ** Appointed with effect from 1st March 2013 Summary of Non-Executive / Independent Directors’ Interests Continuously Management Material Business Employed by the Family member Served for More Share Holding Director Relationship Company a Director or CEO than Nine Years (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) F Amerasinghe t t t t t t I Coomaraswamy t t t t t t T Das t t t t t t S Enderby t t t t t t R Gunasekara t t t t t t A Omar t t t t t t S Tiruchelvam t t t t t t tCompliant t Compliant with explanation Definitions Explanation 1. Shareholding carrying not less than 10 per cent of voting rights None of the individual EDs or NED/IDs shareholding exceeds 1per cent 2. Director of another company* None of the NED/IDs are directors of another related party company as defined 3. Income/non cash benefit equivalent to 20 per cent of the director’s NED/ID income/cash benefits are less than 20 per cent of individual director income income 4. Two years immediately preceding appointment as director None of the NED/IDs are employed or have been employed at JKH 5. Close family member who is a director or CEO No family members of the EDs or NED/IDs is a director or CEO of a related party company 6. Has served on the board continuously for a period exceeding nine See note below years /PUF MMEJSFDUPSTNBLFBGPSNBMEFDMBSBUJPOPGBMMUIFJSJOUFSFTUTPOBOBOOVBMCBTJT#BTFEPOTVDIEFDMBSBUJPOTBOEOPUXJUITUBOEJOHUIBU'SBOLMZO NFSBTJOHIFBOE Tarun Das have completed more than 9 consecutive years, the Board considers them “Independent” given their objective and unbiased approach to matters of the Board. * Other companies in which a majority of the other directors of the listed company are employed, or are directors or have a significant shareholding or have a material business relationship. 46 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com SUSTAINABILITY INTEGRATION & RISK MANAGEMENT Keeping our eye on the next level FARSIGHTED P LAN N IN G F O R LON G TERM CO RP ORATE SUCCESS PROGRESSIVE Sustainability Integration Reporting on Sustainability this report out of which, 73 companies are and this report serves as a Communication on The following section is an account of the John directly controlled by the Group. The remaining Progress. It also reinforces the commitment Keells Group sustainability performance for the 13 have not been included for sustainability to implement the 10 principles of the UNGC period 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2013. reporting as they do not fall within direct initiative. Further, the Group also maps control of the Group. Of the 73 companies, its sustainability performance to the IFC This report is the Group’s second integrated 25 have been excluded for reporting as Sustainability Performance Framework which report and the sustainability performance they do not carry out any operations that would help manage risks from a sustainability contained in this report is verified and assured significantly interact with the environment or point of view. by Det Norske Veritas AS (DNV).The reporting society at large. Such companies are either of the Group’s sustainability performance non-operational entities, investment entities, Any clarifications regarding this report may be is at the GRI application level “B” and has holding companies or owners of real estate. obtained from: also achieved the “GRI Application Level The other 48 companies have been listed in Check” by the Global Reporting Initiative the “Group Directory” and any other exclusions Sustainability & Enterprise Risk Management (GRI) Organisation. The GRI Application Level made have been clearly explained under the Division Check and the DNV Assurance Statement are respective sustainability aspects. John Keells Holdings PLC attached at the end of this section. 130, Glennie Street, Colombo 02, Sri Lanka Email: sustainability@keells.com Website: www.keells.com/sustainability The reporting of the Group’s sustainability performance is at the GRI application level “B” and has also achieved the GRI Application Level Check by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Organisation. This report provides information to all A year on year comparison is possible subject stakeholders with regard to the most critical to the explanations provided in respect of the and material areas that are identified through divestments that have occurred during the comprehensive stakeholder engagement. year as mentioned previously in the report. Prioritisation of the topics in this report was There have been no new entities that have based on the stakeholder engagement carried impacted the reporting boundary. In terms of out this year. The findings of the engagement re-statements in comparison to the previous is specified in the section “Key sustainability year 2011/12, the previous year’s numbers concerns”. and statements have been re-arranged wherever necessary to conform to the present The sections titled “Stakeholder engagement year’s presentation. The Group’s sustainability process” and “Engagement of significant performance for the year 2011/12 was stakeholders” describe the process for presented through its first integrated Annual determining materiality. This report is the Report. primary method of disclosure to the investors, employees, customers, governments, legal and The GRI Content Index may be utilised to regulatory bodies and society. refer to specific information and disclosures required by the GRI framework. The John 86 legal entities of the John Keells Group Keells Group has been a part of the United create the financial reporting boundary of Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2002 48 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Key Sustainability Highlights – 3 Year Performance Indicator 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE EC1 Economic value added (Rs. million) 8,686 10,008 12,393 EC3 Employee benefit liability as of 31st March 1,215,597 1,372,161 1,385,072 EC6 Percentage purchases from suppliers in Sri Lanka Not tracked 69% 68% EC8 Community services and infrastructure projects (Rs. million) Not tracked 29.92 25.41 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT EN3 Direct energy consumed (GJ) 360,704 373,502 379,888 Direct energy consumed (GJ) per Rs.million revenue 5.96 4.81 4.44 EN4 Indirect energy consumed (GJ) 271,065 276,194 274,767 Indirect energy consumed (GJ) per Rs. million revenue 4.48 3.56 3.21 EN8 Water withdrawal (m3) Not tracked 1,830,547 1,660,870 EN11 Sites near/in high bio-diversity areas 14 14 14 EN16 Carbon footprint (MT) 65,524 69,280 69,403 Carbon footprint (MT) per Rs. million of Turnover 1.08 0.89 0.81 EN21 Water discharge (m3) Not tracked 1,531,327 1,340,190 EN22 Waste generated (MT) Not tracked 8,356 7,868 Waste recycled/reused / recovered as a percentage of waste generated Not tracked 37% 43% EN23 Volume of significant spills (m3) Not tracked Nil Nil EN28 Significant environmental fines * Nil Nil Nil MORE THAN JUST A WORKPLACE, HEALTH & SAFETY LA1 Total workforce (employees + contractors’ staff) Not tracked 18,060 19,296 Total employees 11,186 11,748 12,791 LA2 Attrition of new hires (as percentage of total new hires) Not tracked 24% 20% LA4 Percentage covered by collective bargaining 22.2% 23% 24% LA7 Number of injuries and diseases 180 230 196 Injury rate (number of injuries per 100 employees) 1.61 1.95 1.53 Lost day rate (Lost days as percentage of total person days) 0.058% 0.045% 0.032% LA8 Number of people educated on serious diseases 15,078 20,279 17,670 LA10 Average hours of training per employee 30 40 46 LA12 Number of employees receiving performance reviews 100% 100% 100% ETHICAL BUSINESS HR6 Incidences of child labour (below age 16) 0 0 0 Incidences of young workers (aged 16-18) ** 0 3 0 HR7 Incidents of forced labour during the year 0 0 0 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SO1 Community engagement (number of persons impacted) 17, 648 28,025 28,402 SO2 Percentage of companies assessed for risk of corruption 100% 100% 100% SO8 Significant fines for violation of laws/regulations* Not tracked Nil Nil PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PR3 Percentage of labels carrying ingredients used Not tracked 95% 95% Percentage of labels carrying information on disposal Not tracked 10% 37% Percentage of labels carrying sourcing of components Not tracked 0% 1% PR6 Voluntary standards relating to advertising Group policy based on ICC Code PR9 Significant fines for product/service issues * Nil Nil Nil * Significant fines as defined as fines over Rs. 1.0 million. ** Young workers are employed under guidelines of the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon. Annual Report 2012/13 l 49 PROGRESSIVE Sustainability Integration Sustainability Policy and Framework Group Sustainability Policy The Group will strive to conduct its activities in accordance with the highest standards of corporate best practice and in compliance with all applicable local and international regulatory requirements and conventions. The Group monitors and assesses the quality and environmental impact of its operations, services and products whilst striving to include its supply chain partners and customers where relevant, and to the extent possible. The Group is committed to transparency and open communication about its environmental and social practices in addition to its economic performance. It seeks dialogue with its stakeholders in order to contribute to the development of global best practice, while promoting the same commitment to transparency and open communication from its partners and customers. The Group strives to be an employer of choice by providing a safe, secure and non-discriminatory working environment for its employees whose rights are fully safeguarded and who have equal opportunity to realise their full potential. All Group companies will abide by national laws and wherever possible will strive to emulate global best practice governing the respective industry groups, seeking continuous improvement of health and safety in the workplace. The Group will promote good relationships with all communities of which we are a part and enhance their quality of life and opportunities while respecting people’s culture, ways of life and heritage. The Group has a robust Sustainability Strategy dedicated Sustainability Champion responsible sustainability structure with During the year in review, the Group for sustainability initiatives and the overall consolidated its sustainability management sustainability performance, under the overall oversight from the Group Executive framework which encompasses both a topsupervision of their respective Sector Heads Committee and the Group down and bottom-up approach. This includes and heads of business units. Sustainability Committee, while strategies for entrenchment of sustainability, Task Groups for each sustainability The Sustainability & Enterprise Risk the sustainability organisational structure, aspect are headed by a member reporting and benchmarking, awareness Management division, along with the of the Group Operating Committee. creation and sustainability assurance. Group Executive Committee and the Group Additionally, each business unit Increased stakeholder value is created through Sustainability Committee, formulates the has a dedicated Sustainability our sustainability management framework by Group sustainability strategy. The division Champion responsible for improvements in business processes, better is also responsible for the identification of sustainability initiatives and the risk management, new business opportunities, significant stakeholders, the identification of overall sustainability performance, innovation, corporate governance and overall material issues, sharing of best practices, under the overall supervision of corporate responsibility. carrying out risk reviews and the overall review their respective Sector Heads and and monitoring of the sustainability drive. The Group has a robust sustainability Awareness campaigns are carried out on a heads of business units. structure with oversight from the Group regular basis, with one annual Group-wide Executive Committee and the Group awareness campaign being carried out to Sustainability Committee, while Task Groups broadbase knowledge and inculcate a culture for each sustainability aspect are headed by of sustainability. a member of the Group Operating Committee. Additionally, each business unit has a 50 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Group Executive Committee Risk Group Sustainability Committee Management Sustainability & Enterprise Risk Projects & John Keells Foundation Management Division Initiatives (Corporate Social Responsibility) Mapping, Control & Review Integration of Sustainability in Implementation of Strategy for Sectors & Business Units Group Sustainability Strategy each Sustainability Aspect Policy to Practice t Identify significant stakeholders Sector Heads/Heads of t Establish materiality of issues Task Force Leaders Business Units t Define actions/goals/targets t Review and monitor t Recommend capex Cluster Heads t Share best practice Sustainability t Risk review Champions t External/ Internal audit Sector Representatives Sustainability Aspects Labour & Human Occupational Product Social Economic Environment Rights Health & Safety Responsibility Responsibility The Group now follows sustainability Standard Over the year, the Group also commenced engagement process enables the Group to Operating Procedures (SOPs) in tracking internal sustainability assurance which is achieve this. and monitoring sustainability data and an carried out by the Sustainability & Enterprise enterprise-wide system was introduced to Risk Management division in accordance with Identification of Key Impacts, Risks capture and consolidate sustainability related the SOPs. These assurance processes have and Opportunities information for internal and external reporting enabled the Group to report on sustainability The Group sees a close linkage between the purposes. Further, in order to compare performance with greater confidence and Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process its sustainability performance with global continuously improve its data capturing and its sustainability drive. During the year standards, the Group has embarked on a processes. in review, the Sustainability & Enterprise Risk benchmarking exercise with an international Management division of the Group facilitated assessment body. Information with regard to The Group considers sustainability and the annual risk review identifying business sustainability performance is disseminated enterprise risk management to be closely specific risks, common sectoral risks and within the Group on a quarterly basis and used linked, with both functions providing an core sustainability risks for each company. As at Management Committee level in developing ongoing analysis of the Group’s strengths, mentioned in the “Risk Management” section corporate strategy. weaknesses, opportunities and threats. of this report, the Group made improvements Regular horizon scanning and the stakeholder to the risk review process through the Annual Report 2012/13 l 51 PROGRESSIVE Sustainability Integration “As the Sustainability Champion for the Sri Lankan resorts, I have the opportunity to proactively contribute to the sector’s journey towards sustainable development.” Dinushka Kalutota introduction of Risk Control Self Assessment documents, additional risk assessment parameters and focused mitigation plans. During this process, Group companies identified the risks to their business unit, the impacts on the environment and society due to operations and potential opportunities for new business and further growth. Common Group-wide risks identified included aspects Internally, the Group’s robust corporate Considering an overall triple bottom line risk such as natural disasters and impacts due governance structure, as well as its risk mitigation percepective at a global level, to climate change, environmental impacts, management, sustainability, corporate social the Group subscribes to the United Nations weakened global economy, volatility in interest responsibility and internal audit functions Millenium Development Goals, while some and foreign exchange rates, ad-hoc changes in ensure that the impacts of such aspects are of its employee policies and practices are taxes and levies, slow growth in infrastructure proactively identified and managed. modelled on the standards of the International development and negative impacts due to Labour Organisation. From a product and ambiguous and outdated laws, corruption in Decisions made by the Group are influenced service point of view, a number of Group external systems and processes, attracting and by the Precautionary Principle with regard companies have obtained ISO 14001, ISO retaining necessary skills, labour relations and to the prevention of environmental pollution, 18001, ISO 9001, ISO 22000 and ISO 27000 product responsibility, including health and environmental degradation and global warming certifications, while the Group is also an active safety. and its impacts on the local community. participant of the UNGC initiative. The key impacts, risks and opportunities to the Group from an economic perspective are as follows: Economic trends Risks Opportunities Weakened global economic and Lowered economic performance Identification of emerging Asian political environment Pressure on bottom line and new markets resulting in versatility of Volatility in interest and foreign investments our product/service offerings exchange rates Confusion in the mind of investors Increasing local purchases Limitations of regulatory resulting in lost opportunities, through sustainable sourcing and framework and delays in policy increased costs and slower introduction of leaner production making decision making methods to maintain production/ Infrastructure development an Delayed growth opportunities service costs ongoing process Further engagement with bodies such as the Chamber of Commerce and multilateral agencies Provision of community-based infrastructure on a pro-bono basis 52 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information From an environmental perspective, the key impacts, risks and opportunities to the Group are as follows: Environmental trends Risks Opportunities Natural disasters and impacts due Disruptions to operations and Identification of multiple sources to climate change scarcity of supplies for supplies and raw material Scarcity and price increases of Higher operating costs due substitutes fossil fuel and other related nonto increased costs of natural Adopting renewable energy sources renewable energy sources resources and reducing consumption by Stringent environmental legislation Increased operating costs and eliciting employee behavioural and public policy towards waste and capital expenditure to comply with change and adopting greener effluent managment legislation and public policy technologies Increasing environmental awareness Balancing resource scarcity Leveraging on the accreditation of community regarding the against business growth bodies such as LEED and conservation of water Reputational impact due to Green Globe to enhance Group Increasing customer demands for non-conformity of value chain competitiveness green / low carbon products and members to sustainability Access to more mature markets greener value chain practices through the adoption of a policy of sustainable development Improving and consolidating brand equity as a result of corporate responsibility initiatives The key impacts, risks and opportunities to the Group from a social perspective are as follows: Social trends Risks Opportunities Migration, immigrant workers, lower Retention of key staff and Attracting talent through enhanced ratio of females in workforce attraction of talent and accomodative labour practices/ Corruption in external systems and Slower decision making and lack facilities processes of confidence among investors Enhanced corporate image as a Greater emphasis by consumers on Capital expenditure and higher result of good corporate governance product/service quality costs incurred on process and and risk management practices Increasing customer demands quality certifications Increased market share and for corporate social responsibility Community dissatisfaction with improved positioning of the brand in initiatives engagement initiatives of the the market Upward movement of society to Company Enhancement of the social licence higher socio-economic classes Impact on social norms and small to operate resulting in sustainable business entrepreneurs operations Increased revenue through greater volume of operations Annual Report 2012/13 l 53 PROGRESSIVE Sustainability Integration Stakeholder Engagement Process assesed through a Voice of Employee (VOE) ability to influence its outcomes or to be The John Keells Group carries out its Survey on a randomly selected sample of substantially impacted by the Company’s stakeholder engagement by first identifying employees through an e-platform, with survey operations. the perceived issues faced by the stakeholders results being shared with all employees. of the Group and its operating companies. Engagement with stakeholders encompasses These issues are subsequently validated and Engagement of Significant a range of activities and interactions that any further issues are identified through an Stakeholders include formal and informal consultations, independent stakeholder engagement process The Group’s significant stakeholders are participation, negotiations, communication, carried out in accordance with the AA 1000 customers, employees, communities, investors, mandatory and voluntary disclosures, Stakeholder Engagement Standard. The Group governments, legal and regulatory bodies, certification, and accreditation. The mode and carries out its stakeholder engagement process business partners, suppliers or principals, frequency used for each stakeholder group is for its internal and external stakeholders society, pressure groups and media, and as follows. separately, with the staff’s concerns being industry peers or competitors who have the Customers Individual & Corporate B2B Method of enagement: Personal meetings, discussion forums, surveys, field visits, conference calls, progress reviews, information dissemination through printed reports, telephone, SMS and corporate websites, workshops, business development activities, road shows and trade fairs Frequency of engagement: Quarterly through Customer Satisfaction Surveys On-going basis through information dissemination through printed reports, telephone, SMS, e-mail and corporate website Bi-annually through personal meetings Annually through road shows and trade fairs Employees Directors, Executives, Non-Executives Method of engagement: Direct reporting, intranet communication, employee satisfaction surveys, collective bargaining, open door policy at all management levels, annual events, professional training and development activities, team building activities Frequency of engagement: Intranet communications through JK Connect and My Portal on a daily basis Bi-annual performance review and skip level meetings Employee satisfaction surveys and dip stick surveys, such as VOE (Voice Of Employee) conducted annually Professional training, development activities and team building through internal as well as external sources conducted at least annually Community Neighbours, Community, Community Leaders Method of engagement: Corporate Social Responsibility programmes and activities, community educational and information dissemination programmes, oneto-one meetings, workshops, forums Frequency of engagement: Engagement with the community is carried out prior to entry into the community area Engagement is then carried out on a monthly basis while operating Community engagement is also carried out on exit 54 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Investors Institutional, Fund Managers/Analysts, Lenders, Multilateral Lenders Method of engagement: Periodic disclosures through annual reviews and quarterly reports, one-to-one meetings, investor road shows, phone calls and corporate websites Frequency of engagement: Annual disclosures Quarterly reports Regular Investor road shows On-going through phone calls, e-mail, written communication and websites Government, Government Institutions and Departments Method of engagement: Meetings, discussions, newsletters and circulars, presentations and briefings, advisory meetings, membership on national committees, lobbying activities via chambers of commerce Frequency of engagement: Engagement with the Government is carried out on an on-going basis through meetings, business forums, newsletters and circulars. The senior management are members of bodies such as the Chamber of Commerce who meet on a monthly basis Legal & Regulatory Bodies Method of engagement: Regular meetings, periodic disclosures, correspondence, representation through chambers of commerce and trade associations with bodies such as local authorities, municipal councils and other institutions such as the Consumer Affairs Authority, Department of Inland Revenue, Customs Department, Securities & Exchange Commission, Colombo Stock Exchange and Tourist Board of Sri Lanka Frequency of engagement: Engagement with the legal and regulatory bodies is carried out on an on-going basis as the senior management are members of chambers and industry associations that meet at least on a quarterly basis Business Partners, Principals and Suppliers Method of engagement: Regular meetings, distributor conferences, correspondence, monthly market reports, engagement as part of the transparent and well established sourcing mechanism for all high value items sourced by Group, conference calls and e-mails, circulars, membership in industry associations Frequency of engagement: Regular market reports at minimum on a monthly basis Annually through distributor conferences Annually through contract renegotiations On-going through conference calls, e-mails and circulars Annual Report 2012/13 l 55 PROGRESSIVE Sustainability Integration Society, Media, Pressure Groups, NGOs, Environmental Groups Method of engagement: Correspondence, website, press releases, media briefings, discussions, participation at NGO forums, media coverage, certification and accreditation Frequency of engagement: Engagement with the society / pressure groups / media is carried out on an on-going basis through website, press releases and media briefings Industry Peers & Competition Method of engagement: Communication through membership of chambers of commerce and trade associations, conferences, discussion forums Frequency of engagement: Engagement with the industry peers /competitors is carried out reguarly through the particiaption of senior management in various policy making bodies as mentioned in section “Memberships maintained by Industry Groups” Key Sustainability Concerns Society, pressure groups and regulatory the year, the Group has made changes to its Based on the continuous monitoring carried authorities constantly assess the operations policy frameworks and management approach out across print and electronic media, no of corporates with regard to the responsible with a view to reducing and controlling its adverse reports relating to environmental and utilisation of resources, conservation of bio impacts. This was carried out on the basis social concerns pertaining to the Group or its diversity and environmental protection through of the topics identified through stakeholder companies have been highlighted during the proper waste management and discharge engagements as well as through perceived reporting year. methods. The recently concluded stakeholder areas of risk as identified through the risk engagement has identified a few low impact management process, the internal audit However, to further ascertain any material environmental concerns which are now in the process and the operations at business units. issues to both the Group and its significant process of being addressed. stakeholders, a third-party stakeholder engagement mentioned in the “Stakeholder Staying in line with the Group’s corporate Engagement Process” section of the report philosophy, great importance is placed on was carried out during the year in review. developing the communities within which it operates. These communities in turn rely The primary concern of shareholders is to on the larger corporates such as the John ensure they obtain a return on their investment Keells Group to carry out corporate social and for such returns to be continued in the responsibility initiatives and engage with them. long run. As such, in addition to the overall In addition, as an outcome of the Group’s economic performance of the Group, such constant engagement with its employees, investors would also consider the sustainability training and retention of talent was identified of the organisation vis-à-vis environmental during the reporting year by employees. performance, social performance and corporate governance. As in the past, the Group’s primary response to the concerns raised by stakeholders has been through its annual sustainability report. During 56 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Mapping of Stakeholder Concerns The 2010/11 Sustainability Report drew implementing the systems and processes to Sustainability Aspects specific reference to the need for reporting required for reporting EN17. Continuing from the previous year, the Group of EN17, EN21 and EN22, which however has reported on 30 GRI (G3.1) Sustainability could not be reported on at that time due to Performance Indicators. The material issues data gathering processes not being in place. that emerged through the 2012 stakeholder While the processes for EN21 and EN22 were 30 GRI Sustainability engagement are captured within the selected implemented last year and the performance Performance indicators. of which was reported, the Group is currently Indicators Impact to Company Low an Rights Hum Investment & Ec o Procurement Practices m cia y So l m nit no ic u Non-discrimination Co m Indirect economic impacts Prevention of Compliance Child & Forced Labour Local Communities Produ ct Impact to Stakeholder Impact to Stakeholder Economic Perfomance Anti-Corruption Responsible Advertising Local Purchasing Product Labelling High Low Product Compliace Energy Low High Occupational Health & Safety Proximity to bio-diverse areas Effluents Environmental Compliance Employment Water Carbon Footprint ty Waste Training & Development Safe Other Emissions alt Diversity & Equal Opportunity h& Reclaim of Products Significant Spills He Collective Bargaining on vir Remuneration ab En m ou en r t L rce or kfo W Low Impact to Company Annual Report 2012/13 l 57 PROGRESSIVE Sustainability Integration Mapping of Sustainability Aspects to Performance Indicators Economic Performance EC1, EC3 Economic Local Purchasing EC6 Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Energy EN3, EN4, EN5 Water EN8 Proximity to Biologically Diverse Areas EN11 Carbon Footprint EN16 Environment Effluents EN21 Waste EN22 Significant Spills EN23 Environmental Compliance EN28 Employment LA1, LA2 Labour/Management Relations LA4 Employees Training & Development LA10 Diversity & Equal Opportunity LA12, LA13 Occupational Health & Safety LA7, LA8 Anti-corruption SO2 Ethical Business & Compliance SO8 Human Rights Prevention of Child Labour HR6 Prevention of Forced & Compulsory Labour HR7 Product Labelling PR3 Product Responsible Advertising PR6 Responsibility Product Compliance PR9 Social Responsibility Local Community SO1 Staying in line with the Group’s corporate philosophy, great importance is placed on developing the communities within which it operates. These communities in turn rely on the larger corporates such as the John Keells Group to carry out corporate social responsibility initiatives and engage with them. Constant engagement with our stakeholders 58 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Performance on Sustainability Agenda Focus Area Deliverables for 11/12 Comment on Progress Plan Entrenchment of Implementation of an enterprise-wide A hosted solution has been implemented to Achieved Sustainability sustainability system to facilitate sustainability efficiently monitor and track the sustainability performance tracking. performance of the Group. The system has enabled easy tracking and reporting of quarterly sustainability performance resulting in better decision making and risk management. Training and awareness with regard to The core sustainability team was trained Similar Group-wide sustainability. on sustainability assurance, while many campaigns will be carried awareness campaigns with regard to out annually. sustainability were carried out, with an estimated 12,000 employees being reached. The Group will continue the process of The Group has engaged with Earthcheck Achieved establishing systems and processes to identify, Global for selected Group locations to carry track and monitor such efficiency targets for out benchmark assessments and to compare business units. their sustainability performance against international companies. Environmental The Group will identify and evaluate initiatives Three of the most energy consuming industry Further energy Impact with a view to partially offsetting its carbon groups carried out energy conservation conservation initiatives to footprint. initiatives such as efficient lighting, be carried out in relevant replacement of high energy consuming industry groups. equipment and process improvements. Waste to bio-gas plants Two Sri Lankan resorts installed waste to to be installed in other bio-gas plants, resulting in lower LPG usage, resorts and other relevant reducing the Group’s carbon footprint. operational sites. The Group will aim to achieve Green Globe Nine of the Group’s resorts and hotels (except Green Globe Certification to Certification for all currently operating Sri for Cinnamon Bey Beruwela and Chaaya be obtained for all resorts. Lankan city hotels and resorts as well as Island Dhonveli), were Green Globe Certified. the Maldives resorts by March 2012 and Cinnamon Bey which commenced operations LEED Certification for Cinnamon Bey which is this financial year is working towards receiving currently under construction. LEED certification. The Group will continue to implement Three of the most energy consuming industry Similar programmes to be energy conservation initiatives and stimulate groups carried out staff awareness campaigns carried out on an annual behavioural changes in staff through at least once during the year in review. basis at relevant group awareness campaigns with a view to companies. optimising energy consumption. Sri Lankan city hotels and resorts as well the Energy audits were carried out at selected Achieved Maldives resorts will aim to conduct energy resorts and retail outlets audits at each hotel in order to achieve the target of increasing energy efficiency. Awareness programmes and system modifications were carried out to achieve energy efficiency at other resorts. Annual Report 2012/13 l 59 PROGRESSIVE Sustainability Integration Focus Area Deliverables for 11/12 Comment on Progress Plan The Group will aim to increase its overall While four of the Group resorts now use 100 The rest of the Group’s four energy efficiency by embracing greener per cent energy efficient lighting, a further five resorts are in the process technologies and improved energy resorts are at 90 per cent. of converting to energy management practices. efficient lighting on a Geysers at some of the Group’s resorts replacement basis. were replaced with eco-gen units, while conventional air conditioners were replaced Group companies will with inverter type air conditioners. continue to replace conventional air Companies in the Consumer Foods & Retail conditioners with inverter sector also installed new equipment to type air conditioners. minimise heat loss and optimise natural lighting. The Group will continue to identify areas for installing equipment enabling energy conservation. The Group will continuously explore areas that Tea Small Holder Factories generates 66 per The Leisure sector could be powered through renewable energy cent of its energy through renewable energy continues to actively sources and cogeneration projects. sources. assess renewable energy projects such as solar power and wind energy. All new retail outlets will be designed Four newly opened outlets were designed to The Retail sector to maximise on natural lighting with the maximise natural lighting. proactively seeks to use installation of skylights / glass panels and natural lighting in all future conversion of fluorescent light to include outlets where practically electronic ballasts. possible. All Group companies shall monitor emerging A Group stakeholder engagement was carried The Group’s legal division issues and keep abreast of regulatory out with a view to identifying stakeholder continues to monitor changes, technological innovations and interests. The Group also established a changes in regulatory stakeholder interests with respect to bioResearch & Development division to identify environment. diversity. new technological innovations. The Group will initiate biodiversity conservation The Leopard Guardians project in Yala and the The Group will continue to and behaviour research projects to safeguard coral re-growth project in Hikkaduwa were identify high impact areas the country’s natural biodiversity. carried out during the year. and carry out initiatives accordingly. The Group will identify and install divisional The installation of water meters at points of The installation of divisional water meters with a view to reducing the extraction has been carried out. meters in significant consumption of water usage. operational areas is in the The Group has also installed state-of-theprocess of being carried art rain water harvesting systems at two out. Sri Lankan resorts. Four Sri Lankan resorts recycle 100 per cent of their waste water for gardening and/or flushing. Ceylon Cold Stores treats its waste water through an ultra filteration mechanism, utilising this water for gardening. 60 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Performance on Sustainability Agenda contd. Focus Area Deliverables for 11/12 Comment on Progress Plan Assess feasibility and commission sewerage All new significant operational sites have been The final two pending treatment plants at all locations with high designed with sewerage treatment plants. sewerage treatment plants water usage. expected to be completed by April 2014. The Group will explore avenues through which The Group has deployed collection boxes at Achieved it could carry out efficient management of all its Group locations through its selected e-waste. contractor Think Green (Pvt) Ltd. The Group will broad base the methodology Group locations with significant operational Achieved of waste sorting with a view to minimising its acitivity have implemented waste segregation impact on landfill and other forms of waste drives and have identified various contractors disposal. to dispose of waste through methods of re-use and recycling. The Group will aim to increase the quantity of The Group also continues to recycle its paper A plastic recycling project materials recycled and improve its recycling through its contracted party Neptune Recyclers continues at Union Place programmes. (Pvt) Ltd. Keells Super outlet and the Group is in the process of identifying other suitable locations. More than Just a The extension of the Group’s e-learning The e-learning platform has been extended Achieved Workplace platform to make training more accessible and to all Group companies with the exception efficient. of companies that are unable to access the system due to technical reasons. Manager Development programmes within the This has been conducted for Assistant Achieved Group to develop staff for higher management Manager & above levels. roles. The identification of occupational diseases and While the Group tracks occupational injuries Achieved serious diseases of the relevant sectors. and diseases, the diseases which are considered to be more relevant to the sectors the Group operates in have been identified for the purpose of tracking and awareness creation. Ethical Business The Group will aim to formulate a child labour The Group formulated an HR Checklist and The Group plans to cover remediation policy and deploy it across to its shared it with its significant suppliers to carry 30 significant suppliers relevant stakeholders and provide assistance out a gap assessment of their labour practices during the next financial to its value chain partners. in relation to Sri Lankan regulations. 19 year. significant suppliers were assessed during the year in review. Our Contribution The Group will aim to improve its process The Group carries out impact assessments at This will continue to be to collect feedback and analyse impact on entry, exit and during the implementation of practiced for all significant community of the various ongoing projects by projects. community engagement the business units. activities. Annual Report 2012/13 l 61 PROGRESSIVE Sustainability Integration Focus Area Deliverables for 11/12 Comment on Progress Plan The Group will augment the risk review The Group’s risk management process was Achieved process to capture the full spectrum of risk improved with the introduction of Risk Control mitigation actions. Self-Assessment documents which capture preventive, corrective and detective mitigation plans. The Group will provide rainwater harvesting During the year the Group provided three Achieved facilities to selected homes through its village 20,000 liter rain water harvesting tanks to adoption programme in a bid to improve the village school, temple and dispensary of access to water in such villages. Mangalagama. In addition, twenty 5,000 liter tanks were also provided as domestic units. The Group will provide solar powered lighting The second phase of the solar lighting projct Achieved in selected homes through its village adoption in Halmillawa was carried out during the year programme. with 11 street lamps, 11 domestic units and 8 solar powered lanterns provided for houses with inadequate electrical wiring. Short and Medium Term Sustainability Agenda AGENDA The Group will seek to minimise the risk of adverse labour practices of its value chain by extending its assessments to cover 30 of its significant suppliers and creating awareness with such suppliers. The Group will strive to reduce its carbon footprint per rupee of revenue by approximately 10 per cent. To implement processes for the identification and segregation of hazardous waste across the Group. To assess the Scope 3 carbon footprint of operational activities not under the direct control of the Group. To engage an independent party to establish global performance benchmarks in order to compare the sustainability performance of significant operational locations. To establish the total expenditure incurred by the Group on sustainability related initiatives and enviromental conservation. 62 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Annual Report 2012/13 l 63 PROGRESSIVE Independent Assurance on Sustainability Performance Introduction Information relating to Company’s Visited the Head-Office, other sectoral Det Norske Veritas AS (‘DNV’) has been materiality assessment and head offices, Cinnamon Grand Colombo, commissioned by the management of John stakeholder engagement processes. Ceylon Cold Stores Ranala, Lanka Keells Holdings PLC (‘JKH’ or ‘the Company’) Confirm that the Report meets the Marine Services (LMS) Barge at the to carry out an independent assurance requirements of the GRI G3.1 for an Port of Colombo and Keells Super Retail engagement on the John Keells Holdings Application Level ‘B+’, as declared by Outlet Havelock Road Colombo. PLC (JKH) Annual Report 2012/13 (‘the JKH. Conducted interviews with key Report’) in its printed format. This assurance representatives including data owners engagement has been conducted against the The reporting boundary is as set out in the and decision-makers from different Global Reporting Initiative 2011 Sustainability Report, covering entities over which JKH divisions and functions of the Company. Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 (GRI G3.1) and has management control and significant Performed sample-based reviews of AccountAbility’s AA1000 Assurance Standard influence as explained in the report; during the the mechanisms for implementing 2008 (AA1000AS (2008)). The verification was verification process, there were no limitations the Company’s sustainability related conducted during March to May 2013, for the encountered on the scope for the assurance policies, as described in the Report. year of activities covered in the Report i.e. 1st engagement. Performed sample-based checks of the April 2012 to 31st March 2013. processes for generating, gathering Verification Methodology and managing the quantitative data and The intended users of this assurance This assurance engagement was planned and qualitative information included in the statement are the management of JKH and carried out in accordance with the AA1000AS Report. readers of the JKH Annual Report 2012/13. (2008) and the DNV Protocol for Verification of The management of JKH is responsible for all Sustainability Reporting1. The Report has been Conclusions information provided in the Report as well as evaluated against the following criteria: JHK has focused on continual improvement the processes for collecting, analysing and Adherence to the principles of its systems and procedures to preserve reporting the information. DNV’s responsibility of Inclusivity, Materiality and its value drivers and to adequately address regarding this verification is to JKH only and Responsiveness as set out in the its risks related to economic, environment in accordance with the agreed scope of work. AA1000AS (2008). and social aspects. In our opinion the The assurance engagement is based on the The Reliability of specified sustainability Report, provides a fair representation of the assumption that the data and information performance information, as required Company’s sustainability policies, objectives, provided to us is complete and true. for a Type 2, moderate level assurance management approach and performance engagement. during the reporting year. We confirm that the Scope, boundary and limitations of Adherence to the additional principles of GRI Application Level “B+” has been attained Assurance Completeness and Neutrality as set out in reference to the various application levels The scope of work agreed upon with JKH in DNV’s Protocol, and defined in the GRI G3.1. includes verification of the following: The principles and requirements of the The content of the sustainability GRI G3.1 for an application level B+. We have evaluated the Report’s adherence to performance reported in the Annual the following principles on a scale of “Good”, Report i.e. review of the policies, As part of the engagement, DNV has verified “Acceptable” and “Needs Improvement”: initiatives, practices and performance the statements and claims made in the Report described in the Report as well as and assessed the robustness of the underlying AA1000AS (2008) Principles references made in the Report. data management system, information flow Inclusivity: As a part of its stakeholder Evaluation of the AccountAbility and controls. In doing so, we have: engagement process, the Company has principles and specified performance Reviewed the Company’s approach established an effective process to capture information, described below, for a to stakeholder engagement and its inputs from key stakeholders through different Type 2, moderate level of assurance, materiality determination process. modes and at determined intervals and the in accordance with the requirements of Verified the sustainability-related inputs from the stakeholder engagement AA1000AS (2008) detailed below: statements and claims made in the has been considered in developing the Information relating to Company’s Report and assessed the robustness management approach. sustainability issues, responses, of the data management system, In our view, the level at which the Report performance data, case studies information flow and controls. adheres to this principle is “Good”. and underlying systems for the Examined and reviewed documents, Materiality: The Company has established management of such information data and other information made the process of determining the materiality and data. available by JKH. 1 www.dnv.com/services/cr 64 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information at the corporate level and identified material Additional Parameters as per DNV’s DNV’s Competence and aspects for external reporting based on the Protocol Independence internal stakeholder engagement process for Completeness: The report has reported / DNV is a global provider of sustainability the reporting period and the identified material responded to the management approach and services, with qualified environmental and aspects have been adequately prioritised sustainability performance of chosen aspects social assurance specialists working in over and responded to in the Report, however the and performance indicators for the application 100 countries. DNV states its independence Company needs to further strengthen the level “B” within the chosen boundary and the and impartiality with regard to this assurance process of identifying sectoral material issues rationale behind partial reporting are explained engagement. DNV was not involved in the so as to establish sustainability management within the Report. preparation of any statements or data included system at sectoral level. in the Report, with the exception of this In our view, the level at which the Report In our view, the level at which the Report Assurance Statement. DNV maintains complete adheres to this principle is “Acceptable”. adheres to this principle is “Acceptable”. impartiality toward any people interviewed. Responsiveness: We consider that the Neutrality: The sustainability performance and DNV expressly disclaims any liability or coCompany has responded adequately to key related issues are reported in this report in a responsibility for any decision a person or stakeholder concerns, through its policies transparent and balanced manner, in terms of entity would make based on this Assurance and management systems and the same are content and tone. Statement. adequately reflected in the Report. In our view, the level at which the Report In our view, the level at which the Report For Det Norske Veritas AS, adheres to this principle is “Acceptable”. adheres to this principle is “Good”. Reliability: The majority of data and information verified at corporate office and site Opportunities for Improvement were found to be accurate. Some of the data The following is an excerpt from the inaccuracies identified during the verification observations and opportunities for Prasun Kundu process were found to be attributable to data improvement reported to the management of Project Manager aggregation errors and the same has been the Company and are considered for drawing Det Norske Veritas AS, India. corrected. Hence in accordance with the our conclusion on the Report; however they are AA1000AS (2008) requirements for a Type 2, generally consistent with the management’s moderate level assurance engagement, we objectives: conclude that the specified sustainability data and information presented in the Report is Evolve a process of true integration in generally reliable and acceptable. sustainability context, i.e., being an Nandkumar Vadakepatth Integrated Annual and Sustainability Assurance Reviewer Specific evaluation of the Report, may extend the materiality National Head – Sustainability and Business information on sustainability determination exercise beyond GRI Excellence Services performances guidelines and undertake the test of DNV Business Assurance, India. We consider the methodology and process materiality for “key risk items” like Kolkata, India, 29th May 2013. for gathering information developed by JKH Regulatory Risks for its sustainability performance reporting is Further improve the stakeholder appropriate and the qualitative and quantitative inclusiveness, JKH may establish data included in the Report, was found to benchmark for good quality engagement be identifiable and traceable; the personnel with stakeholders who are crucial to responsible was able to demonstrate the origin JKH’s sustainability and success in line and interpretation of the data and its reliability. with AA1000SES (2011) We also assessed the reported progress Evaluate risks related to human rights against the Company’s commitments as across the JKH value chain and support disclosed in its previous Report and observed its partners in promoting fair and ethical that the Report presents a fair description trade practices of the sustainability activities and the goals Develop key strategies, systems and achieved. procedures for occupational health and safety to enhance wellbeing of human resources across the Company Annual Report 2012/13 l 65 PROGRESSIVE Risk Management Risk management is an integral part of the severity of impact and likelihood of occurrence Risk management is an integral organisational process within the John Keells with the objective of achieving increasing part of the organisational process Group and a key factor in ensuring the Group’s uniformity in risk assessment by business within the John Keells Group and a success through sustainable growth. The risk units. Further, the introduction of velocity of key factor in ensuring the Group’s management process seeks to create and impact of a risk event, or the speed at which success through sustainable protect value for all stakeholders by ensuring the risk event will impact the organisation, in that Group companies effectively identify and the RCSA document, has served to prioritise growth. The risk management mitigate the range of structural, operational, risks and their relevant mitigation plans. process seeks to create and financial and strategic risks that may prevent protect value for all stakeholders the organisation from meeting its objectives. Business units are the ultimate owners of by ensuring that Group companies their risks and are responsible for reviewing effectively identify and mitigate the The annual risk management cycle begins their RCSA forms on a quarterly basis. range of structural, operational, at the business unit level, constituting the Company risks are then validated at the Group financial and strategic risks that “bottom-up” approach to enterprise risk Management Committees and presented to the may prevent the organisation from management taken by JKH, where risk audit committees of all listed companies. Risks meeting its objectives management is believed to be an integral pertaining to the Group are then consolidated part of strategic decision making. Risks are at the Group Executive Committee level. The identified and assessed through a Risk Control risk management cycle is concluded with the Self-Assessment (RCSA) document unique distribution of a Group risk report containing to the Group. Business units rate their level risk profiling and analysis to the Group Audit of risk for each identified risk event using Committee. an evaluation of the expected severity of impact of the risk event and the likelihood The risk management process and information of its occurrence. During the year, the Group flow is depicted below. introduced guidelines on the evaluation of the John Keells Business External Business Organisation Analysis & Technology & Risk Universe Strategies & Environment Process & People Reporting Data Headline Risks Policies Risk John Keells Group Presentation JKH PLC Audit Committee Review Risk Report & Action Risk Risk Management Team Group Executive Committee (GEC) Normalisation BU Review & Risk & Control Review Team Listed Company Audit Committee Sector Risk Report Risk & Action Validation Group Management Committee (GMC) Sustainability Integration BU Risk Report Business Unit & Action Risk Identification Operational Units Report Content 66 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Sustainable Risk Management The key risk items included in the 2012/13 Group RCSA document and Risk management and sustainability are firmly intertwined within the their respective risk ratings and action plans are detailed below. Group. The Group believes that sustainability is a form of overall risk management, considering not only operational and financial risks Regulatory Environment faced by the company, but a process that also proactively manages Financial year 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 the risks faced by the company resulting from possible impacts on the Risk Rating Ultra High High Moderate environment, employees and community due to its operations. While the Enterprise Risk Management process of JKH identified risks to the organisation, the Group also engaged an independent research Status and action plan partner to carry out a comprehensive stakeholder engagement in While changing legal and regulatory requirements have resulted in a bid to identify potential impacts of the company’s operations on some degree of uncertainty amongst investors, the Group has put in the environment and community. Risks and issues identified herein place robust internal processes to ensure its flexibility and adaptability were tracked on the RCSA documents of the respective company and with regard to any such changes in legislation. The Group also subsequently mapped to the relevant to GRI sustainability indicator for participates in various industry associations and chambers as a means further sustainability performance tracking and reporting. of pressing the need for clarity and consistency in the development and implementation of policy with a view to ensuring investor confidence. Companies have also continued to track and monitor their “core sustainability risks”, which are risks that have been identified as having Human Resources and Talent Management the potential to catastrophically impact the long term sustainability of Financial year 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 the business. The meeting of key performance indicators related to Risk Rating Low High High such risks is linked to organisation ratings, thus ensuring the evaluation of business units on both financial and sustainability performance and Status and action plan encapsulating the “triple bottom line” approach adopted by the Group. The Group places strong emphasis on retaining key talent through its talent management strategies, including performance recognition and Risk Management During the Reporting Year reward, leadership programmes and career development. Through The Enterprise Risk Management cycle begins during the second these programmes, the Group believes it has been able to retain high quarter with the annual risk review of all business units of the Group. quality employees despite the highly competitive labour environment. The Group’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) division assisted The Group consistently builds on feedback received from its employees, heads of business units and their respective heads of departments conducting a Voice of Employees survey over the course of the year, to comprehensively assess, rate and set mitigation plans for any with the findings being used to further enhance the Group’s ability structural, operational, financial and strategic risks relevant to each to attract and retain high calibre employees. It also maintains good company, based on past information and horizon scanning. Awareness working relations with unions and has in place an effective grievance and training were also provided to business units regarding the handling mechanism, striving to maintain a culture of continuous introduction of the above mentioned concept of “velocity” and the engagement and dialogue with employees. streamlining and categorisation of mitigation plans to ensure a more structured and focused approach to risk mitigation. Global Competition Financial year 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 Any high level risks or core sustainability risks were then reviewed by Management Committees of each of the industry groups as a means of Risk Rating Low Moderate Ultra high validating the risk process at a business unit level. All listed companies also presented their identified risk events and mitigation action plans to Status and action plan their respective audit committees for review. In the face of potential foreign investment in Sri Lanka by global businesses, the Group remains poised to maintain its current standing Business unit risks having a bearing on the overall Group risk profile by continuing to build on its competitive advantage. The Group has were consolidated into the Group RCSA document which also contains sought to match global standards through benchmarking its businesses any risks impacting the Group as whole, structural risks such as to global best practices and maintaining the highest quality levels of political or economic risks, and core sustainability risks. The Group its products and services to all its stakeholders. Further, emphasis on Executive Committee reviews and updates the Group RCSA on a innovation, training and capacity development is entrenched within biannual basis, which is subsequently reviewed by the board audit the Group through capability building, training and research and committee of John Keells Holdings PLC. development. Annual Report 2012/13 l 67 PROGRESSIVE Risk Management Macro Economic and Political Environment brands, abiding by the ICC code of advertising in all external marketing and communication campaigns and tracking product quality through the Financial year 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 relevant GRI indicators and rigorous quality assurance process. Risk Rating Moderate Low Moderate Environment, Health and Safety Status and action plan The weakened global economy resulted in a slower pace of growth Financial year 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 of the economy in Sri Lanka. This coupled with uncertainty in the Risk Rating Low Low Moderate regulatory framework also resulted in returns being lower than expected. However, the Government continues to make investments in Status and action plan infrastructure development and some of the policy measures taken are The Group places paramount importance on environment, health and expected to improve the long term sustainability and growth path of the safety (EHS) with regard to all operations of the Group. The Group EHS economy. task force is responsible for overseeing EHS within the Group and 80 per cent of Group companies identified for OHSAS certification The Group remains positive about the resilience of the economy and its have now obtained OHSAS 18000 certification. In addition, the Group senior management actively participates in key policy making bodies, tracks and reports on its environmental impact and health and safety committed to supporting the government in its efforts towards creating incidences on a quarterly basis as part of the Group’s mechanism sustainable and equitable economic growth. for internal and external sustainability reporting. The Group has also readied itself for possible significant disruptions to business operations Financial Exposure with business continuity plans and a disaster management policy detailing the steps for quick recovery of operations in such an instance. Financial year 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 Risk Rating Moderate Low Low Information Technology Dependency Status and action plan Financial year 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 In the face of rising interest rates and depreciation of the currency, the Risk Rating Insignificant Insignificant Low responsibility of the management of financial risks through continuous monitoring and hedging mechanisms, along with liquidity and financing Status and action plan requirements are the responsibility of the central treasury and finance The Group migrated some of its IT systems to cloud based computing functions of the Group, which also executes board approved strategies services during the year, in a move to improve the flexibility and for interest, currency and liquidity management. All operations are security of IT. During this process, the Group made every effort to overseen and monitored by the Group Executive Committee and the minimise any risks stemming from the migration of systems. framework of policies and guidelines adopted are regularly reviewed in IT systems are centralised in the Group as a means of ensuring order to meet the operating needs of the JKH Group. uniformity and standardisation of IT security measures. In addition, contingency measures are detailed through business continuity plans Reputation and Brand Image and disaster recovery sites and processes. Financial year 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 Risk Rating Low Low Low Status and action plan With its emphasis on the triple bottom line approach, the Group contributes extensively to society through the John Keells Foundation which undertakes a wide-ranging programme of social infrastructure and community development projects. In addition, the Enterprise Risk Management & Sustainability division of the Group assists in identifying risks to brand image and reputation. The Group also strives to meet the highest ethical standards when carrying out business, in accordance with its Code of Conduct. Further, the Group seeks to ensure the highest level of product stewardship with regard to its 68 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS Keeping our eye on the next level ADVANCING KE E PI N G PA C E I S NO T ENO UG H . W E H AVE TO STAY AHEAD PROGRESSIVE Consolidated Group Performance Continuing with the integrated nature of presenting pressure on the balance of trade, while the depreciation of the Rupee the John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) Annual Report, witnessed during the first half of the financial year supported export the Management Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) competitiveness and curtailed import expenditure which contributed significantly to the reduction in the trade deficit. Inflation was will include an analysis of the financial performance maintained within single digit levels during the year although there was of the Group and a discussion of the primary some upward pressure largely due to supply side factors. The measures sustainability indicators within the reporting taken to control credit growth had an impact on the Group as a whole, boundaries of the Group. The MD&A will also cover particularly in Consumer Foods and Retail (CF&R) and Information the performance indicators impacting each of the Technology (IT) industry groups. businesses, the key macro economic factors affecting the business, a discussion on the outlook and the The following table discusses the primary macro-economic variables sustainability agenda for the forthcoming year. that had and continue to have, a material impact where applicable, on the performance of the Group’s businesses. A comprehensive The economy understanding of these variables would enable a better understanding Despite a challenging global environment, the Sri Lankan economy on the opportunities and threats faced by industry groups in executing recorded a growth of 6.4 per cent, following two consecutive years of their strategies. Discussions of Group strategies are also covered robust growth of 8 per cent. The moderate economic growth was due in the Chairman’s Message and the Industry Group Analysis section to the external environment and the shortage of liquidity in the market of the Annual Report. The study of external risks and impacts are coupled with the tightened policy environment to curb expanding credit comprehensively covered under a structured framework within the Risk growth and widening trade deficits. The imposition of a credit ceiling Management discussion under the Sustainability Integration and Risk and removal of import duty concessions during the year reduced the Management section of the Report. Macro Variable Movement Cause Impact to JKH GDP growth GDP growth was 6.4 per The slow-down in economic growth was The slow-down in growth impacted cent in 2012 compared to mainly due to the external environment and consumer and business sentiment leading 8.2 per cent in 2011. the shortage of liquidity in the market coupled to a certain moderation of business activity, with the impacts of the policy measures particularly towards the end of the financial adopted by the CBSL to control the trade year. deficit and rising growth in credit. The Industry sector was the main driver of growth at 10.3 per cent with the construction segment making the most significant contribution. Growth in the Services sector at 4.6 per cent moderated largely on account of the slowdown in external trade. Despite adverse weather conditions in the second half of the year, the Agriculture sector performed better in 2012 with a growth of 5.8 per cent compared to 1.4 per cent in 2011. Inflation Inflation recorded a 7.5 The upward pressure on inflation in the The price escalations in most inputs, per cent year on year (YoY) second half of 2012 was largely on account particularly in fuel and electricity, placed increase for March 2013 of supply side factors. The biggest YoY pressure on the margins on all businesses, compared to 5.5 per cent in contributor to inflation was food prices particularly in CF&R and Sri Lankan Resorts March 2012. at 12.6 per cent as at March 2013. Core and City Hotels. These increases in costs inflation increased to 6.8 per cent from 4.9 are likely to add pressure on employers to per cent in the previous year. increase wages. 70 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Macro Variable Movement Cause Impact to JKH Interest rates – AWPLR increased to 13.8 The measures implemented to tighten the The interest income generated from the Sri Lanka per cent in March 2013 monetary policy resulted in an upward Group’s cash reserves and short term compared to 12.8 per cent in movement in secondary market interest investments benefited from the upward the previous year. The three rates and prime lending rates. However, movement in rates. From a borrowing month Government T-bill rate towards the end of the first quarter of 2013 perspective, the Group’s risk exposure to was 9.3 percent in March policy rates were revised downwards in rising Rupee interest rates is somewhat 2013 compared to 11.0 per order to stimulate economic activity. mitigated as a result of the “capped” cent in March 2012. interest rates on some loans. Interest rates 3 month LIBOR decreased The forecasts of subdued global growth The marginal decrease in US Dollar LIBOR global to 0.28 per cent in March and the excess levels of liquidity in the resulted in a slightly lower finance cost on the 2013 from 0.47 per cent in market resulted in a marginal decrease in IFC loan and other dollar denominated debt March 2012. Swap costs for the benchmark LIBOR interest rate. The of the Group. Given the views of the FOMC a 5 year interest rate swap FOMC is committed to maintaining low and the market, the Group did not enter into decreased to 0.95 per cent interest rates until long term stability is arrangements for fixing its interest rates from 1.24 per cent last year. achieved in employment and inflation. through swaps as it was believed that floating exchange rates would be more beneficial. Exchange rate The Rupee appreciated to The exchange rate policy in 2012/13 The depreciation of the Rupee in the first Rs.126.89 as at 31st March mainly focused on allowing greater half of the financial year had a positive 2013 against the US Dollar flexibility in the exchange rate and limiting impact on business generating dollar compared to Rs.127.85 the Central Bank’s intervention in the revenues streams. The Consumer Foods seen last year. However, market. The intervention of the Central and Office Automation businesses were during the financial year, the Bank during 2012 was limited only to negatively impacted from the depreciation exchange rate witnessed the extent needed to settle a portion of and proactive steps were taken to ensure some volatility, reaching petroleum import bills, mainly during the protection of margins. The Group focussed a low of Rs.133.75 in first few months of the year, while surplus on maintaining, or where relevant creating, a June 2012 and a high of foreign exchange liquidity in the market “natural hedge” through monitoring of cash Rs.125.45 in April 2012. was absorbed as and when appropriate. inflows and working capital to manage the volatility in the forex market. Note: AWPLR – Average weighted prime lending rate; CBSL – Central Bank of Sri Lanka; CF&R – Consumer Foods and Retail; FOMC – Federal open market committee; GDP – Gross domestic product; IFC – International Finance Corporation; LIBOR – London inter bank offer rate Management discussion and analysis Impact to financial statements As stated in the Introduction to the Report, measures of financial Following is a summary of the disclosures and the impacts to the performance and position for the period under review and the preceding financial statement from the adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards year are based on Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS). The (SLFRS/LKAS) reporting. financial performance of the Group with respect to the periods prior to 31st March 2012 has been derived based on the adaptation of previous version t $IBOHFJODPNQPTJUJPOPGUIF*ODPNF4UBUFNFOUXJUIUIFJODMVTJPO of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLAS). Unless stated otherwise, all prior of the new line item “Results from Operating Activities”. year elements of financial position are based on the previous version of Sri t 5IFTFHSFHBUJPOPGOFUGJOBODFDPTUJTTIPXOJOUIF*ODPNF Lanka Accounting Standards (SLAS). Statement as finance expense and finance income. The finance income includes interest income from the operations of Union IFRS convergence Assurance PLC relating to the life and general insurance fund. Under the directives of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of The related costs have been reflected elsewhere in the income Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka), the financial statements for 2012/13 are statement. reported under Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS) along with the re-statement of figures for 2011/12 for comparison purposes. t *OUSPEVDUJPOPGBi4UBUFNFOUPG$PNQSFIFOTJWF*ODPNFwXIJDI Annual Report 2012/13 l 71 PROGRESSIVE Consolidated Group Performance includes movement in currency translation of foreign operations, gains/losses on fair valuations of available for sale financial Carbon footprint and footprint in MT per Rs. million of revenue assets, share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted MT ('000) investments etc. Under the previous version of Sri Lanka Accounting 80 70 Standards (SLAS), transactions of similar nature were routed directly 1.29 60 through the statement of equity. 50 1.08 t 4SJ-BOLB DDPVOUJOH4UBOEBSET 4-'34-, 4 SFRVJSFTOPUFTPO 40 30 0.89 “First Time Adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/ 0.81 20 LKAS)”. This includes statements and policies on SLAS historical 10 figures reconciled under Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/ 0 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 LKAS). Note that the first day of transition is taken as 1st April 2011. Carbon footprint (MT) Carbon footprint (MT) per Rs. Mn of revenue t /FXOPUFTPOGJOBODJBMJOTUSVNFOUTBOEUIFJSFYQPTVSFUPNBSLFU risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. Earnings before interest and tax A more detailed disclosure on the transition adjustments from the During the year under review, the earnings before interest and tax previous version of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLAS) to Sri Lanka (EBIT) increased by 18 per cent to Rs.16.86 billion [2011/12: Rs.14.24 Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS) is found in the Notes to Financial billion]. In terms of the composition of EBIT, Leisure was the primary Statement section of the Annual Report. contributor with a 34 per cent contribution, followed by Transportation and CF&R with contributions of 22 per cent and 15 per cent Revenue respectively. Recurring EBIT, excluding the fair value gain on investment In the year under review, Group revenue increased by 10 per cent to property, increased by 14 per cent to Rs.14.62 billion [2011/12: Rs.85.56 billion [2011/12: Rs.77.69 billion] primarily due to increases Rs.12.82 billion]. in the contribution from Transportation, Leisure and Consumer Foods and Retail (CF&R). Revenue emanating from domestic sources was EBIT composition (percentage) Rs.73.15 billion [2011/12: Rs.67.02 billion]. Whilst growth opportunities 9% 1% 4% 2% in the region will continue to be explored, the primary focus of the Group 22% 14% 23% 11% would be to capitalise on the long term growth prospects in Sri Lanka. Group revenue, inclusive of associate company revenue, increased by 2012/13 2011/12 15% 20% 10 per cent to Rs.94.60 billion [2011/12: Rs.86.11 billion]. 34% 31% 7% 7% Revenue composition (percentage) Transportation Financial Services 4% 3% 7% 8% Leisure Information Technology 26% 28% Property Other 12% 11% Consumer Foods & Retail 2012/13 2011/12 With the exception of CF&R and Financial Services, all industry 26% 22% 26% 20% 3% 4% groups achieved growth in EBIT. Although CF&R recorded a fair value Transportation Financial Services gain on investment property of Rs.1.28 billion in the current year Leisure Information Technology [2011/12: Rs.1.11 billion], the Retail sector was negatively impacted Property Other by costs of streamlining operations, re-merchandising costs and outlet Consumer Foods & Retail refurbishment costs incurred during the year in pursuit of the long term vision for the business. In addition, Retail was further impacted In terms of generating revenue efficiently and in a sustainable manner, the by the one-off value added tax (VAT) on closing stocks as a result of carbon footprint of the Group increased marginally to 69,403 metric tons the imposition of VAT on retail businesses as discussed further in the [2011/12: 69,280 metric tons] compared to a revenue increase of 10 per Industry Group Analysis section of the Report. cent. The carbon foot print (MT) per million rupees of revenue reduced from 0.89 to 0.81 times, demonstrating the continuous improvement The gross margins of the Group improved to 23.9 per cent as against in the efficiency of generating revenue. Further details on the various 23.4 per cent in the previous year, reflecting the effectiveness of the sustainability initiatives across the Group can be found in the Environment measures to increase productivity despite pressures on costs. The Impact section of the Report. growth in gross profits was driven by Leisure due to increased revenue from City Hotels and from Property on account of revenue recognition 72 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information on account of improved operating efficiencies in the Ports and Shipping GROUP EBIT sector. The negative growth of EBIT in CF&R was primarily due to the oneRs. 16.86 bn off costs and VAT impact of Retail as discussed previously. The recurring EBIT margin of Consumer Foods remained broadly in line with last year. +18% The contraction in the EBIT margins of Financial Services was due to lower foreign exchange income received, increased pressure from the OnThree20 apartment complex. During the year under review, on margins due to the escalation in cost of funds and higher loan the combined administrative, distribution and other expenses were impairment charges in the Banking sector. Rising costs in the Insurance Rs.15.10 billion as against Rs.12.68 billion in the previous year, an sector and the subdued equity market performance in the Stock increase of 19 per cent. The increase in the combined expenses was Broking sector also contributed to the drop in EBIT margins. mainly as a result of increased administrative expenses in Financial Services relating to the allocation of UA life and general fund expenses EBIT margins (%) 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 as well as in Leisure. The Insurance sector incurred branch expansion Transportation 14.7% 14.1% 16.1% costs and charges relating to a life insurance actuarial support system Leisure 27.8% 25.5% 20.3% on gross premium valuations, while the increase in adminstrative expenses in the Leisure industry group was due to the commencement Property 39.9% 26.8% 34.1% of operations at Cinnamon Bey. Total energy costs increased by 13 Consumer Foods & Retail 10.5% 12.8% 3.7% per cent from the previous year as a result of additional operations in Financial Services 16.0% 19.6% 13.8% Leisure and the Retail sector. The Group is conscious of the need to Information Technology 5.7% 2.7% 2.9% continuously reduce its carbon foot print and continues to identify and Other 41.4% 19.0% 87.1% implement related initiatives. The increases in fuel prices and electricity Overall Group 17.8% 16.5% 16.4% tariffs have further amplified the need to optimise energy consumption across the Group. Total energy saved from heating, ventilation, air conditioning improvements and other energy saving initiatives during Finance income the year amount to approximately 1.24 million kWh. The finance income of the Group increased to Rs.4.77 billion [2011/12: Rs.2.87 billion]. The finance income includes interest income of Rs.2.66 billion relating to the operation of Union Assurance PLC’s life and general Group EBIT, EBITDA and EBIT margins funds, which net of related costs has been included under the Financial Rs. Mn Services operating segment results in Note 3.1 in the Notes to the 20,000 17.8% Financial Statements section of the Annual Report. The finance income 16.5% 15.3% 16.4% 16,000 13.6% relating to Union Assurance, net of related costs, is classified under 12,000 operating segment results on the basis that interest income from the insurance funds are considered as operational income. Finance income 8,000 increased on account of the growth in the life and general insurance 4,000 funds and the increase in interest rates which positively impacted the 0 cash reserves of the Group. Further details on finance income can be 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 found in Note 10 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. EBIT EBIT margin (%) Depreciation/amortisation Finance expenses Industry group EBIT margins The finance expense of the Group declined to Rs.1.08 billion [2011/12: The Group EBIT margin increased to 17.8 per cent from 16.5 per cent Rs.1.42 billion]. The re-stated SLFRS/LKAS adjusted figure for 2011/12 in the previous year, primarily due to an increase in gross profits and increased significantly due to the treatment of an exchange loss on the increase in the fair value gain on investment property referred to other operating income and the decrease in market value of quoted previously. Excluding the impact of the fair value gain, EBIT margins were investments held for sale. The decrease in finance expense is partly 15.5 per cent in 2012/13 as against 14.9 per cent in the previous year. attributable to the decrease in interest rates on dollar denominated debt and the benefit from “capped” interest rates on Rupee borrowings. Property recorded the highest growth in EBIT margins as a result of During the year the Government permitted eligible entities to open its revenue recognition cycle and its gain on fair value of investment foreign currency accounts and to hold foreign currency within these property, followed by Leisure which grew primarily on the performance of accounts. The Group, where possible, converted its Rupee borrowings City Hotels. Transportation recorded a marginal growth in EBIT margins Annual Report 2012/13 l 73 PROGRESSIVE Consolidated Group Performance to foreign currency to take advantage of the relatively lower cost of million respectively, contributing to the increase in PAT. The Group also borrowing to reduce the overall finance expense. Industry group-wise, recorded a capital gain of Rs.130 million from the disposal of Quatrro Leisure accounted for approximately 49 per cent of the total finance FPO solutions in IT and Rs.78 million from the disposals in the stakes expense, followed by Other, including Plantation Services and CF&R. of John Keells Logistics Lanka and John Keells Logistics India in Whilst finance expenses decreased compared to the previous year, total Transportation. Excluding the impacts of the non-recurring items, the debt increased marginally by 0.3 per cent to Rs.20.12 billion from the Group’s recurrent PAT would be Rs.11.36 billion for 2012/13 as against previous year. The interest cover of the Group increased to 15.6 times Rs.9.56 billion for 2011/12 – a growth of 19 per cent. from a re-stated 10.1 times due to the decrease in finance expenses. FY 2012/13 GROUP INTEREST COVER Rs. million Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Total 15.6 Times Revenue PBT 20,013 20,683 2,397 2,995 21,508 3,576 23,353 6,808 85,557 15,775 +55% Transportation 957 1,022 844 821 3,644 Leisure 648 945 1,335 2,275 5,203 Taxation Property 65 (258) 180 1,267 1,253 Group tax expense increased by 19 per cent to Rs.2.18 billion CF&R 393 288 186 1,555 2,421 Financial Services 257 323 734 463 1,777 [2011/12: Rs.1.84 billion]. Leisure, Financial Services and CF&R were IT 6 56 103 149 314 the largest contributors to the Group tax expense with Rs.433 million, Other 72 620 194 279 1,164 Rs.377 million and Rs.376 million respectively. The effective tax rate on Profit attributable Group profits reduced to 13.8 per cent in 2012/13 as against 14.4 per to shareholders 1,659 2,412 2,898 5,233 12,201 cent in the previous year. For further details on tax impacts of the Group, Total assets 132,617 138,804 139,240 159,118 159,118 refer the Notes to the Financial Statements section of the Annual Report. Total equity 81,216 83,559 85,125 101,185 101,185 Total debt 17,222 18,579 18,314 20,117 20,117 Finance expenses and interest coverage Rs. Mn 2,000 GROUP PAT Rs. 13.59 bn 15.6 1,600 14.4 1,200 10.1 +24% 800 5.8 4.7 400 0 Non-controlling interest 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Non-controlling interest (NI) increased to Rs.1.39 billion [2011/12: Finance expenses Interest cover Rs.1.29 billion] largely due to increased contribution to PAT from City Hotels where the minority holding is relatively higher. The NI share of PAT for 2012/13 is 10.2 per cent as against 11.8 per cent in the Profit after tax previous year. Group profit after taxation (PAT) increased by 24 per cent to Rs.13.59 billion [2011/12 Rs.10.98 billion], with all industry groups making Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent a positive contribution to PAT. Of the industry groups, Leisure and The profit attributable to equity holders of the parent increased by 26 Transportation were the highest contributors to PAT with contributions of per cent to Rs.12.20 billion [2011/12: Rs.9.69 billion]. All industry Rs.4.77 billion [2011/12: Rs.3.71 billion] and Rs.3.40 billion [2011/12: groups contributed positively to PAT with Leisure, Transportation and Rs.3.12 billion] respectively. CF&R contributing Rs.4.77 billion [2011/12: 3.71 billion], Rs.3.40 billion [Rs.3.12 billion] and Rs.2.05 billion [Rs.2.37 billion] respectively. During the financial year, fair value gains on investment property at CF&R, Property, Leisure, and Other including Plantation Services were The net profit margin of the Group increased to 15.9 per cent as against Rs.1.28 billion [2011/12: Rs.1.11 billion], Rs.440 million [2011/12: 14.1 per cent. Rs.207 million], Rs.289 million [2011/12: Rs.100 million] and Rs.8 74 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Return on capital employed and return on equity Profit attributable to equity holders and net profit ratio Rs. Mn EBIT Asset Assets/ 15,000 ROCE = X X 12.9% margin turnover (debt+equity) 11.8% 11.2% 12,000 2012/13 15.2% = 17.8% X 0.64 X 1.33 9.1% 9.0% 2011/12 15.6% 9,000 = 16.5% X 0.70 X 1.34 6,000 The Group return on capital employed (ROCE) decreased to 15.2 per 3,000 cent from the 15.6 per cent recorded in the previous year. Despite improvement in the Group EBIT margin, the reduction in ROCE was 0 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 mainly due to the drop in asset turnover, primarily from the Property Profit attributable to group Net profit % and CF&R industry groups. Property recorded a decrease in asset turnover ratio due to investments made in K-Zone, Ja-Ela. CF&R recorded a decrease in asset turnover as a result of increased Contribution to the Sri Lankan economy investments in the meat processing plant in Keells Food Products (KFP) The economic value statement depicts the generation of wealth and capacity enhancements at Ceylon Cold Stores (CCS). Group capital and its distribution among the stakeholders in all business/social employed increased by 21 per cent to Rs.121.30 billion as against activities throughout the entire value chain. It also reveals the amounts Rs.100.25 billion in the previous year as a result of investments in reinvested for the replacements of assets and retained for the growth Leisure, Property and CF&R, coupled with the revaluation of land and and development of operations. Further information pertaining to the buildings of hotel properties. Excluding the impact to capital employed economic value as per the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicator from the revaluation of land and buildings, the ROCE of the Group EC1 is available in the Economic section of the Annual Report. would be 16.0 per cent. For further details on each of the industry group’s ROCE refer to the Portfolio Movement and Evaluation and Industry Group Analysis sections of the Annual Report. Economic Value Statement for 2012/13 Industry group-wise ROCE comparison For the Year Ended 31 March 2013 2012 Rs. Mn Rs. Mn 21.9 Transportation 21.6 Direct Economic Value Generated 14.0 Revenue 85,557 77,689 Leisure 13.2 Finance income 4,770 2,874 11.2 Property 11.5 Share of results of equity-accounted investees 3,369 2,765 23.6 Consumer Foods & Retail Profit on sale of assets and other income 1,352 1,678 35.3 Change in fair value of investment property 2,012 1,414 22.9 Financial Services 28.5 97,060 86,420 15.3 Information Technology 8.7 Economic Value Distributed 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 Operating costs 65,745 60,391 ROCE % 2012/13 2011/12 Employee wages and benefits 9,507 8,091 Payments to providers of funds 5,452 4,276 The following graph illustrates the ROCE and capital employed of each Payments to government 3,910 3,595 industry group and their relative contribution to EBIT. Community investments 53 59 ROCE, Capital Employed and EBIT 84,667 76,412 size of bubble represents the relative contribution to EBIT in Rs. Mn Economic Value Retained ROCE (%) CF&R 30 Financial Services 2,537 Transportation Depreciation 2,250 1,863 1,777 3,690 25 Amortisation 925 771 20 IT 387 Profit after dividends 9,218 7,374 15 Leisure Property 5,730 12,393 10,008 10 1,265 5 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Capital employed Rs. Bn Annual Report 2012/13 l 75 PROGRESSIVE Consolidated Group Performance Transportation ROE = ROA X CEL* X CSL** Considering the high weightage towards transshipment volumes in 2012/13 15.1% = 9.3% X 0.90 X 1.82 Colombo, a possible fall in domestic trade volume is unlikely to hurt 2011/12 14.8% = 9.0% X 0.88 X 1.87 revenues materially, although margins may be affected in the year * CEL Common earnings leverage; ** CSL Capital structure leverage ahaed. The enhancement of the capacity of the Colombo Port with the commissioning of the South Terminal of the Colombo South Harbour is expected to increase traffic to the Port in the medium term, thereby The return on equity (ROE) of the Group increased to 15.1 per cent presenting an opportunity for the bunkering business. The commissioning as against 14.8 per cent in the previous year. The ROE increase of the new terminal during the second half of 2013 is expected to is attributable to the decrease in finance expense and also due to positively impact on overall volumes in to the Colombo Port in the long increased return on assets coupled with increased common earnings run. The strong relationships with existing shipping lines and the industry leverage. The common earnings leverage increased due to the high standard efficiencies in the Port operations will enable the Group to contribution of profits from Transportation and the Insurance sector minimise the impact on volumes as a result of the new terminal, and as where the Group’s direct holding is relatively higher. such transshipment volumes are unlikely to be significantly affected. ROE vs ROCE Leisure 15.6 The Leisure group will continue to build on Sri Lanka’s image as 15.1 15.2 a tourist and MICE destination, whilst being mindful of the price 15.1 competition within the region. The focus on penetrating emerging 14.7 14.8 tourism markets such as India, China and Russia is expected to drive 12.0 growth in Leisure. City Hotels are expected to perform well with 10.9 expected growth in business travel and the expected volumes arising 10.6 10.8 from some key MICE events. Despite political turmoil in the Maldives, the operations are expected to continue its growth momentum with a greater focus placed on newly emerging Chinese, Middle East and 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Russian market segments. ROE (%) ROCE (%) Property Property will focus on providing condominium units in premium Outlook locations in Colombo and the rental of commercial, retail and office The slower than expected pick up in domestic economic activities in the space. The downward trend in interest rates will improve consumer first quarter of 2013 prompted the CBSL to stimulate the economy via a confidence in the property market and improve the outlook on presecond round of gradual reduction in interest rates. The inflation outlook is selling units in “OnThree20” and the “7th Sense” Gregory’s Road expected to remain positive and hence the rate reduction by the CBSL is apartment complexes. expected to reduce inflation expectations and interest rates in the ensuing year. The trend of the reduction in trade deficits, supported by lower CF&R spending on oil imports on account of a reduction in global oil prices and The Beverage and Frozen Confectionery business will focus on higher hydro electricity generation in the country are likely to support the improving penetration in certain identified regions, thereby offsetting Rupee. However, significant foreign investments in Government securities any possible pressure on margins due to increased production costs have increased the level of volatility and exposure in the event these by achieving a higher dilution of fixed overheads. In addition, the investments are disposed of. The tariff revisions in key state enterprises significant investments in upgrading the beverage bottling plant, meat should result in a lower crowding out effect and thereby increase funding processing plant and enhanced dealer management systems are sources for the private sector. The anticipated reduction in interest rates expected to increase productivity and efficiency. Similarly, in the Retail is likely to improve consumer sentiment in the medium term, as long as sector the benefits through the implementation of the “way forward” there are no external shocks to the economy, although disposable income strategy as explained in the CF&R industry group review is expected of consumers are expected to be low throughout the ensuing year. The to enhance the shopping experience for customers as evident in the shortfall in Government revenue collection and the sustained balance of statistics of post refurbished outlets. Continued focus on the private payments gap are possible risks to an improved growth outlook. Following label range will ensure consumers are offered a wider choice while is a high level overview and discussion of possible impacts to our Retail will benefit from margin improvement. businesses, taking into account all things as equal, the impacts of macroeconomic factors, notwithstanding aspects such as competitive forces. 76 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Financial Services The Group’s Integrated Annual Report encapsulates the Group’s belief The level of under penetration and under insurance within the country that what is sustainable is not just the single minded dedication to indicates opportunity for significant growth prospects for life insurers. The profits, but rather the business practices required when having a Group has analysed the regulatory requirement to split the Life and General “Progressive” mindset and the social responsibility and governance businesses into separate companies by early February 2015. It has looked processes which are interwoven into its operating model and the at various options and scenarios in order to comply with this requirement communication of such to all its stakeholders. and is in the process of identifying the optimal outcome in order to take this initiative forward. The non-life segment is expected to remain price The Group has carried out the following initiatives covering the three competitive in the medium term with competition fuelled by new entrants pillars of sustainability as well as implementing systems and processes and existing participants trying to maintain market share. Nations Trust to enable integration of sustainability within the organisation: Bank is expected to expand on its delivery network and strategically t *NQMFNFOUBUJPOPGBOFOUFSQSJTFXJEFTVTUBJOBCJMJUZTZTUFNUP focus on increasing market share in the SME sector. John Keells Stock facilitate sustainability performance tracking Brokers (JKSB) will benefit from the upward trend in the equity market which is expected to remain buoyant on the strength of increased foreign t 5SBJOJOHBOEBXBSFOFTTXJUISFHBSEUPTVTUBJOBCJMJUZ investment flows and the downward revision of interest rates. t *OUSPEVDJOHJOJUJBUJWFTXJUISFHBSEUPFOFSHZBOEXBUFSDPOTFSWBUJPO  waste management and conservation of biodiversity IT The global economy is seeing early signs of a sustained recovery, t 5IFFYUFOTJPOPGUIF(SPVQT&MFBSOJOHQMBUGPSNUPNBLFUSBJOJOH thereby improving prospects for the outsourcing business. The more accessible and efficient. The average hours of training per investment in the back-end infrastructure of the BPO operations, employee has increased by 15 per cent during the year. coupled with the targeted focus on marketing and developing a strong t 5IF(SPVQXJMMBVHNFOUUIFSJTLSFWJFXQSPDFTTUPDBQUVSFUIFGVMM pipeline is expected to positively impact the BPO business. The stability spectrum of risk mitigation actions of the domestic exchange rate, increase in parallel imports and the t 5IF(SPVQDPNNFODFEDBSSZJOHPVUJOUFSOBMBTTFTTNFOUTPGJUTWBMVF growing presence of the second hand market are expected to increase chain to establish whether the Group’s significant suppliers are in competitive pressures for the Office Automation business. conformance with practices of human rights as stipulated by law Continuing with its sustainability journey, the Group plans to carry out “The Group’s Integrated Annual initiatives under the following key areas in the following year: Report encapsulates the Group’s belief t 5PDPNQMFNFOUUIFTZTUFNTBOEQSPDFTTFTJOQMBDFGPSJOUFSOBM that what is sustainable is not just the sustainability tracking, the Group will endeavor to establish global [QVOTMUQVLMLLMLQKI\QWV\WXZWÅ\[º benchmarks for its significant operations t 5IF(SPVQXJMMTFFLUPFYQBOEJUTSFBDIJOBTTFTTJOHBUMFBTU 30 significant suppliers with regard to human rights and labour practices While the discussion above highlights the potential impacts to the Group, t 5IF(SPVQXJMMFTUBCMJTIUIFUPUBMFYQFOEJUVSFJODVSSFEPO we continue to be positive on the long term prospects of the country and sustainability related initiatives and environmental conservation in the economy. The focus of the Group will be to continue our expansion in order to track and optimise such spending growth areas of the economy. Further details on the outlook and plans of each industry group can be found in the Industry Group Analysis section of t 5IF(SPVQXJMMBTTFTTUIFFOWJSPONFOUBMJNQBDUPGPQFSBUJPOBM the Report. activities not under the direct control of the Company Sustainability outlook Whilst sustainability is an integral part of our corporate actions, the The Group embarked on integrated reporting last year, reflecting Group will continue to focus on its social responsibility initiatives under its strong commitment to communicate its journey of sustainable the auspices of the John Keells Foundation. The key initiatives under development, encompassing strategic objectives and overall triple the agenda for 2013/14 will be focused on the areas of Education, bottom line performance. Health, Environment, Community and Livelihood Development, Disaster Management and Arts and Culture. For further details on the projects/ initiatives, refer to the Our Community section of the Annual Report. Annual Report 2012/13 l 77 PROGRESSIVE Capital Resources and Liquidity Summary of key financial position items Item 2013 2012 Change Change Explanatory Highlights for YoY Changes Rs. Mn Rs. Mn Rs. Mn % Property plant & 49,273 34,290 14,983 44 t EEJUJPOPG3TCJMMJPOEVFUPUIFDPNQMFUJPOPGUIFDPOTUSVDUJPOPG$JOOBNPO#FZ 3TNJMMJPO equipment for the refurbishment at Cinnamon Citadel and Rs.374 million for the soft refurbishment of Chaaya Island Dhonveli t EEJUJPOPG3TNJMMJPOBU$$4 JOWFTUNFOUJOUIFDPMESPPN GSFF[FST IBSEFOJOHUVOOFMFUD 3T million at KFP (acquistion of the meat processing plant) and Rs.445 million at JMSL (outlet expansion) t 3FWBMVBUJPOHBJOTPG3TCJMMJPOBU )1 3TNJMMJPOBU3)3TNJMMJPOBU+,3T million at THL, Rs.383 million at BHR, Rs.379 million at CCS, Rs.358 million at WBL and Rs.317 million at KWI t 5SBOTGFSPG*1BU5)-UP11&PG3TCJMMJPOEVSJOHUIFZFBS t *ODSFBTFPGGTFUCZEFQSFDJBUJPODIBSHFPG3TCJMMJPO Lease rentals paid in 9,514 10,278 (765) (7) t NPSUJTBUJPOPGMFBTFTPG%IPOWFMMJBOE&MBJEIPPBNPVOUJOHUP3TNJMMJPOBOEFYDIBOHFMPTTPO advance the conversion of lease values amounting to Rs.82 million Investment property 9,295 7,631 1,663 22 t 'BJSWBMVFHBJOPO*1PG3TCJMMJPOBU$$4 3TNJMMJJPOBU )1BOE3TNJMMJPOBU5)t EEJUJPOPG*1PG3TNJMMJPOBU+,1+B&MBBOE3TNJMMJPOBU#0$1t 0GGTFUCZUSBOTGFSPG*13TCJMMJPOUP11&BU5)-NFOUJPOFEBCPWF Intangible assets 2,690 2,633 56 2 t Increase of Rs.242 million on account of goodwill at KFP due to acquisition of the meat processing plant t 0GGTFUCZBNPSUJTBUJPOPGJOUBOHJCMFTBU6 BNPVOUJOHUP3TNJMMJPO Investments in 15,724 15,654 70 0 t TTPDJBUFDPNQBOZQSPýUTPG3TCJMMJPOPGGTFUCZEJWJEFOETPG3TCJMMJPO associates t *OWFTUNFOUPG3TNJMMJPOJO$JOOBNPO JS t 0GGTFUCZEJTQPTBMPG2'10XJUIOFUBTTFUTPG3TNJMMJPO Other non current 18,817 13,690 5,127 37 t 6 JODSFBTFJOOPODVSSFOUJOWFTUNFOUTCZ3TCJMMJPO financial assets t *ODSFBTFJO )'4WBMVBUJPOPG3TNJMMJPO Other non current 3,576 2,405 1,171 49 t EEJUJPOPG3TCJMMJPOQFSUBJOJOHUPUIFPOHPJOHBQBSUNFOUQSPKFDUTJOUIF1SPQFSUZHSPVQ assets t 0GGTFUCZ3TCJMMJPOPOBDDPVOUPGUIFUSBOTGFSUPDPTUPGTBMFTJOUIF1SPQFSUZHSPVQ Inventories 3,999 4,350 (351) (8) t -.4ESPQJOJOWFOUPSZBTBSFTVMUPGBSSJWBMPGDPOTJHONFOUPVUTJEFUIFOPSNBMJOWFOUPSZDZDMF t $$4 +.4-BOE+,0 JODSFBTFJOJOWFOUPSZEVFUPFYQBOTJPOBOEHSPXUIJOCVTJOFTTPQFSBUJPOT Trade and other 12,775 11,347 1,428 13 t 6 POBDDPVOUPGZFBSFOEQPMJDZSFOFXBMT receivables t +,-JODSFBTFJOUFBTFMMFSTBEWBODFT t )JHIFSPQFSBUJOHWPMVNFTBU$( +.4-BOE$$4 Short term 30,141 29,114 1,026 4 t *ODSFBTFJO+,)ýYFEBOEDBMMEFQPTJUTCZ3TCJMMJPO investments and t +,31JODSFBTFEVFUPUIFTIPSUUFSNJOWFTUNFOUTNBEFXJUIFYDFTTGVOETSFDFJWFEGSPNUIF cash in hand OnThree20 project t 0GGTFUCZBEFDSFBTFPG3TCJMMJPOJO6 EVFUPMPXFSBMMPDBUJPOPGGVOETUPTIPSUUFSNJOWFTUNFOUT Shareholders’ equity 89,819 71,338 18,482 26 t 1SPýUGPSUIFZFBSPG3TCJMMJPO TVSQMVTPOSFWBMVBUJPOPG3TCJMMJPOPGGTFUCZEJWJEFOETPG Rs.2.98 billion Insurance contract 17,388 14,711 2,678 18 t /FUJODSFBTFJO6 GVOETVOEFSUIFMJGFJOTVSBODFTFHNFOU liabilities Non current 11,858 12,221 (363) (3) t *ODSFBTFTJO,8*GPSUIFSFGVSCJTINFOUPG$JOOBNPO$JUBEFM #)3GPSUIFDPOTUSVDUJPOPG$JOOBNPO borrowings Bey, BOCPL for the repayment of the inter-company loans t 5IFJODSFBTFTXFSFPGGTFUCZUIFSFQBZNFOUPGUIF*'$MPBOBU+,)BOEPUIFSMPBOTBU.BMEJWJBO3FTPSUT Trade and other 14,608 14,875 (267) (2) t 1SJNBSJMZGSPN+.4-BOE6 POBDDPVOUPGJODSFBTFEPQFSBUJOHWPMVNFT payables t -.4MPXFSDSFEJUPSCBMBODFEVFUPUIFBSSJWBMPGDPOTJHONFOUNFOUJPOFEBCPWF Short term borrowings 1,854 1,009 845 84 t -.4EVFUPUIFJODSFBTFJOUIFTIPSUUFSNDSFEJUGBDJMJUJFTHJWFOCZUIFCBOLT Current portion of 3,049 2,477 572 23 t #)3MPBOTPCUBJOFEGPSUIFDPOTUSVDUJPOPG$JOOBNPO#FZ interest bearing borrowings Bank overdraft 3,356 4,347 (991) (23) t *ODSFBTFBU$( +.4-BOE+,-EVFUPIJHIFSXPSLJOHDBQJUBMSFRVJSFNFOUT t 0GGTFUCZEFDSFBTFJOCBOL0%CBMBODFTBTBUUIFZFBSFOEDPNQBSFEUPUIFQSFWJPVTZFBSBU-.4  JKMR, Chaaya Reef Elaidhoo and UA /PUF )'4o TTFUTIFMEGPSTBMF )1o TJBO)PUFMTBOE1SPQFSUJFT#)3o#FSVXFMB)PMJEBZ3FTPSUT#0$1-o#SJUJTI0WFSTFBT$PMPNCP1SJWBUF-JNJUFE$$4o$FZMPO$PME4UPSFT$( o$JOOBNPO(SBOE+,)+PIO,FFMMT)PMEJOHT+,-o+PIO,FFMMT1-$+,1o+PIO,FFMMT1SPQFSUJFT1SJWBUF-JNJUFE+,.3o+PIO,FFMMT.BMEJWJBO3FTPSUT+,31o+PIO,FFMMT3FTJEFOUJBM 1SPQFSUJFT+.4-o+BZ,BZ.BSLFUJOH4FSWJDFT-JNJUFE,'1o,FFMMT'PPE1SPEVDUT-.4o-BOLB.BSJOF4FSWJDFT2'10o2VBUUSP'104PMVUJPOT3)-o3FTPSU)PUFMT-JNJUFE5)-o 5SBOT TJB)PUFMT1-$6 o6OJPO TTVSBODF8#-o8IJUUBMM#PVTUFBE-JNJUFE 78 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Financial position structure Liquidity management Assets (Rs.million) Liabilities (Rs.million) Rs. Bn 60 16,774 25,499 50 15,698 33,244 24,468 32,434 40 15,216 32,048 19,449 11,366 29,788 19,012 50,313 30 8,863 23,648 42,143 7,608 20 37,918 10 38,144 44,568 58,787 89,819 71,338 59,585 0 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 110,290 134,458 159,118 159,118 134,458 110,290 Current assets Cash and short-term investments Current liabilities 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 Property, plant & equipment (PPE) and leasehold rentals paid in advance (LRPA) Shareholders' funds Non current assets excluding PPE and LRPA Non-controlling interests Inventories and receivables Non current liabilities Current assets excluding inventories and receivables Current liabilities Financial position structure Cash flow Total assets increased by Rs.24.66 billion to Rs.159.12 billion Cash and cash equivalents decreased by Rs.2.95 billion to Rs.16.86 [2011/12: Rs.134.46 billion] primarily due to increases in property, billion by the end of the year [2011/12: Rs.19.81 billion]. Net cash from plant and equipment (PPE), non-current financial assets, trade and other operating activities decreased to Rs.14.72 billion as against Rs.16.48 receivables and short term investments as described in the summary billion driven by a decrease in trade and other payables in the current table. year compared to a relatively larger increase in the previous year. Net cash used in investing activities was Rs.16.35 billion [2011/12: Non-current assets Rs.9.00 billion] with cash used for the purchase of PPE at Rs.5.17 billion Non-current assets of the Group were Rs.109.10 billion [2011/12: [2011/12: Rs.5.49 billion]. The capital expenditure was largely in the Rs.86.71 billion], an increase of Rs.22.39 billion. Non-current assets Leisure and CF&R industry groups. Net cash used in financing activities increased primarily as a result of increases in PPE and non-current was Rs.1.32 billion compared to Rs.496 million in the previous year. The financial assets. PPE primarily increased due to revaluation of land and increase in cash outflows in respect to financing activities was mainly buildings in the Leisure industry group. Additions made in the Leisure due to the increase in dividends and repayment of long term borrowings. industry group pertaining to the capitalisation of work-in-progress costs of Cinnamon Bey, refurbishment costs of Cinnamon Citadel and Chaaya Island Dhonveli coupled with investments in operational enhancements 2012/13 2011/12 at CF&R also contributed to the increase in PPE. The increase in non Current ratio (times) 2.0 2.0 current financial assets was driven by the increase in investments in Quick ratio (times) 1.8 1.8 the Insurance sector and increase in the long term investments of the Net working capital (Rs.million) 24,519 23,277 holding company. Asset turnover (times) 0.6 0.7 Capital employed (Rs.million) 121,302 100,255 Working capital Total debt (Rs.million) 20,117 20,054 Net working capital of the Group increased to Rs.24.52 billion [2011/12: Net debt (cash) (Rs.million) (8,223) (7,348) Rs.23.28 billion] due to an increase in current assets, arising from the Debt/equity ratio (%) 19.9 25.0 increases in trade and other receivables and short term investments. Net debt (cash)/equity ratio (%) (8.1) (9.2) Current liabilities increased by 4 per cent to Rs.25.50 billion driven by Long-term debt to total debt (%) 58.9 60.9 an increase in short term borrowings, partially offset by a reduction Debt/total assets (%) 12.6 14.9 in bank overdrafts. Although the overall working capital of the Group Debt/EBITDA (times) 1.0 1.2 increased in tandem with the growth in volumes, there was increased focus in identifying and managing working capital at an optimal level. The consumer related businesses continue to have material working capital requirements. Annual Report 2012/13 l 79 PROGRESSIVE Capital Resources and Liquidity Leverage and capital structure Capital structure Total assets of Rs.159.12 billion were funded by shareholders’ funds THE DEBT (57 per cent), non-controlling interests (7 per cent), long term creditors (20 per cent) and short term creditors (16 per cent). Thus, the long term to equity ratio of the Group was funding of assets at Rs.133.62 billion was 84 per cent of total assets. GROUP TOTAL ASSETS 19.9 per cent Rs.159.12 bn +18% much headroom considering the Group’s target net debt to equity ratio Debt of 50 per cent. Considering uncertainty of liquidity conditions in the The overall debt of the Group was Rs.20.12 billion, a marginal increase global and local market, it is considered prudent to continue maintaining from the Rs.20.05 billion in the previous year. The Leisure industry relatively lower leverage ratios at present. This does however present group and the holding company continue to have the largest share of an opportunity for the Group to leverage on the borrowing capacity of the overall debt. Considering the high local interest rate environment the Group to fund its next phase of growth. The debt to EBITDA cover and relaxation of certain exchange control regulations permitting marginally decreased to 1.0 times compared to 1.2 times in the last eligible firms to open and maintain foreign currency accounts, the year. Long term debt to total debt decreased to 58.9 per cent from 60.9 Group re-financed a portion of its Rupee borrowing portfolio in Leisure. per cent in the previous year mainly on account of repayment of long Accordingly, while total debt remained stable overall, the Group’s foreign term borrowings. funded proportion of debt increased. The Group continued to maintain sizeable Dollar denominated cash reserves to partially match its foreign Statement of changes in equity currency liabilities. Total equity increased by Rs.20.98 billion to Rs.101.19 billion [2011/12: Rs.80.20 billion]. The increase was primarily due to a profit contribution In terms of changes in debt composition during the year, main additions of Rs.13.59 billion, revaluation surplus of Rs.10.46 billion, offset by to debt was from Leisure and Property. Debt in Leisure increased on dividends paid of Rs.2.98 billion. account of borrowings to fund the completion of Cinnamon Bey and the refurbishment of Cinnamon Citadel. Debt in Property increased Treasury management on account of the completion of K-Zone, Ja-Ela and the ongoing Although there was no significant movement in the year on year LKR/ construction of OnThree20. The additional debt was offset by routine USD exchange rate as at 31st March 2013, the exchange rate volatility repayments of loans including a capital repayment of Rs.1.31 billion of during the year required the Group to adopt proactive measures to the IFC loan. manage the impacts arising from currency fluctuations. Businesses funded with US Dollar loans mitigated the impact through creation of The debt to equity ratio of the Group was 19.9 per cent as against 25.0 a “natural hedge” – where dollar denominated revenues were offset per cent in the previous year. The net debt (cash) to equity ratio was by creating dollar denominated liabilities, particularly in the Leisure (8.1) per cent as against (9.2) per cent in the previous year – leaving industry group. The Group has always been conscious of the need to match such liabilities with corresponding inflows in order to manage exposures, and hence will continue to evaluate such alternatives “The Group continued to maintain prudently. sizeable Dollar denominated cash The downward adjustment in interest rates since December 2012 reserves to partially match its foreign lowered the cost of Rupee finance in business units. In any event, of currency liabilities.” the total debt across the Group, approximately half is foreign currency denominated and therefore was not impacted by the reduction in Rupee 80 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information “JKH retained its AAA(lka) rating with a Stable outlook from Fitch Ratings Lanka Limited on account WN Q\[[\ZWVO[\I\MUMV\WN ÅVIVKQIT position and steady performance.” interest rates. The Group’s intentional strategy of maintaining floating dollar denominated debt facilities instead of entering into an interest rate swap has been justified to-date since LIBOR has continued to remain at low levels. A deeper analysis involving the impact to profit before tax of the Group as a result of interest rate changes of local and foreign borrowings can be found in the Notes to the Financial Statements section of the Report. The SLFRS/LKAS reporting requires disclosure on financial instruments and exposure relating to market risk, credit risk, and liquidity risks of the said instruments, details of which can be found in the Notes to the Financial Statements section of the Report. Credit facilities JKH retained its AAA(lka) rating with a Stable outlook from Fitch Ratings Lanka Limited on account of its strong statement of financial position and steady performance. In addition to its sizable cash reserves, the Group continues to have significant credit facilities available with Banks in Sri Lanka. The Company is looking to proactively manage potential funding requirements and will continue to have in place stand-by loan facilities where deemed necessary. The current cash position of the Group and the leverage ratios demonstrate its ability to leverage its statement of financial position further if a requirement arises. Annual Report 2012/13 l 81 PROGRESSIVE Portfolio Movement and Evaluation ROCE vs capital employed 2012/13 ROCE (%) 181.6 Hotel Management 181.6% 50 Destination Management 41.6% 40 Consumer Foods 29.6% Financial Services 22.9% 30 Plantation Services 22.6% Transportation 21.9% Information Technology 15.3% 20 City Hotels 16.7% Hurdle rate 15% Property 11.2% Maldivian Resorts 10.8% 10 SL Resorts 5.4% Retail (11.3%) 0 -10 -20 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Rs. billion Average capital employed At John Keells Holdings, portfolio management and evaluation continues Risk assessment Strategic business units are assessed for risk under to be one of the cornerstones of creating shareholder wealth. The Group headings such as customer orientation, suppliers/JV partner dependence, continues to follow its successful methodology in evaluating its portfolio, risk of international entrants, labour dependence, cyclicality, dependence which also helps guide its investment evaluation and strategies. on the Sri Lankan economy and regulatory dependence. Accordingly, the opportunities presented to the Group in varying Portfolio performance industries are reviewed through the four filters of portfolio evaluation Note: Comparative ROCEs of the industry groups / sectors for the which critically evaluate the investment or divestment decisions as financial year 2011/12 have been re-stated as per Sri Lanka Accounting explained below. Standards (SLFRS/LKAS) in order to provide a more accurate and comparable discussion. Financial Filter Growth Filter Strategic Fit Complexity Filter The Transportation industry group ROCE marginally improved to 21.9 per cent compared to 21.6 per cent achieved last year. The improvement Evaluates the long term competitive in ROCE was driven by an improvement in overall EBIT margins of the advantage of a business/ Considers factors industry group on the back of earnings growth of 19 per cent in the Ports Evaluates industry by closely such as senior Cornerstone of the industry evaluating the management and Shipping sector, where average EBIT margins are relatively higher. the decision attractiveness competitive forces, time and the risk criteria based on and growth specific industry to brand image the JKH hurdle potential based / business risks, and reputation in The Leisure industry group ROCE increased to 14.0 per cent compared rate on the industry ability to control conjunction with lifecycle value drivers and the anticipated to 13.2 per cent achieved during the previous year. The ROCE in Leisure the competencies returns and critical success was impacted as a result of the revaluation of land and buildings of factors inherent to hotel properties. Therefore, the ROCE of Leisure in the current year, the Group excluding the impacts of the revaluation, would have been 15.4 per cent. The Hotel Management sector ROCE continued to be the highest JKH’s hurdle rate (or required rate of return) Function of the ROCE given the service providing nature of the business, recording a weighted average cost of capital (WACC), derived from the Group’s cost ROCE of 181.6 per cent compared to the 143.6 per cent achieved in the of equity, cost of debt, target leverage, tax rates and the value creation previous year. City Hotels achieved a ROCE of 16.7 per cent compared premium required over and above the WACC. The present hurdle rate of to 13.9 per cent recorded last year, mainly on account of higher revenue the Group is 15 per cent. generation from its asset base and improved EBIT margins. The ROCE of Maldivian Resorts grew to 10.8 per cent from 9.6 per cent in the 82 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information previous year driven by the 21 per cent growth in revenue. The positive in the previous year. This is attributable to the reduction in EBIT due to contribution to the improvement of ROCE from the Hotel Management, the implementation of the new way forward strategy of the Retail sector City Hotels and Maldivian Resorts sectors were offset by the lower which resulted in the refurbishment of several outlets and the associated ROCE achieved by the Sri Lankan Resorts and Destination Management re-merchandising costs. Moreover, the non-provision of any transitional sectors as a result of a drop in EBIT margins. From a macro arrangements to claim the input VAT on the closing stock as at 31st perspective, these two sectors were negatively impacted by the market December 2012 also resulted in the Retail sector having a one-off fragmentation and the resultant growth in the informal sector. The ROCE impact on earnings. The capital employed in Retail also increased during of Sri Lankan Resorts was also negatively impacted by a significant the year with the opening of 4 new supermarket outlets resulting in a increase in capital employed as a result of the investment in Cinnamon negative impact on sector ROCE. Bey, the refurbishment of Cinnamon Citadel and the revaluation of land and buildings. The ROCE of the Financial Services industry group reduced to 22.9 per cent against 28.5 per cent recorded in the previous year. The reduction The ROCE of the Property industry group declined marginally to 11.2 in earnings and EBIT margins in the insurance and stock broking per cent compared to 11.5 per cent achieved in the previous year. EBIT businesses contributed to the lower ROCE coupled with the impact of growth and improvement in EBIT margins were driven by the increase in the increase in capital employed at Union Assurance as a result of the earnings from the OnThree20 project and also on account of an increase Rs.750 million rights issue. in the fair value gain on investment property to Rs.440 million compared with Rs.207 million in the previous year. This was more than offset by The ROCE of the Information Technology industry group improved to the increase in capital employed of the Property group as a result of the 15.3 per cent compared to 8.7 per cent recorded last year. Higher investment in K-Zone Ja-Ela amounting to approx. Rs.969 million. revenues achieved by all three sectors and the resultant growth in earnings had a direct impact on increasing the ROCE of the industry The Consumer Foods & Retail industry group saw a decrease in ROCE group which also demonstrated better asset utilisation in spite of an to 23.6 per cent from 35.3 per cent in the previous year. The Consumer increase in the capital employed. Foods ROCE declined to 29.6 per cent as against 42.2 per cent in the previous year. A marginal reduction in recurring EBIT coupled with the Plantation Services recorded a ROCE of 22.6 per cent against the ROCE increase in capital employed arising from capacity enhancement projects of 18.3 per cent achieved in the previous year as a result of higher such as the expansion of cold storage at CCS and the acquisition earnings achieved by both the tea brokering and tea manufacturing of the meat processing facility in Pannala by Keells Food Products businesses on the backdrop of higher tea prices recorded in the market contributed to the decrease in ROCE. The Retail sector ROCE was a due to supply issues prevalent in the region. negative 11.3 per cent compared to the 6.4 per cent ROCE achieved Portfolio movements Capital employed Rs. billion 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Transportation Leisure Property CF & R Financial Services IT Other Annual Report 2012/13 l 83 PROGRESSIVE Portfolio Movement and Evaluation Significant changes to the capital structure 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Investments Acquired a 24.6 per cent stake Acquired 5.6 million shares (14.9 Invested Rs.515 million by Invested Rs.1.02 billion in in Central Hospital (Pvt) Ltd for per cent) in Union Assurance PLC subscribing to the Ceylon Cold subscribing to the rights issue of Rs.900 million for Rs.841 million Stores PLC rights issue. A portion Keells Foods Products PLC. The of the proceeds was infused as proceeds were utilised to fund the equity into JayKay Marketing acquisition of the meat processing Services Limited to fund the plant of D & W Foods Limited. expansion of its supermarkets Gained full control of Mackinnons Invested Rs.600 million by International Tourist and Hoteliers Invested Rs.224 million in Saffron American Express Travel (Pvt) Ltd subscribing to the rights issue of Limited invested Rs.350 million in Aviation (Pvt) Ltd, the operating with the purchase of a 30 per cent its fully owned subsidiary Beruwala its fully owned subsidiary Beruwala company of the domestic aviation stake for Rs.14 million Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd for the Holiday Resorts (PVt) Ltd for the operation “Cinnamon Air” purpose of funding the construction purpose of funding the construction of Chaaya Bey of Cinnamon Bey Beruwala Additional equity infusion of Rs.40 Purchase of shares in John Keells Invested Rs.522 million for the The JKH Group invested Rs.717 million to John Keells Logistics Residential Properties for Rs.925 acquisition of a 6 acre land in million in the rights issue of Union Lanka (Pvt) Ltd million in exchange for the Union Ja-Ela Assurance PLC Place land Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd Invested Rs.219.4 million to Invested Rs.228 million in Sancity Invested Rs.97.52 million during purchased a 4.6 acre block of land convert Nations Trust Bank Hotels, a joint venture project with the year in Sancity Hotels, a joint for Rs.232 million warrants to shares Sanken Lanka (Private) Limited venture with Sanken Lanka (Private) to construct a business hotel in Limited to construct a business Colombo hotel in Colombo Invested Rs.251.6 million to Additional equity infusion of Rs.65 The JKH Group invested Rs.119 convert NTB warrants to shares. million to John Keells Logistics million in K-Zone Ja-Ela, a retail Lanka (Pvt) Ltd mall operation Subscribed to 195 million shares Invested Rs.947 million by Invested Rs.1.29 billion for the from the John Keells Hotels PLC participating in a rights issue of its balance construction of Cinnamon rights issue investing Rs.1.95 subsidiary International Tourists and Bey billion Hoteliers Ltd Purchased the head lease of Invested Rs.467 million during Dhonveli Island for a period of 18 the year for the refurbishment of years Cinnamon Citadel Invested Rs.485 million by participating in a rights issue of its subsidiary Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd. Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd in turn invested Rs.485 million in Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd for the refurbishment of Coral Gardens Hotel Mergers and Walkers Air Services Ltd was restructuring amalgamated with Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd with the surviving entity being Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd Stake in Information Systems Associates divested to John Keells Computer Services for Rs.47 million Trinco Holiday Resorts purchased the Club Oceanic hotel for a net consideration of Rs.301 million Divestments Sold 150 million shares from the Divested 11.62 million shares Disposed of the 44 per cent holding John Keells Hotels PLC 1:3 rights (5.25 per cent) of Asian Hotels and in Quattro FPO Solutions (Pvt) Ltd for issue for Rs.751 million Properties PLC for Rs.1.98 billion a consideration of USD 4.5 million Divested remaining 26 per cent Divested 37.5 million shares (2.58 Divested a 40 per cent stake in stake in KBSL for Rs.23 million per cent) of John Keells Hotels PLC John Keells Logistics Lanka Limited for Rs.787.5 million and a 60 per cent stake in John Keells Logistics India to Norbert Dentrassangle Overseas Divested the head lease of Alidhoo Island in Maldives Changes in Repayment of Rs.2 billion of JKH capital excluding debentures scheduled debt repayments 84 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Industry Group Analysis Industry group financial highlights REVENUE* Rs. billion 4% 8% 3% 6% 4% 7% 26% 26% LEISURE 27% FIN SER OTHER 11% PROP CF&R 12% 14% TRP IT 2013 2012 2011 2012/13 25.11 20.59 3.17 24.27 11.11 6.80 3.55 26% 22% 26% 20% 26% 20% 2011/12 23.65 17.42 3.79 21.97 9.87 6.72 2.68 3% 4% 4% 2010/11 18.31 13.81 2.49 18.36 9.50 4.23 3.12 EBIT Rs. billion 9% 1% 4% 2% 22% LEISURE FIN SER 14% 23% 24% 26% PROP CF&R OTHER 11% TRP IT 2013 2012 1% 2011 20% 2012/13 3.69 5.73 1.27 2.54 1.78 0.39 1.47 15% 11% 2011/12 3.33 4.44 1.02 2.82 1.93 0.18 0.51 8% 34% 31% 6% 25% 7% 7% 2010/11 2.94 2.80 0.85 0.68 1.31 0.12 2.72 CAPITAL EMPLOYED** Rs. billion 14% 19% 18% 17% 17% 17% TRP LEISURE PROP CF&R FIN SER OTHER 2% 2% IT 2% 7% 8% 7% 2013 2012 2011 2012/13 17.09 45.04 12.61 12.51 8.30 2.60 23.14 10% 9% 9% 37% 37% 2011/12 16.64 36.72 9.95 9.04 7.19 2.46 18.26 10% 9% 38% 10% 2010/11 14.17 30.69 7.73 6.97 6.39 1.77 14.10 TOTAL ASSETS Rs. billion 16% 12% 15% 15% 14% 15% LEISURE FIN SER 2% OTHER 3% PROP CF&R 2% TRP IT 2013 2012 22% 2011 20% 20% 31% 2012/13 19.23 49.93 12.69 17.30 31.51 3.72 24.87 31% 31% 2011/12 20.18 41.28 10.35 12.67 26.92 3.37 19.69 11% 8% 9% 9% 8% 8% 2010/11 16.19 33.71 8.67 10.26 23.96 2.42 15.09 EMPLOYEES Number 5% 5% 5% 9% 9% 10% LEISURE FIN SER OTHER 10% 9% PROP CF&R 9% TRP IT 9% 39% 11% 40% 10% 2013 2012 2011 2012/13 636 5,272 103 3,415 1,401 1,267 1,130 41% 2011/12 594 4,843 99 3,147 1,047 1,114 1,112 26% 26% 1% 27% 1% 1% 2010/11 572 4,459 99 3,029 1,121 979 1,130 CARBON FOOTPRINT MT 2% 6% 2% 2% 5% 1% 1% 6% 2% 2% 2% TRP LEISURE PROP CF&R FIN SER OTHER IT 2013 36% 2012 33% 2011 2012/13 1,716 36,035 96 24,504 1,676 1,343 4,034 35% 52% 51% 53% 2011/12 975 35,165 1,449 24,936 1,610 1,406 3,743 4% 2% 2010/11 319 34,926 2,407 21,938 1,412 614 3,907 TRP Transportation * Revenue is inclusive of the Group’s share of associate company revenue LEISURE Leisure PROP Property 'PSBTTPDJBUFDPNQBOJFT UIFDBQJUBMFNQMPZFEJTSFQSFTFOUBUJWFPGUIF CF&R Consumer Foods & Retail Group’s equity investment in these companies FIN SER Financial Services IT Information Technology OTHER Others, including Plantation Services Annual Report 2012/13 l 85 PROGRESSIVE TRANSPORTATION Ports & Shipping Transportation Vision and scope The vision of the transportation industry group of the Group is to be recognised as a leading provider of transportation solutions and related services through a diversified portfolio of businesses in selected markets. These operations comprise of South Asia Gateway Terminals (SAGT) in the port of Colombo, a marine bunkering business, joint venture / associations with leading shipping and air transportation multinationals and logistics, travel and airline services in Sri Lanka, India and Maldives. Key indicators Contribution to JKH Group (Rs. Million) 2012/13 2011/12 Chg % 2010/11 26% 22% 14% 1 Revenue 25,113 23,651 6 18,314 EBIT 3,690 3,329 11 2,941 PBT 3,644 3,315 10 2,929 PAT 3,397 3,120 9 2,781 Total assets 19,233 20,179 (5) 16,185 REVENUE EBIT CAPITAL EMPLOYED Total equity 15,139 15,149 0 13,954 2% Total debt 1,953 1,491 31 218 Capital employed2 17,092 16,641 3 14,172 Employees (Number)3 636 594 7 572 EBIT per employee3 5.8 5.6 4 5.1 Carbon footprint (MT)4 1,716 975 76 N/A 88 kg 1 Revenue is inclusive of the Group’s share of associate company revenue per Rs. Mn revenue  'PSBTTPDJBUFDPNQBOJFTUIFDBQJUBMFNQMPZFEJTSFQSFTFOUBUJWFPGUIF(SPVQTFRVJUZJOWFTUNFOUJOUIFTF CARBON FOOTPRINT companies 3 No. of employees and EBIT per employee are excluding the employees of associate companies  $BSCPOGPPUQSJOUJTDBMDVMBUFEFYDMVEJOHBTTPDJBUFDPNQBOJFTBOE%)-,FFMMT 1SJWBUF -UE Ports and Shipping Transportation Business scope of the sector Operation of a private container terminal in the port Logistics services which include operations of DHL of Colombo on a BOT basis under South Asia Gateway Express in Sri Lanka, a joint venture with Deutsche Post, Terminals third party logistics and freight forwarding solutions under the John Keells Logistics brand and in JV with Norbert Dentressangle Overseas (NDO) of France and bunkering services under Lanka Marine Services (LMS) Associate stake in Maersk Lanka Representation of airlines as general sales agents through Mack Air in Sri Lanka and through its subsidiary in Maldives on-line operations by Jet Airways and offline representation of a number of other airlines. Travel agency business through Mackinnons Travels Revenue and growth Rs.5.66 billion, growth of 8% Rs.19.45 billion, growth of 6% EBIT & growth Rs.2.51 billion, growth of 19% Rs.1.18 billion, decrease of 3% Carbon footprint Not within the boundary of sustainability reporting 1,716 MT Key developments during t 5XPOFXMZJOTUBMMFETIJQUPTIPSFDSBOFTXFSFGVMMZ t -.4TJHOFEBUFSNDPOUSBDUXJUI$BJSO&OFSHZUP the year operational by May 2012 supply bunkers for their vessels t HMPCBMGSFJHIUGPSXBSEJOHOFUXPSLo/PSCFSU%FOUSFTTBOHMF acquired a 40 per cent stake in John Keells Logistics Lanka and a 60 per cent stake in John Keells Logistics India t &OUFSFEJOUPB+7XJUI..#--FJTVSF)PMEJOHT and Phoenix Ventures to set up a domestic air taxi operation branded “Cinnamon Air” Key external/internal t 4MPXEPXOJOUSBOTTIJQNFOUWPMVNFTEVFUPUIF t 8FBLFSHMPCBMEFNBOEGPSCVOLFSTBTBSFTVMUPGUIF variables effecting the global economic slowdown and domestic volumes on impact of “slow steaming” adopted by major shipping business account of lower import/export activity in the country lines to save costs in the backdrop of the economic slowdown in developed countries and the resultant overcapacity in shipping t 7PMBUJMJUZJOJOUFSOBUJPOBMPJMQSJDFT 86 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Cinnamon Air will commence scheduled and charter domestic air taxi services Integrated operational review and discussion the Indian tax regulations allowing suppliers to outsourced model for a majority of its fleet, During the year under review, SAGT handled 1.88 sell bunkers at prices close to that of Singapore resulting in a more flexible and scaleable cost million twenty foot equivalent units (TEUs) with in certain ports. structure as well as enhanced engagement with transshipment volumes contributing 81.8 per the community in proximity to its warehousing cent of the total volume. SAGT witnessed a slight During the year, John Keells Logistics Limited facilities. contraction in both transshipment and domestic (JKLL) benefited from the expansion of demand volumes due to the relatively depressed global for third party logistics (3PL) due to the opening The freight forwarding businesses in Sri Lanka economic conditions and the resultant slowdown in up of new industrial zones. JKLL contracted a and India entered into a joint venture with exports coupled with a decline in import volumes state-of-the-art multi user facility with a view to an European transport, logistics, and freight due to the impacts as a result of domestic monetary showcase the facilities at hand and attract new forwarding company Norbert Dentressangle and fiscal policies. However, the implementation of customers. Investments in material handling Overseas, disposing a 40 per cent stake in John efficiency improvement and cost saving initiatives equipment and the streamlining of its existing Keells Logistics Lanka Limited and a 60 per cent had a positive impact on the overall financial processes resulted in improved operational stake in John Keells Logistics India limited (JKLI). performance of SAGT in the current year. efficiencies. The logistics business follows an As per the share sale and purchase agreement, the remaining stake of 40 per cent in JKLI will The bunkering business maintained market be disposed in two tranches of 20 per cent each leadership despite certain challenges in the on pre-agreed criteria. The new partnership is bunker market arising from the slowdown of the geared to offer world-class freight forwarding global economy. The appreciation of the Rupee and integrated logistics solutions to customers against the US Dollar during the year had a and to exploit new opportunities in Sri Lanka. moderating impact on profitability. Furthermore, there was continued pressure on margins from JKLL contracted a new warehouse facility with The performance of the Airlines segment was not the Indian ports due to the positive changes in the intention of increasing its client base in line with expectations. The airline representation Annual Report 2012/13 l 87 PROGRESSIVE TRANSPORTATION business faced increased pressures stemming from the global economic EBIT slowdown, which forced many airlines to review the necessity of operating to and from Sri Lanka. Withdrawal of Gulf Air services from the Sri Lankan 32% 68% market and the reduction of frequencies to India by Jet Airways had a 2012/13 negative impact on the performance during the year under review. The 36% 64% travel agency business saw increased competition which led to downward 2011/12 pressure on margins. The travel agency business secured several industry 27% 73% awards including “Top Travel Agent” awards from many airlines including 2010/11 Singapore Airlines, Malaysian Airlines and Thai Airways. 0 20 40 60 80 100 A joint venture to provide a domestic air taxi service offering scheduled and Ports & Shipping Transportation charter services under the “Cinnamon Air” brand was established during the financial year under review. The company acquired 2 Cessna 208 Amphibian Caravan aircraft and was scheduled to commence commercial operations Return on capital employed in April 2013. However, the start-up has been delayed due to a delay in t 30$&XBTQFSDFOUBTBHBJOTUQFSDFOUJOUIFQSFWJPVTZFBS obtaining regulatory approvals. t TTFUVUJMJTBUJPOEFDMJOFEUPUJNFTBTBHBJOTUUJNFTJOUIF previous year The Transportation group, excluding SAGT and DHL as these companies t &#*5NBSHJOTJNQSPWFEGSPNQFSDFOUUPQFSDFOU NBJOMZ are beyond the sustainability reporting boundaries of the Group, had on account of efficiency improvements in the Ports and Shipping a total carbon emission of 1,716 MT, amounting to 2.5 per cent of sector. This, to a large extent, offset the negative impact of lower the Group’s carbon foot print. This represents a carbon footprint of asset utilisation on ROCE 12.1 kg per square foot managed as opposed to a comparable figure of 6.87 kg in the previous year. The increase compared to last year is mainly attributed to the expansion of the industry group’s sustainability ROCE reporting boundary to include the leased transportation fleet for DHL FY 12/13 : 21.9% FY 11/12 : 21.6% by JKLL and the allocation of carbon emissions of the office buildings occupied by the Transportation industry group which belong to the Property industry group. During the year, no occupational injuries were reported. Transportation provided 23.5 hours of training per employee. Assets/(debt+equity) Assets turnover EBIT margin 1.17 1.27 14.7% Financial review The revenue from the Transportation group witnessed an overall growth of 6 per cent during the financial year to Rs.19.45 billion [2011/12: Outlook Rs.18.43 billion]. Revenue, including associate company revenues, The South Terminal of the Colombo South Harbour is expected to be increased by 6 per cent to Rs.25.11 billion [2011/12: Rs.23.65 billion]. commissioned in July 2013 and this will lead to increased competition The EBIT for the industry group increased to Rs.3.69 billion [2011/12: in the shorter term, although the continued focus on efficiency and Rs.3.33 billion] driven by the Ports and Shipping operations, which saw productivity improvement coupled with long term relationships with key an improvement in its performance despite the volatility of the US Dollar, shipping lines will help SAGT to maintain its client base. In the medium which had an impact on the Dollar denominated assets and income and longer term, the expansion of the Colombo Port augurs well for the streams of the business. country and will enable the Port to attract the larger new generation vessels which will have a positive overall impact on volumes. Revenue 23% 77% The bunkering business is likely to be faced with little or negative 2012/13 growth in the context of reduced demand, unless there is a tangible 22% 78% pick-up in east-west trade, which is not anticipated in the year ahead. 2011/12 The 3PL business is likely to grow in the short to medium term, both on the back of an increasing need for greater supply chain efficiency 27% 73% locally and the potential for setting up regional distribution centres 2010/11 driven by the growth in port capacity. 0 20 40 60 80 100 Ports & Shipping Transportation 88 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information LEISURE City Hotels Destination Management Sri Lankan Resorts Hotel Management Maldivian Resorts “Cinnamon Bey Beruwala” commenced operations during the financial year under review Vision and scope Representing JKH’s single largest net asset exposure, the Leisure industry group encompasses two city hotels that offer approximately 35 per cent of the current five star room capacity in Colombo, eight resort hotels spread in prime tourist locations across Sri Lanka and three resorts in the Maldives, offering beaches, mountains, wildlife and cultural splendor under the two brands “Cinnamon Hotels and Resorts” and “Chaaya Hotels and Resorts”. The Leisure industry group also has a destination management business in Sri Lanka and India. Key indicators Contribution to JKH Group (Rs. Million) 2012/13 2011/12 Chg % 2010/11 22% 37% 34% Revenue 20,593 17,415 18 13,810 EBIT 5,730 4,442 29 2,799 PBT 5,203 4,171 25 2,492 PAT 4,770 3,707 29 2,319 Total assets 49,795 41,275 21 33,711 REVENUE EBIT CAPITAL EMPLOYED Total equity 37,606 28,642 31 25,317 Total debt 7,435 8,077 (8) 5,377 Capital employed1 45,041 36,718 23 30,694 Employees (Number)2 5,272 4,843 9 4,459 52% EBIT per employee2 1.1 0.92 18 0.6 Carbon footprint (MT)3 36,035 35,161 2 N/A 1,750 kg  'PSBTTPDJBUFDPNQBOJFTUIFDBQJUBMFNQMPZFEJTSFQSFTFOUBUJWFPGUIF(SPVQTFRVJUZJOWFTUNFOUJOUIFTF per Rs. Mn revenue companies CARBON FOOTPRINT 2 No. of employees and EBIT per employee are excluding the employees of associate companies 3 Carbon footprint is calculated excluding associate companies Annual Report 2012/13 l 89 PROGRESSIVE LEISURE City Hotels Sri Lankan Resorts Maldivian Resorts Destination Management Business scope of Cinnamon Grand (CG) 8 resort hotels in Sri 3 resort hotels in the Maldives – 340 Walkers Tours & Whittal the sector – 501 rooms Lanka – 1,000 rooms rooms Boustead inbound tour operations in Sri Lanka Cinnamon Lakeside Inbound tour operations in India (CLS) – 340 rooms Revenue and growth Rs.7.17 billion, Rs.3.31 billion, growth Rs.5.51 billion, growth of 21% Rs.4.59 billion, no growth growth of 20% of 43% EBIT and growth Rs.2.93 billion, Rs.590 million, growth Rs.1.23 billion, growth of 12% Rs.354 million, decline of 12% growth 52% of 1% Carbon footprint 17,707 MT 10,397 MT 7,126 MT 551 MT Key developments t *ODSFBTFEGPDVTPO t -BVODIFE$JOOBNPO t -BVODIFEUIF8BMLFST(SFFO during the year web bookings Bey, the latest five star initiative to introduce a fully t $POTUSVDUJPOPGUIF resort in the portfolio carbon neutral vehicle fleet 240 room business t$IBBZB$JUBEFMXBTSF t HHSFTTJWFNBSLFUJOH hotel in Colombo is branded as “Cinnamon strategy in relatively new on schedule Citadel” following a sixmarkets to capture market month refurbishment share t *ODSFBTFEGPDVTPOXFC bookings Key external/internal t 7PMBUJMJUZPGUIF t 7PMBUJMJUZPGUIF3VQFF t )JHIEFNBOEGPSCVEHFUSFTPSUT t 7PMBUJMJUZPGUIF3VQFF variables impacting Rupee t *ODSFBTFJOFMFDUSJDJUZ offering “all inclusive” packages t &YQPOFOUJBMHSPXUIJOUIF the business t *ODSFBTFJO tariffs and fuel prices t 6OTUBCMFQPMJUJDBMFOWJSPONFOU informal sector electricity tariffs t &YQBOTJPOPGJOGPSNBM t 5IFJODSFBTFPG(PPETBOE t 6OEFSQFSGPSNBODFPGUIF and fuel prices and unclassified sector services tax from 6% to 8% as of European markets due to the t 4IJGUJODPNQFUJUJWF t *ODSFBTJOHJOUFSFTUSBUFT 1st January 2013 weak global economy landscape with the t 0QFOJOHPGUXPTUBSSFTPSUT expected entry of which are in direct competition global hospitality with Dhonveli and Ellaidhoo brands t 4FSWJDFDIBSHFXBTJODSFBTFE from 2.5% to 5% of room revenue with effect from 1st July 2012 Hotel Management sector cent to reach a milestone figure of 1,005,605 growth momentum, albeit off relatively lower In addition to the sectors referred to in the [2011: 855,975]. Western Europe, the single bases. above table, the Hotel Management sector, largest source market for tourism into Sri which includes Keells Hotel Management Lanka showed encouraging growth of 18 per The growing attractiveness of Colombo as Services Limited (KHMS), functions as the cent while South Asia, the second largest a popular destination for MICE (Meetings, hotel management arm of the Leisure industry contributor to arrivals grew marginally by 4 per Incentives, Conferencing and Exhibitions) and group. The sector achieved an EBIT of Rs.632 cent to 247,559 arrivals. The newly emerging flight crew segments had a positive impact on million which is a growth of 47 per cent over tourism markets of East Asia (132,730) and the revenue of the City Hotels sector while the the previous year. The portfolio of hotels under Eastern Europe (72,401) demonstrated strong depreciation of the Rupee during the first half management increased during the year with of the financial year boosted revenues. The the addition of Cinnamon Bey Beruwala. The closure of a competing five star hotel during carbon footprint of the sector is 253 MT. the year for refurbishment purposes also had a positive impact on both City Hotels, although Integrated operational review and the main beneficiaries were competing hotels discussion catering to a similar clientele. During the calendar year 2012, Sri Lanka’s tourism industry reported earnings of USD Introduced a fully carbon neutral vehicle Cinnamon Grand completed a successful 1.04 billion as tourist arrivals grew by 17 per fleet under the “Walkers Green” initiative financial year and continued to outperform 90 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information competition and gain market share with improvements in occupancy and average room “The focus of the Leisure group will be primarily rates. The hotel placed greater emphasis on web bookings and tied up with several online on training and developing our human resources in travel agents as well as initiated a consortia agreement to tap into the global corporate order to improve productivity and enhance service travel market. In pursuit of the continuous drive delivery.” to achieve service excellence and enhance customer satisfaction, 71 key service staff members were trained overseas through the Emirates Academy of Hospitality in Dubai. Sri Lankan Resorts successfully controlled utility costs through various cost saving SRI LANKAN resorts During the year, Cinnamon Grand implemented several initiatives to manage power, energy initiatives such as the recycling of 31 per cent successfully and water costs with a view to reducing its of waste water for use in gardening and other carbon footprint, and in the process, improving purposes. As a result of increased operations controlled its margins. These initiatives resulted in an with the opening of Cinnamon Bey in overall energy saving of 620,532 kWh per November 2012, the total electricity consumed annum, with water savings of 53,500 cubic meters for year under review. and generated during the year increased by only 26 per cent to 14.5 million kWh. utility costs Cinnamon Lakeside continued to grow, driven Cinnamon Citadel Kandy, formerly known as by increases in room and food and beverage Chaaya Citadel was re-branded following an revenue. The hotel rolled out various initiatives extensive six-month refurbishment at a total to improve efficiencies and lower its cost base. investment of approximately Rs.525 million. traditional market such as Europe. Chinese These measures resulted in an annual energy arrivals increased by 16 per cent to 229,551 saving of 77,261 kWh. Cinnamon Lakeside was With continued commitment to its sustainability arrivals as against 198,655 arrivals in 2011. The awarded the Best Luxury Hotel in Sri Lanka at initiatives, two new bio gas digester units bed capacity in the Maldives increased with the the Business Destination Travel Awards 2012. were installed at Cinnamon Lodge Habarana opening of two new four star resorts. and Cinnamon Citadel Kandy in an effort to Construction of the 240 room, select service manage carbon emissions. Sri Lankan Resorts During the year, the Maldivian Resorts business hotel in partnership with Sanken continued to locally procure all its fresh benefited from its focused advertising Lanka (Private) Limited is on schedule and is produce such as fruits, vegetables, fish, meats campaign and continued commitment to expected to commence operations during the and eggs, to a value over Rs.100 million, improving productivity and efficiency of second quarter of the financial year 2014/15. thereby contributing to the upliftment of the operations. Towards this end, several energy At present, John Keells Holdings PLC has local economy of those communities. saving initiatives were implemented, including invested Rs.325 million for a 27.8 per cent the introduction of the energy recovery stake in the hotel. During the 2012 calendar year, 958,027 tourists technology at Chaaya Island Dhonveli resulting visited Maldives, a growth of only 3 per cent in a total energy saving of 120,450 kWh per The Sri Lankan Resorts sector continued its compared to the previous year [2011: 931,333]. annum. However, the upward revision of the strategy of focusing on non-traditional, emerging The slowdown in growth is mainly attributable goods and services tax to 8 per cent from 6 destinations with specific, targeted promotions to to the unstable political environment within the per cent and the increase in service charge to the Indian and Chinese markets. These strategies country and the economic downturn in a key 5 per cent from 2.5 per cent of room revenue will in the long run help overcome the impact had a negative impact on profits. of intense competition from the expanding and price competitive informal sector. Reinforcing the commitment to maintain FOREIGN ARRIVALS TO excellent service standards, the Maldivian Cinnamon Bey Beruwala, a 200 room five star SRI LANKA 2012 Resorts sector was awarded the gold medal 1,005,605 hotel located on the Southern coast of Sri for customer satisfaction for the year 2012 by Lanka commenced operations in November TUI, the parent company of many leading tour 2012. The total investment in the hotel was operators. Rs.3.30 billion. +17% Annual Report 2012/13 l 91 PROGRESSIVE LEISURE Financial review LEISURE INDUSTRY GROUP The Leisure industry group maintained its strong performance during REVENUE the year and witnessed an overall revenue growth of 18 per cent to Rs. 20.59 bn Rs.20.59 billion [2011/12: Rs.17.42 billion] with the City Hotels, Sri Lankan Resorts and Maldivian Resorts sectors recording growth rates +18% of 20 per cent, 43 per cent and 21 per cent respectively. Revenues of the Destination Management sector remained static due to the reasons discussed before. The Destination Management sector faced challenging market conditions, despite the growth in tourist arrivals, as a result of the EBIT grew by 29 per cent to Rs.5.73 billion [2011/12: Rs.4.44 billion] proliferation of the informal sector and the lack of charter flights into driven by the increase in revenues and margins as a result of the cost Sri Lanka. The continuing economic concerns in Europe resulted in saving initiatives. EBIT was also positively impacted by the fair value some leading tour operator partners recording negative growth. The gain of approximately Rs.289 million arising from the revaluation of business adopted a marketing strategy that focused heavily on China investment property of Cinnamon Lakeside and Cinnamon Grand. as well as emerging markets such as Turkey and Scandinavia. The Destination Management sector also initiated its strategy of offering The appreciation of the Rupee during the latter part of the year novel products through the launch of its “Green vehicle” fleet and negatively impacted the winter revenues. However, this was negated facilitated a local entrepreneur to build an eight room facility in Digana to an extent by the increase in average room rates. The finance costs to kick start its “Live like a local” experience. of Sri Lankan Resorts increased primarily as a result of the overall increase in Rupee denominated debt used to fund the construction and As a part of its community engagement initiatives, Walkers Tours refurbishment of hotels. The increase in Rupee interest rates also had operated its transportation fleet through an outsourced model, where an impact on the finance expenses. During the year, the Government the vehicles are owned and operated by third parties. The model has permitted eligible entities to open foreign currency accounts and to provided livelihoods to over 500 drivers, while competitive prices on hold foreign currency within these accounts. As a result, some Rupee vehicles have been assured through the intervention of Walkers Tours. denominated debt was converted to foreign currency to take advantage The vendor management team of Walkers Tours and Whittals Boustead of lower borrowing costs as well as to maintain a “natural hedge” since conducted educational programmes and periodic inspections of their a significant portion of revenue is denominated in foreign currency. suppliers throughout the year, including health and safety measures implemented, fire safety and emergency plans and hygiene controls to Revenue ensure low levels of occupational injuries. 35% 16% 27% 22% The carbon footprint for the Leisure industry group was 36,035 2012/13 MT in the year under review, and in spite of increased operations, 35% 13% 26% 26% witnessed an increase of only 2.5 per cent against the previous year. 2011/12 Water withdrawal by Leisure represents 62 per cent of the Group’s total water withdrawal, amounting to 1.03 million cubic meters during 35% 10% 29% 26% the year. The hotels consumed on average 1.04 cubic meters (1,037 2010/11 liters) of water per guest night. This was only a marginal increase from 0 20 40 60 80 100 the previous year, due to various water saving initiatives such as sub Hotel Management City Hotels SL Resorts Maldivian Resorts Destination Management metering and waste water recycling adopted across the industry group. EBIT Leisure provides employment to over 5,000 staff across its business. 11% 51% 10% 22% 6% Considering the scale of operations, a benchmarking exercise was 2012/13 conducted to achieve maximum productivity and to ensure staff cadre requirements are maintained at an optimum through a focus on processes 10% 43% 13% 25% 9% to drive efficiency. Leisure maintained its emphasis on training and 2011/12 development with an average of 38 hours of training per person provided 14% 50% 6% 23% 7% during the year. Many of the hotels are ISO 18000 OHSAS certified and 2010/11 continue to track the number of lost days due to occupational injuries, which has witnessed a decrease during the year aided by a decline in the 0 20 40 60 80 100 total number of injuries during the period under review. Hotel Management City Hotels SL Resorts Maldivian Resorts Destination Management 92 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information with foreign currency denominated debt, whereby the impact of currency fluctuations “Two new bio-gas digester units were installed at would be mitigated to a certain extent. The impact of interest rate movements are not Cinnamon Lodge Habarana and Cinnamon Citadel expected to be significant considering the Kandy in an effort to manage carbon emissions.” “caps” on two of the large Rupee denominated borrowings while the benchmark rate for US dollar borrowings is linked to LIBOR, which is not expected to increase significantly. Return on capital employed t 30$&JNQSPWFEUPQFSDFOUGSPNQFSDFOU The Leisure group is committed to sustainable tourism and will take steps towards reducing t &#*5NBSHJOTJNQSPWFEGSPNQFSDFOUUPQFSDFOU ESJWFOCZUIF$JUZ)PUFMTTFHNFOU its carbon footprint per unit of revenue while t TTFUVUJMJTBUJPOEFDMJOFEEVFUPJOWFTUNFOUTJO$JOOBNPO#FZBOE$JOOBNPO$JUBEFMBTXFMMBT assessing the feasibility of implementing the revaluation of buildings in other hotel properties. renewable energy sources. t &YDMVEJOHUIFBCPWFNFOUJPOFESFWBMVBUJPO UIFBEKVTUFE30$&GPSUIFJOEVTUSZHSPVQXPVME have been 15.4 per cent ROCE FY 12/13 : 14.0% FY 11/12 : 13.2% Assets/(debt+equity) Assets turnover EBIT margin 1.11 0.45 27.8% Outlook to optimise staff numbers with a view to Tourist arrivals into Sri Lanka are expected improving efficiency and productivity. to increase in the forthcoming year, albeit a more cost conscious tourist base. The informal European arrivals into the Maldives are sector too, is likely to expand in tandem to expected to decline further following cater to this segment, highlighting the need confirmation that the only charter flight for promotional efforts focused on effective currently in operation from the United Kingdom marketing and destination branding. All sectors will be discontinued from May 2014. In across the industry group will continue to response to the downward trend in European create awareness of Sri Lanka as a travel tourist arrivals, the Maldivian Resorts sector destination for tourists in high growth markets. will continue to concentrate on newly emerging markets such as China and Russia to generate The Leisure group is well positioned to cater demand. to the growth in tourism as all hotels under the portfolio have undergone refurbishment. Despite the broad expectation for the exchange While the focus on the product and investment rate and interest rates to remain stable, given in tangible assets will continue, the focus of the foreign currency denominated revenues the Leisure group will be primarily on training and significant levels of debt, a volatile Rupee and developing our human resources in order and an increase in interest rates could have to improve productivity and enhance service a negative impact on the profitability of the delivery. A benchmarking exercise has been Leisure group.Where practical and feasible, planned in the Destination Management sector foreign currency inflows have been matched Annual Report 2012/13 l 93 PROGRESSIVE PROPERTY Property Development Real Estate Vision and scope The Property Development and Real Estate sectors concentrate primarily on the development and sale of residential apartments such as the on-going “OnThree20” and “7th Sense” projects. This industry group includes Asian Hotels and Properties PLC – the developers of “The Crescat Residencies”, “The Monarch”, the recently completed 35 storey luxury apartment complex, “The Emperor”, the up-market shopping mall “The Crescat Boulevard” and the “K-Zone” malls in Moratuwa and Ja-Ela. Key indicators Contribution to JKH Group (Rs. Million) 2012/13 2011/12 Chg % 2010/11 3% 8% 10% Revenue 3,170 3,790 (16) 2,494 EBIT 1,265 1,016 25 851 PBT 1,253 977 28 831 PAT 1,191 932 28 780 Total assets 12,690 10,354 23 8,671 Total equity 10,472 8,961 17 7,856 REVENUE EBIT CAPITAL EMPLOYED 0.1% Total debt 2,142 990 116 (125) Capital employed 12,614 9,951 27 7,732 Employees (Number) 103 99 4 99 EBIT per employee 12 10 20 9 Carbon footprint (MT) 96 1,449 (93) N/A 30 kg per Rs. Mn revenue CARBON FOOTPRINT Property Development Real Estate Business scope of the sector Development and sale of residential properties Renting of commercial office spaces and the management of the Group’s real estate within the city Owning and operating the Crescat Boulevard mall and K-Zone malls in Moratuwa and Kapuwatta, Ja-Ela Revenue and growth Rs.3.15 billion, decrease of 16% Rs.18 million, decrease of 48% EBIT and growth Rs.972 million, growth of 7% Rs.293 million, growth of 181% Carbon footprint 52 MT 44 MT Key developments during t $POTUSVDUJPOXPSLPGUIFi0O5ISFFwBQBSUNFOU t DIJFWFNFOUPGPWFSQFSDFOUPDDVQBODZSBUFT the year complex is on schedule across the sites t 0QFOJOHPGUIF,;POFNBMMJO,BQVXBUUF +B&MB t -BVODIJOHPGUIFOFXVOJUQSFNJVNSFTJEFOUJBM development project “7th Sense” at Gregory’s Road Key external/internal t /FXSFTJEFOUJBMQSPKFDUTMBVODIFEJO$PMPNCPMFBEJOH t 3FBMFTUBUFQSJDFTSFNBJOFECVPZBOUGSPNUIF variables effecting the to an increase in supply previous year business t *ODSFBTFJOJOQVUDPOTUSVDUJPODPTUTPOBDDPVOUPGUIF t (SPXUIPGUIFFDPOPNZIBTMFEUPBOJODSFBTF increase in fuel prices and the upward trend in labour in spending power and enhanced the interest costs in shopping malls and other commercial sector developments 94 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information 5IFOFX TRVBSFGPPUNBMMJO+BFMBXBTPQFOFEJO.BSDI Integrated operational review and remained robust with approximately 80 per The new 140,000 square foot neighbourhood discussion cent of the apartments sold as of 31st March mall, K-Zone, Ja-ela was opened in March During the year, activity in the residential 2013. 2013. Approximately 90 per cent of the total market witnessed upward momentum with a rentable space has been contracted out and steady increase in the supply of residential The Property Development sector launched tenants are in the process of moving in after projects, leading to heightened competition. its newest project, “7th Sense”, a premium completing their internal fit outs. Further, high interest rates and low investor residential development of approximately 65 sentiment contributed to a marginal drop residential apartments on Gregory’s Road, The Crescat mall in Colombo and the K-Zone in demand in comparison with the previous an exclusive residential area in Colombo. mall in Moratuwa had near full occupancy year. The commercial sector proved to be a Construction commenced in April 2013 amid throughout the year, while the performance of key investment area due to the increased keen interest and demand generated. The the Crescat mall in particular improved due to activity levels from tourism and the evolving apartments are expected to be ready for strategic yield management lifestyles of the domestic market. Commercial occupation by April 2015. office space has witnessed increased demand The carbon footprint of the Property group as reflected in the high rental yields and was 96 MT, a 93 per cent decrease from the occupancies. previous year. This is mainly attributed to the fact that, starting with the current financial The construction of the 475 unit “OnThree20” year, the Real Estate sector allocated the residential apartment project is on schedule carbon footprint of the common areas to the with the superstructure work on all three external and internal companies housed in the towers nearing completion. Despite the Construction of the premium residential buildings owned by the sector. increase in competition as a result of the development project “7th Sense” Gregory’s launch of a number of new projects, sales Road commenced during the year Annual Report 2012/13 l 95 PROGRESSIVE PROPERTY The industry group continues to focus on improving the energy Return on capital employed management of the buildings as a whole through the installation of t 30$&XBTQFSDFOUBTBHBJOTUQFSDFOUJOUIFQSFWJPVT more energy efficient air conditioning systems and monitoring the year. efficiency, as air conditioning continues to be the main source of energy t &#*5NBSHJOTJNQSPWFEGSPNQFSDFOUUPQFSDFOU consumption. Property consumed only 790 cubic meters of water. However, asset utilisation declined to 0.28 times from 0.40 times in the previous year During the year, Property did not have any occupational health and t 5IFDIBOHFJOCPUI&#*5BOEBTTFUVUJMJTBUJPOXBTESJWFOCZUIF safety incidents involving its own workforce, either at construction sites decrease in revenue attributed to the revenue recognition cycle or at real estate properties. Property provides employment to over 100 staff and provided an average of 6 training hours per employee. ROCE Financial review FY 12/13 : 11.2% FY 11/12 : 11.5% The Property industry group reported a decline in revenue of 16 per cent to Rs.3.17 billion [2011/12: Rs.3.79 billion] compared to the previous year, mainly attributable to the revenue recognition cycle of its residential apartments. The previous year’s revenue included Assets/(debt+equity) Assets turnover EBIT margin recognition of the final tranche of The Emperor and a relatively high 1.02 0.28 39.9% proportion of the revenue from OnThree20. However, EBIT increased by 25 per cent to Rs.1.27 billion [2011/12: Rs.1.02 billion] as a result of a fair value gain of approximately Rs.440 million compared to a fair value gain of Rs.207 million in the previous year. Outlook Despite the rising cost of raw materials, the shortage of skilled labor and the relatively high secondary market interest rates, the Property Revenue group anticipates strong potential for the industry with changing 99% 1% lifestyles and the growth in tourism. Property will continue to identify 2012/13 and execute projects which yield superior returns, particularly focussing on the advantages of a “first mover” strategy. Going forward, the key 99% 1% areas for development, in addition to residential buildings, are expected 2011/12 to be leisure related and economic driven projects such as hotels, 98% 2% serviced apartments, retail malls, convention spaces and commercial 2010/11 office space. 0 20 40 60 80 100 The residential market will be driven by rental yields which will Property Development Real Estate be closely linked to the growth of the economy. Demand will be EBIT concentrated on condominium units in premium locations within close proximity to the city of Colombo. The Property group will capitalise 77% 23% on this potential area of growth with its sizeable land bank. Property 2012/13 remains hopeful that no major changes in the law pertaining to sale of 90% 10% condominium properties and leasing of retail space to foreigners would 2011/12 be enacted, leading to a negative impact on the industry. 92% 8% 2010/11 0 20 40 60 80 100 Property Development Real Estate 96 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information CONSUMER FOODS & RETAIL Consumer Foods Retail Retail implemented a new way forward strategy to re-merchandise and refurbish outlets Vision and scope The Consumer Foods sector is home to a portfolio of leading consumer brands including “Elephant House” carbonated soft drinks and ice creams as well as the “Keells” and “Krest” range of processed meats; all leaders in their respective categories and supported by a well established island-wide distribution channel. The Consumer Foods sector competes in three major categories namely beverages, frozen confectionary and convenience foods. The Retail sector focuses on modern organised retailing through the “Keells Super” chain of supermarkets and through its partnership with Nations Trust Bank has created “Nexus”, the most successful coalition loyalty card in the country. Key indicators Contribution to JKH Group 15% 10% (Rs. Million) 2012/13 2011/12 Chg % 2010/11 26% Revenue 24,267 21,969 10 18,358 EBIT 2,537 2,822 (10) 683 PBT 2,421 2,731 (11) 579 PAT 2,045 2,370 (14) 230 Total assets 17,305 12,670 37 10,259 REVENUE EBIT CAPITAL EMPLOYED Total equity 10,804 7,868 37 5,055 Total debt 1,704 1,167 46 1,919 Capital employed 12,508 9,035 38 6,973 35% Employees (Number) 3,415 3,147 9 3,029 EBIT per employee 0.7 0.9 (17) 0 .2 Carbon footprint (MT) 24,504 24,936 (2) N/A 1,010 kg per Rs. Mn revenue CARBON FOOTPRINT Annual Report 2012/13 l 97 PROGRESSIVE CONSUMER FOODS & RETAIL Consumer Foods Retail Business scope of the Ceylon Cold Stores (CCS) – produces and markets a JayKay Marketing Services (JMSL) – operates the sector portfolio of carbonated soft drinks under the “Elephant “Keells Super” chain of modern retail outlets House” brand, an energy drink under the “Wild Elephant” brand and “Elephant House” brand ice creams and related frozen confectionary products Keells Food Products (KFP) – produces and markets a Nexus Network – operates the Nexus loyalty programme range of processed meat products under the “Keells”, in collaboration with Nations Trust Bank “Krest” and ”Elephant House” brands Revenue and growth Rs.10.20 billion, growth of 0.3% Rs.14.07 billion, growth of 19% EBIT and growth Rs.2.72 billion, decrease of 0.2% Negative of Rs.180 million, decrease of 282% Carbon footprint 13,124 MT 11,380 MT Key developments during t ,'1BDRVJSFEBNFBUQSPDFTTJOHQMBOU t 0QFOFEOFXPVUMFUTEVSJOHUIFZFBS the year t *NQMFNFOUFEBEFBMFSNBOBHFNFOUTZTUFNUPFOIBODF t ,FFMMT4VQFSPVUMFUTXFSFBXBSEFEUIF4-4 productivity certification t 3FMBVODIFEUIFQSFNJVNJDFDSFBNSBOHF t &YQBOEFEUIFQSJWBUFMBCFMSBOHFVOEFSUIFi,$IPJDFw t 3FQPTJUJPOFEi&MFQIBOU)PVTFwQSPDFTTFENFBUSBOHF brand adding 40 products during the year Key external/internal t *ODSFBTFJOSBXNBUFSJBMQSJDFTBTBSFTVMUPGUIF t *NQPTJUJPOPGBWBMVFBEEFEUBYPGPOSFUBJM variables impacting the increase in import taxes and excise duty outlets with a quarterly turnover of Rs.500 million or business t EWFSTFXFBUIFSDPOEJUJPOT higher t 3FEVDFEDPOTVNFSTQFOEJOHEVFUPTMPXEPXOJO t 5SFOEPGJODSFBTJOHJOGMBUJPOBOEJOUFSFTUSBUFTIBE economic activity an impact on reducing consumer confidence and t $IBOHFJODPOTVNFSQFSDFQUJPOUPXBSETNPSFIFBMUI required greater emphasis on remerchandising conscious products initiatives and consumer preferences Integrated operational review and customer base. The Beverages segment The increase in import duty and levies on discussion faced intense competitive activity as a result key raw materials used in the manufacture The Consumer Foods sector was faced of short term, disruptive market practices of ice creams and soft drinks, coupled with with relatively stagnant market conditions adopted by some players. During the year, the the devaluation of the Rupee in the first half arising from lower consumer confidence and Consumer Foods sector took steps to enhance of the year, increased input costs. Where disposable income on discretionary items the operational efficiencies of the distributor possible, considering the price elasticity of during the year under review. Market conditions network and to increase the visibility of demand and consumer demand, prices of were further hampered as a result of the redistribution sales through the implementation products were increased to ensure margins adverse weather conditions which prevailed of a dealer management system. Ceylon were maintained. The focus on improving throughout most of the country during the Cold Stores (CCS), with the assistance of the productivity and efficiencies to manage costs third quarter of the year under review. Despite University of Moratuwa, conducted efficiency continued throughout the year. In line with challenging market conditions, the Consumer studies to derive optimum manning levels at its the Group’s sustainability initiatives, CCS Foods sector managed to maintain overall manufacturing and warehousing facilities. improved its energy management practices revenue in line with the previous year driven by with the installation of more energy efficient region specific strategies, the launch of new air conditioners, resulting in a total estimated products and tactical initiatives. annualised energy saving of 17,000 kWh per annum. Two diesel boilers were replaced with In spite of the impacts stemming from the a furnace oil boiler with the view of lowering macro-economic factors and adverse weather fuel costs. CCS also commenced an initiative conditions, the Frozen Confectionary segment to capture bio-gas from its effluent treatment maintained its market share during the year. plant for use as a substitute to LPG in the staff The business also introduced a new premium CCS launched a range of premium quality canteen kitchens which is currently undergoing ice cream range, enabling it to broaden its ice creams during the year testing. 98 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information As the largest consumer of water in the Group, drawing 4.62 liters of water per liter of carbonated soft drinks (CSD) produced, “Fifteen Keells Super outlets were awarded SLS CCS optimised water consumption through sub metering and the installation of a variable KMZ\QÅKI\QWVPQOPTQOP\QVO\PM/ZW]X¼[KWUUQ\UMV\ speed drive to match demand conditions. These initiatives enabled CCS to reduce its to delivering quality products and services.” water consumption from 5.87 liters of water per liter of CSD produced in the previous year. The company is in the process of commissioning a ultra filteration plant to Among the four new outlets introduced during Rs.500 million a quarter. No transitional significantly increase its water recycling the year, two outlets which commenced provisions were made available to allow for capacity which is expected to further increase operations within the first nine months of the the claim of input VAT on closing stocks as at the efficiency of water consumption in the year have stabilised well and are performing 31st December 2012, creating a significant ensuing year. beyond expectations. one-off cost impact in the current year. In order to mitigate the impact arising from the As a testament to the strength of the brand, imposition of VAT, focused initiatives were “Elephant House” Cream Soda won the FMCG CF&R INDUSTRY GROUP implemented to ensure minimal erosion of CARBON FOOTPRINT Beverage brand of the year award for the 7th margins through negotiations with suppliers, consecutive year and the Youth Beverage brand of the year for the first time at the People’s 24,504 MT target based incentives and a focus on higher margin products. Awards, jointly organised by the Sri Lanka -2% Institute of Marketing (SLIM) and The Neilson During the year under review, fifteen Keells Company. “Elephant House” was awarded the Super outlets were awarded SLS certification, Turnaround Brand of the Year in the Ice Cream During the year, the Retail sector carried out highlighting the Group’s commitment to category at the SLIM Brand Excellence Awards. an in-depth review of its operations with the delivering quality products and services. These assistance of foreign based sector experts outlets are the only SLS certified supermarkets In the Convenience Foods segment, Keells Food and devised a way forward strategy. In in the country. Keells Super continued to Products (KFP) acquired a meat processing plant implementing this strategy, Retail commenced collect low country and upcountry vegetables located at the industrial zone in Pannala for a programme to remerchandise and refit from farming families in the North Central, Rs.700 million. The acquisition paved the way outlets with modern equipment and processes Southern and Central Provinces, helping to to enhance production capacity immediately as which was instrumental in achieving revenue uplift the communities in the area. opposed to organic expansion. The acquisition growth despite the macroeconomic challenges was funded by a two for one rights issue of KFP, such as inflation and the decline in disposable The carbon footprint of the Consumer Foods & with the company raising Rs.1.02 billion by income. The non-recurring costs incurred in Retail industry group (CF&R) decreased by 2 per issuing 17 million shares at a price of Rs.60 per this process resulted in a significant one-off cent to 24,504 MT. The carbon foot print per share. The remaining funds were also utilised negative impact to profits. liter of carbonated soft drinks and ice creams to expand the machinery at the new factory. produced by CCS was 0.13 kg, compared to In keeping with the principles of the Group’s With the aim of improving customer 0.11 kg in the previous year, primarily due to the sustainable sourcing drive, KFP guaranteed the satisfaction, Retail initiated an “availability addition of a new spiral tunnel. purchase of meats and mechanically de-boned project” to ensure that all outlets offer the full meat from local suppliers. variety of products and focused on employee KFP recorded a carbon footprint of 0.75 kg customer service through the “Greet, Smile, per kilogram of processed meat manufactured, The Retail sector achieved strong revenue Thank” programme. During the year, the representing an increase from the previously growth on the back of satisfactory same store Retail sector launched over 40 “K Choice” recorded 0.65 kg on account of lower growth rates. Growth was driven by an increase private label products at the Keells Super production volumes. in customer footfall and growth in average supermarkets. basket values coupled with the contribution Despite the addition of new retail outlets, from the opening of new outlets in Kalubowila, A value added tax (VAT) of 12 per cent was JMSL witnessed a drop in its carbon footprint Maharagama, Havelock Road and Kapuwatta. imposed with effect from 1st January 2013 on to 31.46 kg per square foot of retail space, all retail businesses with turnover exceeding compared with 36.25 kg in the previous Annual Report 2012/13 l 99 PROGRESSIVE CONSUMER FOODS & RETAIL financial year. CF&R consumed 31 million kWh of electricity during the Return on capital employed year, a decrease of 1 per cent from the previous year and withdrew t 30$&EFDMJOFEUPQFSDFOUBTBHBJOTUUIFQFSDFOU 0.57 million cubic meters of water from the ground and pipe borne recorded in the previous year water. t 5IFEFDMJOFJO30$&XBTESJWFOCZBEFDMJOFJOCPUIUIF&#*5 margin and asset utilisation CF&R provides employment to approximately 3,400 employees and provided training of an average of 70 hours per employee per annum, t 5IFDPTUBTTPDJBUFEXJUIJNQMFNFOUJOHUIFSFTUSVDUVSJOHTUSBUFHZ with the Retail sector providing 112 hours of training per employee. coupled with the newly imposed VAT on the Retail sector contributed to a decline in EBIT margin Financial review t TTFUVUJMJTBUJPOEFDMJOFEGPMMPXJOHUIFJODSFBTFJODBQJUBMFNQMPZFE Revenue increased by 10 per cent to Rs.24.27 billion [2011/12: arising from the acquisition of the meat processing facility by KFP Rs.21.97 billion], primarily on account of the performance of the Retail and the capacity enhancements at CCS sector, which recorded a growth in revenue of 19 per cent. Revenue in the Consumer Foods sector remained static while the revenue of KFP was impacted by production issues in the old factory. ROCE FY 12/13 : 23.6% The EBIT of the industry group decreased by 10 per cent to Rs.2.54 FY 11/12 : 35.3% billion [2011/12: Rs.2.82 billion] as the growth in revenue was more than offset by non-recurring costs associated with the implementation of the way forward strategy in Retail and the one-off impact as a result of the lack of transitional provisions for the claim on input VAT on Assets/(debt+equity) Assets turnover EBIT margin closing stocks. 1.39 1.62 10.5% Revenue Outlook 58% 42% The per capita consumption of soft drinks and ice creams in Sri Lanka 2012/13 is well below comparable per capita consumption figures in the region, demonstrating the long term potential for these businesses. However, 54% 46% in the shorter term, deterioration of consumer confidence and lower 2011/12 disposable incomes could negatively impact demand. The increase in 56% 44% electricity tariffs will have an impact on the manufacturing businesses, 2010/11 although not expected to be significant. 0 20 40 60 80 100 Retail Consumer Foods The Retail sector will be impacted by the increase in electricity tariffs although certain mitigatory actions have been implemented. In order EBIT to reduce the uncertainty of manufacturing costs due to the volatility of raw material prices, CCS entered into forward contracts to purchase -7% 107% sugar at attractive rates, thereby mitigating the impacts arising from 2012/13 significant price movements. 4% 96% 2011/12 The Frozen Confectionary segment will continue to augment its brand with the introduction of new products within its range catering to 6% 94% 2010/11 changing consumer demands. 0 20 40 60 80 100 In the ensuing year, KFP is expected to benefit from the efficiencies of Retail Consumer Foods the newly acquired meat processing facility, thereby reducing the cost of production of certain products. The Retail sector has identified a number of strategic locations in pursuit of its expansion strategy and will open a number of new stores in the new financial year. 100 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information FINANCIAL SERVICES Insurance Stock Broking Banking & Leasing /5#XBTBEKVEHFEUIFi#FTU1SJWBUF#BOLJO4SJ-BOLBwBUUIF8PSME'JOBODF XBSET Vision and scope The cluster of financial services companies offer a complete range of financial solutions including commercial banking, insurance, stock broking, debt trading, fund management and leasing with the vision of becoming a leading player in the financial services industry group offering a total solutions package to customers. Key indicators Contribution to JKH Group 12% 11% 7% (Rs. Million) 2012/13 2011/12 Chg % 2010/11 Revenue1 11,108 9,874 12 9,501 EBIT 1,777 1,934 (8) 1,313 PBT 1,777 1,492 19 1,333 PAT 1,400 1,171 20 860 Total assets 31,507 26,921 17 23,961 REVENUE EBIT CAPITAL EMPLOYED Total equity 8,157 6,857 19 6,287 2% Total debt 147 328 (55) 103 Capital employed2 8,304 7,185 16 6,390 Employees (Number)3 1,401 1,047 34 1,121 EBIT per employee3 1.3 1.8 (31) 1.2 195 kg Carbon footprint (MT)4 1,676 1,610 4 N/A per Rs. Mn revenue 1 Revenue is inclusive of the Group’s share of associate company revenue CARBON FOOTPRINT  'PSBTTPDJBUFDPNQBOJFTUIFDBQJUBMFNQMPZFEJTSFQSFTFOUBUJWFPGUIF(SPVQTFRVJUZJOWFTUNFOUJOUIFTF companies 3 No. of employees and EBIT per employee are excluding the employees of associate companies 4 Carbon footprint is calculated excluding associate companies Annual Report 2012/13 l 101 PROGRESSIVE FINANCIAL SERVICES Insurance Banking & Leasing Stock Broking Business scope of Union Assurance (UA) offers Nations Trust Bank (NTB) offers complete John Keells Stock Brokers (JKSB) the sector comprehensive insurance solutions in banking solutions through its network of is one of the leading stock general and life insurance segments branches for corporate, retail and SME brokering companies in Sri Lanka clients and is the franchise holder for and has a number of trading tie American Express credit cards in Sri Lanka. ups with leading foreign securities houses Nations Leasing is the leasing arm of NTB Revenue and growth Rs.8.40 billion, growth of 10% Rs.2.51 billion, growth of 29% Rs.199 million, decrease of 35% EBIT and growth Rs.853 million, decrease of 18% Rs.860 million, growth of 20% Rs.63 million, decrease of 64% Carbon footprint 1,607 MT N/A 69 MT Key developments t 3FMBVODIFEUIFIFBMUIJOTVSBODF t OFXCSBODIFTXFSFPQFOFEEVSJOHUIF t 1MBDFEHSFBUFSGPDVTPO during the year policy, “Union Family Health Net” with year which included 8 branches outside attracting the foreign investor a simplified proposal form the Western Province segment t 3FMBVODIFEUIFJOWFTUNFOUMJOLFE t -BVODIFEBEJHJUBMQMBUGPSN JODMVEJOH product range “Union Challenger” SMS banking services t (FOFSBMJOTVSBODFDBUFHPSZMBVODIFE t *OWFTUFEJOBQBQFSMFTTCPBSESPPNUPIFMQ a loyalty card for motor insurance promote a more carbon friendly global t5IFMJGFJOTVSBODFTFHNFOUFYQBOEFE environment the distribution structure by adding 12 new regions and 1 zone Key external/internal t -PXNBSLFUQFOFUSBUJPOMFWFMT  t 3JTJOHJOUFSFTUSBUFTDSFBUFEJOUFOTF t -PXBDUJWJUZMFWFMTBUUIF variables impacting ageing population with retirement competition for deposits Colombo Stock Exchange the business and health insurance needs and t #BOLTQFSNJUUFEUPCPSSPXVQUP64 impacted the performance of growing affluence across a majority of Dollars 50 million each year for three JKSB segments are positives for increasing years without the approval of the t )JHIJOUFSFTUSBUFFOWJSPONFOU the demand for life insurance Exchange Control Department curtailed domestic trading t 5IFEFDMJOFJOOFXWFIJDMF t 1PTUXBSFDPOPNJDEFWFMPQNFOUBJEJOH activity registrations due to the increase the rapid expansion of the branch network, in import duties dampened growth primarily outside the Western Province in the industry leading to lower t 6QXBSESFWJTJPOPGUIFJNQPSUEVUZ underwriting volumes for motor structure for passenger vehicles reduced insurance the demand for vehicles loans / leases Integrated operational review and of both corporate and retail channels, whilst business also witnessed growth stemming discussion the life business recorded a growth of 14 per from both traditional and investment linked The combined life and non-life gross written cent driven by the re-launch and introduction products. As per the independent actuarial premium for Union Assurance (UA) for the of new products as well as by achieving a valuation carried out, Rs.525 million was calendar year 2012 grew by 12 per cent, higher average case size per policy. The Life transferred as a surplus from the life fund amounting to Rs.9.73 billion compared with during the year 2012, which was a 22 per cent Rs.8.70 billion in the previous year. The claims increase over the surplus recorded in the year ratio improved during the year under review 2011. Excessive credit growth and high state as UA continued its practice of pursuing sector borrowings placed upward pressure on a disciplined approach to underwriting by interest rates. The increase in interest income pursuing risk that is adequately priced. resulted in a 42 per cent and 24 per cent The non-life segment reported a 9 per cent growth in finance income for the life and nongrowth on the back of enhanced distribution life segment respectively. In order to further capabilities and improved service standards Re-launched “Union Family Health Net” strengthen the capital position of the company health insurance policy 102 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information in line with regulatory requirements, Union Assurance successfully raised Rs.750 million through a one for seven rights issue at Rs.70 “Life business and Non-Life business of per share. Union Assurance was the recipient of several awards including the “Best Insurer Union Assurance recorded a growth of 14% Technology Award 2012” for excellence and and 9% respectively.” innovation from “Celent” and “Asia Insurance Review”, and secured the silver award for the 5th consecutive year in recognition of UA’s business practices in the insurance the reduction in the price of gold will impact which was a 4 per cent increase in comparison sector, at the National Business Excellence growth in the pawning business, the bank does to the previous year. This represents 5.78 kg Awards conducted by the National Chamber of not anticipate significant credit exposure as a per square foot compared to 5.55 kg in the Commerce of Sri Lanka. result of its prudent and conservative lending previous year. The electricity consumption was practices. 2.2 million kWh representing a 4.5 per cent Nations Trust Bank (NTB) reported a growth in increase compared to the previous year. Being deposits of 26 per cent in the calendar year NTB won several awards for its operational and a financial service oriented business largely 2012, outpacing the growth of the market, financial achievements, including the award having office based operations, the Financial while the loan portfolio grew at 20 per cent for the “Best Private Bank in Sri Lanka” at the Services industry group consumed 24,449 in line with the credit ceiling imposed on the World Finance Awards 2012. The JKH Group cubic meters of water. The industry group entire industry by the regulator. The credit currently holds 29.9 per cent in Nations Trust excluding NTB provides employment to over ceiling was withdrawn from January 2013 Bank PLC. The Monetary Board of the CBSL 1,400 staff and in addition Union Assurance onwards. Across the industry, net interest has directed that the Group reduces its share has engaged over 4,000 insurance agents margins (NIMs) were under pressure due to the holding in NTB to 15 per cent or below, on or across the country. The Financial Services rising cost of funds amid intense competition before the 23rd of April 2012. JKH wrote to the group provided an average of 24 hours of for deposits. However, despite the narrowing Central Bank requesting an extension of the training per employee during the year. NIMs, the growth in business volumes deadline and a formal response is awaited. compensated for the negative impact in NIM’s as net interest income for the year recorded John Keells Stock Brokers (JKSB) was an increase compared to the previous year. impacted by the modest performance of During the year, the bank continued to mobilise additional deposits through promotional the Colombo Stock Exchange, where the benchmark All Share Price Index increased NATIONS campaigns such as the “Nations Saver” savings scheme product. The small and medium by only 5.8 per cent over the previous year and trading volumes were only 9.07 billion, a TRUST enterprise (SME) sector credit line introduced decrease of 56 per cent over the previous year. Foreign institutional investors accounted for Bank reported a growth in two years ago witnessed substantial growth due to the bank’s continued focus to enrich approximately 32 per cent of market turnover deposits of 26 the SME sector. The leasing arm of the bank and remained net buyers during the financial focused on alternative customer segments and year with a number of new foreign funds taking per cent in the redefined its marketing strategy to minimise positions in larger cap stocks. JKSB managed the combined impact of higher import duties to capture a significant share of the foreign on passenger vehicles and interest rate hikes. NTB completed 9 successful years of issuing segment in addition to capturing business from the local institutional segment as well. calendar year American Express credit cards. During the year, a record number of new cards were issued and profitability of the product increased in Resultantly, in spite of the decline in market trading volumes, the stock broking business recorded a healthy improvement in market 2012 parallel with the growing customer base. share in comparison to the previous financial Correspondingly, both spend and receivables year. for the calendar year 2012 surpassed the comparable period for the previous year by 22 The carbon footprint of the Financial Services per cent and 36 per cent respectively. Whilst industry group was 1,676 MT for the year, Annual Report 2012/13 l 103 PROGRESSIVE FINANCIAL SERVICES Financial review ROCE The Financial Services industry group revenue increased by 8 per FY 12/13 : 22.9% cent to Rs.8.60 billion [2011/12: Rs.7.93 billion] with a significant FY 11/12 : 28.5% contribution coming from Union Assurance. Revenue, inclusive of associate company revenue increased by 12 per cent to Rs.11.11 billion [2011/12: Rs.9.87 billion]. Assets/(debt+equity) Assets turnover EBIT margin EBIT decreased by 8 per cent to Rs.1.78 billion [2011/12: Rs.1.93 3.77 0.38 16.0% billion], with the decline in revenue at JKSB being the main contributory factor. Outlook Given the level of under penetration of insurance within the country, Revenue Union Assurance maintains a positive outlook on both the life and 76% 22% 2% non-life insurance segments. As per information published by the 2012/13 Insurance Board of Sri Lanka, the penetration level of life insurance remains significantly low with life insurance premiums only accounting 77% 20% 3% for 0.5 per cent of GDP in Sri Lanka as opposed to approximately 3 per 2011/12 cent in other regional economies. UA plans to invest in cost effective 63% 32% 5% distribution channels, consolidate its position in the “Bancassurance” 2010/11 distribution space and leverage on IT platforms. The non-life segment is expected to remain price competitive in the medium term with 0 20 40 60 80 100 competition fuelled by new entrants and existing participants trying to Insurance Banking & Leasing Stockbroking maintain market share. Changes in regulations, the introduction of risk based capital and the strict implementation of the premium payment EBIT warranty (PPW) will further ensure pricing and credit discipline in the 48% 48% 4% market. As stated in the Consolidated Group Performance section of the 2012/13 Report, Union Assurance has analysed the regulatory requirement to split the Life and General businesses by February 2015 and is in the process 54% 37% 9% of identifying the optimal outcome in order to take the initiative forward. 2011/12 30% 46% 24% Despite a modest outlook on the domestic economy in the short 2010/11 term, the medium to long run economic outlook is positive, with growth attributed to structural factors such as improvements in 0 20 40 60 80 100 infrastructure, rising income levels and unlocking of the potential in Insurance Banking & Leasing Stockbroking previously conflict affected areas. Given that the growth trajectory is expected to be strong, NTB will continue to establish its presence Return on capital employed island wide as “The bank for all customers” through the expansion of t 30$&EFDMJOFEUPQFSDFOUBHBJOTUUIFQFSDFOUSFDPSEFE its delivery network, while continuing to nurture customer confidence in the previous year and embracing innovative banking and effective governance. The SME sector is expected to be a catalyst for growth in the year ahead and t &#*5NBSHJOEFDMJOFEUPQFSDFOUGSPNQFSDFOUJOUIF the additional funds from multilateral lenders will provide the bank previous year. Union Assurance experienced a rise in costs following with a stronger foothold in this segment. In an effort to improve staff an increase in maturity claims, while the EBIT margins for the Stock knowledge in the sector, “SME Academy”, an internationally accredited Brokering business contracted due to the disappointing performance learning program will be launched in the coming year. of the capital market t TTFUUVSOPWFSEFDMJOFENBSHJOBMMZUPUJNFTGSPNUJNFT John Keells Stock Brokers expects the market to continue the seen last year momentum witnessed in the final quarter of the year under review on the back of lower interest rates attracting interest from local investors while the foreign segment will continue to invest so long as relative valuations are attractive and global risk appetite and liquidity remains strong. JKSB will continue to focus on increasing market share through the expansion of its portfolio of foreign and institutional investors. 104 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY IT Services IT Enabled Services Office Automation 5IFXFCCBTFE;IBSB)4HBJOFEBDDFQUBODFJOUIF-FJTVSFJOEVTUSZ Vision and scope The Information Technology industry group has a vision of providing quality, world-class information communication technology services from BPO, software services and information integration to office automation by offering end-to-end ICT services and solutions. With a strong customer base in Sri Lanka, the rest of South Asia, as well as the UK, Middle East, North America, Scandinavia and the Far East, the IT group is at the forefront of making Sri Lanka an ICT hub in South Asia. Key indicators Contribution to JKH Group (Rs. Million) 2012/13 2011/12 Chg % 2010/11 7% 2% 2% Revenue1 6,797 6,723 1 4,229 EBIT 387 183 111 122 PBT 314 136 131 114 PAT 238 66 261 (22) Total assets 3,717 3,368 10 2,419 Total equity 2,166 1,901 14 1,651 REVENUE EBIT CAPITAL EMPLOYED 2% Total debt 434 560 (23) 124 Capital employed2 2,599 2,462 6 1,774 Employees (Number)3 1,267 1,114 14 979 EBIT per employee3 0.3 0.2 85 0.1 Carbon footprint (MT)4 1,343 1,406 (4) N/A 206 kg 1 Revenue is inclusive of the Group’s share of associate company revenue per Rs. Mn revenue  'PSBTTPDJBUFDPNQBOJFTUIFDBQJUBMFNQMPZFEJTSFQSFTFOUBUJWFPGUIF(SPVQTFRVJUZJOWFTUNFOUJOUIFTF CARBON FOOTPRINT companies 3 EBIT per employee is calculated excluding the employees of associate companies 4 Carbon footprint is calculated excluding associate companies Annual Report 2012/13 l 105 PROGRESSIVE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY IT Services Office Automation IT Enabled Services Business scope of John Keells Computer Services (JKCS) offer John Keells Office Automation (JKOA), Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) the sector software services and products to a wide are agents for some of the leading operations, primarily in the voice range of clients in Sri Lanka and overseas office automation brands in the world vertical through John Keells BPO (JK BPO) which operates approximately 1,000 seats with operations in India, US and Canada Operation of Information Systems National distributor for Samsung Provider of Shared Service solutions Associates (ISA) in partnership with mobile phones, ASUS, Samsung and to the Group and external clientele Air Arabia. Core focus areas are in the Toshiba notebooks and other office under InfoMate in the finance and development of aviation related software automation products such as printers accounting payroll verticals and hotel reservation management systems and RISO duplication solutions Revenue and growth Rs.609 million, growth of 30% Rs.4.54 billion, growth of 2% Rs.1.65 billion, decrease of 9% EBIT and growth Rs.100 million, growth 571% Rs.312 million, growth of 23% Negative of Rs.25 million, growth of 71% Carbon footprint 293 MT 338 MT 712 MT Key developments t *4 FOUFSFE&BTU TJB WFOUVSJOHPVUTJEF t 464BOE4BNTVOHOPUFCPPLTXFSF t 5IF#10CVTJOFTTJO*OEJBBDRVJSFE during the year its core markets of the Middle East and added to the company’s product new clients and grew its existing Africa range client base t +,$4GPDVTFEPOQFOFUSBUJOHUIF t 4BNTVOHNPCJMFIBOETFUCVTJOFTT t 5IFUIJSESFNPUF#10DFOUSFJO hospitality market with Zhara HS captured significant market share Jaffna was initiated, employing during the period under review rehabilitated youth Key external/ t (MPCBMEJTUSFTTBNPOHLFZBWJBUJPO t *ODSFBTFEDPNQFUJUJPOGSPNQBSBMMFM t $POUJOVFEGJOBODJBMUVSNPJMJOUIF internal variables clients caused some set-backs imports and original equipment US and Europe led to a decline in impacting the t (SPXUIJOUIFUPVSJTNJOEVTUSZFOBCMFE manufacturer (OEM) products from interest for outsourcing services business the fully web based solution Zhara China t 5IFEFQSFDBUJPOPGUIF3VQFFJO Hospitality Suite to gain acceptance in the first half of the financial year the leisure sector helped boost margins t 'MVDUVBUJOHFYDIBOHFSBUFDSFBUFE bottom line uncertainty Integrated operational review and During the year, the Office Automation awards including the Diamond award for discussion business further strengthened its product Toshiba Distributors in the region for the During the financial year, the Office Automation portfolio by adding ASUS notebooks, Samsung 2nd consecutive year and the winner of the business carried out under John Keells Office notebooks and “Posiflex” point of sales (POS) Windows 8 demo competition conducted by Automation (JKOA) consolidated its dominant machines to its product offering, enabling Microsoft Sri Lanka. market position across the different segments the business to tap in to different market it operates in. Samsung smart phones achieved segments. JKOA was the recipient of many The Software Services business witnessed higher sales volumes in the backdrop of the encouraging growth in revenue through expected shift by consumers to smart phones. client acquisition and expansion of volumes. Software Services turned profitable following The Toshiba copier business maintained two consecutive years of reported losses. In market share despite increased competition addition to the contribution arising from the from parallel imports and the second hand growth in revenue, the improved performance copier market, whilst Toshiba laptops increased was aided by the operational efficiencies its market share significantly. achieved as well as on account of the JKOA added ASUS and Samsung restructuring of debt, which resulted in the notebooks to its product offering reduction of the finance cost. 106 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information The financial impact of losing a key client in the aviation business vertical was more than offset by the acquisition of new clients both “During the year, JK BPO India focused on from traditional business generating markets such as the Middle East and Africa as well as increasing revenues by capturing a higher share from new geographies such as Asia and North America. The enhanced customer portfolio of volumes from existing customers as well as also helped reduce the reliance on a few large customers, mitigating the risk of losing through the acquisition of new customers.” revenue from the troubled global aviation clients affected by the global economic downturn. The expansion of the tourism industry coupled with the growth in small and medium sized steady sales pipeline which has enabled the business to progress towards the desired THIRD hospitality properties had a positive impact on the hospitality business vertical of JKCS business scale. remote and its main product “Zhara”. Many of these hospitality establishments identified the need Infomate, the Sri Lankan based BPO unit, which currently caters mainly to companies BPO was for a central management tool to effectively within the JKH Group focused on strengthening successfully initiated in run their businesses. Having recognised this its external customer portfolio, which now opportunity, JKCS executed a more focused accounts for approximately 20 per cent of Jaffna sales strategy targeting start-ups and newly its total revenue. Towards this end, Infomate refurbished properties. During the year, “Zhara” worked hand-in-hand with the industry was awarded the overall Gold and the category body Sri Lanka Association of Software Gold for Tourism and Hospitality Software, and Service Companies (SLASSCOM) to by the British Computer Society (BCS) at the promote outsourcing and also strengthened National Best Quality Software Awards 2012. existing client relationships. The rural BPO concept pioneered by Infomate through its Financial Review The joint venture company Information Mahavilachchiya facility will continue to The Information Technology industry group Systems Associates (ISA) acquired new airline create livelihoods and endow youth with recorded an overall growth of 1 per cent in accounts in the Middle East and Philippines, technical knowledge and experience through revenue to Rs.6.80 billion [2011/12: 6.72 adding strength to its low cost carrier customer the provision of necessary infrastructure and billion]. The growth was primarily driven by base and increasing the number of annual technical support. A further step was taken the improved performance of the Indian BPO passenger bookings on the flagship online with the successful initiation of the third business. The IT Enabled Services sector reservation system “Accelaero”. remote BPO center in Jaffna. reported a decline of 9 per cent in revenue following the disposal of Quatrro FPO. The The business process outsourcing (BPO) The carbon foot print of the IT group was disposal will result in the discontinuation of industry remained strong despite the 1,343 MT, a reduction from the 1,406 a loss making operation, although having a uncertainty in the global economy amplifying MT in the previous year, while the energy negative impact on revenue in the short term. the financial difficulties for some clients and consumption for the industry group declined to weakening global interest in outsourcing 1.62 million kWh [2011/12: 1.75 million kWh] EBIT increased by 111 per cent to Rs.387 services. During the year, the BPO operations in spite of the increase in volumes in the BPO million, benefiting from the existing growth in India conducted under John Keells BPO operations. The carbon footprint per square momentum of the Office Automation business Solutions (JK BPO) focused on increasing foot in the current year declined to 15.51 kg coupled with the exchange gains recorded as revenues by capturing a higher share of from 16.25 kg in the previous year. The IT the Rupee stabilised towards the latter half of volume from existing customers as well as group employee count stands at approximately the year. through the acquisition of new customers. 1,200, with each employee gaining an average JK BPO has now built up an encouraging and of 67 hours of training for the year. Annual Report 2012/13 l 107 PROGRESSIVE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Outlook Revenue The Office Automation business could face increased competition as a 24% 9% 67% result of the continued proliferation of parallel imports and the growing 2012/13 significance of the second hand market. Volatility in exchange rates 27% 7% 66% could impact margins, although strategies are in place to manage 2011/12 such exchange rate movements. Despite these challenges, JKOA is in a position to capitalise on opportunities made available by the 30% 9% 61% newly secured distributorships of Asus and Samsung notebooks whilst 2010/11 leveraging on Samsung’s continuous product innovation. 0 20 40 60 80 100 IT Enabled Services Software Services Office Automation The Software Services business anticipates stiff price competition from larger players in the West and changing market dynamics may demand EBIT direct presence on the ground in certain key markets to achieve greater -7% 26% 81% customer intimacy and improved responsiveness. 2012/13 As per the statistics of “The National Association of Software and -47% 8% 139% Services Companies” of India, (NASSCOM), the Indian BPO market is 2011/12 expected to grow at a rate of 11 per cent in the coming financial year, -55% -18% 173% with the emergence of new technology and the evolution in business 2010/11 models. John Keells BPO Solutions will be well positioned to extend its reach and extend more services to clients overseas. Infomate will -100 -50 0 50 100 150 200 work towards increasing the share of third party revenue in the firm’s IT Enabled Services Software Services Office Automation revenue mix. Return on capital employed t 30$&JODSFBTFEUPQFSDFOUBTBHBJOTUQFSDFOUJOUIF previous year t &#*5NBSHJOJNQSPWFEUPQFSDFOUBHBJOTUUIFQFSDFOU recorded in the previous year, primarily due to the performance of the Software Services business which reported a profit and the steady performance of the Office Automation business t TTFUVUJMJTBUJPOEFDMJOFEEVSJOHUIFZFBSUPUJNFTGSPN in the previous year, somewhat offsetting the positive impact of the improved EBIT margin on ROCE ROCE FY 12/13 : 15.3% FY 11/12 : 8.7% Assets/(debt+equity) Assets turnover EBIT margin 1.40 1.92 5.7% 108 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information OTHER INCLUDING PLANTATION SERVICES Plantation Services Other +PIO,FFMMT1-$PCUBJOFEUIFIJHIFTUOVNCFSPGUPQQSJDFTBUUIF$PMPNCP5FBBOE3VCCFSBVDUJPOT Vision and scope The Plantation Services sector includes the operations of tea factories, tea and rubber broking and pre-auction produce warehousing. Tea Smallholder Factories PLC (TSF) is amongst the top manufacturers of orthodox low grown teas and is also recognised as a top quality producer of CTC teas in Sri Lanka. With over 140 years of experience in the tea trade, John Keells PLC is one of the leading tea brokers in the country and its warehousing facility is the largest and one of the best state-of-the-art complexes in the country for pre-auction produce. The industry group also consists of John Keells Holdings PLC including its divisions / centre functions such as John Keells Capital and Strategic Group Information Technology division (SGIT), as well as several auxiliary companies. John Keells Capital is the private equity arm of the Group and also provides financial advisory, structuring and capital raising solutions to external clients. The SGIT division which supports the Group’s IT requirements also provides consulting services and SAP implementation services to external companies. Key indicators Contribution to JKH Group (Rs. Million) 2012/13 2011/12 Chg % 2010/11 4% 9% 19% 1 Revenue 3,553 2,684 32 3,119 EBIT 1,471 509 189 2,716 PBT 1,164 (2) 52,246 2,350 PAT 548 (388) 241 2,115 Total assets 24,870 19,691 26 15,085 Total equity 16,842 10,823 56 7,075 REVENUE EBIT CAPITAL EMPLOYED 6% Total debt 6,302 7,440 (15) 7,025 Capital employed2 23,144 18,263 27 14,101 Employees (Number)3 1,130 1,112 2 1,130 EBIT per employee3 1.3 0.5 184 2.4 Carbon footprint (MT)4 4,033 3,743 8 N/A 1,135 kg 1 Revenue is inclusive of the Group’s share of associate company revenue per Rs. Mn revenue  'PSBTTPDJBUFDPNQBOJFTUIFDBQJUBMFNQMPZFEJTSFQSFTFOUBUJWFPGUIF(SPVQTFRVJUZJOWFTUNFOUJOUIFTF CARBON FOOTPRINT companies 3 No of employees and EBIT per employee are excluding the employees of associate companies 4 Carbon footprint is calculated excluding associate companies Annual Report 2012/13 l 109 PROGRESSIVE OTHER INCLUDING PLANTATION SERVICES Plantation Services Other Business scope of the John Keells PLC (JK PLC) – leading tea and rubber broker JKH and other business sector John Keells Warehousing – operating a state of the art warehouse John Keells Capital, a division of JKH, is the private for pre-auction produce equity arm of the Group Tea Smallholder Factories (TSF) – operates 8 tea factories and is The Strategic Group Information Technology (SGIT) a leading manufacturer of low grown teas in the country, specially division which supports the Group’s IT requirements, the CTC variety also provides consulting services and SAP implementation services to external companies Revenue and growth Rs.2.97 billion, growth 33% Rs.585 million, growth of 27% EBIT and growth Rs.418 million, growth 65% Rs.1.05 billion, growth of 312% Carbon footprint 3,547 MT 486 MT Key developments t 54'DPOUJOVFEXJUIJOJUJBUJWFTUPTVQQPSUUFBTNBMMIPMEFSTCZ t 4(*5TFDVSFEJUTGJSTUFWFS4 14FSWJDFT during the year providing technical and financial assistance partnership in Sri Lanka t 5FBGBDUPSJFTDPNJOHVOEFS54'PCUBJOFEPWFSUXPUIJSETPGJUT energy requirement from renewable energy sources Key external/internal t 3FWJTJPOPGUIF$FTTMFWJFEPOCVMLUFBTIJQNFOUTUPUIFIJHIFS t 4(*5GBDFEJODSFBTFEDPNQFUJUJPOGSPN4 1 variables impacting of Rs.10 per kilogram or 2.5 per cent of the previous three partners in India the business months’ composite average for tea t 5IFQPMJUJDBMJOTUBCJMJUZJOUIF.JEEMF&BTUIBEBOFHBUJWFJNQBDU on demand from key tea consuming countries t $VSSFODZGMVDUVBUJPOTJOUIF&6SFTVMUFEJOBSBUIFSWPMBUJMF market environment for tea t &SSBUJDXFBUIFSDPOEJUJPOTFGGFDUFEUIFQSPEVDUJPOPGRVBMJUZ green leaf at TSF Integrated operational review and discussion JKPLC managed to obtain the highest number Agricultural Practices to overcome the impact of During the year under review, many of the of top prices at the Colombo tea and rubber poor weather conditions and increased overall major tea consuming countries witnessed auctions in addition to providing superior production by 6 per cent in comparison to the a rather volatile environment. In the Middle customer service. Towards this end, the tea previous year. The pioneering initiative of TSF East, countries such as Syria continued to broking business pioneered in introducing an to transfer knowledge and extend financial experience political unrest whilst the economic electric delivery order system for buyers and support to selected growers to replant their sanctions on Iran, Sri Lanka’s second largest implemented a system to electronically capture lands, continued for the third consecutive year. destination for Ceylon tea, led to a decline tea prices at the auction. The pilot project launched under this initiative in in tea exports. Demand stemming from the 2010 to assist 89 smallholders was successfully European region also slowed down due The benefit accrued from improved tea prices completed and a second replanting project, to the economic down turn that prevailed coupled with improved production levels had focusing on 51 growers is currently underway. in the region. Despite the aforementioned a positive impact on the performance of TSF. global macroeconomic challenges, average The company placed greater emphasis on As the primary consumer of energy and electricity sales price of low grown teas increased by customer service in the form of value added within the industry group, TSF recorded a carbon approximately 14 per cent during the financial extension services such as workshops, seminars footprint of 0.58 kg per kilogram of tea produced year 2012/13 against the previous financial and field visits, which further enhanced Good compared to 0.55 kg in the previous year and year. The increase was attributed to the continues to take appropriate action to reduce adverse weather conditions experienced in key its carbon footprint. The firm consumed 21,780 black tea producing countries and the resulting cubic meters of water in carrying out operations, shortfall in global black tea production. which is 3.82 liters of water withdrawn per kilogram of tea produced [2011/12: 4.22 liters John Keells PLC (JKPLC) experienced a per kilogram of tea produced] and relied on reduction in the broking market share due renewable energy sources to produce over two to the industry consolidation that took place thirds of its total energy requirement for the Greater emphasis on customer service helped during the year under review. Nevertheless, year. The carbon footprint of the Plantations TSF increase overall production by 6% 110 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Services sector was 3,547 MT for the year, which was an increase of EBIT 6.2 per cent over the previous year. The increase was due to increased level of operations as the carbon footprint per kilogram of tea produced 28% 72% remained constant at 0.62 kg. The Plantations Services sector employs 2012/13 over 950 staff. TSF is the largest employer within the sector and a majority 50% 50% of its staff members are non-executives. The company abides by the 2011/12 collective bargaining agreements applicable to the plantation industry, despite having operations limited to tea manufacturing. During the year, the 16% 84% Plantations Services sector provided an average of 17.5 hours of training 2010/11 per employee. 0 20 40 60 80 100 Plantation Services Other John Keells Capital, the investment banking arm of the Group completed several mandates for the year, including the restructuring and consolidation of the hospitals of a leading healthcare services provider. Return on capital employed Further to the restructuring, John Keells Capital was subsequently t 30$&JODSFBTFEUPQFSDFOUBTBHBJOTUQFSDFOUJOUIFQSFWJPVT involved in a private placement to a leading Indian private equity fund for year a total transaction value of USD 32 million. SGIT secured the first ever t &#*5NBSHJOGPSUIFZFBSJNQSPWFEUPQFSDFOUBHBJOUUIF SAP Services Partnership in Sri Lanka and signed an exclusive contract per cent recorded in the previous year. Due to the factors mentioned with SAP Consulting for the Sri Lankan territory to broaden its SAP above, the EBIT margin of TSF improved, while higher interest Services portfolio. Furthermore, SGIT signed its first international SAP income and a gain in disposal of Rs.223 million contributed towards implementation contract as well as the first contract for an off-shore an improved EBIT margin for the overall industry group implementation during the financial year. Central Hospital (Private) Limited (owning company of “The Central” ROCE hospital in Colombo) an associate company of the Group (investment held FY 12/13 : 8.0% under John Keells Capital) recorded profits during its second full year of FY 11/12 : 3.1% operations. Financial review Total revenue of the other businesses of the JKH Group primarily Assets/(debt+equity) Assets turnover EBIT margin consists of revenues from the Plantation Services sector since there are 1.07 0.18 41.4% no other significant operating businesses in this cluster. The Plantations Services sector recorded revenues of Rs.2.97 billion [2011/12: Rs.2.22 billion] which is an increase of 33 per cent from the previous year Outlook mainly on account of the 39 per cent increase in TSF revenues. Average tea prices at the Colombo tea auction are expected to remain buoyant in the forthcoming year, with Iran and Syria reverting to their regular Total EBIT (including the holding company) increased to Rs.1.47 billion, quantities purchased from Colombo. TSF plans to enhance the factory from Rs.509 million recorded in the previous year. The EBIT for the utilisation factor in an effort to negate the impact arising from the increase current financial year included a disposal gain of Rs.223 million arising in operating costs due to the revision of wages and electricity tariffs. from the disposal of Quattro Finance and Accounting Solutions and the partial disposal of John Keells Logistics India Limited and John Keells SGIT is geared to secure contracts outside of JKH following the newly Logistics Lanka Limited. secured SAP Services Partnership, while the private equity arm of the Group, John Keells Capital will continue to explore and evaluate opportunities. Considering the significance of the impact to profitability through exchange Revenue rate and interest rate movements, the Group will continue to adopt a 84% 16% proactive and a prudent approach in managing such risks. Whilst a 2012/13 significant proportion of the Group’s debt is foreign currency denominated, the Group will ensure that such liabilities are matched as far as possible 83% 17% with foreign currency denominated revenue streams to ensure minimum 2011/12 cxchange rate exposure. The Group also maintains a sizeable cash reserve 90% 10% in US Dollars and Rupees which would enable to manage the volatility arising 2010/11 from fluctuations of exchange and interest rates. 0 20 40 60 80 100 Plantation Services Other Annual Report 2012/13 l 111 PROGRESSIVE Share Information Total number of shares in active in acquiring strategic stakes in the local JKH high and low share prices per month issue as at 31/03/2013: 857,242,505 retail, insurance and healthcare sectors which Rs. Public shareholding contributed towards sustaining the overall 250 as at 31/03/2013: 88.36% momentum in the market during the financial Stock symbol: JKH.N0000 year. 225 Newswire codes Bloomberg: JKH.SL In spite of increased foreign participation, 200 Dow Jones: P.JKH average daily turnover levels fell to Rs.794 Reuters: JKH.CM million from Rs.1.83 billion recorded in 175 the previous financial year, as a result of The All Share Price Index (ASPI) closed at the lack of retail and high net worth local 150 5,735.68 on 31st March 2013 recording a investor interest as fixed income yields were Apr-12 May-12 Jun-12 Jul-12 Aug-12 Sep-12 Oct-12 Nov-12 Dec-12 Jan-12 Feb-12 Mar-12 5.8 per cent increase over the previous year. comparatively high. High and low share prices 30 day moving average The Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) introduced the Standard & Poors Sri Lanka 20 Index (S&P The JKH Share SL20) in June 2012 which captures the top 20 The JKH share closed at Rs.247.00 as at liquid equity instrument. The beta of the JKH stocks with a float adjusted minimum market 31st March 2013 as against Rs.206.00 in the share was 0.9 (the beta was calculated on capitalisation and other key liquidity and previous year, recording a growth of 20 per daily JKH share and market movements as financial viability thresholds. The Milanka Price cent. The share demonstrated steady growth measured by the ASPI for the 5 year period Index (MPI) was discontinued from 1st January throughout the financial year amidst the overall commencing 1st April 2008 to 31st March 2013 onwards. Since its introduction, the market experiencing low levels of volatility. The 2013) for the current financial year. The JKH S&P SL20 has recorded an increase of 16 per JKH share traded between a high of Rs.249.70 share recorded a compounded annual growth cent as at 31st March 2013 from June 2012 and a low of Rs.172.00 during the period rate (CAGR) of 23 per cent over the five year vis-à-vis an increase of 15 per cent in the ASPI under review. Comparatively, the ASPI recorded period ending 31st March 2013, outperforming during the same period. a growth of 5.8 per cent during the financial the ASPI which recorded a CAGR of 17 per year as against a decline of 25 per cent cent. This is illustrated in the graph titled “JKH The market capitalisation of the CSE increased recorded in the previous year. The average share performance vs ASPI, MPI, S&P SL 20 by 10 per cent during the period under daily turnover of the JKH share at Rs.121 (indexed)” review, primarily due to the increase in foreign million was a decrease of 38 per cent over the participation in the large market cap counters. From a global standpoint, equity markets in previous financial year. The net foreign inflows reached Rs.23.23 key developed countries saw a recovery during billion during the financial year compared to The JKH share contributed 15.3 per cent the financial year as a result of improved Rs.8.40 billion recorded in the previous year to the total market turnover during the year investor sentiment driven by a relatively with the banking, insurance, food and beverage ended 31st March 2013 compared to 10.6 better global economic outlook, although risks and diversified sectors attracting much of the per cent recorded during the previous year, continue to remain. Despite economic reforms foreign interest. Foreign institutions were also demonstrating its appeal as a dynamic and to cut down spending and increase taxation Share volumes & relative performance JKH share performance JKH share compared with key regional indices vs market (indexed) No. of vs ASPI, MPI, S&P SL20 (indexed) (indexed) Index shares Index Index 120 7,000 300 350 6,000 300 250 5,000 100 250 200 4,000 200 150 3,000 150 80 100 2,000 100 1,000 50 50 60 0 0 0 Apr-12 Jun-12 Sep-12 Dec-12 Mar-12 Apr-08 Apr-09 Apr-10 Apr-11 Apr-12 Apr-13 Apr-08 Apr-09 Apr-10 Apr-11 Apr-12 Apr-13 No. of shares traded in 000’s JKH ASPI MPI S&P SL20 JKH ASPI MPI S&P SL20 JKH Mumbai Kuala Lampur Singapore Jakarta 112 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information to expedite fiscal consolidation and relieve 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 debt pressure, the effects of the Eurozone Market cap (Rs. billion) 211.74 173.89 179.84 debt crisis still linger as witnessed recently in Enterprise value (Rs. billion) 203.52 166.54 175.67 Cyprus. Market value added (Rs. billion) 121.92 102.55 120.25 EV/EBITDA (times) 10.3 9.9 13.1 The FTSE 100 posted 11 per cent growth from Diluted EPS (Rs.) 14.22 11.44 9.77* the previous financial year end, albeit off a PER (diluted) 17.4 18.0 21.9* lower base, regaining the decline experienced Price to book (times) 2.4 2.5 4.1* during the previous years. Similarly, the Dow Price/cash earnings (times) 16.5 14.8 19.0* Jones Industrial Average also recorded a 10 Dividend yield (%) 1.4 1.3 1.4* per cent growth over the previous financial Dividend payout ratio (%) 40.1 49.0 32.2 year which underpins the economic recovery TSR (%) 21.6 (2.5) 57.4* and market stability. *Adjusted for sub-division of shares The growth rates of emerging economies in the Asia Pacific region continued to outperform the developed economies, despite the dampening Issued Share Capital Dividend effects as a result of the reduction in import The number of JKH shares at the beginning The dividend policy of JKH seeks to ensure demand from the US and the Eurozone. The of the year was 844.12 million. During the a dividend payout that corresponds with the Jakarta Composite Index (JCI) continued its financial year, 13.12 million shares were growth in profits, whilst ensuring that the strong growth from the previous financial year issued through the exercise of employee share Company retains adequate funds to support by recording a growth of 20 per cent, whilst options (ESOPs), resulting in the number of investments thus ensuring the creation of the S & P Sensex of Mumbai (SENSEX) posted shares in issue increasing to 857.24 million by sustainable shareholder wealth in the short, 8 per cent growth during the financial year. the year end. In addition to the shares in issue, medium and long term. there are 17.66 million shares equivalent of Despite the ASPI posting relatively lower unexercised ESOPs as at 31st March 2013. During the year, the Company paid a total growth compared to the JCI, SENSEX and These are eligible for immediate exercise as dividend of Rs.3.50 per share. In absolute Singapore’s STI during the financial year, at the date of this Report. The balance of the terms, the total dividend paid for the year from a long term perspective, the Colombo Global Depositary Receipts (GDRs), in ordinary increased by 29 per cent to Rs.2.98 billion Bourse has been resilient to global economic share equivalents decreased to 1.13 million [2011/12: Rs.2.31 billion]. The dividend headwinds and has outperformed regional as at the financial year end due to conversions payout ratio decreased to 40.1 per cent as well as Western markets over the last five as against 1.19 million at the beginning of the [2011/12: 49.0 per cent] in the current year. years based on the compound annual growth financial year. rate of 17 per cent. Based on the profits of the financial year 2012/13, in addition to the two interim Market capitalisation Trend in composition of shareholders Distributions to shareholders and payout ratio Rs. Bn Rs. Bn Payout (%) % 250 212 13 25 26 22 10 200 180 174 46 33 29 39 57 2.3 150 35 36 39 34 28 49 114 42 40 39 100 32 38 5 5 5 3 3 50 1.9 1.8 1.9 2.3 3.0 1 1 1 1 2 0 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Executive directors and spouses Executives and connected parties Non-executive directors and Public resident Share repurchase Dividend paid Dividend pay-out (%) connected parties Public non-resident and GDRs Shareholders holding more than 10% Annual Report 2012/13 l 113 PROGRESSIVE Share Information dividends of Rs.1.00 each per share, the Market capitalisation and Liquidity Company also announced a final dividend of enterprise value During the financial year, 136.2 million shares Rs.1.50 per share payable on 17th June 2013. As at 31st March 2013, the market changed hands compared to 231.4 million Resultantly, in absolute terms, the dividend capitalisation of the Company increased by shares transacted during the previous financial paid and payable out of 2012/13 profits will be 22 per cent to Rs.211.74 billion [2011/12: year. The average daily turnover of the JKH Rs.2.99 billion [2011/12: Rs.2.96 billion]. Rs.173.89 billion]. The JKH market share was reported at Rs.121.3 million which capitalisation represented 9.6 per cent amounted to 15.3 per cent of the daily market Earnings per share of the Colombo Stock Exchange’s market turnover. The fully diluted earnings per share (EPS) capitalisation as at 31st March 2013 compared for the period increased by 24 per cent to to 8.6 per cent as at the previous year end. Distribution and composition of Rs.14.22 [2011/12: Rs.11.44] as profit The enterprise value as at 31st March 2013 shareholders attributable to shareholders increased by increased by 22 per cent to Rs.203.50 billion The total number of shareholders of JKH 26 per cent. The items impacting profits are [2011/12: Rs.166.56 billion] mainly due to increased to 9,570 from 9,312 seen last year. discussed in depth in the Consolidated Group the increase in market capitalisation. The net From the total shareholder base as at 31st Performance and Industry Group Analysis cash position of the Group increased by 12 per March 2013, 88.4 per cent of the shares in sections of the Annual Report. cent to Rs.8.22 billion as at 31st March 2013 issue were held by public while 1.5 per cent [2011/12: Rs.7.35 billion]. The improvement of the shares were held by the Executive The weighted average number of shares Directors and the balance 10.1 per cent of the in the net cash position was due to a marginal (diluted) increased to 858.31 million in shares were held by shareholders holding more reduction in debt and an increase in short term 2012/13 from 846.94 million in 2011/12. than 10 per cent. investments of the Group. Total shareholder return Price earnings ratio The total share holder return (TSR) of the The JKH share was trading at a price earnings share was 21.6 per cent during the period ratio (PER) of 17.4 times as at 31st March under review against a negative 2.5 per cent 2013 compared to 18.0 times earnings recorded in the comparable period in the recorded at the end of the previous financial previous year. The increase in the TSR was year. The decrease in the PER was primarily primarily driven by the appreciation of the due to earnings per share growing by 24 share price by 20 per cent during the financial per cent while the market price per share year. As at 1st April 2012, the 1-year treasury increased by only 20 per cent. The published bill rate stood at 11.3 per cent. broad market PER of the CSE was 15.5 times as at the financial year end while the PER of the SENSEX Index Mumbai was 16.0, JCI of Indonesia was 19.3 and Singapore’s STI was Five-year total shareholder return (percentage) trading at 15.4 times as at the end of the year under review. The JKH share has continued 213.8 to trade at a premium to the CSE as well as 199.6 some of its regional peers owing to its free 164.8 158.1 float, liquidity and the generation of consistent returns to its shareholders over the long term. 68.2 57.4 21.6 Price to book As at the financial year end, the price to -43.8 -2.5 book value of the Group stood at 2.4 times 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 [2011/12: 2.5 times]. The net assets per Annual TSR Cumulative TSR share increased by 26 per cent to Rs.104.78 [2011/12: Rs.83.22]. 114 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Composition of shareholders 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 Number of Number of Number of Number of % % Shareholders Shares Shareholders Shares Executive directors and spouses 4 13,152,178 1.5 4 11,502,416 1.4 Non-executive directors and connected parties 4 128,490 0.0 3 114,680 0.0 Executives and connected parties 127 29,563,354 3.4 123 28,354,208 3.4 Public Resident Institutions : 558 50,713,198 5.9 621 161,705,264 19.2 Individuals : 8,459 192,573,834 22.5 8,201 123,840,981 14.7 Public Non-Resident Institutions : 149 476,180,775 55.5 112 321,289,175 38.1 Individuals : 267 7,264,866 0.8 245 7,959,652 0.9 Global depositary receipts 1 1,129,677 0.1 1 1,185,047 0.1 Shareholders holding more than 10% 1 86,536,133 10.1 2 188,168,623 22.3 Grand total 9,570 857,242,505 100.0 9,312 844,120,046 100.0 Market information on ordinary shares of the Company 2012/13 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 2011/12 Share Information High 249.70 249.70 230.00 229.90 210.80 228.68* Low 172.00 219.00 202.10 176.00 172.00 158.20 Close 247.00 247.00 219.90 229.10 182.80 206.00 Dividends paid (per share) 3.50 1.00 1.00 0.00 1.50 3.00 Trading Statistics Number of transactions 19,812 5,354 4,758 5,372 4,328 24,617 Number of shares traded (‘000) 136,204 44,205 36,405 30,703 24,890 231,367 % of total shares in issue 15.9 5.2 4.3 3.6 2.93 27.4 Value of all shares traded (Rs.million) 28,985 10,240 7,760 6,159 4,825 46,188 Average daily turnover (Rs.million) 121 180 127 99 82 195 % of total market turnover 15.3 17.8 18.8 11.0 13.7 10.6 Market capitalisation (Rs.million) 211,739 211,739 187,247 194,973 155,504 173,889 % of total market capitalisation 9.6 9.6 8.6 8.5 8.2 8.6 * Adjusted for the sub-division of shares Distribution of shareholders 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 Number of Number of Number of Number of % % % % Shareholders Shares Shareholders Shares Less than or equal to 1000 5,979 62.5 1,296,813 0.2 5,352 57.5 1,352,155 0.2 1,001 to 10,000 2,414 25.2 8,357,994 1.0 2,673 28.7 9,345,261 1.1 10,001 to 100,000 872 9.1 24,899,571 2.9 988 10.6 28,241,168 3.3 100,001 to 1,000,000 206 2.2 67,482,993 7.9 203 2.2 62,120,363 7.4 Over 1,000,001 99 1.0 755,205,134 88.1 96 1.0 743,061,099 88.0 Grand total 9,570 100.0 857,242,505 100.0 9,312 100.0 844,120,046 100.0 Annual Report 2012/13 l 115 PROGRESSIVE Share Information Directors’ shareholding Employee share optons* 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 Year Ended Number of Options S Ratnayake 5,299,066 4,579,903 31 March Exercised (million) A Gunawardene 6,481,720 5,706,654 1997 0.02 R Peiris 1,371,392 1,215,859 1998 0.16 F Amerasinghe 5,514 5,514 1999 0.27 I Coomaraswamy Nil Nil 2000 0.47 T Das Nil Nil 2001 0.02 S Enderby* N/A Nil 2002 1.78 R Gunasekera 107,866 107,866 2003 2.30 A Omar** 13,810 Nil 2004 4.08 S Tiruchelvam 1,300 1,300 2005 1.53 2006 2.04 Options available under the employee share 2007 3.67 option plan of John Keells Holdings PLC: 2008 4.06 S Ratnayake 1,380,426 2,631,892 2009 0.86 A Gunawardene 1,207,872 2,302,938 2010 8.12 R Peiris 1,027,850 1,533,383 2011 10.23 * Resigned on with effect from 8th March 2013 2012 4.38 ** Appointed with effect from 1st March 2013 2013 13.12  'JSTUFYFSDJTFEJO': Twenty Largest Shareholders of the Company 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 Number of Number of % % Shares Shares 1 Janus Overseas Fund 86,536,133 10.1 86,536,133 10.3 2 Mr S E Captain 82,431,062 9.6 101,632,490 12.0 3 Broga Hill Investments Limited 74,591,759 8.7 74,591,759 8.8 4 Paints & General Industries Limited 49,086,579 5.7 40,325,338 4.8 5 Deutsche Bank AG – London 32,930,641 3.8 23,129,102 2.7 6 Melstacorp (Private) Limited 31,499,883 3.7 27,846,346 3.3 7 Aberdeen Global-Emerging Markets Smaller Companies Fund 30,850,435 3.6 15,502,743 1.8 8 Aberdeen Global-Asian Smaller Companies Fund 26,563,207 3.1 11,530,150 1.4 9 Estate of Mr A A N De Fonseka 19,952,358 2.3 19,952,358 2.4 10 Aberdeen Global Asia Pacific Equity Fund 19,047,737 2.2 19,047,737 2.3 11 Janus Aspen Series Overseas Portfolio Fund 18,303,333 2.1 18,303,333 2.2 12 Schroder International Selection Fund 13,172,166 1.5 11,834,866 1.4 13 Mr K Balendra 13,141,807 1.5 9,587,276 1.1 14 Rubber Investment Trust Limited A/C no.1 11,535,763 1.3 14,326,103 1.7 15 J P Morgan Clearing Corporation 11,518,889 1.3 27,468,042 3.3 16 London-Edinburgh Dragon Trust PLC 10,936,664 1.3 9,936,664 1.2 17 BBH-Matthews International Funds 9,556,504 1.1 4,298,200 0.5 18 Aberdeen Asia Pacific Fund 9,074,229 1.1 9,074,229 1.1 19 Mrs D Kumaranayagam 7,751,552 0.9 2,010,814 0.2 20 Aberdeen Institutional Commingled Funds, LLC 7,325,938 0.9 8,859,873 1.0 116 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Employee share option plan as at 31st March 2013 Date of Employee Shares Expiry Option Shares Exercised Cancelled*** Outstanding End/Current Grant Category Granted Date Grant Price Adjusted** Price (Rs.) (Rs.)** PLAN 3 Award 3 28.05.2007 10,551,062 27.05.2012 146.00 13,017,508 11,743,088 1,274,420 109.50 GEC* 2,111,212 2,814,948 2,814,948 Other Executives 8,439,850 10,202,560 8,928,140 1,274,420 PLAN 4 25.03.2008 5,405,945 24.03.2013 120.00 6,806,006 6,550,456 255,550 90.00 GEC* 2,162,375 2,883,163 2,883,163 Other Executives 3,243,570 3,922,843 3,667,293 255,550 PLAN 5 17.12.2009 6,126,960 16.12.2014 160.25 7,935,812 1,751,614 55,227 6,128,971 120.19 GEC* 2,445,280 3,260,373 Other Executives 3,681,680 4,675,439 1,751,614 55,227 PLAN 6 09.12.2010 4,672,823 08.12.2015 292.00 6,214,104 38,398 404,517 5,771,189 219.00 GEC* 1,872,174 2,496,229 Other Executives 2,800,649 3,717,875 38,398 404,517 PLAN 7 07.12.2011 6,306,182 06.12.2016 172.10 6,306,182 483,070 66,300 5,756,812 172.10 GEC* 2,522,482 2,522,482 Other Executives 3,783,700 3,783,700 483,070 66,300 Total 33,062,972 40,279,612 20,566,626 2,056,014 17,656,972 Note: The Company does not grant any funding to employees for exercise of options * GEC comprises of the Executive Directors and Presidents ** Adjusted for Bonus Issues/Right Issues/Sub-divisions *** “Cancelled” represents shares not exercised by resigning Employees Dividend since 1997/98 Share capital since 1997/98 Year Ended 31 March DPS (Rs.) Dividends (Rs. ’000) Year Ended 31 March Number of Shares in Issue (millions) 1998 4.00 155,783 1998 40.21 1999 4.00 151,343 1999 40.47 2000 3.00 168,150 2000 61.18 2001 2.00 353,128 2001 183.56 2002 2.00 329,869 2002 185.35 2003 2.00 342,203 2003 187.64 2004 2.50 725,783 2004 300.08 2005 3.00 1,027,497 2005 331.63 2006 3.00 1,199,460 2006 400.00 2007 3.00 1,412,306 2007 552.94 2008 5.00 3,176,302 2008 635.99 2009 3.00 1,883,442 2009 611.35 2010 3.00 1,843,642 2010 619.47 2011 3.00 1,868,707 2011 629.69 2012 3.00 2,313,519 2012 844.12 2013 3.50 2,982,421 2013 857.24 Annual Report 2012/13 l 117 PROGRESSIVE Share Information History of scrip issues and repurchases since 1997/98 Year Ended 31 March Issue Basis Number of shares (millions) Ex-date 1998 Bonus 1:4 8.02 9-Jan-98 2000 Bonus 1:5 8.09 15-Jun-99 2000 Bonus 1:4 12.14 5-Jan-00 2001 Bonus 2:1 122.36 27-Jul-00 2004 Bonus 1:4 46.94 10-Jun-03 2004 Private placement n/a 24.00 21-Oct-03 2004 Rights @ Rs.75* 1:7 37.42 7-Nov-03 2005 Bonus 1:10 30.02 13-May-04 2006 Bonus 1:5 66.34 11-May-05 2007 Bonus 1:7 57.16 13-Jun-06 2007 Rights @ Rs.140* 1:5 92.10 23-Jan-07 2007 Bonus 1:7 78.96 13-Mar-07 2009 Repurchase 1:25 25.50 11-Oct-08 2012 Sub division 4:3 210.05 30-Jun-11 * Unadjusted prices GDR History (in terms of ordinary shares, million) Financial calendar 2012/13 Year Opening Converted/ Closing Ended 31 Issued** Interim financial statements Balance Repurchased Balance March Three months ended 30th June 2012 26th July 2012 1994 4.5 4.50 Six months ended 30th September 2012 9th November 2012 1995 4.50 0.21 4.29 Nine months ended 31st December 2012 30th January 2012 1996 4.29 0.59 0.2 4.68 1997 4.68 0.27 2.8 2.15 First interim dividend paid on 23rd November 2012 1998 2.15 0.28 1.06 1.37 Second interim dividend paid on 19th March 2013 1999 1.37 0.75 0.62 Final dividend proposed to be paid on 17th June 2013 2000 0.62 0.26 0.52 0.36 Annual Report 2012/13 3rd June 2013 2001 0.36 0.72 0.23 0.85 34th Annual General Meeting 28th June 2013 2002 0.85 0.17 0.68 2003 0.68 0.16 0.52 2013/14 2004 0.52 0.13 0.65 Interim financial statements 2005 0.65 0.06 0.71 Three months ended 30th June 2013 On or before 31st July 2013 2006 0.71 0.14 0.85 Six months ended 30th September 2013 On or before 7th November 2013 2007 0.85 0.12 0.97 Nine months ended 31st December 2013 On or before 30th January 2014 2008 0.97 0.14 1.11 Annual Report 2013/14 On or before 2nd June 2014 2009 1.11 0.12 0.99 35th Annual General Meeting 27th June 2014 2010 0.99 0.01 0.98 2011 0.98 0.03 0.95 2012 0.95 0.32 0.08 1.19 2013 1.19 0.06 1.13 * 1 GDR equivalent to 2 ordinary shares 'JSTUJTTVFEJO':BOETVCTFRVFOUMZJODSFBTFEBMPOHXJUICPOVT issues and sub-division of ordinary shares 118 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS CONTINUED Triple Bottom Line Discussion & Analysis Keeping our eye on the next level SYNERGISED UNDERSTANDING OUR ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES PROGRESSIVE OUR INVESTORS In its journey of sustainable development, investments. Of the remainder, approximately The presentation and classification of the the Group has focused equally on all three 29 per cent (2011/12 – 27 per cent) was paid economic value statement of the previous year aspects of the triple bottom line; Environment, to providers of funds; 50 per cent (2011/12 – has been amended, where relevant, for better Social and Economic development. While 51 per cent) was distributed to employees and presentation and to be comparable with those understanding the importance of environmental 21 per cent (2011/12 – 22 per cent) accrued of the current year. and social responsibility which provides the to the Government by way of taxes. Group with its social license to operate, the A detailed breakdown of the sector wise Group has always strived to ensure sound The economic performance of the sectors Economic Value Statement can be found at the economic performance through quality is described in detail in the “Management end of this report. earnings and robust risk management Discussion and Analysis” section. and diversification. Through sustainable development, the Group strives to provide Economic Value Statement for 2012/13 financial and non-financial value to all its shareholders as well as to all its other Group Total stakeholders. For the year ended 31 March 2013 % 2012 % 2011 % Rs’Mn Rs’Mn Rs’Mn Economic Value Generated Direct economic value generated The Economic Value Statement depicts the Revenue 85,557 88.15 77,689 89.90 60,500 86.69 generation of wealth and its distribution Finance income 4,770 4.91 2,874 3.33 2,810 4.03 among the stakeholders by acting responsibly Share of results of equityin all of the Group’s businesses and social accounted investees 3,369 3.47 2,765 3.20 2,641 3.78 activities throughout the entire value chain. It Profit on sale of assets & also reveals the amounts reinvested for the other income 1,352 1.39 1,678 1.94 3,367 4.82 replacement of assets and retained for the Change in fair value of investment property 2,012 2.07 1,414 1.64 468 0.67 growth and development of operations. 97,060 100.00 86,420 100.00 69,786 100.00 The financial statements of the Group Economic value distributed have been prepared in accordance with Operating costs 65,745 67.74 60,391 69.88 47,505 68.07 the provisions of the Companies Act No. Employee wages & benefits 9,507 9.80 8,091 9.36 6,873 9.85 07 of 2007 of Sri Lanka and presented in Payments to providers of funds 5,452 5.62 4,276 4.95 3,482 4.99 compliance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Payments to government* 3,910 4.03 3,595 4.16 3,194 4.58 Community investments** 53 0.05 59 0.07 46 0.07 Standards and provides information required 84,667 87.23 76,412 89.34 61,100 87.55 by the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. Economic value retained Depreciation 2,250 2.32 1,863 2.16 1,700 2.44 All values given in this section are in Sri Lanka Amortisation 925 0.95 771 0.89 609 0.87 rupees unless otherwise stated. Profit after dividends 9,218 9.50 7,374 8.53 6,377 9.14 12,393 12.77 10,008 11.58 8,686 12.45 The direct economic value generated by the Group during the year ended 31 March 2013 amounts to Rs.97.06 billion compared to the * 2013 2012 2011 Rs. 86.42 billion last year. Payment to government by country Rs’Mn Rs’Mn Rs’Mn Of this, 68 per cent (2011/12 70 per cent) Sri Lanka 3,367 3,041 2,690 was expended to business partners in terms of Maldives 540 533 493 purchasing goods and services for operations India 0.8 20.0 9.8 Other 1.9 1.1 1.1 whilst 13 per cent (2011/12 12 per cent) 3,910 3,595 3,194 of the total economic value generated was retained for future expansion and strategic ** Reflect the amounts disbursed by Group Companies to the John Keells Foundation 120 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information DID YOU KNOW? During the year under “Through sustainable development, the Group strives review, the Group’s Net Assets amounted to \WXZW^QLMÅVIVKQITIVLVWVÅVIVKQIT^IT]M\WITTQ\[ Rs. 89.82 billion shareholders as well as to all its other stakeholders” The John Keells Foundation invested Rs. 25.41 spending and measuring the impact of our million as infrastructure and service based social programmes ensure value is derived community development projects and details of and the benefits are targeted to the intended Economic Policy such projects are specified in the section “Our stakeholders. The John Keells Group is Community.” committed to delivering As part of carrying on business across three sustainable economic Our Approach geographical areas, the Group identifies its performance and growth to all its In order to meet the needs of its shareholders, obligations, risks and opportunities and strives diverse stakeholders. the economic performance of the Group to positively impact the local markets in the needs to be sustainable in the long run. The areas it operates. The Group also strives to Group’s performance is driven by integrative provide services and development activities management and active oversight. Prudent towards the community it operates in. investments, pragmatic environmental Annual Report 2012/13 l 121 PROGRESSIVE OUR INVESTORS John Keells Holdings makes its outsourcing where the vehicles are owned be found in the Sustainable Sourcing Initiative best endeavours to stimulate and operated by third parties. Through this specified in the section “Our Community”. the Sri Lankan economy and the model over 500 drivers have been provided livelihoods, while competitive prices on Currently, the Group estimates its purchases community around its operational vehicles have been facilitated through the from the local suppliers through an analysis of sites by purchasing goods from intervention of Walkers Tours. its local versus foreign currency spend relative local suppliers wherever possible to total purchases. The Group’s total cost The Transportation industry group also follows of sales amount to Rs. 65.74 billion (which an outsourcing model for a majority of its fleet, includes all payments made to suppliers and The Group’s commitment to delivery, ability to thereby providing employment to 80 drivers providers of utilities) while Rs. 22.30 billion adapt to its environment and re-invent itself and helpers. is spent on purchases made from overseas has enabled John Keells to remain competitive suppliers. Thus, approximately 66 per cent locally and globally. The constant review of The Consumer Foods & Retail sector obtains of the Group’s payments have been made to portfolios, emphasis on growth and stringent some of its key raw materials such as ginger, local parties. We have noted that a proportion internal controls have enabled consistent vanilla, treacle and cashew from farming of imported goods may however be purchased growth. Prudent financial management, a communities in the Central, Eastern and from local agents, and as such, the Group is strong balance sheet, healthy cash flows North Central Provinces. Ceylon Cold Stores in the process of refining our methodology for and the efficient and effective utilisation of has procured Rs. 40 million worth of raw establishing our local supplier total spend. resources and capital has ensured that the materials from local farmer communities. Group is in a position to leapfrog competition. Keells Foods gurantees its purchases of pork, Defined Contribution Plan Obligations chicken and mechanically de-boned meat from In Sri Lanka, employees are eligible for The Group’s performance driven compensation local suppliers, procuring raw material worth Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) contributions culture has led to increased productivity and approximately Rs. 623 million. Keells Super according to the terms of the Employees’ the alignment of employee, management and collects low country and upcountry vegetables Provident Fund Act No. 15 of 1958 and its stakeholder interests. The Group has, as always, from farming families, in the North Central, subsequent amendments and for Employees’ ensured that it complies with all regulations Sourthern and Central Provinces to the value of Trust Fund (ETF) contributions according to the and that all dues are settled on time. It is also over Rs. 215 million. terms of the Employees’ Trust Fund Act No. 46 committed to purchasing products and services of 1980 and its subsequent amendments. The from communities and suppliers at fair prices Further details on the Group’s contribution to companies contribute the relevant percentages whilst upholding high standards of quality and the economy through localised purchasing can of the eligible gross emoluments of employees business ethics, while managing social and environmental impacts efficiently. With 68 per cent of its economic value distributed for purchases of goods, services and utilities, John Keells Holdings makes its best endeavours to stimulate the Sri Lankan economic well being and the community around its operational sites by purchasing goods from local suppliers wherever possible (where “local” is defined as those suppliers conducting business in the country of Sri Lanka). The Sri Lankan resorts procure all their fresh produce such as fruits, vegetables, fish, meat and eggs, to a value of over Rs. 100 million locally, thereby contributing to the economy of those communities. Walkers Tours operates its transportation fleet through a model of Sourcing of ginger from local suppliers 122 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information to the respective Employee Provident Funds and to the Employees’ Trust employee contribute 12 per cent each to the fund and it is managed by Fund respectively, both of which are externally funded. the Government of India. Out of the employer’s contribution of 12 per cent, 8.33 per cent (with a cap of INR 6,500/-) is paid towards Subject to the rules of the provident fund, to which such contributions the employees’ pension scheme account and the balance is directed are made, the Group contributes 12-20 per cent as the employer’s towards the employee’s provident fund account. contribution and the employees contribute 8-15 per cent to their respective provident funds. The contributions are directly transferred Rs. 000s 2013 2012 2011 on the 15th day of every month to the Employees’ Provident Fund, managed by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka or to a private provident fund Employer contributions to the 114,145 100,754 87,264 maintained by the Company. Furthermore, the Group also contributes 3 trust fund per cent to the Employees’ Trust Fund managed by the Department of Employer contributions to the 535,907 474,308 426,957 Labour. provident fund The private provident funds are controlled and administered by management committees appointed by the members and governed Rs. 000s 2013 2012 2011 by an approved set of rules. The assets of the funds available for Employee benefit liability as 1,385,072 1,372,161 1,215,597 investment are invested from time to time in suitable income generating at 31 March instruments keeping in line with the investment limits prescribed in Payments during the financial 117,217 85,444 70,150 the guidelines, and the accounts of the funds are audited every year. year The committees and members meet once a year to ratify the financial statements and all members of the funds are entitled to examine the audited financial statements and the entries applicable to them made Defined Benefit Plan Obligations during the year in the registers. Employees are entitled to retirement gratuity, payable under the Payment of Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983 and an employee with more Regarding our Maldivian operations, all local (Maldivian National) than 5 years of service will receive half a month’s salary for every year Employees are eligible for the Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme of service on retirement or termination of service. (MRPS) contribution according to the terms of the Maldives Pension Act Law No. 8/2009 handled by the Maldives Pension Administration Office The liability recognised by the Group in respect of employee benefit (MPAO). The companies contribute the relevant percentages of the liabilities in the balance sheet is the present value of the defined eligible basic salary of employees to the Maldives Retirement Pension benefit obligation of the Group at the balance sheet date using the Scheme. projected unit credit method. Subject to the rules of the Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme, to The employee benefit liabilities of listed companies with more than which such contribution is made, the company and the employees 100 employees are based on an actuarial valuation. The liabilities of contribute 7 per cent each to the retirement pension scheme. The all other companies in the group are based on the gratuity formula contribution is directly transferred on the 15th day of every month specified by Sri Lanka Accounting Standard 16, governing employee to the Retirement Pension Scheme fund account maintained at the benefits. Bank of Maldives PLC, which is managed by the Maldives Pension Administration Office. Regulation of participation and disbursement of benefits to foreign employees under the Maldives pension scheme Law no 7/2011 (1st Amendment to Maldives pension act) shall apply only to foreign employees employed in Maldives and their employers with effect from 01 April 2014. In India, employees are eligible for Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) contributions according to the terms of the Employees’ Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act No. 19 of 1952. The company and the Annual Report 2012/13 l 123 PROGRESSIVE OUR PEOPLE HR Philosopy The Group constantly revisits The John Keells Group recognises that human the foundations on which its HR resources are an appreciating asset bringing promise is built to revalidate, continuing returns and constitute the catalyst consolidate and build on those key for world class performance. elements that will make it continue to stand out as one of the most As an organisation having the vision of Building preferred employers Businesses that are Leaders in the Region, all processes and systems seek to unleash the potential of all its assets, including that of its At a Group level, the VOE score has increased a means of understanding the obligations people, to the optimum. showing greater engagement. However, the and responsiblities of the Group towards its survey shows that more work needs to be employees. During the year under review, the Group undertaken at an Assistant Manager level as revisited the foundations on which its HR a representative sample of this category has The workforce as at 31 March 2013 totals promise is built and took many steps to not performed to the expected levels in a few 19,296 of which 12,791 are employees while revalidate, consolidate and build on those dimensions in the VOE scores. The survey 6,505 are supervised workers or workers key elements that will make the Group results are an input for policy makers at each deployed by third party contractors. Of continue to stand out as one of the most level and the HR personnel at the sectors and these 6,505 workers, 4,999 are insurance preferred employers, an organisation that the businesses to devise strategies and action sales agents of Union Assurance PLC who shareholders toast and all other stakeholders plans for creating a more engaged workforce. are engaged on a sales and distributor have a win-win partner with. arrangement with Union Assurance PLC, as The Group also continuously tracks the is customary in this business. The employee In the year 2011/12 a Group wide dipstick composition of its workforce and trends as numbers set out in the chart comprise full survey called the “Voice of Employee” time employees as per the relevant national (VOE) was introduced to gauge the level legislation. The Group has increased its of engagement of staff. This home grown MORE number of employees by 8 per cent during survey which is conducted on an e-platform the reporting year with the main contributing to a randomly selected sample of employees THAN sectors being Leisure and Retail. has enabled the Group to assess how the businesses and functions are progressing in this area. Just a Gender and age are two of the key parameters considered by the Group in terms of tracking The VOE survey results covering the 2012/13 financial year shows a marked improvement Workplace employee diversity. The entire workforce shows that 23 per cent are females, a marked change from the previous year’s 16 per cent. in the levels of engagement from the survey conducted in 2011/12 and the Group intends to work towards bettering them. The Total employee count Male Female Total outcome of the survey is a Key Result Area AVP & Above 99 24 123 for Profit Centre Managers and Functional Manager 403 67 470 Managers, Sector Heads and the Presidents, Assistant Managers 390 106 496 in their respective areas of responsibility. Executives 1,500 555 2,055 Their individual performance is measured Non Executives 7,521 2,126 9,647 on the People Quadrant with reference to Total employees 9,913 2,878 12,791 the scores obtained by their respective units Contractor’s personnel 4,940 1,565 6,505 with reference to benchmarks agreed at Goal Total workforce 14,853 4,443 19,296 setting at the beginning of the financial year. 124 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information “I am proud to be a part of the John Keells Group “The John Keells Group recognises that human resources because of its focus on are an appreciating asset bringing continuing returns and constitute the catalyst for world class performance” corporate responsibility” Heshan Gunaratne Employee by Gender Contractor's personnel by Gender Workforce by Gender 23% 23% 24% Male Male Male Female Female Female 77% 76% 77% Annual Report 2012/13 l 125 PROGRESSIVE OUR PEOPLE The Group also considers diversity within key decision making bodies in the organisation. Board of Directors Group Executive Committee Group Operating Committee 23% 11% 23% Male Male Male Female Female Female 77% 77% 89% The Group Executive Committee is the practices in their respective industry groups, 5 are between the ages of 30-50, while 8 are overlay structure that implements, under the sectors, functions and business units. over the age of 50. It is also noteworthy that leadership and direction of the Chairman-CEO, 45 per cent of the employees are below the the policies and strategies determined by the All Board Directors are over the age of 50, age of 30. board. The Group Operating Committee acts while three members of the Group Executive as the glue that binds the Group and provides Committee are between the ages of 30-50 and The gender-wise breakdown within categories a platform to share learnings on matters that six members are over 50 years of age. Of the of permanent and contract types of affect industry groups, sectors, business 13 members of the Group Operating Committee employment in the Group are also tracked. units and functions and also the platform to (excluding the Group Executive Committee), launch, implement and support Group-wide initiatives and policies. The Group Management Committees at every industry group level is Workforce by Type responsible for the success of the business Male Female Total units which come within its boundaries and Employees – permanent 6,276 1,979 8,255 are dedicated and focused towards designing, Employees – contract 3,637 899 4,536 implementing and monitoring the best Contractor’s personnel – contract 4,940 1,565 6,505 Total Workforce 14,853 4,443 19,296 Workforce by Type of Employment 43% 34% Employees permanent Employees contract Contractor's personnel contract 23% The Group’s strength is the diversity of its workforce 126 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Given the industry and business norms Those identified as “Talent” are governing the Leisure and Consumer Food & tracked and their development Retail sectors, these sectors have the highest focused upon through tools such number of the Group’s contract staff which as Leadership Development accounts for 31 per cent of total employees. programmes, Development All businesses use this pool of contract staff to source employees when opportunities for Centres and understanding and employment arises in its permanent cadre. management of their aspirations Further, the contract staff are trained, and employees the opportunity to grow in their given training opportunities, as appropriate job roles. While the Hotels and Retail sectors during their tenure with the organisation, and John Keells Logistics carried out internal New hires and attrition are also two vital making them ready not only to do the job at process efficiency studies to identify optimum labour aspects that are continously tracked hand but to take permanent positions which manning levels, Ceylon Cold Stores undertook and monitored by the Group. Of the total new arise in the future that match their skills and this task with the support of the University of hires in the Group, during the reporting period, expertise. Moratuwa. 78 per cent have been below the age of 30 while 21 per cent have been between the ages The Group continues to focus on the processes While approximately 11 per cent of our 30 50 and 1 per cent above the age 50. and continuous rationalisation of cadre employees are employed outside the country, The opening of the newly constructed hotel, requirements towards achieving optimum mainly in the Maldives and India, the balance Cinnamon Bey Beruwela a 200 room 5 star efficiency levels whilst also providing its staff is employed within Sri Lanka. category hotel saw a significant increase in the staff cadre of the Group. The Leisure and Retail sectors account for the highest “The Group continues to focus on the processes and percentage of the total new headcount of continuous rationalisation of cadre requirements the Group at the Non-Executive level and on contract basis, this being the result of the \W_IZL[IKPQM^QVOWX\QU]UMNÅKQMVKaTM^MT[_PQT[\ nature of their operating model and industry. also providing its employees the opportunity to grow The Group’s new hire attrition, excluding the IT in their job roles” and Retail sectors where attrition is expected to be high and is considered to be an industry norm, is at 11 per cent, while the Group’s total Employees by Region attrition stands at 21 per cent. Male Female Total Employees Local 8,855 2,551 11,406 Proactive initiatives have been taken to Employees Foreign 1,058 327 1,385 address attrition in industries with high staff turnover, and in the Leisure Inbound sector the The trend of employee distribution across type, region and gender over the past two years are as employment model was improved. Continuous follows. engagement with the employees saw positive results in the BPO business with attrition 2012/13 2011/12 coming down significantly over the last year. Employment Type At every business, this would remain a focus Permanent 65% 66% area and also remains a key result area for Contract 35% 34% HR heads as well as business unit heads. At a Group level, those identified as “Talent” Employment by Region are tracked and their development focused Local 89% 89% upon by using tools such as Leadership Foreign 11% 11% Development Programmes, Development Employment by Gender Centres and understanding and management Male 78% 78% of their aspirations. Attrition of Talent is a Key Female 22% 22% Performance Indicator for business heads as well as HR heads. Annual Report 2012/13 l 127 PROGRESSIVE OUR PEOPLE The total attrition of by gender, region and age group are as follows. Attrition by Gender Attrition by Region Attrition by Age Breakdown 13% 3% 30% Male Local Below 30 Female Foreign 22% Between 30-50 Above 50 75% 70% 87% The attrition of new hires by gender, region and age group are as follows. New Hire Attrition by Gender New Hire Attrition by Region New Hire Attrition by Age Group 1% 11% 26% 17% Male Local Below 30 Female Foreign Between 30-50 Above 50 74% 89% 82% Our Approach groups and policies to hear and address their Innovation teams The John Keells Group endeavours to concerns and resolve issues and conflicts in CSR volunteerism programme inculcate in its employees the notion that a fair and transparent manner such as those Peer and upward evaluation at Manager every employee is responsible for making enumerated below at a Group level, apart from and above level John Keells “More than just a Work Place” varying methods applied at a business unit John Keells Group Sports Club and that all employees together make John level. JK Connect, JK Blog and What’s on Keells what it is and what it will be. To this Practice of the Open Door Policy Your Mind and other e-communication end it seeks to fully engage with employees Ombudsperson channels every day to ensure that the fabric of John Employee direct access to the Chairman Grievance handling procedure, including Keells of inclusivity, challenge, innovation and through a dedicated and secure e-mail a structured and confidential means excellence will only get stronger. address Chairman’s Direct of addressing complaints of sexual Regular Skip Level meetings at AM and harassment The Group believes in constant dialogue above levels with all its employees and the creation of Joint Consultative Committees organisation citizenship and commitment. It Young Fora at Group level and sector strongly believes in employee engagement as levels an enabler of positive social impacts for the Joint Operating Committees organisation. The Group recognises the rights Business Improvement Committees of employees and provide forums, support 128 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information The Group’s performance centric culture has not taken away the fun employees derive from work and the work environment. Employees are encouraged to find their respective balance of “life” and “work,” whilst the Group, at a corporate and business level, encourages and facilitates opportunities to find that right balance Collective Bargaining Group policy on collective bargaining ensures that formal and informal types of collective bargaining are prevalent in the Group. Career Committees for Executive and above planning for jobs identified as “Jobs at Formal collective agreements are found in staff are the decision making committees for Risk”, promotions, lateral moves and an the Consumer Foods & Retail industry group all individual performance related decisions understanding of the career aspirations of the with 1,946 employees covered under such made on behalf of employees at the end of employees and their readiness. The month of agreements. A further 27 personnel are a performance cycle. Each business unit May is dedicated to Career Committees and covered under collective bargaining agreements will have such committees for Executive and the Group has during the year, conducted 51 at John Keells PLC, in the Plantation Services Assistant Manager levels. Each sector will have Career Committees. The feedback is given to sector. The Tea Smallholder Factories PLC in a Manager level Career Committee (Sector employees by at least two members of the the Plantation Services sector is not a signatory Career Committee) and at a Group level, the Career Committee (including the supervisor) of a collective agreement but the company Group Career Committee for the AVP and and training is provided to employees to customarily follows the same wage structures above level employees. receive as well as give feedback every year in governing the Plantation Industry of the country the first quarter. and 884 of its staff fall within this arrangement. The Retail sector engages in salary negotiations and ensures that employee views are given due “While formal feedback is a scheduled occurrence, the XMZNWZUIVKMKMV\ZQKK]T\]ZMWN \PM2WPV3MMTT[/ZW]X consideration. Resort hotels have entered into Memoranda encourages and facilitates constant and regular employee of Understanding (MoU) with employee representatives covering 237 employees in feedback at all levels.” limited areas. As another aspect of continuous employee The objective of these committees is to The Group’s performance centric culture has engagement, all employees of the Group assess employee performance as a committee not taken away the fun employees derive from undergo regular appraisals to receive feedback rather than by a single supervisor, thereby work and the work environment. Employees on their performance. The Group performance ensuring impartial assessments and enabling are encouraged to find their respective balance management policy requires bi-annual formal benchmarking and raising the bar at each of “life” and “work,” whilst the Group, at a feedback to be provided to the executive cadre level. The agenda of a committee includes a corporate and business level, encourages and to all others at least once a year. While consideration of performance with reference and facilitates opportunities to find that right formal feedback is a scheduled occurrence, the to a rating scale of 1-5, determination of balance.The Group creates opportunities to performance-centric culture of the John Keells the learning and development needs of an realise employees’ work-life balance through Group encourages and facilitates constant and employee, identification of “Group Talent” that its Sports Club, volunteer programme for CSR regular employee feedback at all levels. requires differentiated treatment, succession activities that offers its employees the ability Annual Report 2012/13 l 129 PROGRESSIVE OUR PEOPLE to look beyond work and reach the community The Group firmly believes in the Post Graduate Institute of Management and embrace and engage in areas of personal improving the skill levels of its and Harvard Business Publishing Leadership interest, Group level events such as the cadre, to benefit both the individual Programme as the Group’s leadership training Year End Get-together which brings together partner for Manager and above levels during and the organisation. In this light, approximately 16,000 employees and their the year. the Group places great emphasis families to one venue and also by requiring compulsory budgets for employee welfare to on capacity and skill building The Group’s internal training faculty continues foster relations amongst its employees at every to cater for entry-level training as well as level and among businesses and functions. The Learning Management System and other complex trainings with respect to The Group has also made it necessary that the e-learning initiative that the Group embarked competencies at all levels. The pool of the employee, as well as the employer, ensures on during the last financial year saw fruition internal training faculty consists of employees that annual leave is availed by employees. with the system going live in October 2012 from many disciplines. The Group’s L&D with 25 e-modules. The e-platform that philosophy and practices are flexible and The current legal regime of Sri Lanka also was established enables the employees to dynamic, accommodating lifelong learning has not kept up with the times and despite view, manage and engage in most of their crucial to building a sustainable competitive recommendations made for changing the laws learning and development activities at the advantage. to suit the current work place requirements, click of a button. The new learning portal especially in the context of the changing also enables the supervisors to manage the demographics, there has been little success. learning activities of the subordinates, enabling The Group believes that more flexibility can them to view the learning progress of team be given to its employees, especially in work members, view the training programs on offer, hours, and the manner and where they work nominate employees for training, reschedule from, had there been changes made to the law, employee training and manage all relevant L&D with effective enforcement mechanisms for the administrative functions using a single portal. Regulator. The learning portal also included an e-library with e-book summaries and audio and video Aside from ongoing employee engagement, content under 21 different categories. the Group firmly believes in improving the skill levels of its cadre, to benefit both John Keells employees have spent a total of The Group continues to offer leadership the individual and the organisation. In this 582,846 hours on training, averaging 46 hours training at all levels using various strategic light, the Group places great emphasis on per employee, an increase of 25 per cent partners such as the Assistant Manager level capacity and skill building. At a Group level, compared to the previous year. programme undertaken in partnership with Learning and Development (L&D) is driven by the Group Human Resources division, while the responsibility for L&D in functional areas rests with the business units. Where training is intensive and is provided on almost daily basis at a floor level, there are dedicated L&D personnel attached to the Human Resource divisions of the business units. Thus Hotels, Retail and the Insurance businesses have dedicated L&D teams that work with their employees constantly. The employees are provided training on John Keells roof competency development, sector and technical competency development and also management and leadership development to address current and future competency requirements. Group Development Center for Assistant Managers 130 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information The Group has provided on average 45 and talent management are also made in this accident logs, attendance registers and other hours of training to its male employees while manner. Meritocracy rules at every stage of an records. Programmes carried out on education, providing 47 percent hours of training to its employee’s journey in the Group. training, counselling, prevention and risk female employees. The training provided to control to assist workers, their families and non-executive staff was on average 43 hours Occupational Health & Safety the community regarding serious diseases and per employee, while training provided to The Group places paramount importance on other health hazards are also reported on. executive staff cadre was an average of 53 Occupational Health and Safety (OHS). Driven hours per employee. by the John Keells Group’s OHS policy, all During the period, a total of 196 staff members business units within the Group have been were affected by occupational injuries and Total Training Hours empowered to undertake any measure it may diseases. Minor occupational injuries or deem necessary to ensure that it is a “Safe diseases that occur causing an employee to Non 414,724 Place to Work”. be unable to report to work for less than one Executives day have been excluded although records are Executives 140,579 In keeping with the goal to continue to be a maintained for such injuries. Asst 12,421 Managers “sustainable” organisation, the John Keells Manager 11,676 Group makes sure that its environment, as far The Group also records the number of lost AVP & 3,447 Above as possible, is an OHS friendly one, by giving days as a result of occupational injuries and 0 OHS priority within all its industry groups. diseases as a measure of the severity of any 100,000 200,000 300,000 400,000 500,000 accidents or diseases. The Voice of Employee survey concluded that employees believe that the Group provides a The total person days lost for the Group for the The foundation of the Human Resources safe working environment, with a very high reporting period was 1,503. philosophy in the John Keells Group is to rating for the overall safety of the work place. be an “Equal Opportunity Employer”; the The Group also tracks the number of absentee Group does not discriminate on the basis of The Group records and reports on rates days in its effort to maximise productivity gender, race, nationality, age, social origin, of injury, occupation diseases, lost days, and as a measure of satisfaction in the work disability, religion, or any other basis. The absenteeism and total number of workenvironment. performance centric culture, which has been related casualties of its employees. Incidents a cornerstone of the Group’s success, ensures of occupational health and safety and that employees performing at the same level occupational diseases are monitored through will be treated alike while there would be clear its management processes which include differentiation as between those performing at different levels. 2011/12 2012/13 Differentiation is key to the Group’s No. of staff affected by occupational injuries 230 196 performance management and to it reward Total person days worked in the period 4,204,800 4,668,715 system which has created a healthy environment for employees to excel in, whilst being true to the Group’s Values which Our Approach Occupational Injuries every employee is committed to uphold at Vast improvements were made during the all times. Employee hiring is done based last reporting year, as the Group’s processes on the Recruitment Policy and the Policy 250 matured and were developed towards 230 on Equal Opportunity, and supported by a 196 controlling and reducing the amount of hazards 200 role clarification document. The Group’s in the working environment. Many awareness operating structure is designed in a manner 150 sessions were held across the Group, with that ensures all people-related decisions are an enthusiastic response from the employees 100 made by committees and not by individuals. towards adopting safe practices at the work Decisions relating to hiring, performance, 50 place. promotion, learning and development, career 0 2011/12 2012/13 development, compensation management Annual Report 2012/13 l 131 PROGRESSIVE OUR PEOPLE Lost Day Rate 2011/12 2012/13 Services (Pvt) Ltd is also mid way into the process and hopes to obtain the certification Total Person Days Lost (TPDL) 1,853 1,503 within the next few months. Total number of person days in the period 4,204,800 4,668,715 TPDL as a % of total person days in the period 0.044% 0.032% The globally growing awareness on a variety of serious diseases and their prevention has Absentee Rate 2011/12 2012/13 become imperative to most large companies Total Absentee Days (TAD) 35,772 27,309 to do their part in spreading understanding among their employees and the communities Total number of person days in the period 4,204,800 4,668,715 they function in, and John Keells Holdings is TAD as a % of total person days in the period 0.850% 0.585% part of this. Total Person Days Lost TPDL as a % of Total Person Days in the Period A number of programmes on education and awareness, counselling, prevention and risk control and treatment were held 2,000 1,853 0.05 0.044% by the business units of John Keells Group, 1,503 0.04 throughout the year in review. A total of 1,500 0.032% 0.03 approximately 17,670 personnel consisting of 1,000 staff, their family and the community around 0.02 were educated and trained in procedures, both 500 0.01 before and after, that need to be carried out 0 0.00 in terms of mitigation and treatment under 2011/12 2012/13 2011/12 2012/13 serious diseases and injuries. Particularly, most Group businesses conducted several HIV/AIDS Total Absentee Days TAD as a % of Total Person Days in the Period sessions among their employees, and in some cases, for the community. 40,000 1.0 35,772 35,000 0.85% The Foundation conducted the first HIV/AIDS 0.8 30,000 27,309 camp within office premises on World AIDS 0.59% 25,000 0.6 Day, although awareness sessions have been 20,000 regularly carried out in various regions of 15,000 0.4 the country. Among the various activities to 10,000 0.2 commemorate the week leading up to World 5,000 0 0.0 AIDS Day, a mobile vaccination centre was 2011/12 2012/13 2011/12 2012/13 set up by the Asiri Surgical Hospital to enable the employees of John Keells Holdings easy Currently almost all Group companies other Cinnamon Wild Yala, Chaaya Lagoon Hakuraa access to an HIV/AIDS test. Other employees than those in an Office or IT environment have Huraa, Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo and Chaaya Island for whom the place and time were more embarked on the process of obtaining the ISO Dhonveli of the Leisure sector and John Keells accessible were able to go to the hospital to be 18001 (OHSAS) certification and are in varying Warehousing of the Plantation sector. From tested under the John Keells Group HIV/AIDS stages along the certification process. the Keells Super outlets, so far the Rajagiriya, programme. 155 employees used their office Narahenpita, Slave Island and Kohuwala outlets premises to be tested, while 147 more used The following Group companies have acquired possess the certification and most of the outlets the hospital facilities. the ISO 18001 certification: John Keells are in the process of obtaining the certification. Logistics Limited of the Transportation industry From Tea Small Holders Factories Limited of the The John Keells HIV & AIDS Awareness group; Cinnamon Grand Colombo, Cinnamon plantation sector, the Broadlands Tea Factory programme has succeeded in raising Lakeside Colombo, Bentota Beach Hotel, in Ginigathhena and the Karawita Factory awareness for 54,100 persons since the Chaaya Blu Trincomalee, Cinnamon Citadel have obtained the ISO 18001 certification and project’s inception in 2005. Master Trainer Ivan Kandy, Cinnamon Lodge Habarana, Chaaya two other factories are also in the process Perera, Security manager at Bentota Beach Tranz Hikkaduwa, Chaaya Village Habarana, of obtaining the certification. Lanka Marine Hotel, has also reached a personal milestone 132 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information of educating 20,000 persons through HIV & AIDS Awareness sessions. During the reporting year, the John Keells Foundation together with Vision 20-20 held two notably successful eye camps in Kilinochchi and Mullaithivu, at which 141 cataract operations were performed at Kilinochchi and 105 at Mullaithivu. The patients were pre-screened for their health checks and the Foundation sponsored doctors based in Colombo to perform the surgeries, while Vision 20-20 took care of medication and other supplies. The John Keells Foundation also sponsored a spectacle donation camp in Mannar, organised Health and safety of our employees is a vital aspect of our operations by “So Others May See Inc.”, in February 2013. 465 spectacles were donated to Code of Practice on Recording and Notification deserving individuals at this camp. of Occupational Accidents and Diseases, 1995 and industry norms), that impact the The Vendor Management team of Walkers various sectors of the Group. None of the Tours and Whittals Boustead conducted audits of jeep and boat suppliers on emergency Group companies or industry groups reported educational programmes and periodic measures and safety systems and practices. workers involved in activities that would inspections of their suppliers throughout the expose them to a high risk or incidents of year. This included health and safety measures Precautionary steps to avoid unnecessary specific diseases. Furthermore, it is the Group implemented or adapted by vendors, fire accidents were taken in the form of training mandate that precautionary measures be safety and emergency plans, hygiene controls/ programmes which were conducted on first aid implemented in any such areas identified as programmes and conforming to safety and and fire safety. These were carried out at the high risk. The importance of conducting basic hygiene practices. The team continues to majority of Group companies, including office OHS awareness and prevention programmes carry out routine assessments on the hotels, premises where fire drills were also conducted for staff, their families and the surrounding which covers aspects of hygiene, convenience, on a regular basis. community where possible, was made public to emergency procedures and environmental all companies and were encouraged to follow policies. Additionally, they organise periodic During the year, the Group took steps to suit by continuing the positive trend seen in identify serious diseases (based on the ILO this regard within all the Group companies. Health & Safety Policy Through our best practices which are on par with international standards, we strive to provide a feeling of safety to our employees, customers and visitors who are involved in any business or transaction with the John Keells Group Annual Report 2012/13 l 133 PROGRESSIVE OUR ENVIRONMENT The John Keells Group is committed to protect knowledge enhancement of key resource and conserve the environment for itself, the personnel operating in the area. community and future generations, and its GROUP CARBON environmental policy revolves around this Carbon Footprint FOOTPRINT principle. Further, as the largest hotelier in the country, the Group considers the natural environment and the biodiversity of the country A company’s carbon footprint is an important measure of its environmental impact given the global significance of climate change and 69,403MT as a unique selling proposition on which the its related impacts. The John Keells Group sustainability of its business depends upon. places great importance on the management previously recorded electricity consumption The Group is aware that it is a custodian of and reduction of its carbon emissions to the figures. such resources for future generations and environment. that the very sustainability of the Group, Whilst the Group’s overall carbon footprint has and in particular its Leisure industry group, The Group’s carbon emissions are measured been increasing over the past three years, in is dependent on the conservation of the in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas correlation with increased operational activity environment within which it operates. Protocol governed by the World Resources by the Group’s businesses, the Group has Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council simultaneously maintained a steady reduction for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). The of its carbon footprint in relation to its revenue, Environmental Policy Group’s carbon footprint has been calculated reflecting its strong commitment to improving The John Keells Group is using the Carbon Emission Factor Source of the efficiency of its operations. committed to promoting sound the IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse environmental practices within Gas Inventories, published by the Institute for The Group’s carbon footprint calculation is our key businesses, through Global Environmental Strategies (IGES). comprised of Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions the establishment of policies as per the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. The direct and practices that enable us The John Keells Group’s carbon footprint energy sources used for this calculation are to conduct our operations in a in 2012/13 is recorded at 69,403 MT, as diesel, petrol, liquid petroleum gas and furnace sustainable and environmentally compared to 69,280 MT in the previous oil, while any indirect energy considered sound manner. We will strive to year, a marginal increase given the growth in is purchased from the national grid of the continuously identify all potential operational activity of certain sectors over the Ceylon Electricity Board, the Lanka Electricity impacts on the environment reporting year. The figure for 2011/12 has Company Ltd, or the national grids of the and manage such impacts been restated based on a correction made to countries in which the Group operates. whilst using our resources in a [][\IQVIJTMIVLMNÅKQMV\UIVVMZ 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Carbon Footprint (MT CO2eq) 65,524 69,280 69,403 With the above policy in mind, the Group Revenue (Rs. millions) 60,500 77,689 85,557 has applied a comprehensive environmental Carbon Footprint (MT CO2eq) Per Rs. millions of 1.08 0.89 0.81 management system through which it focuses Turnover on energy conservation, controlling its carbon footprint, conservation and optimisation of the usage of water and waste management and Carbon Footprint (MT CO2eq) Per Rs. Millions of Turnover protecting biodiversity. The Group has also established a formal process of environmental 1.2 management accounting as per IFAC 1.08 Guidelines. In order to assess the efficiency 1.0 0.89 0.81 of the environmental management processes 0.8 and initiatives, the Group plans to commence 0.6 tracking its investments and expenses 0.4 with regard to environmental protection, 0.2 management of environmental impact and 0.0 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 134 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information DID YOU KNOW? “The Group has simultaneously maintained a steady The Walkers Tours’ transportation fleet is Asia’s reduction of its carbon footprint in relation to its first internationally certified carbon neutral ZM^MV]MZMÆMK\QVOQ\[[\ZWVOKWUUQ\UMV\\WQUXZW^QVO\PM fleet MNÅKQMVKaWN Q\[WXMZI\QWV[º Source of Direct Energy Unit of Measure Usage Consumption Emission Factor Carbon Footprint TJ kg/TJ MT Diesel Liters 4,767,417 144.72 74,100 10,724 Petrol Liters 608,067 16.72 69,300 1,159 Furnace Oil Liters 1,631,999 51.70 78,000 4,032 LPG Kg 528,459 23.24 63,100 1,466 Scope 1: Direct energy 17,381 Source of Direct Energy Unit of Measure Usage Consumption Emission Factor Carbon Footprint MWh kg/TJ MT Electricity KwH 76,324,114 76,324 0.6816 52,022 Scope 2: Indirect energy 52,022 Sources of Energy Carbon Footprint (MT C02 eq.) Scope 1: Direct energy 17,381 Scope 2: Indirect energy 52,022 Total carbon footprint (MT C02 eq.) 69,403 Annual Report 2012/13 l 135 PROGRESSIVE OUR ENVIRONMENT “9.5 million kWh of power was generated through renewable energy sources such as solar power and biomass, accounting for 10 per cent of total energy consumed.” Scope 2 emissions from grid-based electricity property, Cinnamon Bey Beruwala and the Carbon footprint by energy type represent the largest share of the Group’s full operations of Sri Lankan resorts over the 2% 2% carbon footprint, accounting for 75 per cent 6% course of the reporting year. of the total. The next largest contributions are 15% Electricity from diesel, accounting for 15 per cent, and Diesel 66 per cent of the Plantations industry group’s furnace oil, contributing 6 per cent of the total Furnace Oil energy consumed comprised of renewable Petrol carbon footprint. energy, with the utilisation of biomass for the LPG generation of electricity resulting in a lower The below table gives a breakdown of the carbon footprint than its energy consumption 75% energy consumption trend over the past three would suggest. years. As shown, Group energy consumption has increased by less than one per cent to 654,655 gigajoules in 2012/13 from 649,697 correlation between the carbon footprint Energy Consumption by Sector in GigaJoules in the previous year, despite the growth in and the electricity consumption by industry business operations in particular sectors over group. The Leisure and Consumer Foods & 300,000 the reporting year. Out of a total 95,925,318 Retail industry groups were amongst the 250,000 kWh consumed, 9,529,642 kWh of power was largest consumers of energy in the Group and responsible for 87 per cent of the total carbon 200,000 generated through renewable energy sources such as solar power and biomass, accounting footprint given the electricity-intensive nature 150,000 for 10 per cent of total energy consumed. of their operations. The increase in energy 100,000 consumption and the corresponding rise in 50,000 With electricity constituting the largest share the Group’s carbon footprint in 2012/13 were 0 Leisure Consumer Foods Plantation Transportation Financial Other Property IT Sector of the total carbon footprint, there is a close largely due to the launching of a new hotel Services Services & Retail 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Total Power Consumed in GJ 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Direct Energy 360,704 373,502 379,888 Carbon Footprint (in CO2 MT) by Sector Fossil Fuel 192,246 231,453 236,372 Diesel 122,979 139,471 144,721 40,000 Petrol 284 17,580 16,720 35,000 Furnace Oil 48,094 49,657 51,696 30,000 25,000 LPG 20,889 24,745 23,236 20,000 Renewable Energy 168,458 142,049 143,516 15,000 Solar Power 453 498 969 10,000 5,000 Biomass 168,005 141,551 142,547 0 Leisure Consumer Foods Property Financial IT Sector Transportation Indirect Energy National Grid 271,065 276,194 274,767 Other & Retail Services Hydro & Renewable 135,533 147,432 112,654 Plantation Thermal 135,533 128,762 162,112 Services Total Energy Consumption 631,769 649,697 654,655 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 136 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Cinnamon Grand Colombo recorded an annual saving of 620,532KwH through its energy conservation initiatives such as the replacement of regular incandescent lighting with LED lighting, the installation of sensor lights and the installation of Variable Speed Drives and efficiency improvements to the Hotel’s water pump system. During the year Group companies carried out several energy conservation initiatives and sought to create behavioural changes in their employees through continuous awareness LED lighting Taprobane restaurant, Cinnamon Grand Colombo campaigns with regard to the need for Our Approach are encouraged to integrate this policy conservation of energy. The Group continuously aims to reduce its through energy conservation technologies and environmental impact through maximising obtaining energy through renewable energy The key energy saving initiatives carried out energy savings across its operating entities sources. this year and the estimated annualised savings and aligning itself with global best practices (in kWh) of such initiatives are as follows. regarding energy reduction and management. The Leisure industry group in particular seeks to benchmark itself against global Estimated annual savings through energy efficient lighting Savings per Annum standards and strives to achieve internationally kWh GJ recognised certification such as Green Globe Replacement of regular lighting with LED bulbs 379,698 1,367 and LEED, in its journey towards sustainable Sensor lights 22,464 81 tourism. Total from key initiatives of energy efficient lighting 402,162 1,448 All operating units follow the Group Energy Management Policy which strives to minimise impact on the environment. Operating units Estimated annual savings through air conditioning and other Savings per Annum electrical improvements kWh GJ Replacement of old pumps with high efficiency pumps 373,200 1,344 Replacement of split type units as fan coil units 97,936 353 Energy Management Installation of Variable Speed Drives on pumps 119,232 429 Policy Total from key initiatives on air conditioning / electrical improvments 590,368 2,125 Minimising energy related environmental impacts and enhancing the Group’s competitiveness through energy Estimated annual savings through other energy conservation Savings per Annum cost savings by embracing lean initiatives kWh GJ energy management practices Energy recovery through new Reverse Osmosis plants 120,450 434 Replacement of Cold Room doors with rapid roller shutters 120,000 432 Installation of synchronising panels 11,000 40 Total from other initiatives 251,450 905 Annual Report 2012/13 l 137 PROGRESSIVE OUR ENVIRONMENT In an effort to reduce the environmental impact The Group seeks reputed Water withdrawn (m3) by sector of its operations, Walkers Tours obtained certification and benchmarking carbon neutral certification for its entire schemes by independent 1,200,000 transportation fleet of over 600 vehicles, authorities as a means of 1,000,000 making it Asia’s first destination management emphasising its credibility, 8,00,000 company to have a fully carbon neutral fleet. Cinnamon Grand’s Sri Lankan restaurant transparency, and its commitment 600,000 “Nuga Gama” also obtained carbon neutral to corporate social responsibility 400,000 certification during the year in review. and sound environmental practices, 200,000 which we believe creates a 0 strategic, competitive advantage Leisure Consumer Foods Financial Transportation Other Property IT Sector The Group seeks reputed certification and & Retail Services benchmarking schemes by independent for its chain of hotels Plantation authorities as a means of emphasising its Services credibility, transparency, and its commitment 2011/12 2012/13 to corporate social responsibility and sound methods if necessary. Water acquired from environmental practices, to create a strategic, the National Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB) is directly measured through water technologies wherever feasible. In addition, competitive advantage for its chain of meters installed by the utility provider. water measurement techniques have also been hotels. The city hotels, Sri Lankan resorts, enhanced along with the maturation of the Chaaya Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa and Chaaya Aside from Ceylon Cold Stores, where the bulk monitoring and reporting process. Reef Ellaidhoo have obtained Green Globe Certification, while Cinnamon Bey Beruwala, of water withdrawn is utilised for production purposes, the majority of all water withdrawn The Leisure industry group and the Consumer Cinnamon Lodge Habarana, Chaaya Island is discharged to the environment. As such, Foods & Retail industry group account for the Dhonveli, Cinnamon Grand and Keells Super the Group is conscious not to release any largest share of water consumption in the Havelock Road have all registered with chemicals or substances that would cause Group, utilising 62 per cent and 34 per cent Earthcheck Global to obtain independent a negative impact to the environment. Water of total water withdrawn respectively. The next assessment reports with a view to comparing discharged after on-site treatment is measured largest consumer of water is the Plantations their performance against global benchmarks. through meters, and discharge water quality Services industry group, accounting for 2 per tested by independent third parties. Sewage cent of total water withdrawn by the Group. Water Management A vital natural resource, water is also crucial to discharged into common treatment plants operated by municipalities and the National The chart below outlines the Group’s water the operations of the Group and the withdrawal Water Supply and Drainage Board of Sri withdrawal by source, with the main water and discharge of water has been identified as Lanka, is estimated using the working hours of sources being extraction of ground water and a key issue to our stakeholders in the most pumps, but is not metered due to operational the (NWSDB). recent and previous stakeholder engagements. practicalities. Water usage is monitored through the installation of water meters at the point In 2012/13, the Group extracted 1,660,870 of withdrawal for ground water, divisional cubic meters, which constituted a 9 per cent metering wherever possible, and estimation reduction from the 1,830,547 cubic meters withdrawn in 2011/12. Of the total water Water withdrawal by source withdrawn, the Group discharged 1,340,190 7.8% cubic meters to the environment. Since 41.8% commencing the tracking and measuring Surface Water of water consumption, the Group has made wetlands, rivers, lakes, oceans etc concerted efforts to reduce its water footprint, Ground water by conducting awareness campaigns aimed Rainwater Harvested at employees, through the identification of Municipality / 50.2% Authority water areas where efficiencies could be made, sources 0.2% and through the utilisation of water efficient 138 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information controlled wherever possible through proper Volume m3 Water Source treatment in waste matter and sewerage 2011/12 % 2012/13 % treatments plants, and at a minimum, meet the Surface water wetlands, rivers, lakes, 178,085 9.7% 129,021 7.8% required levels stipulated by regulations. oceans etc Ground water 961,655 52.5% 834,457 50.2% Rainwater harvested 1,330 0.1% 3,233 0.2% Water discharge by method Municipality / Authority water sources 689,477 37.7% 694,159 41.8% 0.4% Total 1,830,547 100.0% 1,660,870 100.0% 12.4% To Municipality 43.5% Sewerage / NWSDB Drainage Lines 5.3% Treated and recycled/ reused (for purposes such as gardening/ Our Approach In addition, rainwater harvesting for gardening farming etc) Treated and discharged Following the introduction of water withdrawal and washing purposes is also encouraged. Direct discharge as per guidelines and discharge measurement and reporting in Through Soakage Pits the previous year, the Group continues to make With regard to discharged water, management 27.3% Provided to another strides in improving the efficiency of water guidelines stipulate that the quality Organisation outside the Group 11.1% usage and ensuring that water discharged to and quantity of water discharged to the the environment is of the required quality as environment and sewerage networks must be per regulatory requirements. Emphasising the need to conserve water, Planned & unplanned water discharge Volume m3 % the Group-wide policy details management Municipality sewerage / NWSDB drainage lines 583,083 43.5% guidelines with regard to the usage of water. Treated and recycled/reused (for purposes such as gardening/farming etc) 148,578 11.1% Treated and discharged 366,495 27.3% Direct discharge as per guidelines 70,581 5.3% Water Management Policy Through soakage pits 165,612 12.4% The Group’s water policy seeks Provided to another organisation outside the Group 5,841 0.4% to conserve and optimise its use Total waste water discharged 1,340,190 100.0% of water obtained from surface and ground water sources and wherever possible shall seek to re-use waste water after treatment in its operations with a view to reducing the intake of fresh water Group companies with significant usage of water must ensure the systems and processes are in place so as to allow them to measure water uptake at source and identify the key points of water usage in production and utilisation processes. Companies are also advised to identify and implement the applicable technology and process improvements to conserve water and reduce usage, in particular in new properties, as well as motivate behavioural change in employees through various awareness campaigns. Annual Report 2012/13 l 139 PROGRESSIVE OUR ENVIRONMENT The Group treats 38 per cent of its waste further treatment plants. The two city hotels, The Group treats 38 per cent water through its sewerage and effluent Cinnamon Grand Colombo and Cinnamon of its waste water through its treatment plants prior to expelling into the Lakeside Colombo are expected to complete sewerage and effluent treatment environment, and this is constantly monitored construction of their in-house treatment plants plants prior to expelling into the to ascertain that water discharged meets shortly. environment and this is constantly regulatory levels. Approximately 56 per cent of the remaining waste water is sent to municipal Over the course of the reporting period, Group monitored to ascertain that water sewer lines or soaked into the ground through companies continued to implement several discharged meets regulatory levels. soakage pits. water conservation initiatives, in addition to Approximately 56 per cent of the reinforcing existing processes to manage water remaining waste water is sent to Group companies use a combination of types usage, discharge and quality. municipal sewer lines and soaked of treatment plants to manage its waste into the ground through soakage pits. water, with Ceylon Cold Stores, Chaaya Reef All Group companies make efforts to increase Ellaidhoo, Chaaya Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa awareness on the importance of reducing and all Sri Lankan resorts with the exception water wastage and washrooms in offices Waste Management of Bentota Beach Hotel and Chaaya Tranz are fixed with urinal sensors, dual cisterns, The Group acknowledges that with increasing Hikkaduwa, utilising in-house aerobic waste low flow aerators and other water saving operational acitivity more raw materials would water treatment plants. Bentota Beach Hotel, mechanisms. need to be used by its diverse operations. Chaaya Tranz Hikkaduwa and Keells Foods The Group therefore seeks to minimise the discharge water for treatment in common The broad range of water conservation use of virgin material through the reuse and waste water treatment plants of the National initiatives carried out across the Group can be recycling of material used in its operations. Water Supply and Drainage Board or the found in the individual industry group sections. The management of waste continues to be relevant local authority. Chaaya Island Dhonveli a key issue for the Group as identified by utilises soakage pits for the discharge of its stakeholders. Building from the previous sewerage as per Maldivian regulations. year, the Group continues to monitor waste generation and encourage business units to The Group also looks to ease the burden on reduce, reuse and recycle wherever possible. public infrastructure by reducing the discharge of waste water in suburban and urban areas The Group generated 7,868,330 kilograms of to the city sewage system, and is in the waste over the reporting period, representing process of improving its systems by installing a 6 per cent reduction from the 8,356,199 kilograms of waste recorded in the previous year. As with water, greater employee awareness on waste management has been created, contributing to an improvement in waste figures, along with improved internal management processes and management techniques. The Leisure and Consumer Foods & Retail industry groups generate the largest amount of solid waste, contributing approximately 95 per cent of the total. These operations have now introduced comprehensive measures to sort and measure waste on a daily basis. By comparison, waste generation at other Group businesses is largely insignificant and mainly consists of paper and office waste and as such, waste measurements are carried out by Effluent treatment plant, Ceylon Cold Stores, Ranala estimation through periodic measurements. 140 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Our Approach Overall reduction and responsible disposal of 43% Noncan be found in the individual industry group sections. waste is an integral part of the Group’s overall environmental policy. Accordingly, the Group Hazardous Other centrally led initiatives over the year has based its waste management policy on waste recycled, include the introduction of a Group Hazardous reused or the slogan of “Reduce, Reuse, Recycle” and Waste Policy based on Sri Lankan guidelines has sought to increase awareness amongst its on solid waste management, to ensure companies and employees. Using the waste sorting and measurement recovered safe handling and disposal of any harmful substances by all Group companies. The policy served to both raise awareness and provide processes of the Group for monitoring Approximately 43 per cent of waste generated guidelines for responsible disposal. The Group purposes has allowed an analysis of nonis reused, recycled, composted or recovered. began measuring hazardous waste in the 3rd hazardous waste disposal methods as given in The Group makes its best efforts to reduce quarter of the 2012/13 and generated 83,000 the chart below. the amount of waste sent to landfill, and has kg of such waste over the reporting period. A managed to reduce this proportion to 31 per suitable partner for safe handling and disposal cent of total waste in 2012/13, compared to was also identified during the reporting year. 37 per cent in 2011/12. Non-hazardous waste disposal by method 0.2% An Electronic Waste Policy was also set in The largest contributors to waste are also place in 2012/13, which requires all Group 21.2% Reuse 31.1% Recycling mindful of their disposal methods with the companies to dispose of their electronic waste Composting Leisure industry group reusing, recycling through a contracted third party that ensures Recovery recovering and composting 60 per cent of environmentally safe disposal. Separate Incineration 13.8% Landfill its total waste and Consumer Foods & Retail collection bins have been deployed at all On-Site Storage industry group disposing of 24 per cent of its Group locations, encouraging segregation of 1.5% 26.1% 6.2% waste in the same manner. e-waste items such as computers, computer equipment, electronic devices, mobile phones Further details of the waste management and batteries for responsible disposal. initiatives carried out by the Group companies Conserving Biodiversity The John Keells Group is aware of the global Non-hazardous waste disposed by method kg and national value of Sri Lanka’s natural Reuse 1,644,944 21.1% resources, with the country recognised as Recycling 1,074,134 13.8% a global biodiversity hotspot, and seeks to Composting 114,392 1.5% safeguard the biodiversity of the localities in Recovery 478,564 6.2% which its businesses operate. The Group is Incineration 2,027,538 26.1% also aware of the importance of protecting Landfill 2,431,731 31.1% biodiversity and the environment to sustain its businesses in the long run, especially in the On-Site Storage 14,027 0.2% Leisure sector, and ensuring the unique value Total 7,785,330 100% proposition of Sri Lanka’s natural beauty. The Group appraises the type of operations “An Electronic Waste Policy was also set in place in and their surrounding areas in terms of biodiversity when determining the impact 2012/13, which requires all Group companies to on biodiversity of the locality in which its dispose of their electronic waste through a contracted operations are conducted in. The Group categorises its operations into manufacturing third party that ensures environmentally safe disposal.” Annual Report 2012/13 l 141 PROGRESSIVE OUR ENVIRONMENT operations, hotels and warehousing operations, to biologically diverse areas to ascertain the The Group reports only on locations that are and office and retail operations, and bases level of biodiversity in the surroundings, and situated in proximity to biologically diverse the severity of impact on the categorisation. the Group continually monitors the impact locations which are in manufacturing, leisure The localities in which these operations are of manufacturing, hotels and warehousing and warehousing operations. The operating situated are classified into urban areas, operations that are located close to biologically entities considered under this classification are suburban areas and operations located close diverse areas. as follows.* Ref Operating Entity Geographic Location Subsurface Land Type of Operation Size of Site m2 km2 57 Bentota Beach Hotel Bentota Nil Hotel 0.0446 58 Cinnamon Bey Beruwala Beruwala Nil Hotel 0.045 59 Chaaya Blu Trincomalee Trincomalee Nil Hotel 0.1143 60 Cinnamon Citadel Kandy Kandy Nil Hotel 0.0234 61 Chaaya Tranz Hikkaduwa Hikkaduwa 3,600 Hotel 0.0176 62 Chaaya Village Habarana Habarana Nil Hotel 0.0378 63 Cinnamon Wild Yala Yala Nil Hotel 0.0405 64 Cinnamon Lodge Habarana Habarana Nil Hotel 0.1031 65 Chaaya Island Dhonveli North Male Atoll Maldives Nil Hotel 0.1496 66 Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo North Ari Atoll Maldives Nil Hotel 0.0556 67 Chaaya Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa Meemu Atoll Maldives Nil Hotel 0.0543 * Rajawella Hotels, Trinco Walk Inn and Weerawila Walk Inn have been excluded from the above table as they are entities holding undeveloped land The John Keells Group is aware of the global and national value of Sri Lanka’s natural resources, with the country recognised as a global biodiversity hotspot and seeks to safeguard the biodiversity of the localities in which its businesses operate. The Group is also aware of the importance of protecting biodiversity and the environment to sustain its businesses in the long run, especially in the Leisure sector, and ensuring the unique value proposition of Sri Lanka’s natural beauty. Yala National Park Photography by Chitral Jayatilake While all companies that fall within the direct The following maps depict the proximity of the control of the Group are considered, operating above locations to biodiversity hotspots and entities that fall within manufacturing, protected areas in Sri Lanka and the Maldives. warehousing and city hotel operations are not included in the above table as none of them are located in highly biologically diverse areas. 142 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Locations in Sri Lanka Locations in the Maldives Chandikulam Bird Sanctuary Mudhu & Giants Tank Sanctuary Kokiali Bird Sanctuary Chaaya Blu Naval Headworks Sanctuary Wipattu National Park Somawathie Chitya Sanctuary Ritigala Strict Natural Reserve Minneruya Tank Sanctuary North Male’ Atoll Cinnamon Lodge Chaaya Village Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo HP Reef Wasgamuwa Strict Natural Reserve Male North Ari Atoll Chaaya Island Dhonveli Maduru Oya National Park Maaya Thila Chaaya Citadel Fish Head Rantambe Reservol Sanctuary Gal Oya National Park Muthurajawela Wetlandas/Marsh Meemu Atoll Peak Wildness Sanctuary Chaaya Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa Sinharaja Rainforest Reserve Uda Walawe National Park Cinnamon Bey Yala National Park Bentota Beach Hotel Kann Eliya Forest Reserve Cinnamon Wild Chaaya Tranz Bundala Bird Sanctuary Protected Marine Areas Sanctuaries / National Parks / Chaaya Resorts Operating Entities Nature / Forest Reserve Our Approach Cinnamon Grand Colombo, Walkers Tours and are insufficient to cover the Group’s operations, A Group-wide policy on the conservation of Whittal Boustead Travels. management procedures are applied to ensure biodiversity as well as the adherence and that the biodiversity of the area is protected. conformity to the standard of ISO 14001 In keeping with the biodiversity policy of the Best practices with regard to the conservation Environmental Management Systems at Group, management guidelines have been of biodiversity are shared within the Group and selected Group companies are used to released and circulated within all companies ensure that all relevant personnel are provided manage our environmental footprint. ISO of the John Keells Group, to which all with the skills and knowledge to comply with 14001 certification has been obtained by companies over which the Group exercises the biodiversity policy of the Group. Bentota Beach Hotel, Chaaya Blu Trincomalee, management control are expected to conform. Cinnamon Citadel Kandy, Chaaya Village At a minimum, such Group companies All Group companies are also expected to keep Habarana, Cinnamon Lodge Habarana, Chaaya should comply with all applicable local and abreast of regulatory changes, technological Tranz Hikkaduwa, Cinnamon Wild Yala, Chaaya governmental legal/regulatory obligations. In innovations and stakeholder interests. The Reef Ellaidhoo, Chaaya Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa, the event that the existing legal requirements Group also seeks to carry out and support Annual Report 2012/13 l 143 PROGRESSIVE OUR ENVIRONMENT Biodiversity Conservation Policy The Group shall seek to conserve, and where possible, enhance biodiversity of the locality through the adherence to local and governmental laws and the implementation of best practices relating to conservation and protection of biodiversity in areas where the operations of the Group are carried out. The Group understands and acknowledges its responsibility in conserving and protecting the biodiversity of the areas where it carries out operations in, not only for Yala National Park Photography by Chitral Jayatilake the purpose of ensuring a sustainable business, but to take care of the planet and preserve its diversity, beauty, resources and strength for “The Group also carries out various projects in the future generations. proximity of our operations to increase awareness of the need for cohabitation between the human population and its surrounding environment.” projects that conserve and raise awareness on the importance of maintaining the integrity of essential ecosystems. In addition, the between the human population and its the village folk of Rotawewa, Banduwewa, Group works with the Government, academia, surrounding environment. Thambarawewa, Kotigala, Julpathana, non-governmental organisations, business Lokugaswala and Amarawewa. This, in lieu of associations and other interested stakeholders One such ongoing project is “Project Leopard”, the traditional stick-and-barbed-wire pen, has in striving to develop effective, sustainable a conservation attempt initiated on 31 July assisted in preventing needless leopard deaths legislature and solutions to minimise the 2010, by Cinnamon Wild Yala and the John and acts as an effective conservation effort in impact on the biodiversity. Keells Foundation at a remote cattle farming the Yala National Park. village off Nimalawa, Kirinda, and carried Along with the Group’s biodiversity forward into the year 2012/13. Recognised for As a natural extension of Project Leopard, the conservation and management guidelines, its high density of biodiversity, Yala National Foundation together with Cinnamon Wild Yala companies that operate in close proximity Park, in southern Sri Lanka, is famous for launched a leopard research project in Yala. to any protected spots, carry out annual its leopard population. However, due to the The project, which is conducted in partnership surveys. The Group’s naturalist team Nature growing population, the animals have begun with renowned Sri Lankan scientists and Trails records visible flora and fauna in the to roam around outside the park into the international experts, is a comprehensive premises of each identified business unit, and surrounding agricultural and pastoral lands research program aimed at studying the by comparing the changes of the diversity of to seek food, resulting in attacks on cattle Sri Lankan Leopard, its distribution at Yala, the species included in the survey, allows the in farms lying on the periphery of the park. dietary habits, territories, adoptability to new Group to closely monitor the impact of our Retaliatory attacks by farmers have led to an land use outside the national park and the operations on the surrounding environment. estimated 10-12 leopard deaths annually. impact of leopards on cattle farmers. The Since the inception of the project, a total of project also includes mapping the individual The Group also carries out various projects 32 steel pens have been donated both by leopards in Yala and its environs. The mapping in the proximity of our operations to increase John Keells Foundation and by Exodus UK to process commenced during the third quarter awareness of the need for cohabitation 144 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information of the year in review with the purchase and installation of infrared camera traps in scrub forests, rocky hillocks and game trails in Yala. The Group is also planning to carry out two awareness creation sessions for jeep drivers and wildlife trackers on ethics and behaviour within the National Park. In Habarana, Cinnamon Lodge sits on an ecologically rich plot of land, maintained by hosting plants that enrich the habitat and attract butterflies, allowing Group naturalists to set up a “butterfly garden” at the resort. The project serves to conserve and protect such species while simultaneously creating awareness amongst guests, employees, and Coral reef, Hikkaduwa Photography by Chitral Jayatilake villagers about the significance of butterflies in protecting biodiversity. A coral reef regrowth project Significant spillages and monetary was initiated by Nature Trails in value of siginificant fines with Hikkaduwa environmental laws and regulations Significant spills, as defined by the Group, are those that are financially material and Included as a risk item in the risks reviews are reflected in the audited financial of the relevant group companies, is an statements as an exceptional item, or in the environmental pollution hazard, resulting from None of John Keells Group companies were notes to the accounts, of the companies within a risk of spillage, and risk mitigation strategies levied monetary or non-monetary sanctions, its realm of influence. No Group companies and preventive maintenance systems have during the financial year 2012/13, for failing reported significant spillages during the year. been put in place where necessary. to observe environmental laws and regulations in any of the countries where operations of the Group took place. A blue whale off the coast of Trincomalee Photography by Chitral Jayatilake Annual Report 2012/13 l 145 PROGRESSIVE OUR ETHICS Throughout its existence, the John Keells The Group continues to track Group has been committed to upholding the Policy on Child Labour any incidences of child labour, universal human rights of all its stakeholders. John Keells Group does not forced labour and corruption Integrity, care and trust are the Group’s engage children in employment. through a quarterly sustainability foundation, with a zero tolerance policy toward As a general practice, the Group performance tracking mechanism. anti-competitive behavior and corruption. This does not employ any person below In view of the Group’s Human commitment has in turn become the founding the age of eighteen years at the Rights policy, outsourced service principal which governs our business. workplace. providers were made aware of the Our Approach ethics that surround child labour The John Keells Group has formulated Incidents of child labour are remote in and forced labour, and they have stringent policies in the areas of child labour, the Group due to the firm verification of taken measures to prevent these forced labour and anti-corruption. the minimum age of employment at the issues. beginning of the recruitment process. In The Group continues to track any incidences addition, in the Consumer Foods sector and of child labour, forced labour and corruption the Leisure industry group where outsourced through a quarterly sustainability performance tracking mechanism. In view of the Group’s Human Rights policy, outsourced service labour is used to meet seasonal demands or absenteeism, multiple controls are in place to guarantee firm compliance. The Leisure 19 SIGNIFICANT providers were made aware of the ethics that industry group also provides vocational training SUPPLIERS ASSESSED surround child labour and forced labour, and to Hotel School students as part of their they have taken measures to prevent these curriculum. supported with meals and transport facilities in issues. compliance with the applicable best practices All Group companies have been educated of the law and industry. Where the training cost During the year in review, the Group introduced on the identification of possible instances of is significant, the employees of the John Keells and carried out assessments with regard to forced and compulsory labour. Companies Group are obliged to understand and agree the practices and policies and the standards must ensure the right of employees to enter, that they will work an adequate duration which and facilities provided to the employees of remain and terminate employment voluntarily, would not exceed the value of the training. significant suppliers. These assessments were and that employees should not be subjected to, based on the labour laws and regulations of or coerced to work more overtime hours than Sri Lanka. During the year, the Group carried stipulated by labour regulations, subjected to out assessments of 19 significant suppliers intimidation or be required to lodge deposits and plans to widen its scope to at least 30 or personal documents as part of their Policy on Equal significant suppliers, based on a pareto employment. Opportunities analysis, in the next reporting year. The John Keells Group is an equal opportunity employer. Employees who work beyond normal hours are The John Keells Group retains a voluntarily Accordingly, the Group is compensated by means of overtime or variable higher standard on the minimum age for committed to hiring, developing pay as appropriate, and additionally are admission to the company’s employee and promoting individuals who base compared to the applicable statutory best meet the requirements of definitions and the ILO conventions. Under Sri available positions, possess the Lankan law, a “Child” is defined as a person Policy on Forced or required competencies, experience who is under the age of sixteen years while Compulsory Labour IVLY]ITQÅKI\QWV[\WKIZZaW]\ “Young Worker” denotes a person who has No employee of the John Keells assigned tasks and have the attained the age of sixteen years, but is under Group is made to work against potential for growth within the the age of eighteen years. his/her will, or subject to corporal organisation; and has put in punishment or coercion of any processes and systems that ensure type related to work. the same. 146 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information DID YOU KNOW? All Group sourcing contracts have a clause that “Integrity, care and trust are the Group’s foundation, requires sustainable _Q\PIbMZW\WTMZIVKMXWTQKa\W_IZLIV\QKWUXM\Q\Q^M practices by the supplier behaviour and corruption.” The Group strives to keep the work place free Ceylon. It also promotes the employment of from physical or verbal harassment based on differently-abled persons. race, religion, gender, age, nationality, social origin, disability, political affiliations or opinion. The Group also has a comprehensive process This Policy on Equal Opportunity is adhered to in place with regard to sexual harassment. in advertising, vacancies as well as recruitment The Group’s Ombudsperson provides and promotion processes. employees an opportunity to refer to a matter regarding sexual harassment either with the Meanwhile, John Keells Holdings continues Ombudsperson or with the internal committee to be a member of the Employer Network appointed for this purpose. on Disability of the Employers’ Federation of Annual Report 2012/13 l 147 PROGRESSIVE OUR ETHICS Employees are encouraged and Anti-Corruption Policy expected to report any breach The John Keells Group places of the Code of Conduct with the the highest value on ethical guarantee that they would not be practices and has promulgated penalised for the disclosure of that a zero tolerance policy towards information. Multiple channels corruption and bribery in all its of communication have been transactions. established to enable employees to report on any such breaches, actions available to them and the process of disciplinary action that would be taken in The Group has defined a three pronged which include Chairman Direct, the event of a contravention. Employees are approach which mandates the policy through a business unit-specific grievance also assessed with regard to whether or not transparent control and prevention mechanism. handling processes, ombudsperson they embrace these values as part of the service and an anti-sexual performance appraisal cycle. Each employee is requested to sign his or her harassment committee. Letter of Appointment, as an agreement to Employees are encouraged and expected to comply with all the rules, regulations, policies report any breach of the Code of Conduct with and procedures that are in force in the Group’s for all new inductees, on decent work practices the guarantee that they would not be penalised Code of Conduct. The Group’s Learning and and human rights. During this session, all for the disclosure of that information. Multiple Development division also conducts a module inductees are informed regarding the remedial channels of communication have been established to enable employees to report on “The Group has also established transparency and any such breaches, which include Chairman fair practices in all its dealings with customers, Direct, business unit-specific grievance handling processes, ombudsperson service suppliers and business partners.” and an anti-sexual harassment committee. Contiunuous engagement with our value chain 148 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information At a business level, all companies and functions have a process for the prevention and reduction of corruption, with business units required to include and analyse the risk of corruption as part of their risk management process. In order to ensure compliance with Group Policy, the Group carries out reviews of the policies at a Group Management Committee level and undertakes independent audit reviews in order to constantly analyse the risk of non-compliance. In addition to this, the Group has also established transparency and fair practices in all its dealings with customers, suppliers Mr. Daniel Phua, Immediate Past Chairman, IBIA Asia Branch Exco and business partners. This has led to mutually beneficial relations which encourage communication, engagement and ethical During the reporting year, there have been no Lanka Marine Services took the business practices that persuade our partners non-conformities with regard to child labour, lead role in the collaboration and also to adhere to our business principles. In forced labour or significant instances of organising of a bunker forum on selection of the Group’s key suppliers, the corruption either in the Group or its subsidiary behalf of the International Bunker Group Initiatives division carries out a formal companies. None of the Group companies Industry Association (IBIA) Asia sourcing process with independent category were fined or levied significant monetary or managers and neutral parties sitting in on non-monetary sanctions (the Group defines for the first time in Sri Lanka this evaluation committees. “significant” as any fines that are payable over year. The forum revolved around Rs. 1.0 million) for non-compliance with laws improving the standards of the and regulations in any of the countries that bunker industry covering areas operations take place. such as ethics and environmental protection. This forum was attended by industry professionals as well as representatives of the Sri Lanka Ports authority and Sri Lanka Customs. Accolades for corporate governance Annual Report 2012/13 l 149 PROGRESSIVE OUR PRODUCTS The Group strives to deliver the optimum levels All consumers expect a safe of quality in all areas of interaction with all its Products and Services product or service and the stakeholders such as customers, shareholders, Policy Group continuously reviews its employees, suppliers, governmental and The John Keells Group will strive products and services for safe statutory bodies, society, the media and other to maintain products and services use by consumers, through the interest groups. While meeting optimum quality at the highest standards through standards with respect to the above mentioned assessment of its systems and embracing industry and corporate procedures during the entire stakeholders, it also ensures compliance with best practice and compliance with its Environmental Policy and Ethical Business manufacturing and service delivery all relevant local and international Policies. process statutory and regulatory requirements in the markets we The Group aspires to achieve recognised serve. All products and services external quality certification where relevant, will seek to identify and assess any benchmarking their quality processes and CERTIFICATIONS OBTAINED BY environmental and social impact CONSUMER FOODS SECTOR standards against national and/or international through communications, services, best practices. operations and supply chain. ISO 9001 Product Stewardship Stakeholder engagements have reinforced this priority by highlighting the requirement information obtained through the sale of the ISO 22000 of consumers for products and services product of service and products stewardship that satisfy their needs, superior product and compliance is ensured. Further, the Group recognises the importance quality, product information to be provided of informing and engaging our customers in a standard format by all industry players, All consumers expect a safe product or with regard to important product specific clear product specific information, and the service and the Group continuously reviews information as identified by stakeholder need for marketing communications that are its products and services for safe use by engagements, and continues to adhere to contemporary in nature. consumers, through the assessment of its product labeling requirements specified in systems and procedures during the entire the Food Act No. 26 of 1980, the regulations Our Approach manufacturing and service delivery process. contained in the Food (Labeling and The Group Products and Services Policy is Group companies engaged in the manufacture Advertising) Regulations 2005, the Consumer adhered to by all Group businesses to ensure of consumer foods have obtained ISO 9001 Affairs Authority Act No. 9 of 2003, and they continue to meet the highest quality and ISO 22000 as initial steps in achieving the ICC code of Advertising and Marketing standards when servicing customers. While process excellence. In the Leisure sector, Communications, for all its products and meeting such optimum quality standards, the Walkers Tours have obtained ISO 9001 while services. Group also strives to ensure compliance with most of our hotels have obtained ISO18001 its Environmental Policy and Ethical Business Occupational Health & Safety certification, For the purpose of reporting, the Group has Policies. In addition, the Group aspires to which we believe establishes a process and considered its primary brands of products achieve recognised external quality certification culture of health & safety which permeates and services offered to indivdual customers, where relevant, benchmarking their quality through to the end product or service. on a B2C (Business to Customer) basis. processes and standards against national and/ Products and services offered by the Group or international best practices. In addition, Group companies closely monitor any on a Business to Business (B2B) or Business incidences of product related fines or sanctions, to Government basis are sold by the Group The management approach adopted has been setting a zero figure as their target. Companies mainly through the acceptance of a product/ to develop and market products and services are required to maintain lists of fines payable service proposal made by the Group company that meet customer requirements and meet the and the Group has not identified any significant in response to a tender document of the highest product quality standards which ensure instance of non-compliance with laws and purchaser. All products and service details customer health and safety, through assessing regulations and no significant fines (over Rs. 1.0 are submited as part of such product/service the product life cycle. In addition, relevant million) with regard to product responsibility was proposals. product and service labeling, ethical marketing incurred during the year in review. communications and privacy of customer 150 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information DID YOU KNOW? 37% of products sold by “The Group Products and Services Policy is adhered to the Group contain information by all Group businesses to ensure they continue to meet the on responsible disposal highest quality standards when servicing all customers.” Keells Super, Union Place The Group has identified the products and Food & Beverage, other consumed products Services and other experiential products services marketed by the Leisure industry Consumer Foods – Elephant House Ice Financial Services – Insurance products and group, the Financial Services industry Creams, Carbonated Soft Drinks, Keells range related services, stock broking services group, the Property industry group and the of processed meat, Krest range of processed Consumer Foods & Retail industry group and meat and Elephant House range of processed Property – Residential apartments Transportation industry group as significant meats areas for the provisioning of detailed product Leisure – Hotels and Inbound Tours information. The products and services Retail K Choice range of products marketed by these industry groups/sectors are Transportation – Travel Agency services also detailed in the table alongside. Annual Report 2012/13 l 151 PROGRESSIVE OUR PRODUCTS reported on contain information with regard to the safe use of the product, while thirty seven percent contain information with regard to responsible disposal. Individual Customer Consumer Foods With regard to the services and other & Retail, Property Government Sector experiential products offered, the Group follows a prudent approach, where the information provided is as per the Code of Advertising and Leisure, Financial IT Marketing Communications of the International Services, Chamber of Commerce, and also adheres Transportation to the Intellectual Property Act of Sri Lanka. All service oriented products offered by the Group are checked for any infringements Business & Corporates prior to being released into the market. Given Plantation Services the nature of such products, information with regard to the sourcing of components used, content of environmental/social impact, safe-use or product disposal is not considered applicable. During the year, the Group introduced Plastic containers and aluminium cans used for The following table illustrates the type of processes to capture product labelling the carbonated soft drinks all carry instructions product labeling carried out for the food information with regard to content that on the safe disposal of the product. Some of and beverage and other consumed products has a negative impact on the environment the “lite” range of products of Ceylon Cold offered by the Consumer Foods & Retail and society and safe disposal of the Stores however, do carry specific labelling on industry group. product. Sourcing of components used was the use of sweeteners which are used in place not considered for labelling as the main of sugar. Twenty seven per cent of the products ingredients are sourced from within the country. “During the year, the Group introduced processes to While 100 per cent of food products sold specify the ingredients used, three of the capture product labelling information with regard to imported products specify where ingredients content that has negative impact on the environment and for such products were sourced from. Twenty society and safe disposal of the product. Sourcing of components used was not considered for labeling as the one private labelling products consisting of stationery, straws, plastic cups and plates sold by Keells Super supermarkets did not contain main ingredients are sourced from within the country.” information with regard to content. Product labelling Number of products Ingredients used Sourcing of Content or Safe use of product Disposal of the components substances with or service product environmental and social impact Yes 390 3 2 110 152 No 21 408 409 301 259 Total products 411 411 411 411 411 Percentage of Products 95% 1% 1% 27% 37% 152 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information With regard to the services and other experiential products offered, the Group follows a prudent approach, where the information provided is as per the Code of Advertising and Marketing Communications of the International Chamber of Commerce, and also adheres to the Intellectual Property Act of Sri Lanka. The Group is also conscious to ensure responsible marketing communications, with the policy on advertising and marketing Responsible product labelling communications requiring that all companies adhere to Group guidelines that are based ii. Enhance overall public confidence in down. The committee evaluated various on the Code of Advertising and Marketing marketing communications; communications and 100 per cent compliance Communications by the International Chamber iii. Respect privacy and consumer to the guideline was noted. of Commerce. preferences; iv. Ensure special responsibility as regards The ICC Code is intended primarily as an marketing communication and children/ instrument of self-regulation for commercial young people. communications and is intended to achieve the following objectives amongst others, to: A special Group committee monitors and evaluates advertising campaigns for socially i. Demonstrate responsibility and good insensitive/unethical/irresponsible advertising practice in advertising; against the guidelines and procedures laid Product labelling on ingredients and best before dates available in all K-Choice products Annual Report 2012/13 l 153 PROGRESSIVE OUR COMMUNITY The Group is aware of the impact its relationships with the communities within Environment, Community and Livelihood businesses have on society and the which business units operate and manage Development, Arts and Culture and Disaster environment and it has created a platform for responsibly the impact that their operations Relief. These areas are aligned to the the communities we operate in to bring forward have on the community and environment. Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) as well their concerns and help them benefit from the as the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) operations of the Group. Group companies aim At John Keells, Corporate Social Responsibility of which JKH PLC is a pioneer participant. to be good neighbours, proactively contribute (CSR) represents how values, corporate The specific goal in each of these areas is as to causes affecting the social development of culture and operations intrinsically involve follows: the nation, and work toward maximising the and are connected to social, economic and positive aspects of business on society and environment concerns. The focus continues the environment. The goal is to foster good to be on six key areas: Education, Health, Education JKH is committed to providing educational opportunities to disadvantaged groups of the community as we believe that education is the foundation for an enlightened and civilised society. Health JKH is committed to ensuring productivity via a healthy society. Environment JKH is committed to minimising the impact of the Group’s operations on the environment and carries out a conscious and collective effort in this regard, whilst promoting the cause of environmental conservation and sustainability. Community & Livelihood Development JKH is committed to reaching out to communities surrounding its operations through constructive dialogue with stakeholders and staff volunteerism. Fostering the spirit of entrepreneurship as a key to sustainable development is the primary objective of such projects. Arts & Culture JKH is committed to sponsoring arts and culture towards safeguarding and promoting the cultural heritage of Sri Lanka, as well as boosting the livelihoods of those engaged in arts and culture. Disaster Relief JKH is committed to carry out collective relief efforts in times of natural and man-made disasters, through staff volunteerism. The Group’s commitment in this regard which to its knowledge has any adverse impact and to ensure such communities derive the translates through a plethora of community on the environment. optimum benefits. investment programmes and scholarships, staff engagement with the wider community via Needs Assessment The identification and management of the voluntary service, as well as ongoing dialogue In carrying out local community engagements, community and the issues faced pose both with stakeholders to better understand their the Group is committed to understand and challenges and opportunities. They are vital to needs. In addition, the Group guards against assess the impact on the communities affected successful risk assessment, decision making, undertaking community engagement activities by its operations, to respect their interests, 154 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information “Through the provision of cattle pens by the “At John Keells, Corporate Social Responsibility Foundation, the risk of losing represents how values, corporate culture and operations our cattle to leopards has been completely eliminated.” intrinsically involve, and are connected to social, S P Basnayake, Cattle Farmer economic and environment concerns.” Beneficiary of cattle pens project development and the promotion of unit will conduct a review annually, to analyse periodic evaluation process. In certain projects, social well-being. the impact of each operation carried out and this evaluation process has been carried out by where applicable, action plans to mitigate risks independent third parties. Impacts are assessed on a formal or informal will be formulated at Sector Committee or basis when a business enters, operates and Management Committee meetings. exits a community. The process is formalised via a mandatory questionnaire, which has to Local community engagement projects carried be completed and signed off by each business out by the John Keells Group are structured head. This questionnaire is designed to include according to a social impact assessment which all elements that result from conducting includes a stakeholder engagement, selection business in the community. Each business criteria for identifying beneficiaries and a Annual Report 2012/13 l 155 PROGRESSIVE OUR COMMUNITY Impact Parameters of Community Engagement Activities Earnings Employment Environment The impact on the earning potentialboth The impact of direct and indirect employment The impact on the environment including supporting and competing and people made employable Positive impacts Positive impacts Positive impacts Improvement in quality of life due Income generation Conservation of environment and to wage injections Opportunities for local sourcing education Increased entrepreneurial activity for the Group Potential negative impacts Potentially negative impacts Potentially negative impacts Social inequality Labour migration Emissions, discharges and waste Vices such as drug and alcohol disposal due to increase in discretionary income Health and safety Infrastructure Other impacts The impact on community health and safety, The impact of infrastructure development on Impact on local culture, gender and cultural including injury and disease the social fabric heritage Positive impacts Positive impacts Positive impacts Awareness creation and The development of a project The development of segments of introduction of the best practices can bring new infrastructure and society such as women, elders and technologies with regard to services to an area such as roads and children health and safety into the area and health services Potentially negative impacts Potentially negative impacts Potential negative impacts Impacts to traditional cultures and An influx of newcomers seeking Demand on infrastructure way of life opportunities can introduce health and services exceeding the risks, such as the exposure of the built capacity due to a sudden local population to transmittable increased in population diseases Environmental hazards such as dust and noise may cause health problems The John Keells Group believes in wider societal needs than our own, to meaningfully enrich the lives of the communities of which we are an integral part. We abide by the values of caring, trust and integrity by ensuring that through our actions we demonstrate our commitment to and respect for all our stakeholders, including the communities and the environment in which our businesses operate. Participants of “English Day 2012” 156 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Our Approach are funded by companies within the Group out has contributed towards the development of John Keells Foundation (“Foundation”) – a of their profits. The Group does not charge or society through infrastructure, public services company duly incorporated under the law account for human resources deployed in, and and local community engagement initiatives. and also registered as a “Voluntary Social overhead costs attributable to any of its CSR The table below provides a breakdown of Service Organisation” with the Ministry of projects, whether in planning, implementation such projects, their cost and the manner in Social Welfare –drives the Group’s social or administration. which the projects were carried out, while responsibility initiatives from the centre, while descriptions of the key projects undertaken individual companies of the Group also engage Projects undertaken by the Foundation by the Foundation and the number of Group in community service activities, sponsorships The projects undertaken by the Foundation personnel that participated in such projects are and donations to complement their respective are carried out under the principles espoused contained in the following pages. businesses, as well as the broad focus areas of by the Millennium Development Goals and the Foundation. The activities of the Foundation United Nations Global Compact. The Group Project Infrastructure Investment Service Cost (Rs) Type Cost (Rs) Type Education English Language Scholarship Programme 9,378,720 P The Final Step University Soft Skills Programme in Peradeniya and Jaffna 1,634,048 P Neighbourhood Schools Development Project 1,329,200 P 193,161 P Health John Keells HIV and AIDS Awareness Campaign 743,378 P John Keells Vision Project 2,132,662 P Environment Project Leopard 507,086 P Leopard Research Project 1,000,000 P Solar Power initiative in Halmillewa 2,041,296 P Rainwater Harvesting Mangalagama Nature Field Centre at Rumassala, Galle 13,184 P Maintenance of watering hole at Yala 21,000 P Community & Livelihood Development Village Adoption Project Halmillewa 275,034 P Village Adoption Project Mangalagama 388,146 P 36,005 P Village Adoption Project – Mullaitivu 31,190 P Village Adoption Project – Trincomalee 12,818 P Slave Island Railway Station 1,026,137 P 228,494 P Slave Island Rail Track Reservation 86,000 P BPO Project Mahavilachchiya 100,000 I BPO Project Seenigama 13,184 I BPO Project Jaffna 625,853 I 91,852 I Sustainable Sourcing Initiatives of CF&R *36,000 I Arts & Culture Kala Pola 2,627,007 P Sri Lankan Art Gallery 544,000 P Sunera Foundation 257,082 P Total 5,938,718 19,469,820 P: Carried out on a Pro-bono basis I: Carried out on an In-Kind basis * Estimated management time spend on educating farmers. Total value of purchases under Sustainable Sourcing Initiaves made to local farmers was Rs. 877 million. Annual Report 2012/13 l 157 PROGRESSIVE OUR COMMUNITY EDUCATION English Language Scholarship Programme During the year in review, the programme continued with the foundation-level course Adequate knowledge of English has become a compelling necessity to access branded “English for Teens” targeting school the many opportunities available in today’s society (whether local or global), where the advance of globalisation demands a competitive edge in the move children between the ages of 12 to 14 years. towards rapid economic progress. A total of 1000 scholarships were offered to eligible school children and classes were John Keells Foundation’s English Language Scholarship Programme aims conducted in 20 locations in 18 Districts of the to provide English as a life skill to children and youth, to help enhance their country. opportunities for higher learning and sustainable employment. It complements the national initiative to improve speaking and communicative skills in English Another 200 scholarships were on offer under throughout Sri Lanka. the pre-intermediate level programme open to students who received an honours pass in the English for Teens programme conducted during the previous year. “A total of 1000 scholarships were offered to eligible school children and classes were conducted in 20 locations in 18 Districts of the country.” Focus Area Project Overall Objective Focus Area in 2012/13 Project Scope in 2012/13 Project Impact JKH Volunteers Education English Enhancing English (1) English for Teens English for Teens Applications Two representatives Language language skills A four-month Programme carried out at 1474 from JKF and 19 Scholarship of deserving, course for school 20 locations: Registered volunteers from Programme disadvantaged children within the Ampara, Mangalagama, 1011 across the Group or needy age limits of 12 Bandarawela, Batticaloa, Course represented schoolchildren to 14 years Chavakachcheri, Colombo completion JKF at inaugural and youth across 08, Colombo 02, Galle, 974 programmes at the island, Habarana, Jaffna, Kandy, respective centers. towards improving Kurunegala, Matale, their opportunities Matara, Negombo, for higher learning Nelliady, Panadura, and sustainable Ratnapura, Trincomalee, employment. Vavuniya (2) Pre-intermediate Pre-intermediate level Applications level programme carried 236 A 4-month postout at 8 locations: Registered 198 foundation course Ampara, Bandarawela, Course for English for Batticaloa, Colombo, completion 198 Teens scholarship Jaffna, Matara, Negombo, students of Kurunegala 2011/12 who obtained an Honours Pass 158 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Stakeholder Engagement Selection Criteria Impact Assessment t Nominations and applications of t Disadvantaged State schools in t Monthly monitoring of attendance deserving candidates through selected districts t Staff volunteers’ feedback school prinpicals of State schools t Preference for financially t Final examination result disadvantaged children t Student feedback t Marks obtained at placement test t Annual English Day set by the Gateway Language t Independent research Centre The Final Step and team building, CV writing and interview The Final Step is a set of five Soft Sri Lanka has one of the highest skills, developing confidence and personality, Skills Workshops developed by enrolment rates in Asia for General working in a corporate environment, corporate John Keells Foundation to enhance hospitality (including social etiquette) and the employability of graduates of Education, with students leaving General Education at different personal grooming. local universities, especially in Sri stages. The largest number leaves Lanka’s private sector the primary the system after the GCE Ordinary After six programmes conducted in universities employer accounting for over 70 per level. After O-Level nearly 300,000 in the Western Province, the year in review students move on to sit for the GCE witnessed the milestone of the Foundation cent of the jobs in Sri Lanka Advanced Level examination but taking Final Step to other parts of the country only 22,500 places are available in in collaboration with the University Grants the state conventional University Commission. The first of these programmes Education system. Even among was conducted successfully at the University of youth who had been fortunate Students’ feedback to enter and complete tertiary Peradeniya in November 2012 at the university ¹1ZMITQ[ML\PI\OM\\QVOIÅZ[\KTI[[ education in the local Universities, premises. A total of 493 students from various degree is not the only consideration UIVaIZMKPITTMVOMLQVÅVLQVO faculties attended the workshops out of which employers look for, but also all sorts []Q\IJTMIVLN]TÅTTQVOMUXTWaUMV\ 410 students were awarded certificates of of skills, especially soft skills.” P S particularly due to inadequately participation on the basis of 80 per cent M Peiris, Faculty of Agriculture, 2nd developed employability attendance. year competences (soft skills) such as communication skills, leadership and team work, planning and problem solving skills, positive attitudes and adaptability and also knowledge based competencies on emerging issues experienced in the world of work. The Final Step is a set of five soft skills workshops developed by John Keells Foundation aimed at enhancing the employability of graduates of local universities, especially in Sri Lanka’s private sector the primary employer accounting for over 70 per cent of the jobs in Sri Lanka. The workshops cover a wide range of aspects such as employer expectations, leadership Final Year Student, University of Jaffna participant of The Final Step Soft Skills Workshop Annual Report 2012/13 l 159 PROGRESSIVE OUR COMMUNITY The Final Step was taken to the Another milestone was achieved when The Final Northern Province for the first time Step was taken to the Northern Province for the with the hosting of the programme Students’ feedback first time, with the hosting of the programme Participating in the career guidance at the University of Jaffna in March 2013. The at the University of Jaffna in March 2013. The programme received an programme organised by you in the programme received an overwhelming response University of Jaffna was very useful with each day’s workshop attracting over 500 overwhelming response with each for me to improve my career and undergraduates from various Faculties. A day’s workshop attracting over job opportunities. I am thankful to total of 521 students were eligible to receive 500 undergraduates from various the John Keells Group great job! certificates of participation on the basis of 80 Faculties. Uthayasurian Kirisanthan, 4th year per cent attendance. Focus Area Project Project Objective Focus Area in Project Scope in 2012/13 Project Impact JKH 2012/13 Volunteers Education The Final To enhance the University of t Employer Expectations Total participants 9 Stepemployability of local Peradeniya t Team Building & 493 University Soft graduates by changing (Central Leadership Skills; Certificate Skills Project their perspectives of Province) t Personality Development recipients employment in Sri Lanka, & Confidence Building 410 particularly in the private University t Adapting to the Total participants 14 sector, and increasing of Jaffna Corporate Environment 542 their adaptability to the (Northern t Personal Grooming; and Certificate requirements of the Province) Corporate Hospitality recipients workplace. 521 Stakeholder Engagement Selection Criteria Impact Assessment t Request by the Career Guidance t Preference given to third and final t Impact Assessment Unit (CGU) of the University via the year students of all faculties t Attendance at workshops University Grants Commission t Pre-registeration of candidates t Participant interaction t Curriculum, resource persons, via the CGU t Participant feedback (mandatory) venue and participants planned and t Staff volunteers’ feedback implemented with the CGU t Informal assessment with CGU and t Publicity material posters, Vice Chancellor individual pocket schedules etc. t Official report of the CGU Neighbourhood School Development Project and enhancing the quality of education. The five schools to help the young scholars better As part of the Foundation’s commitment to project is implemented through the CSR teams understand and prepare for the scholarship the progression of education particularly of Cinnamon Grand Colombo and Cinnamon examination. The impact of this initiative in the less advantaged public schools, it Lakeside Colombo. was measured through results obtained by supports the development and maintenance of the participants in the all-island scholarship infrastructure and educational facilities of five During the year in review, the focus shifted examination which in general showed a very disadvantaged Government schools in Colombo from infrastructure/ facility development to positive trend. 2 the location of the Head Office and several skills development and career guidance. businesses of the John Keells Groupin order The Foundation conducted a pilot programme to create an environment conducive to learning for grade five scholarship candidates of the 160 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information IT Training in Neighbourhood Schools Another initiative piloted during the year Career Guidance and Vocational Training for School leavers of was IT training for interested school children Neighbourhood Schools conducted with the support of a team of four An important initiative piloted during the year in review was the launch of a career guidance volunteers from John Keells Computer Services and vocational training programme for post-Ordinary Level students of the five schools, which (Pvt) Ltd. was carried out in consultation with school principals and the Director, Zonal Education Office. This was in the context that all the schools except T. B. Jayah Maha Vidyalaya do not offer A total of 13 Ordinary Level class students of Advanced Level classes, as a result of which a large percentage of the students of these Al Iqbal Muslim Balika Vidyalaya participated schools seek employment soon after their Ordinary Level studies. in the course on MS Office (intermediate and advanced) covering Word, Excel and The foundation for the new programme was laid with a stakeholder engagement involving Powerpoint. Following 11 hours of classes held the school principals and parents of grade 10 students of the five schools. This comprised over a period of six weeks, an assessment of an introduction to the career guidance and vocational training initiative and job-specific test was conducted based on the course work presentations by John Keells personnel relating to the Leisure, Retail and Logistics industries. and group assignments at which every student Following interest expressed by the parents, students were enlisted for the career guidance recorded marks above 75 per cent. workshop. Given the enthusiasm and positive response A total of 58 students participated in the day-long workshop and ended with an exposure tour received, the Foundation intends to continue of Cinnamon Grand Colombo. this initiative in the future. The next step will be to select a group of students after their O’Level results to undergo a vocational training programme at Cinnamon Grand Colombo and Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo hotels. The selection will target high performers at the career guidance workshop who do not qualify for Advanced Level studies. The initiative will expose the selected candidates to a wide range of departments and functions in the hospitality industry over a period of six months. “During the year in review, the focus shifted from infrastructure and facility development to skills development and career guidance.” Stakeholder Engagement Selection Criteria Impact Assessment t Request by school principals t Relevance of the initiative in t Feedback from students and/or Zonal Education Director keeping with project objectives t Feedback from school authorities accompanied by independent t Need to prioritise vis-avis t Project team’s/ staff volunteer’s needs assessment by project team/ annual budgetary allocation feedback technical staff of city hotels or t Maintenance/ sustainability of proposed by John Keells Foundation initiative and mutually agreed with school authorities and (if necessary) students and their parents Annual Report 2012/13 l 161 PROGRESSIVE OUR COMMUNITY Overall Objective Focus Area Initiatives in Details Direct Impact JKH 2012/13 Volunteers Improving the overall Skills development English skills Offer of scholarships and conduct of Students 34 1 educational facilities and classes for eligible students under employability of students the John Keells English Language of five disadvantaged Scholarship Programme Government schools located near John Keells Grade 5 A two-day refresher programme Students 150 5 Head Office in Colombo scholarship conducted by two renowned scholarship 2, namely: project masters. Separate seminars were t Al Iqbal Muslim conducted in Sinhala and Tamil medium Balika Vidyalaya IT skills A pilot short-term class conducted in Students 13 4 t Holy Rosary March-April 2013 for O’Level class Sinhala Vidyalaya students of Al-Iqbal MBV on intermediate t Holy Rosary Tamil and advanced MS Office Vidyalaya Career guidance & Career guidance Meeting with parents to make them Parents 50 8 t Siri Sariputta vocational training and vocational aware of the importance of career Schools -5 Maha Vidyalaya training for school guidance & vocational training t T.B. Jayah Maha leavers Career guidance workshop for interested Students 58 14 Vidyalaya students after Ordinary Level exams Principals 5 School infrastructure Supporting Al Iqbal MBV -Rennovating home science Students 100 2 & facility development/ room Teachers 3 development maintenance of school Sri Sariputta MV Construction of a glass Students 200 infrastructure casing for the Buddha statue, doors for Teachers 10 and facility science room, aluminium racks, repair of enhancement desks & chairs T. B. Jayah MV Repair of desks & chairs Students 50 Holy Rosary Tamil Vidyalaya Renovation Students 50 1 of classrooms Holy Rosary Sinhala Vidyalaya Students 100 Renovation of classrooms Donation of a total of 2008 books All students of 20 to the five schools under the “Gift of the 5 schools Knowledge” Book Donation Campaign Principal’s Feedback: “On behalf of all the State schools of Colombo 2, I wish to thank John Keells .W]VLI\QWVNWZ\PMPMTXOQ^MV\WW]Z[KPWWT[W^MZ\PMXI[\aMIZ[NWZ\PMJMVMÅ\ of deserving children in the area. Focusing on the needs of the neighbourhood in preference of distant communities, the John Keells Foundation has recognised our need and come to the aid of our children continuously. The grade 5 scholarship refresher programme held recently and the vocational training programme being planned currently are indeed noteworthy services.” Mrs. A.L.S. Nazeera, Principal of T.B. Jayah Maha Vidyalaya of Colombo 2. 162 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information John Keells Foundation carried out It also helps develop a much needed resource assessments of all its educational base of professionals for the country’s growing projects at the conclusion of the transportation industry. Student’s Feedback: respective programmes and the “It helped me to improve my feedback received was positive. It In 2012/13, a total of 22 students were presentation skills. Because granted scholarships. The T&LM degree our department has so many was noted that requests for similar syllabus also includes a 6-month industrial presentations, the immersion programmes in the future were placement, with three students being selected XZWOZIULMÅVQ\MTaPMTXMLUMQV common. for internship in the Transportation sector our academic activities” Biman during the year under review. The scholarship Darshana Hettiarachchi holders who have graduated are employed University of Moratuwa Transport & at prestigious institutions such as Sri Lankan Logistics Degree Programme Airlines, South Asia Gateway Terminals, John Supporting of Siduhath Vidyalaya by Continuing from the previous year, the Keells Logistics, Fedex, Fonterra, Nestle, Sri Whittall Boustead Transportation sector continued its sponsorship Lanka Ports Authority, Central Bank etc. Whittall Boustead (Travel), sponsored the of the scholarship programme for the school requirements of the students of students reading for an Honours degree Meanwhile, as all lectures are conducted Sidhuhath Vidyalaya in Gallala, Ratnapura for of Bachelor of Science in Transport and entirely in English, the first-year students the 12th successive year. Each year, since Logistics Management (BSc (T&LM) Hons.) (numbering 40) were also provided English 2001, the staff, tour leaders and suppliers at the University of Moratuwa during the year language training via a customised programme of the company and its principals Kuoni in review. This 4-year programme, which conducted by the Gateway Institute. In this and their staff have voluntarily contributed commenced in 2006, is a strategic CSR instance, rather than conducting the usual two to the purchase of stationery requirements project designed to develop the knowledge, and a half months of classroom learning, an of all the students of this disadvantaged skills and attitudes necessary to equip the innovative approach was taken by conducting a public school. 35 volunteers (staff and tour undergraduates to face the modern day five day total immersion camp at the university leaders) participated at the event at which the challenges in transportation and logistics. premises. stationery requirements of all students from Year 1 to Year 11 (numbering 225) for the whole year were distributed. Impact Assessment John Keells Foundation carried out assessments of all its educational projects at the conclusion of the respective programmes and the feedback received was positive. It was noted that requests for similar programmes in the future were common. In addition to its internal assessments, the Foundation commissioned an independent impact evaluation of the English for Teens initiative in 2011/12 involving a sample of scholarship students of the intakes of both 2010/11 and 2011/12, representing 11 Districts and all nine Provinces, as well as their parents and course teachers. IT training at Al Iqbal Muslim Balika Vidyalaya, Colombo 02 The completed report of the external research institute, Lanka Market Research Bureau Private Limited, was received during the year Annual Report 2012/13 l 163 PROGRESSIVE OUR COMMUNITY During the year in review, a total John Keells HIV and AIDS awareness campaign of 12,774 persons benefited from HIV and AIDS awareness According to the UNAIDS classification, Sri Lanka is a country of “low level HIV epidemic”, but sessions conducted by John there is potential for spread. It is a known fact that the great majority of persons affected by Keells Foundation. Accordingly, HIV and AIDS are in their most productive age. Hence the Millennium Development Goals – the cumulative number of persons Country Report 2005 – Sri Lanka rightly identifies HIV and AIDS prevention measures in the educated since the inception of the workplace as a key priority for development. campaign is 54,100. The John Keells HIV and AIDS awareness campaign is a sustained initiative designed to cover awareness for employees of the John Keells Group, various vulnerable communities around the Group’s business locations and the general public. Launched in 2005, it was the first such in review highlighting the following salient campaign to be undertaken by a local corporate in Sri Lanka. The awareness project aims to aspects: inform people about the medical aspects of the disease, while at the same time increasing their sensitivity towards the human/social dimension. The project is carried out in collaboration More than 95 per cent of students with the National STD/AIDS Control Programme of the Ministry of Health (NSACP), International from both batches claimed that the Labour Organisation (ILO) and the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon (EFC). programme was practical, simple and easy to understand and interesting. Almost all parents were of the opinion HIV & AIDS awareness in the Maldives and that the programme had improved their India child’s ability to listen, speak, read and 1st December 2012 marked a significant write English, and that overall, their milestone for the John Keells HIV and AIDS marks obtained at school for English awareness campaign in the Maldives when had increased. John Keells Foundation was invited to conduct Most of the teachers interviewed in an awareness programme for Maldivian the study were of the opinion that nationals in collaboration with John Keells the training had given more benefit HEALTH Maldivian Resorts and the National Drug to the rural poor and disadvantaged During the year in review, a total of 12,774 Agency (NDA) of Maldives. Another historic students in the country by providing persons benefited from HIV and AIDS event which took place in the Maldives was the easy access to getting trained in an awareness sessions conducted by the establishment of the first ever HIV and AIDS international language. They saw the Foundation. Accordingly, the cumulative Workplace Committee in the Maldives at the program as a ladder that enabled the number of persons educated since the JKH resort, Chaaya Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa. future generation to compete in the inception of the campaign is 54,100. The first awareness programme, was attended global environment. Teachers had noted by over 100 staff members and was followed a significant improvement in the English World AIDS Day at John Keells by voluntary counselling and free screening language ability of students, especially The Foundation commemorated World AIDS services. in vocabulary development and grammar, and also in the overall interest Day on the 1st of December 2012, by a series of activities which included various GroupAnother landmark was recorded with the John in learning English. They also said that wide activities such as awareness sessions, Keells HIV and AIDS awareness campaign it had had a great impact in improving poster and video campaigns, pinning of the entering the shores of India. John Keells students’ standard of English in terms of “red ribbon” on the management and staff, a BPO Solutions India marked the launch of speaking, reading, writing, listening and digital awareness campaign and a quiz to raise the campaign within the organisation, with a understanding. awareness on HIV and AIDS. A novel feature week-long event starting with a “red ribbon” of this year’s commemorative activities was a campaign. A quiz competition and a poster free HIV screening organised by John Keells competition were also conducted during the Foundation open to Group employees. 400 week. An “I Pledge” banner was put up in the staff made use of the free health check which premises with team members being invited to also included blood sugar, cholesterol and sign and pledge their support to the initiative. blood pressure. 164 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information The HIV and AIDS Awareness Campaign not only concentrates on educating the employees of the Group, it also focuses on the enterprisebased workplace committees which were established in all John Keells companies in Sri Lanka following the Group-wide adoption of an HIV and AIDS Workplace Policy in 2010/11. The Foundation has a network of over fifty Master Trainers, and Mr Ivan Perera Security Manager attached to John Keells Hotels and a Master Trainer on HIV and AIDS since December 2009 is one such. He and his team have been involved in conducting multiple awareness programmes for the benefit of the employees of the John Keells hotels Master Trainer Ivan Perera carrying out an HIV and AIDS awareness programme and community outrach programmes. A former member of the Sri Lankan Army, he initiated the idea of conducting awareness sessions Feedback: for members of the security forces. During the “More than 1,200 troops were given the opportunity to get the maximum year in review, he recorded the remarkable knowledge through this awareness programme. I feel that they were extremely milestone of 20,000 people educated by him privileged and honoured for being able to listen to this highly valuable and his team since 2010. ML]KI\QWVITXZWOZIUUMº·*ZQO,M^QVLI8MZMZI/MVMZIT7NÅKMZ+WUUIVLQVO of 62 Division Headquarters Army Camp, Galkulama, Padavi-Sripura Stakeholder Engagement Selection Criteria Impact Assessment t Organisational (Group or 3rd party) t Number of individuals identified t Participant interaction request for awareness session(s) for awareness t Participant feedback (minimum of t Collaboration arrangements for t Availability of prerequisites 10 per cent coverage mandatory) awareness (e.g. Sri Lanka Army, Sri suitable venue, ground support/ t Project team’s/staff volunteers’ Lanka Air Force, Lanka Business focal point for organisation feedback Coalition on HIV and AIDS-LBCH) t Feedback/acknowledgement from beneficiary organisation t Feedback from third party organisations (e.g. ILO, LBCH) Focus Project Overall Objective Locations in 2012/13 Awareness Direct JKH Area Sessions Impact Volunteers Health John Keells To prevent the spread of Sri Lanka Army Camps; Sri 20 6,382 29 HIV & AIDS HIV, and discrimiation and Air Force Bases Awareness stigma relating to HIV and Campaign AIDS, through education for Staff of John Keells Group 65 4,504 44 the Group staff, surrounding External corporates coordinated by 13 613 8 communities (including high risk Lanka Business Coalition on HIV and environments) and the general AIDS (LBCH) public. External corporates (excluding 2 322 5 sessions for LBCH) Government agencies and Schools 5 953 12 Annual Report 2012/13 l 165 PROGRESSIVE OUR COMMUNITY John Keells Vision Project The continued collaboration with the Vision The continued collaboration with During the year in review, John Keells 2020 Secretariat of the Ministry of Health is the Vision 2020 Secretariat of the Foundation continued with its long-term goal to noteworthy in enabling the extension of the Ministry of Health is noteworthy eradicate avoidable blindness due to cataract John Keells Vision Project to areas previously in enabling the extension of the in Sri Lanka. Through numerous eye camps rendered inaccessible due to the long-drawn John Keells Vision Project to areas conducted in various parts of the country with civil conflict. Highlights of this collaboration the support of its project partners, a total of were successful cataract clinics conducted in previously rendered inaccessible due to the long-drawn civil conflict. ¹)\W\ITWN  KI\IZIK\XI\QMV\[_MZMQLMV\QÅMLIVL 613 surgeries completed during the year in review, bringing the cumulative total of cataract surgeries since the launch of the initiative in 2004 to 5,373.” 882 cataract patients were identified and 613 surgeries completed during the year in review, bringing the cumulative total of cataract surgeries since the launch of the initiative in 2004 to 5,373. Moreover, a total of 1,387 spectacles were donated to both adults and children during the reporting period. A total of 16 eye camps were conducted in six Provinces of the country with the support of Group companies on location, and project partners including Vision 2020 Secretariat of the Ministry of Health (eye camps and cataract clinics), Lions Gift of Sight Hospital (eye camps and co-sponsorship of surgeries of deserving cataract patients) as well as So Others May See (SOMS) (eye glass clinics for needy persons). Vision Camp at Nachchikuda, Kilinochchi Stakeholder Engagement Selection Criteria Impact Assessment t Discussions with 3rd party t Under-served communities/those t Attendance at eye camp requesting an eye camp (eg: with no access to vision care t No. of patients screened for community based organisations) services cataract/other vision impairment t Collaboration with the Ministry of t Availability of prerequisitest Project team’s/staff volunteers’ Health, Provincial hospitals, doctors medical resources, suitable feedback t Collaboration arrangements with venues, ground support/focal t Feedback/acknowledgement from Lions hospitals in Panadura and point for organisation and follow beneficiary organisation Ratnapura up support t Feedback from 3rd party/ t Publicity before and during the Eye collaborating organisations Camps t No. of cataract surgeries completed t Press releases/advertorials (as against the number of patients diagnosed with cataract) 166 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Focus Area Project Overall Objective Project Location/s in 2012/13 Focus Area in 2012/13 Direct Impact JKH Volunteers Health John Keells To assist deserving Uva Province Cataract surgeries in Completed 85 Vision individuals regain Bandarawela (Dr. Iddawela) collaboration with Vision surgeries 613 Project their vision and 2020 Secretariat of Pending thereby their social Northern Province the Ministry of Health, surgeries 200 and economic Mullaitivu (SOMS) Government Hospitals and independence Kilinochchi (Vision 2020) Lions Gift of Sight Hospital Nachchikkuda (Naval BH) Mullaitivu (Vision 2020) Mannar (SOMS) Sabaragamuwa Province Karawita (Lions/TSFL) Donation of spectacles to Spectacles children and adults at 1387 Central Province John Keells eye camps Dikoya (Vision 2020) and SOMS Eye Glass Ginigathhena (Vision 2020/TSFL) Clinics Southern Province Elpitiya (Lions) Bentota (Lions/BBH) Western Province Horana (Lions) Panadura (Lions) Kalutara (Vision 2020) Matugama (Lions) Beruwela (Lions/Cinnamon Bey) environment that have been the backbone of Biodiversity Conservation Feedback: the Group’s success. The Foundation does not During the year in review, the Foundation ¹)[IÅZ[\\QUMZI\IVMaMKIUXQ\ engage in any activity which to its knowledge continued to consolidate the activities at the was very sad to see the people who has or is likely to have an adverse impact on Nature Field Centre at Rumassala in Galle. had obviously travelled long distances the environment. A collaboration of the Foundation with the to attend the eye camp and to see Central Environment Authority (CEA) aimed their condition. I am very glad that I got this opportunity to be a part of something that helps people in need.” Maheshi Wimalagoonaratne, JKH / Volunteer Karawita eye camp Kilinochchi and in Mullativu of the Northern Province, resulting in 141 and 105 cataract surgeries, respectively. ENVIRONMENT Whilst the Group’s sustainability initiative drives efforts at minimising the impact of the Group’s operations on the environment (as reported in the section “Our Environment”), the Foundation spearheads its commitment to sustain and strengthen the communities and School children participating at an awareness programme Nature Field Center at Rumasssala, Galle Annual Report 2012/13 l 167 PROGRESSIVE OUR COMMUNITY The John Keells Group’s Paper the environment. It continued to attract a Polythene Reduction Conservation Project, involving healthy number of visitors per month, mostly Keells Super Supermarkets continued with the collection of waste paper from schoolchildren, recording a total coverage of their efforts at reducing the use of polythene 1,868 during the year in review. during the reporting year. The related initiative the Group’s business locations of providing consumers with alternatives for shredding and recycling, has Paper Conservation to polythene bags such as a reusable cloth continued during the year in The John Keells Group’s paper conservation bag known as the “Red Bag” and corrugated review, indirectly saving 609 trees project, involving the collection of waste cardboard boxes (offered free of charge to its paper from the Group’s business locations customers) were maintained during the year. for shredding and recycling, has continued at facilitating experiential learning about during the year in review. The project’s main Moreover, during the year in review, 49 kg of the environment and biodiversity, primarily objectives are the saving of trees and reducing plastic bottles were collected for recycling at among schoolchildren, the Centre has given the amount of waste paper otherwise ending the Union Place Keells Super supermarket. impetus to the conservation efforts of John up as landfill. Keells, whilst also creating an opportunity for a successful public-private partnership Neptune Recyclers (Pvt) Ltd, the contractor with the CEA. The Centre, conducts half-day for collection and onward transmission for programmes for schoolchildren and other recycling of the Group’s waste paper since interested groups to raise awareness on the 2006, has reported the direct and indirect need to protect the environment and our rich impact of the project during the reporting year biodiversity, eco-friendly practices and the as shown below: importance of co-existing in harmony with Feedback: “In addition to the school children, this Centre caters to a growing demand by other groups such as /W^MZVUMV\WNÅKQIT[aW]\P_WUMV and pre-school children and the management of John Keells can be happy in the knowledge that their objective of contributing to the conservation of the environment has JMMVN]TÅTTMLº·)[IVOI,PIZUIL[I +-)WNÅKMZQVKPIZOM6I\]ZM.QMTL Centre, Rumassala Sustainable Energy Initiative Solar Power to Halmillewa Recycling of Waste Paper Year 2012/13 Collection Direct Impact Indirect Impact Savings kg Payment Trees Water Electricity Oil Landfill Rs. Nos. litres kWh litres m3 Total 35,805 179,025 609 1,137,629 143,188 62,824 107 168 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Red bag and cardboard box usage Fiscal year Red bag Red bag Cardboard box Total Per customer Re-use Sale Re-use Usage Re-use re-use Increase per Customer April 2009 to March 2010 102,678 266,934 369,612 0.040 April 2010 to March 2011 97,621 200,665 298,286 0.032 -23.97% April 2011 to March 2012 72,592 130,525 322,882 525,999 0.047 31.34% April 2012 to March 2013 73,416 84,140 181,479 339,035 0.028 -65.23% Polythene usage Polythene usage in Polythene usage per visit Per customer Fiscal year kg grams reduction April 2009 to March 2010 90,193 9.71 4.30% April 2010 to March 2011 94,830 10.20 -4.85% April 2011 to March 2012 112,282 9.98 2.26% April 2012 to March 2013 92,739 7.74 28.94% Sustainable Energy Initiative Solar Power COMMUNITY/ LIVELIHOOD to Halmillewa DEVELOPMENT Feedback: Halmillewa a hamlet located in the The John Keells Group reaches out to the “I am immensely happy that I Palugaswewa Divisional Secretariat of the communities surrounding its operations have received this solar system. My Anuradhapura District – was the first recipient through ongoing dialogue with the relevant husband and I are very old and our of the solar power initiative of the John Keells stakeholders and through staff volunteerism, eyesight is very weak. I would like Foundation launched in 2011/12 with the to thank the John Keells Foundation translating in a range of community service installation of 12 solar power home lighting profusely for donating this solar initiatives. The primary objective of the systems and 11 street lamps under Phase Foundation’s community/livelihood projects is system.” Recipient of solar lantern, 1 of the initiative. The village was chosen fostering the spirit of entrepreneurship as a Halmillewa according to a number of criteria: the number key to sustainable development. of permanent houses that did not have access to grid electricity, the fact that the entire village had no street lamps regardless of the risk of the human-elephant conflict, and the Foundation’s established links with the village through the Village Adoption Project. Under Phase 2 of the solar power initiative undertaken during the year in review, a further 11 domestic units and 11 street lamps were provided for the benefit of villagers of Halmillewa following a feasibilty and technical assessment commissioned by the Foundation, while ground support was provided by Cinnamon Lodge, Habarana. An additional feature of Phase 2 was the donation of 8 solar lanterns to elderly persons living alone. Women’s empowerment, Halmillewa Annual Report 2012/13 l 169 PROGRESSIVE OUR COMMUNITY The John Keells Group reaches out Sustainable Water Initiative – Rainwater Harvesting in Mangalagama to the communities surrounding its operations through ongoing Following the field survey commissioned by John Keells Foundation during 2011/12, twenty dialogue with the relevant households and three community centres in the village of Mangalagama of the Ampara stakeholders and through staff District were the first recipients of rain water harvesting tanks. volunteerism, translating in a range A technical feasibility commissioned in the village confirmed that the village suffered from a of community service initiatives. severe water scarcity and that the majority of its population of 750 families who were farmers The primary objective of the and Samurdhi holders had no permanent income throughout the year. Hence this village Foundation’s community/livelihood was found to have the need, suitability and feasibility to be provided rainwater harvesting projects is fostering the spirit facilities. The beneficiary households were selected according to such criteria as accessibility of entrepreneurship as a key to to national water supply, distance from nearest water source and suitability of the structure, sustainable development. particularly its roofing. The village temple, school and dispensary were provided with 20,000 litre tanks on the basis of their central role as community centres, whilst the twenty households were supplied with 5,000 litre tanks. Village Adoption Project Halmillewa Sites for rain water harvesting tanks were recommended to John Keells Foundation through During the year under review, the Foundation the technical assessment conducted by the contractor, Practical Action, in collaboration with focused on reviving and consolidating officials of the Mangalagama Farmer Organisation. “Clean drinking water was always an issue acitivities of the women’s society “Diriyen for this community, especially during the dry season. During the initial assessments, I found Idiriyata” which had gone into abeyance due that everyone in the community was enthusiastic about the idea of rain water harvesting tanks; to inaction by some of its office bearers. they contributed to building the tanks as well. The recipients were grateful to John Keells Accordingly, the membership was reconvened, Foundation, and people are fully committed to taking care of tanks given to them,” said G.G. new office bearers appointed and a revised Ajith, Secretary of Sri Magalarama Temple Society and chief village coordinator of the initiative. consititution adopted according to the decisions of the membership. Action has also been initiated to recover the few unpaid loans entrepreneurship initiatives such as cloth rug the livelihood development and capacity under the savings scheme managed by the making, bee keeping and book keeping as building program initiated among cashew society. requested by members of the women’s society. farmers in the village. The main objective of Work is in progress in this respect. this initiative is to enable the Cashew Farmers Meanwhile, as part of its drive on Organisation to grow, collect, process and entrepreneurship and capacity building, the Village Adoption Project Mangalagama deliver cashew directly to CCS at market prices Foundation has agreed to fund training on During the year under review, Ceylon Cold in the mutual interest of both parties. This Stores (CCS) was able to consolidate further mutually beneficial partnership resulted in the Stakeholder Engagement Selection Criteria Impact Assessment t Discussion of the initiative with t Community need based on t Community interaction and support community leaders as part of an accessibility to identified t Supplier’s feedback informal needs assessment resource, income levels, etc t Beneficiary’s feedback t Commissioning of a technical t Availability of basic infrastructure t Feedback from Group business in assessment via the supplier to support proposed system the area t Discussion of the outcome of the solar power, rainwater harvesting) t Feedback from related Government assesment with the supplier and the t No of family members/ agency (if any) community focal point/s towards beneficiaries t Progress evaluation after one year finalising site selection t Willingness to support basic t Government approvals (if necessary) operations and maintenance via Divisional Secretary t Ground coordination support by Group’s businesses in the area 170 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information cashew farmers almost doubling the volume Village Adoption Project – New villages in the North and East sold and the price received for the purchase of cashew by CCS year on year: a total of 4099 During the year in review, the Foundation undertook the task of identifying and selecting kg (2030 kg in 2011/12) of cashew amounting suitable villages for development in the Northern and Eastern Provinces. to Rs. 6.1 million during the year in review (Rs. 3.7 million in 2011/12). Loan facilities Consequent to the above process and taking into consideration key aspects such as provided by the bank to facilitate the purchase development needs and practical issues prevalent, the Foundation identified the Districts of of raw cashew by members of the Cashew Mullaitivu (Northern Province) and Trincomalee (Eastern Province), and the support of the NGO, World Vision Lanka was enlisted in shortlisting three suitable villages following the conduct Farmers Organisation aggregated to Rs. 2.4 of a preliminary needs assessment. Subsequent to the proposals received, fuller needs million, up from Rs. 2.3 million in 2011/12. assessments were conducted and consultations had with Group companies (Union Assurance for Mullativu District and Chaaya Blu for Trincomalee District) and the following three villages Women’s empowerment were identified for development under the Village Adoption Project: The plan for Mangalagama in the reporting year also included initiating women’s Mullaitivu District Iranaipalai in Puthukkudiyiruppu DS empowerment activities in consultation with Mullaitivu District Puthumathalan in Maritimepattu DS women of the village. Although interest was Trincomalee District – Ellangaithurai Mugathuvaram GN in Verugal DS expressed as regards the formation of a women’s society to drive such activities at It has been decided to address some immediate issues faced by the fisher and farmer several meetings which were held in this communities, women’s societies and schools of the three villages in the short term and regard, the women have not been able to formulate and implement a detailed development plan after a fuller assessment in 2013/14. organise themselves which has impeded the launch of any of the proposed activities. The Foundation will discuss with community This ground-breaking project in the local BPO industry was initiated together leaders alternative courses of action in this with the Foundation for Advancing Rural Opportunity (FARO) in March 2007. respect in the next financial year. The immediate objective of the project was to create sustainable employment for talented rural youth, enabling them to work from the familiar environment BPO Initiative taking city jobs to the of their own village. The project has proved to be a sustainable business model, village KZMI\QVOMKWVWUQKJMVMÅ\[\W\PMKWUXIVa_PQT[\[QU]T\IVMW][TaOMVMZI\QVO OnTime Technologies (Pvt) Limited in sustainable employment opportunities for rural youth. The long-term vision of Mahavilachchiya in the North Central Province the initiative is to create BPO capacity for Sri Lanka’s future outsourcing growth. Sri Lanka’s first recorded rural BPO is flourishing, six years into its operations. The company works as a service provider to InfoMate and carries out transaction processing, as an extension of InfoMate’s role of captive finance and accounting service provider for the John Keells Group. In 2012/13, the number of youth engaged at OnTime increased to 20 associates. The range of functions outsourced to OnTime continued to expand during the year in review and the total payout to OnTime increased by 19 per cent over 2011/12. During the reporting period, two of the senior associates completed five years of work for OnTime, InfoMate and John Keells. These agents have graduated to Youth employeed at Seenigama BPO Technologies, Seenigama senior leadership positions at OnTime and have Annual Report 2012/13 l 171 PROGRESSIVE OUR COMMUNITY “On the strength of the JKH brand name and the InfoMate appointed two of its team leaders trust placed in outsourcing key accounting functions, to overlook each of the operations and to coordinate all activities relating to the units. Seenigama BPO technologies was able to attract and Their task includes arranging regular visits, secure new BPO clients from overseas and provide periodic skype calls on operations, ensuring adequate work was assigned, thereby ensuring lucrative employment to additional youth.” adequate earnings, addressing the concerns of the associates and also managing the interpersonal and HR aspects. a range of accounting, SAP and management have been encouraging and plans are underway capability. They are able to support their to expand to 20 seats in the near future. Sustainable Sourcing families with the earnings from OnTime and The sustainable sourcing initiative of the have improved their lifestyle. Meanwhile, it is During the year under review, the range of Consumer Foods & Retail Group continues also notheworthy that agents of OnTime who services outsourced to this unit also increased to boost agricultural activity in villages chose to move on to different job opportunities and total payout to SBT increased by 46 per and raise the standard of living in diverse have secured excellent jobs, both in the private cent over the previous year. Average operator communities. It is one of the Group’s largest sector as well as Government sector, utilising earnings too improved by 20 per cent . It is also and most successful projects, with many the competencies and skills acquired through noteworthy that, on the strength of the John sub-projects such as the ginger and vanilla the BPO project. Keells brand name and the trust JKH had placed out-grower programmes, treacle and cashew in Seenigama BPO Technologies in outsourcing projects, purchase guarantees of pork, chicken Infrastructure support provided by InfoMate key accounting functions, Seenigama BPO and assistance in the expansion of local, during the year included a complete Technologies was itself able to attract and mechanised, de-boned meat. networking cabling solution in line with best secure new BPO clients from overseas and practices in order to improve network speed provide lucrative employment to additional youth. Sustainable Sourcing by Keells Super and reliability and thereby enhance earnings. supermarkets Infomate also assisted in the procurement of Five visits were undertaken to Seenigama The retail chain, Keells Super, sources a variety computers and funded the backup leased line during the year in review aimed at providing of low-country and up-country vegetables from connectivity. technical training and ISO training relating farming families in Thambuttegama (North to information security and confidentiality Central Province), Suriyawewa (Southern John Keells and InfoMate staff undertook practices. seven field visits for the purpose of providing technical SAP related training and Third BPO operation initiated in Jaffna management training as well as equipping the associates with new skills. John Keells During the year, InfoMate together with John Keells Foundation launched its third BPO project Foundation also funded an outbound training in Jaffna, a unique project with public – private partnership. The Presidential Task Force on programme for the OnTime team to enhance English and IT, together with the office of the Commissioner General of Rehabilitation partnered John Keells in this initiative and candidates from amongst the rehabilitated ex combatants entrepreneurship, leadership and other skills. were interviewed and selected for training. The second BPO, Seenigama BPO Technologies A pool of over 30 candidates were shortlisted for an employability skills training programme (Pvt) Ltd (SBT) at Seenigama, now in its third which was sponsored by John Keells Foundation. The programme included English language year, has also matured into a strong, sustainable and communication skills and basic accounting and computing skills. From this group, six unit employing 15 youth. Seenigama is a candidates with the highest marks were selected for further training in InfoMate’s Colombo tsunami-affected village in the Southern office. The pool of six consisted of four rehabilitated youth and two from the general Province of Sri Lanka and is a tripartite population. collaboration between John Keells Holdings, Foundation for Advancing Rural Opportunity During the year in review, the Foundation invested in the initial infrastructure of the Jaffna BPO (FARO) and the Foundation of Goodness (FOG). office including computers, workstations, chairs, connectivity and networking. Training is provided in InfoMate’s office in The short-medium term plan is to increase the number of associates to 20 and maintain a mix Colombo. The rapid progress and the supply of rehabilitees with general population, in order to further promote the re-integration process. of trained resources during the reporting year 172 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Province) and Nuwara Eliya (Central Province), benefiting hundreds of farmer families. In each case, the benefits derived for the farmers include increasing their levels of income, providing an assured market for quality produce, technical assistance and exposure to developed markets, improving their quality of life and the creation of a quality focused family community, which we believe to be a sustainable business model. Sustainable Sourcing in the Leisure Industry Group Meanwhile, resorts of the John Keells Leisure Group continued to purchase most of their fresh supplies such as fish, fruits, vegetables, flowers, etc. from surrounding communities whilst local entrepreneurship was fostered through the patronage of suppliers and Sourcing of vegetables by Keells Super entertainers of acceptable quality. The Leisure Inbound Sector also fosters entrepreneurship continued with its partnership with vehicle guaranteed minimum income each month. The through its community based sourcing drivers. During the year in review, it maintained initiative has been very successful, with 20 mechanisms. its ongoing partnership with 40 of its drivers drivers completing the lease and assuming full in a project that assisted them to purchase ownership of the vehicles, while the remaining In its ongoing effort to uplift SME’s and modern vehicles on a self financed model. drivers are nearing the completion of their improve quality standards, Walkers Tours Having negotiated preferred rates on their lease period. Walkers Tours has continued Limited (a member of the John Keells Group behalf with both the vehicle seller and leasing and expanded the above partnership with the and an inbound tour operator company) company, Walkers Tours also provided a inclusion of more coaches, SUV’s and micro vans on self financed models. Sustainable Sourcing by Ceylon Cold Stores Product Location Primary suppliers/ Number of farmers Total annual supply (kg) Total payment (Rs.) project partners 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Ginger Aludeniya CCS, Ginger Growers 253 253 253 14,760 46,723 28,195 8,856,000 28,033,800 16,917,366 Galabawa and the Kandurata Development Bank Poojapitiya supported by Central Uduwa Bank of Sri Lanka All of Hataraliyadda in Kandy District Vanilla Meegammana Kandy Vanilla 2,500 2,500 2,500 925 534 981 6,937,500 3,672,500 5,762,390 West Growers Association Wattegama Kandy Treacle Waralla, Nilwala Food 12 12 14 42,000 37,569 20,422 5,460,000 4,884,087 2,654,860 Deniyaya Products Kithul Agriculture Self Dakshina Kithul N/A 25 50 N/A 9,871 20,284 N/A 3,701,625 8,132,277 Jaggary Employment Nishpadana Society, Neluwa Cashew Mangalagama Mangalagama N/A 30 20 N/A 2,030 4,099 N/A 3,726,000 6,131,300 Nuts Cashew Producers Annual Report 2012/13 l 173 PROGRESSIVE OUR COMMUNITY Sustainable Sourcing by Keells Food Products Sustainable Sourcing Projects of Keells Food Products PLC 2012/13 Product Location Primary Suppliers/ Project No. of farmers Total Annual Total Payment (Rs.) Partners Supply (kgs) Pork Kaluaggala, Diulapitiya Kaypro Farms, Maxies 25 750,782 179,909,881 Bujjampola, Giriulla, Livestock, SN Brothers Farm, Weliweriya Katana, Pussalla Farm, Dilini Farms, Kosgama, Pamunugama CIC Farms, Sanjeewa Farms, Dambulla, Kandy St Anthonys Farm, D S D Perera, W G Fernando Chicken Wennappuwa Maxies & Company, Pussalla 2,200 1,476,719 399,520,577 Hanwella, Farms, New Anthonys Farm, Kosgama Nelna Farms Meethirigala Spices Meegammana West, Kandy Vanilla Growers 2,500 26,062 28,134,065 Wattegama, Kandy Association Vegetables Meegammana West, Kandy Vanilla Growers 2,500 170,838 15,848,631 Wattegama, Kandy Association Sustainable Sourcing by JayKay Marketing Services Procurement of vegetables Thambuttegama vegetable collection centre The vegetable collection centre at Thambuttegama, started in August 2005, is owned and operated by Jaykay Marketing Services (JMSL). During the financial year 2012/2013, JMSL procured 532,502 kg of vegetables and fruits for a total value of Rs. 39,262,000/-.The centre worked with approximately 75 farming families whilst at any given time approximately 35 farmers supplied produce. For the fourth consecutive year, JMSL purchased 170,000 kg of B’Onions from the farmer associations in Kebithigollawa and Galenbinuwewa (two villages in the North Central Province) which was initiated by USAID-Sri Lanka. This is a 25 per cent growth in terms of volume compared to 2011/12. Suriyawewa collection centre The Suriyawewa collection centre started operations in January 2011 in the Walawe Mahaweli Area in the Southern Province. This collection centre was set up to procure low country vegetables and fruits. JMSL has been working with approximately 70 farming families and procured around 757,750 kg of vegetables and fruits at an aggregate value of Rs. 53,772,750/during the year in review. In comparison to 2011/12, the volume has grown by 44 per cent. Nuwara Eliya collection centre The Nuwara Eliya Agricultural Cooperative Society (AGCO) at Meepilimana, Nuwara Eliya operates the vegetable collection centre on behalf of JMSL. This organisation has a membership of more than 1,200 farmers from in and around Nuwara Eliya and they procure all produce from the membership. During the year in review, JMSL procured just over 795,000 kg of up-country vegetables for a total value of Rs. 121,758,000/-. This is a 5.8 per cent growth compare to the corresponding period of 2011/12. Procurement of fish, fruits from Jaffna During 2012/2013, JMSL initiated a project to purchase fish and grapes/mango from Jaffna with the intention of supporting people in conflict affected areas. So far JMSL had procured 5,250 kgs of fish, 4,500 kg of Jaffna grapes and 7,500 kg of mangoes from Jaffna. JMSL is looking forward to expanding its operations in Jaffna in the coming financial year. 174 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information “The many talented artists and sculptors who venture to present their creations at Kala Pola have the opportunity to launch and sustain their careers, develop a client base and promote art as a lucrative profession.” public amid a relaxed atmosphere of music and entertainment as well as stalls serving refreshments. The event was patronised by approximately 30,000 visitors and was supported by 86 volunteers from the John Keells Group. The 20th anniversary edition featured a Children Art Corner, an area in which differently abled children could display and market their creations, an Art Auction, a public lecture series on art featuring renowned international and local artists, an exhibition of SAARC Art hosted bye the SAARC Cultural Centre as well as an evening of entertainment. The many talented artists and sculptors who venture to present their creations at Kala Pola have the opportunity to launch and sustain their careers, develop a client base and “Kala Pola” 2013 promote art as a lucrative profession. Many Kala Pola artists have successfully expanded ARTS AND CULTURE mega two-day event held on the sidewalks their careers into the international arena. The John Keells Group is committed of Nelum Pokuna Mawatha on Saturday the to sponsoring arts and culture towards 26th and Sunday the 27th January 2013. It Meanwhile, Walkers Tours continues to host at safeguarding and promoting the cultural was inaugurated by the French Ambassador its premises located in Colombo 2 a stunning heritage of the community. to Sri Lanka and the Maldives, H.E. Christine collection of paintings of the internationallyRobichon. Conceptualised by the George renowned Sri Lankan artist, George Keyt. This Kala Pola Keyt Foundation, Kala Pola has enjoyed the valuable collection of artwork is on permanent During the year in review, Sri Lanka’s popular support of the John Keells Group for its 19th public display in the premises towards making open-air art gallery cum art fair Kala Pola consecutive year. 344 painters and sculptors it accessible to both local and foreign art celebrated its 20th Anniversary with a displayed their work to an enthusiastic lovers alike. Stakeholder Engagement Selection Criteria Impact Assessment t Newspaper notices t Artists and sculptors conforming t No. of participating artists t Individual letters to artists to the stipulated guidelines of t No. of visitors registered with the George Keyt George Keyt Foundation t Volume of sales Foundation t Only the above persons t Participant feedback t Pre event media conference registering for the event are t Staff volunteers’ feedback t Publicity material-media, display entitled to a display stall t Media coverage (pre and post event) boards in city hotels/retail outlets/ t Review by JKF and George Keyt lifestyle stores, e-flyers Foundation Annual Report 2012/13 l 175 PROGRESSIVE OUR COMMUNITY In recognition of the fact that employee The Foundation recorded the During the year in review, John Keells volunteerism is a means of attracting and engagement of 313 employee .W]VLI\QWVIT[WTI]VKPML\PMÅZ[\ retaining staff, a presentation on CSR is made corporate digital art gallery to enable volunteers from John Keells Group to each group of executive inductees under the Sri Lankan artists to showcase their in 594 volunteer activities relating Centre Induction Programme, with a request work throughout the year. This new to various projects implemented to consider volunteering for a project of their online service is offered as part of or overseen by the Foundation, choice. This is also made an opportunity to John Keells Foundation’s ongoing including several repeat volunteers efforts to promote Sri Lankan art and make the new employees aware of the Group’s commitment to the principles of the UN Global in different projects. artists and aimed at eventually taking Sri Lankan Art to a global clientele. Compact (UNGC) and what it entails. The UNGC principles and the Millennium Development Goals are also posted on the Group’s intranet time spent by employees on CSR voluntarism. for the benefit of staff. Similarly, the Foundation does not account for administration and overhead costs attributable Employees who wish to volunteer in Corporate to any of its projects. Social Responsibility (CSR) activities are released with minimum restraint. Moreover, In addition to the ongoing projects of the each volunteer engaged in its activities Foundation which are executed with the help is acknowledged by the Foundation, their of staff volunteers, the Foundation planned involvement and contribution are shared and implemented a mass-scale shramadana via the internal portal as well as the Group at the Kanneliya Forest, a UNESCO-designated newsletter, their volunteer contribution rated forest reserve rich in bio-diversity located under the Performance Appraisal System and off Udugama, Galle. A total of thirty Group Furthermore, the city and resort hotels of considered for eligibility under the Group’s employees from various business units the Group support local arts and culture by Recognition and Rewards System including the joined together for the annual shramadana engaging local artists and craftsmen to provide Chairman’s Award. at the Kanneliya Forest Reserve off Galle on indigenous crafts and entertainment to guests. 23rd March 2013. This was the third year As at the end of the year in review, the John that the shramadana was organised by the Sunera Foundation’s workshop for Keells Group does not account or charge for John Keells Foundation with the support differently-abled young persons In the reporting period, the Foundation continued to sponsor Sunera Foundation’s workshop for differently-abled young persons in Welimada. The Sunera Foundation’s focus is on improving the quality of life of these young persons and helping them with integration to society through performing arts. Staff Volunteerism A vital element in the Group’s community engagement strategy is staff volunteerism. This not only knits the John Keells family together and with the community, but also enables employees to develop such skills as team work, confidence, communication and leadership while giving them a sense of pride in the organisation and personal fulfillment. Volunteers at the annual shramadana, Kanneliya Forest Reserve, Galle 176 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Volunteer Feedback: “In my involvement with the Foundation’s CSR initiatives, a notable experience was the eye camp at Mullaitivu. Even though the war is over, many people I met at the eye camp had tragic stories to tell of their life during the war. So I am happy that I could do something for them listening to their sufferings and bringing some kind of relief to their life personally and on behalf of John Keells. I am also very happy that John Keells organises eye camps like this for people who are really in need and I am also proud of being a John Keells employee.” Mayuran Mahendran John Keells Volunteers of Group volunteers. The initiative was in commemoration of World Forestry Day (falling Volunteers who have already participated on 21st March 2013) which is celebrated in various CSR initiatives have often shared around the world to remind communities of the their sense of fulfilment at being part of a importance of forests and the many benefits community based activity, which has been gained from them. The John Keells volunteers circulated among others of the team for were involved in clearing the invasive plant motivational purposes. “beru” which endangers the many endemic plants thriving in Kanneliya. John Keells The John Keells Group will persist in examining Foundation also sponsored seven name/ new opportunities to bring together community direction boards which were handed over to ventures and engagement initiatives which are the Forest Department officers on site on the closely associated with the focus areas of the same day. Foundation, with the final goal of strengthening the sustainability of the communities and The Foundation recorded the engagement of environment in which our businesses operate. 326 employee volunteers from the John Keells Group in 617 volunteer activities relating to various projects implemented or overseen by the Foundation, including several repeat volunteers in different projects. In addition, a total of 5,525 volunteer instances were reported at business/sector level within the Group. The Foundation and sustainability teams are currently in discussion on developing a system to capture the engagement of staff volunteers Group-wide on an ongoing basis. Annual Report 2012/13 l 177 FINANCIAL INFORMATION Keeping our eye on the next level PROGRESSIVE WE B E L IE V E W E ’ RE O N TH E RIG H T TRACK Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The directors have pleasure in presenting the remaining ‘Stable’. The affirmation reflects equity holders of the parent for the year was 34th annual report of your Company together the continued strong dividend income from Rs.12,201 million (2012 Rs.9,687 million). with the audited financial statements of John JKH’s core investments and its subsequent Results of the Company and of the Group are Keells Holdings PLC (JKH), and the audited low financial leverage at the holding Company. given in the Income Statement. consolidated financial statements of the Group The rating also reflects JKH’s strong liquidity for the year ended 31 March 2013. position, well-spread-out debt maturities, and The final dividend of Rs.1.50 per share for the its exceptionally strong access to local banks financial year 2011/12 (2011 Rs.1.00) was PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES and capital markets. paid on 15 June 2012. First interim dividend John Keells Holdings PLC, the Group’s holding of Rs.1.00 per share for the year 2012/13 Company, manages a portfolio of holdings The JKH Group currently holds 29.9% in (2012 Rs.1.00) was paid on 2 November consisting of a range of diverse business Nations Trust Bank PLC (NTB). The Monetary 2012. A second interim dividend for 2012/13 operations, which together constitute the John Board had previously directed that the Group of Rs.1.00 per share was paid on 19 March Keells Group, and provides function based reduces its share holdings in NTB to 15% or 2013 (2012 Rs.1.00). This resulted in a total services to its subsidiaries and associates. below by April 2012. The founder shareholders dividend pay-out of Rs.3.50 per share (2012 including JKH have written to the Central Bank Rs.3.00) amounting to Rs.2,982 million (2012 The companies within the Group and its of Sri Lanka (CBSL) requesting an extension Rs.2,314 million). business activities are described in the Group of the deadline and a response is awaited. Directory under the Supplementary Information Meanwhile, the CBSL has also informed NTB Dividend per share has been computed for section of the Annual Report. that the requests made by its shareholders are all periods based on the number of shares currently under consideration. in issue at the time of dividend payout. As REVIEW OF BUSINESS SEGMENTS required by Section 56 (2) of the Companies A review of the financial and operational REVENUE Act No 7 of 2007, the Board of Directors has performance and future business Revenue generated by the Company amounted confirmed that the Company satisfies the developments of the Group, sectors, and to Rs.599 million (2012 Rs.516 million), solvency test in accordance with Section 57 its business units are described in the whilst Group revenue amounted to Rs.85,557 of the Companies Act No 7 of 2007, and has management discussion and analysis section million (2012 Rs.77,690million). Contribution obtained a certificate from the auditors, prior of the annual report. These reports, together to Group revenue, from the different business to declaring a final dividend of Rs.1.50 per with the audited financial statements, reflect segments is provided in note 5 to the financial share for this year. The final dividend will be the state of affairs of the Company and the statements. paid on 17 June 2013 to those shareholders Group. on the register as on 5 June 2013. RESULTS AND APPROPRIATIONS Segment wise contribution to Group revenue, The profit after tax of the holding Company Detailed description of the results and results, assets and liabilities is provided in note was Rs.7,362 million (2012 Rs.4,632 appropriations are given below. 3 to the financial statements. million) whilst the Group profit attributable to In July 2012, John Keells Holdings PLC and For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012 John Keells Holdings Mauritius (Pvt) Ltd signed In Rs.'000s an agreement to divest 40% of the voting Results from operating activates 6,705,102 7,183,183 shares of John Keells Logistic Lanka (Pvt) Ltd Finance cost (1,081,218) (1,415,827) and 80% of the voting shares of John Keells Finance income 4,769,891 2,874,360 Logistics India (Pvt) Ltd. 10,393,775 8,641,716 Change in fair value of investment property 2,012,077 1,413,474 In August 2012, the Group acquired an Profit accruing to the company and subsidiaries 12,405,852 10,055,190 additional 6.96% voting shares of Keells Share of results of equity accounted investees 3,369,313 2,764,838 Food Products PLC (KFP), thus increasing its Profit before tax 15,775,165 12,820,028 ownership to 90.17% in KFP. Provision for taxation including deferred tax (2,184,539) (1,841,879) Profit after tax 13,590,626 10,978,149 In August 2012, KFP acquired the building and Profit attributable to minority shareholders (1,389,547) (1,291,236) plant and machinery of D&W Food Products Amount available to the group's shareholders 12,201,079 9,686,913 (Pvt) Ltd. Other adjustments 484,077 332,030 Balance brought forward from the previous year 31,725,491 24,666,211 In August 2012, Fitch Ratings Lanka affirmed Amount available for appropriation 44,410,647 34,685,154 John Keells Holdings PLC’s (JKH) National 1st interim dividend of Rs.1.00 per share (2012 (851,371) (840,799) Long-Term rating at ‘AAA (lka)’ with the outlook Rs.1.00) paid out of dividend received Annual Report 2012/13 l 179 PROGRESSIVE Annual Report of the Board of Directors 2nd interim dividend of Rs.1.00 per share (2012 (855,073) (842,887) property of the Group is Rs.9,295 million Rs.1.00) paid out of dividend received (2012 Rs.7,631 million). Final dividend declared of Rs.1.50 per share (2012 (1,286,151) (1,275,977) Details of the revaluation of property, plant Rs 1.50 ) to be paid out of dividend received * and equipment and investment property Balance to be carried forward next year 41,418,052 31,725,491 are provided in notes 17.5 and 19.1 to the * The final dividend recommended for this financial year has not been recognised as at the financial statements. balance sheet date in compliance with LKAS 10 Events after the Reporting Period ACCOUNTING POLICIES In quantifying the Group’s contribution to Details of Group properties as at 31 March Details of accounting policies have been charities, no account has been taken of ’in2013 are disclosed in the Group Real Estate discussed in note 1 to the financial statements. house’ costs or management time. Portfolio section of the Annual Report. There have been changes in the accounting PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT INVESTMENTS policies adopted by the Group during the The book value of property, plant and Detailed description of the long term year under review. For all periods up to and equipment as at the reporting date amounted investments held as at the reporting date, are including the year ended 31 March 2012, to Rs.75 million (2012 Rs.89 million) and given in notes 21, 22 and 23 to the financial the Group prepared its financial statements Rs.49,273 million (2012 Rs.34,290 million) statements. in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLAS) which were effective up to for the Company and Group respectively. STATED CAPITAL 31 March 2012. These financial statements Capital expenditure for the Company and The total stated capital of the Company as at for the year ended 31 March 2013 are the Group amounted to Rs.15.3 million (2012 31 March 2013 was Rs.26,480 million (2012 first the Group has prepared in accordance Rs.53.2 million) and Rs.5,641 million (2012 Rs.25,111 million), as given in note 30 to the with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/ Rs.5,891 million), respectively. financial statements. LKAS) immediately effective from 1 April 2012. These SLFRS/LKASs have materially converged Details of property, plant and equipment and Options in respect of 13,122,459 shares with the International Financial Reporting their movements are given in note 17 to the (2012 4,381,962 shares) were exercised Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International financial statements. during the year under the employee share Accounting Standards Board (IASB). option plan, for a total consideration of MARKET VALUE OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Rs.1,370 million (2012 Rs.499 million). DONATIONS Total donations made by the Company and All land and buildings owned by Group SHARE INFORMATION Group during the year amounted to Rs.4.9 companies were revalued in the financial year The distribution and composition of million (2012 Rs.11.5 million) and Rs.18.8 2012/13, with the following exceptions. shareholders and the information relating to million (2012 Rs.22.8 million), respectively. earnings, dividend, net assets, market value Union Assurance PLC. was revalued in the Of these, the donations to approved charities per share and share trading is given in the financial year 2011/12. were Rs.3.2 million (2012 Rs.nil) at Company Share Information section of the Annual Report. Rs.11.7 million (2012 Rs.4.7 million) Valuations were carried out by P B at Group. These amounts do not include Given below, as additional disclosure, are Kalugalgedera, Chartered Valuation Surveyor, contributions on account of corporate social the John Keells Holding’s Board of Directors’ S Fernando, Chartered Valuation Surveyor and responsibility (CSR) initiatives. shareholdings in Group companies as at 31 K T D Tissera, Chartered Valuation Surveyor. March 2013. The John Keells Foundation, which is funded INVESTMENT PROPERTY by Group companies handles most of the John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) Investment properties of business units, when Group’s CSR initiatives and activities. The S C Ratnayake 5,299,066 (2012 4,579,903) significantly occupied by Group companies, Foundation manages a range of programmes A D Gunewardene 6,481,720 (2012 are classified as property, plant and equipment that underpin its key principle of acting 5,706,654) in the consolidated financial statements in responsibly in all areas of business to bring J R F Peiris 1,371,392 (2012 1,215,859) compliance with LKAS 40. about sustainable development. The CSR E F G Amerasinghe 5,514 (2012 5,514) initiatives, including completed and on-going T Das Nil (2012 Nil) All properties classified as investment projects, are detailed in the Sustainability S S Tiruchelvam 1,300 (2012 1,300) property were valued in accordance with the Integration and Risk Management section in I Coomaraswamy Nil (2012 Nil) requirements of LKAS 40. The Group revalued the Annual Report. A R Gunasekara 107,866 (2012 107,866) all its investment properties as at 31 March 2013. The carrying value of investment M A Omar 13,810 (2012 N/A) 180 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Options available under the employee share In accordance with Article 84 of the Articles of Human Resources and Compensation option plan of JKH. Association of the Company, A D Gunewardene Committee S C Ratnayake 1,380,426 (2012 2,631,892) and I Coomaraswamy retire by rotation and, E F G Amerasinghe Chairman A D Gunewardene 1,207,872 (2012 being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. I Coomaraswamy 2,302,938) A R Gunasekara J R F Peiris 1,027,850 (2012 1,533,383) The Company has also received notice of the S S Tiruchelvam resolution to propose the re-election of T Das, Asian Hotels and Properties PLC who is over 70 years of age, and who retires The report of the Human Resources S C Ratnayake 20,000 (2012 10,000) in terms of section 210 of the Companies Act. and Compensation Committee and the The resolution proposes that the age limit remuneration policy is given in the corporate Ceylon Cold Stores PLC stipulated in Section 210 of the Companies governance section of the Annual Report. S C Ratnayake 3,344 (2012 3,344) Act No 7 of 2007 shall not apply to T Das who A D Gunewardene 30,800 (2012 30,800) is over 70 years and that he be re-elected a Nominations Committee J R F Peiris 668 (2012 668) director of the Company. T Das Chairman S Enderby (resigned w.e.f 8 March 2013) John Keells Hotels PLC M A Omar was appointed to the board as an S C Ratnayake S C Ratnayake 550,311 (2012 550,311) independent director on 1 March 2013. In S S Tiruchelvam A D Gunewardene 74,806 (2012 74,806) accordance with Article 91 of the Articles of Association of the Company, M A Omar retires The report of the Nominations Committee is Keells Food Products PLC by rotation and, being eligible, offers himself given under the Board Committee Reports S C Ratnayake Nil (2012 4,250) for re-election. section of the Annual Report. Nations Trust Bank PLC The Group Directory details the names of INTERESTS REGISTER A D Gunewardene 5,671,164 (2012 5,756,249) persons holding office as directors of the The Company has maintained an interests Company and all its subsidiary and associate register as contemplated by the Companies Act Trans Asia Hotels PLC No 7 of 2007. companies, as at 31 March 2013 and the names S C Ratnayake 400 (2012 400) of persons who were appointed or who ceased to A D Gunewardene 400 (2012 400) In compliance with the requirements of the hold office as directors during the period. J R F Peiris 400 (2012 400) Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, this Annual BOARD COMMITTEES Report also contains particulars of entries Union Assurance PLC made in the Interests Registers of subsidiaries The following members serve on the Board, A D Gunewardene 8,562 (2012 7,492) which are public companies or private Audit, Human Resources and Compensation and Nominations Committees; companies which have not dispensed with the MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS requirement to maintain an Interests Register Details of the twenty largest shareholders Audit Committee as permitted by Section 30 of the Companies of the Company and the percentages held A R Gunasekara Chairman Act No 7 of 2007. by each of them are disclosed in the Share E F G Amerasinghe Information section of the Annual Report. Particulars of entries in the JKH interests I Coomaraswamy S Enderby (resigned w.e.f 8 March 2013) register REVENUE RESERVES Interests in contracts Revenue reserves as at 31 March 2013 for the The report of the Audit Committee is given The directors have all made a general Company and Group amounted to Rs.20,222 under the Corporate Governance section of the disclosure to the Board of Directors as million (2012 Rs.15,842 million) and Annual Report. permitted by Section 192 (2) of the Companies Rs.42,704 million (2012 Rs.33,001 million), Act No 7 of 2007 and no additional interests respectively. The movement and composition have been disclosed by any director. of the reserves is disclosed in the Statement of a) Share dealings: Changes in Equity. NAME OF DIRECTOR NATURE OF SHARE DEALING DIRECTORS Mr. S C Ratnayake 1,251,466 share options exercised under ESOP The Board of Directors of the Company as at Sale of 532,303 shares 31 March 2013 and their brief profiles are Mr. A D Gunewardene 1,095,066 share options exercised under ESOP given in the Board of Directors section of the Sale of 320,000 shares Annual Report. Mr. J R F Peiris 505,533 share options exercised under ESOP Sale of 350,000 shares Annual Report 2012/13 l 181 PROGRESSIVE Annual Report of the Board of Directors b) Indemnities and remuneration Act No 7 of 2007 and no additional interests board approved payment to R. S Fernando, The board approved the payment of have been disclosed by any director. remuneration comprising of: remuneration of the executive directors of the t GJYFEFMFNFOUBOE company, namely, S C Ratnayake, Chairman/ Indemnities and remuneration CEO, A D Gunewardene, Deputy Chairman/ The board approved the payment to t OJODSFNFOUGSPNTU+VMZCBTFEPO President, and J R F Peiris, Group Finance R J Karunarajah and S Rajendra, executive the individual performance rating obtained Director for the period 1 April 2012 to 31 March directors of Asian Hotels & Properties PLC, by the executive director in terms of the 2013 comprising of: remuneration comprising of: performance management system of the John Keells Group; and t OJODSFNFOUGSPNTU+VMZCBTFEPO t OJODSFNFOUGSPNTU+VMZCBTFEPO the individual performance rating obtained the individual performance rating obtained as recommended by the Human Resources by the executive directors in terms of the by the executive directors in terms of the and Compensation Committee of John performance management system of the performance management system of the Keells Holdings PLC, the Holding company of John Keells Group; and John Keells Group; and John Keells PLC, in keeping with the Group t TIPSUUFSNWBSJBCMFJODFOUJWFCBTFE t TIPSUUFSNWBSJBCMFJODFOUJWFCBTFE remuneration policy. on individual performance, organisation on individual performance, organisation performance and role responsibility performance and role responsibility Keells Hotel Management Services Ltd. based on the results of the financial year based on the results of the financial year Indemnities and remuneration 2011/2012 paid in July 2012, 2011/2012, paid in July 2012. The board approved the payment to J E P Kehelpannala. Executive director of as recommended by the Human Resources as recommended by the Human Resource Keells Hotel Management Services Ltd, and Compensation Committee of John Keells and Compensation Committee of John Keells remuneration, comprising of: Holdings PLC, having conducted market Holdings PLC, the holding company of Asian surveys, spoken to experts and having taken t OJODSFNFOUGSPNTU+VMZCBTFEPO Hotels & Properties PLC, in keeping with the into consideration the specific management the individual performance rating obtained Group remuneration policy. complexities associated with the John by the executive director in terms of the Keells Group and in keeping with the Group performance management system of the Ceylon Cold Stores PLC remuneration policy. John Keells Group; and Indemnities and remuneration The board approved the payment to t TIPSUUFSNWBSJBCMFJODFOUJWFCBTFE Sithie Tiruchelvam was reappointed as a NonJ R Gunaratne, executive director of Ceylon on individual performance, organisation Executive Director from 1st January 2013 for a Cold Stores PLC, remuneration, comprising of: performance and role responsibility further term until the conclusion of the Annual based on the results of the financial year General Meeting for 2015/2016 at the standard t OJODSFNFOUGSPNTU+VMZCBTFEPO 2011/2012 paid in July 2012. Non-Executive fees approved by the Board the individual performance rating obtained for Non-Executive Directors which fees are by the executive director in terms of the as recommended by the Human Resources commensurate with the market complexities of performance management system of the and Compensation Committee of John Keells the Company. John Keells Group; and Holdings PLC, the holding company of Keells t TIPSUUFSNWBSJBCMFJODFOUJWFCBTFE Hotel Management Services Limited, in Ashroff Omar was appointed to the Board on individual performance, organisation keeping with the Group remuneration policy. of Directors of John Keells Holdings PLC on performance and role responsibility the standard terms and conditions applicable based on the results of the financial year Walkers Tours Ltd. to appointments of directors, including fees 2011/2012, paid in July 2012 . Indemnities and remuneration approved by the Board for Non-Executive The board approved payment to V Leelananda Directors which fees are commensurate with as recommended by the Human Resources executive director of Walkers Tours Ltd, the market and complexities relating to the and Compensation Committee of John Keells remuneration comprising of: business of the Company. Holdings PLC the holding company of Ceylon Cold Stores PLC, in keeping with the Group t OJODSFNFOUGSPNTU+VMZCBTFEPO Particulars of entries in Interests Registers remuneration policy. the individual performance rating obtained of subsidiaries by the executive director in terms of the Asian Hotels & Properties PLC John Keells PLC performance management system of the Interests in contracts Indemnities and remuneration John Keells Group; and The directors have all made a general Further to the appointment of R S Fernando t TIPSUUFSNWBSJBCMFJODFOUJWFCBTFE disclosure to the Board of Directors as as an executive director of John Keells on individual performance, organisation permitted by Section 192 (2) of the Companies PLC with effect from 1 July 2012, and the performance and role responsibility 182 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information based on the results of the financial year share capital within an annual limit of up to issue non transferable call share options not 2011/2012 paid in July 2012 2% of nontransferable call share options and exceeding 0.75% of the share in issue of the the options granted under this plan had to Company as at the date of granting the award as recommended by the Human Resources be exercised within five years of such grant. and have to be exercised within five years of and Compensation Committee of John Keells Under the fourth plan, the Company was such grant. Holdings PLC, the holding company of Walkers authorised to issue non-transferable call share Tours Limited, in keeping with the Group options, not exceeding in aggregate 0.85% The options outstanding under the plans 5, 6 remuneration policy. of the shares in issue of the Company as at and 7 were valid for exercise as at 31 March the date of granting the award and had to be 2013. DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION exercised within five years of such grant. Under Details of the remuneration and other benefits the fifth plan, the Company was authorised to The highest, lowest and the closing prices received by the Directors are set out in note 11 issue non-transferable call share options, not of the share recorded during the year were of the financial statements. exceeding 1% of the shares in issue of the Rs.249.70, Rs.172.00 and Rs.247.00 Company as at the date of granting the award respectively. EMPLOYEE SHARE OPTION PLAN (ESOP) and had to be exercised within five years of At the beginning of the year, the employee The Company has not granted any funding to such grant. Under the sixth plan, the Company share option plan consisted of the third, fourth, employees to exercise options. was authorised to issue non-transferable call fifth, sixth and seventh plans approved by the share options, not exceeding in aggregate shareholders on 28 June 2004, 13 December Details of the options granted, options 0.75% of shares in issue of the Company as at 2007, 2 December 2009, 6 December 2010 exercised, the grant price and the options the date of granting the award and had to be and 7 December 2011 respectively. cancelled or lapsed and outstanding as at exercised within five years of such grant. On the date of the Directors’ report have been 7 December 2011, the shareholders approved Under the third plan, the Company was tabulated below. a seventh plan, whereby the Company could authorised to issue up to 5% of the issued EMPLOYEE SHARE OPTION PLAN AS AT 31ST MARCH 2013 Date of Grant Employee Shares Expiry Date Option Shares ** Exercised Cancelled*** Outstanding End/ Category Granted Grant Adjusted Current ** Price Price (Rs.) (Rs.) PLAN 3 28.05.2007 10,551,062 27.05.2012 146.00 13,017,508 11,743,088 1,274,420 109.50 Award 3 GEC* 2,111,212 2,814,948 2,814,948 Other Executives 8,439,850 10,202,560 8,928,140 1,274,420 PLAN 4 25.03.2008 5,405,945 24.03.2013 120.00 6,806,006 6,550,456 255,550 90.00 GEC* 2,162,375 2,883,163 2,883,163 Other Executives 3,243,570 3,922,843 3,667,293 255,550 PLAN 5 17.12.2009 6,126,960 16.12.2014 160.25 7,935,812 1,751,614 55,227 6,128,971 120.19 GEC* 2,445,280 3,260,373 Other Executives 3,681,680 4,675,439 1,751,614 55,227 PLAN 6 09.12.2010 4,672,823 08.12.2015 292.00 6,214,104 38,398 404,517 5,771,189 219.00 GEC* 1,872,174 2,496,229 Other Executives 2,800,649 3,717,875 38,398 404,517 PLAN 7 07.12.2011 6,306,182 06.12.2016 172.10 6,306,182 483,070 66,300 5,756,812 172.10 GEC* 2,522,482 2,522,482 Other Executives 3,783,700 3,783,700 483,070 66,300 Total 33,062,972 40,279,612 20,566,626 2,056,014 17,656,972 * GEC comprises of the Executive Directors and Presidents ** Adjusted for Bonus Issues/Right Issues/Sub-divisions *** “Cancelled” represents shares not exercised by resigning employees Annual Report 2012/13 l 183 PROGRESSIVE Annual Report of the Board of Directors CORPORATE GOVERNANCE approach and performance, and meets the RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Directors’ declarations general content and quality requirements of The Group has an active approach to The directors declare that; the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1. research and development and recognises the contribution that it can make to the Group’s a) the Company complied with all applicable The Report has also received a GRI Check, operations. Significant expenditure has taken laws and regulations in conducting its fulfilling the requirements of an Application place over the years and substantial efforts business. Level B+ Level, as per GRI. will continue to be made to introduce new products and processes and develop existing b) the directors have declared all material EMPLOYMENT products and processes to improve operational interests in contracts involving the The Group has an equal opportunity policy efficiency. Company and refrained from voting on and these principles are enshrined in specific matters in which they were materially selection, training, development and promotion STATUTORY PAYMENTS interested. policies, ensuring that all decisions are based The directors confirm that to the best of on merit. The Group practices equality of their knowledge, all taxes, duties and levies c) the Company has made all endeavours opportunity for all employees irrespective of payable by the Company and its subsidiaries, to ensure the equitable treatment of ethnic origin, religion, political opinion, gender, all contributions, levies and taxes payable on shareholders. marital status or physical disability. Employee behalf of, and in respect of the employees ownership in the Company is facilitated of the Company and its subsidiaries, and all d) the business is a going concern with through the employee share option plan. other known statutory dues as were due and supporting assumptions or qualifications payable by the Company and its subsidiaries as necessary, and Details of the Group’s human resource as at the statement of financial position date initiatives are detailed in the employees’ have been paid or, where relevant provided for, e) have conducted a review of internal section of the sustainability report. except as specified in note 42 to the financial controls covering financial, operational and statements, covering contingent liabilities. compliance controls and risk management The number of persons employed by the and have obtained a reasonable assurance Company and Group as at 31 March 2013 ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT of their effectiveness and successful was 123 (2012 141) and 13,224 (2012 The board confirms that there is an ongoing adherence herewith. 11,956), respectively. process of identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks faced by the The Corporate Governance report is given There have been no material issues pertaining Group, where annual risk reviews are carried under the Governance section of the Annual to employees and industrial relations of the out by the Enterprise Risk Management Report. Company. Division and the risks are further reviewed each quarter by each business unit. The SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLIER POLICY headline risks of each listed Company is The Group pursues its business goals from a The Group applies an overall policy of agreeing presented to its respective Board Audit stakeholder approach of business governance. and clearly communicating terms of payment Committee for review by the Business Unit and Based on the findings of the continuous as part of the commercial agreements in the case of John Keells Holdings, by the stakeholder engagements, the Group has negotiated with suppliers, and endeavors Enterprise Risk Management Division to the taken specific steps, in focusing on material to pay for all items properly charged in John Keells Board Audit Committee. issues such as the conservation of natural accordance with these agreed terms. As at resources and the environment, as well as 31 March 2013 the trade and other payables INTERNAL CONTROL addressing material issues highlighted by of the Company and Group amounted to The board, through the involvement of the other stakeholders such as the community Rs.230 million (2012 Rs.246 million) and Group Business Process Review Division, takes and employees. These steps have been Rs.14,608 million (2012 Rs.14,875 million), steps to gain assurance on the effectiveness of encapsulated in a Group-wide sustainability respectively. control systems in place. The Audit Committee initiative which has seen continuous progress receives regular reports on the adequacy over the last few years. This year, the Group ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION and effectiveness of internal control in the published its second integrated Annual The Group complies with the relevant Group, compliance with laws and regulations Report, combining financial information with environmental laws, regulations and endeavors and established policies and procedures of sustainability information in a bid to provide to comply with best practices applicable in the the Group. The head of the Group Business its stakeholders with more holistic information. country of operation. A summary of selected Process Review Division has direct access Det Norske Veritas AS (DNV) has assured Group activities in the above area is contained to the chairman of the Audit Committee. that the report represents the Company’s in the Sustainability Report. Reports of the outsourced internal auditors are sustainability policies, objectives, management 184 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information also reviewed by the Committee on matters ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING pertaining to the Company. The annual general meeting will be held at the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD 30, Malalasekera Mawatha, Colombo 7, on There have been no events subsequent to Friday, 28 June 2013 at 10.00 a.m. The notice the reporting period, which would have any of meeting appears in the Supplementary material effect on the Company or on the Information section of the integrated Annual Group other than those disclosed in note 46 to Report. the financial statements. This annual report is signed for and on behalf GOING CONCERN of the Board of Directors. The directors are satisfied that the Company, By Order of the Board its subsidiaries and associates, have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, to justify adopting the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements. Director Director Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd. AUDITORS Messrs Ernst & Young, Chartered Accountants, are willing to continue as Auditors of the Company, and a resolution proposing their reappointment will be tabled at the annual Secretaries general meeting. 28 May 2013 The Auditors Report is found in the Financial Information section of the Annual Report. The Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the Auditor, its effectiveness, its independence and its relationship with the Group, including the level of audit and nonaudit fees paid to the Auditor. The Group works with 4 firms of Chartered Accountants across the Group, namely, Ernst & Young, KPMG, PricewaterhouseCoopers, and Deloitte Haskins & Sells. Details of audit fees are set out in note 11 of the financial statements. The Auditors do not have any relationship (other than that of an Auditor) with the Company or any of its subsidiaries. Further details on the work of the Auditor and the Audit Committee are set out in the Audit Committee Report. ANNUAL REPORT The Board of Directors approved the consolidated financial statements on 28 May 2013. The appropriate number of copies of this report will be submitted to the Colombo Stock Exchange and to the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards Monitoring Board on 3 June 2013. Annual Report 2012/13 l 185 PROGRESSIVE THE STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY The responsibility of the directors in relation The directors are also responsible for taking to the financial statements is set out in the reasonable steps to safeguard the assets following statement. The responsibility of the of the Company and of the Group and in auditors, in relation to the financial statements this regard to give proper consideration to prepared in accordance with the provision of the establishment of appropriate internal the Companies Act No 7 of 2007, is set out in control systems with a view to preventing and the Report of the Auditors. detecting fraud and other irregularities. The financial statements comprise of: The directors are required to prepare the financial statements and to provide the t JODPNFTUBUFNFOUBOETUBUFNFOUPG auditors with every opportunity to take comprehensive income of the Company whatever steps and undertake whatever and its subsidiaries, which present a true inspections that may be considered being and fair view of the profit and loss of appropriate to enable them to give their audit the Company and its subsidiaries for the opinion. financial year. t BTUBUFNFOUPGGJOBODJBMQPTJUJPO XIJDI Further, as required by Section 56 (2) of the presents a true and fair view of the state of Companies Act No 7 of 2007, the Board of affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries directors have confirmed that the Company, as at the end of the financial year: and based on the information available, satisfies the solvency test immediately after the The directors are required to confirm that the distribution, in accordance with Section 57 of financial statements have been prepared: the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, and have t VTJOHBQQSPQSJBUFBDDPVOUJOHQPMJDFT obtained a certificate from the auditors, prior to which have been selected and applied declaring a final dividend of Rs.1.50 per share in a consistent manner, and material for this year, to be paid on 17 June 2013. departures, if any, have been disclosed The directors are of the view that they have and explained; and discharged their responsibilities as set out in t QSFTFOUFEJOBDDPSEBODFXJUIUIF4SJ this statement. Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/ LKAS); and that reasonable and prudent Compliance Report judgments and estimates have been The directors confirm that to the best of made so that the form and substance of their knowledge, all taxes, duties and levies transactions are properly reflected; and payable by the Company and its subsidiaries, all contributions, levies and taxes payable on t 1SPWJEFTUIFJOGPSNBUJPOSFRVJSFECZBOE behalf of and in respect of the employees of otherwise comply with the Companies Act the Company and its subsidiaries and all other and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock known statutory dues as were due and payable Exchange. by the Company and its subsidiaries as at The directors are also required to ensure the reporting date have been paid, or where that the Company has adequate resources relevant provided for, except as specified in to continue in operation to justify applying note 42 to the financial statements covering the going concern basis in preparing these contingent liabilities. financial statements. By order of the Board Further, the directors have a responsibility to ensure that the Company maintains sufficient accounting records to disclose, with reasonable accuracy, the financial position of Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd the Company and of the Group. Secretaries 28 May 2013 186 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information REPORT OF THE AUDITORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT Scope of audit and basis of opinion financial position as at 31 March 2013 and its TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF JOHN KEELLS Our responsibility is to express an opinion on financial performance and cash flows for the HOLDINGS PLC these financial statements based on our audit. year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Report on the financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with Accounting Standards. We have audited the accompanying financial Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards statements of John Keells Holdings PLC require that we plan and perform the audit In our opinion, the consolidated financial (“Company”), the consolidated financial to obtain reasonable assurance whether the statements give a true and fair view of the statements of the Company and its financial statements are free from material financial position as at 31 March 2013 and its subsidiaries which comprise the statements misstatement. financial performance and cash flows for the of financial position as at 31 March 2013, year then ended, in accordance with Sri Lanka and the income statements, statements of An audit includes examining, on a test Accounting Standards, of the Company and comprehensive income, statements of changes basis, evidence supporting the amounts and its subsidiaries dealt with thereby, so far as in equity and statements of cash flow for the disclosures in the financial statements. An concerns the shareholders of the Company. year then ended, and a summary of significant audit also includes assessing the accounting accounting policies and other explanatory policies used and significant estimates made Report on other legal and regulatory notes. by management, as well as evaluating the requirements overall financial statement presentation. These financial statements also comply with Management’s responsibility for the the requirements of Sections 151(2) and financial statements We have obtained all the information and 153(2) to 153(7) of the Companies Act No. 07 Management is responsible for the preparation explanations which to the best of our of 2007. and fair presentation of these financial knowledge and belief were necessary for the statements in accordance with Sri Lanka purposes of our audit. We therefore believe Accounting Standards. This responsibility that our audit provides a reasonable basis for includes: designing, implementing and our opinion. maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial Opinion statements that are free from material In our opinion, so far as appears from our 28 May 2013 misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; examination, the Company maintained proper Colombo. selecting and applying appropriate accounting accounting records for the year ended 31 policies; and making accounting estimates that March 2013 and the financial statements are reasonable in the circumstances. give a true and fair view of the Company’s Annual Report 2012/13 l 187 PROGRESSIVE INCOME STATEMENT Group Company For the year ended 31st March Note 2013 2012 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s Continuing operations Sale of goods 47,073,956 42,125,132 Rendering of services 38,483,295 35,564,740 599,248 516,356 Revenue 5 85,557,251 77,689,872 599,248 516,356 Cost of sales (65,101,591) (59,507,431) (352,983) (290,941) Gross profit 20,455,660 18,182,441 246,265 225,415 Dividend income 6 6,817,632 4,815,059 Other operating income 7 1,351,824 1,679,903 107,306 192,609 Distribution expenses (2,861,415) (2,632,805) Administrative expenses (9,593,393) (7,876,638) (683,273) (695,561) Other operating expenses 8 (2,647,574) (2,169,718) (62,710) (30,081) Results from operating activities 6,705,102 7,183,183 6,425,220 4,507,441 Finance cost 9 (1,081,218) (1,415,827) (293,101) (512,434) Finance income 10 4,769,891 2,874,360 1,295,593 730,387 Net finance income 3,688,673 1,458,533 1,002,492 217,953 Change in fair value of investment property 19 2,012,077 1,413,474 Share of results of equity accounted investees 22.1 3,369,313 2,764,838 Profit before tax 11 15,775,165 12,820,028 7,427,712 4,725,394 Tax expense 12 (2,184,539) (1,841,879) (65,502) (93,876) Profit for the year 13,590,626 10,978,149 7,362,210 4,631,518 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 12,201,079 9,686,913 Non-controlling interest 1,389,547 1,291,236 13,590,626 10,978,149 Earnings per share Basic 13 14.33 11.52 Diluted 13 14.22 11.44 Dividend per share 14 3.50 3.00 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 195 to 280 form an integral part of these financial statements. 188 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Group Company For the year ended 31st March Note 2013 2012 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s Profit for the year 13,590,626 10,978,149 7,362,210 4,631,518 Other comprehensive income Currency translation of foreign operations (193,711) 1,060,558 Revaluation of land and buildings 10,463,249 1,543,566 Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investments (48,392) 1,211,692 Net (loss) / gain on available-for-sale financial assets (201,659) (349,606) (146,138) 393,385 Transfers to revenue reserves (11,745) 46,167 Tax on other comprehensive income 12.3 (228,187) (20,818) Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 9,779,555 3,491,559 (146,138) 393,385 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 23,370,181 14,469,708 7,216,072 5,024,903 Attributable to : Equity holders of the parent 20,032,700 12,886,563 Non-controlling interest 3,337,481 1,583,145 23,370,181 14,469,708 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 195 to 280 form an integral part of these financial statements. Annual Report 2012/13 l 189 PROGRESSIVE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Group Company As at 1 April As at 1 April As at 31st March Note 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s ASSETS Non current assets Property, plant and equipment 17 49,272,979 34,290,012 28,627,982 75,309 89,559 73,543 Lease rentals paid in advance 18 9,513,671 10,278,349 9,512,117 Investment property 19 9,294,936 7,631,494 5,386,166 Intangible assets 20 2,689,514 2,633,073 2,631,950 74,004 48,141 43,724 Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures 21 26,641,307 24,677,156 23,494,997 Investments in associates 22 15,724,361 15,654,381 14,692,435 9,821,364 9,485,530 9,257,569 Other non current financial assets 23 18,816,693 13,689,819 13,276,625 1,710,653 2,022,684 660,579 Deferred tax assets 24 212,227 129,478 202,850 54,198 Other non current assets 25 3,575,749 2,405,197 2,265,984 10,310 7,902 3,091 109,100,130 86,711,803 76,596,109 38,332,947 36,330,972 33,587,701 Current assets Inventories 26 3,998,900 4,350,365 3,152,870 760 Trade and other receivables 27 12,775,046 11,347,280 8,982,184 994,862 376,950 65,670 Amounts due from related parties 41 207,455 10,715 18,520 518,084 978,748 696,782 Other current assets 28 2,895,900 2,923,080 2,979,734 384,966 342,926 373,475 Short term investments 29 26,586,054 24,847,203 16,952,300 12,551,540 10,183,845 10,143,984 Cash in hand and at bank 3,554,804 4,267,175 2,112,626 63,159 454,495 19,382 50,018,159 47,745,818 34,198,234 14,512,611 12,336,964 11,300,053 Total assets 159,118,289 134,457,621 110,794,343 52,845,558 48,667,936 44,887,754 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Stated capital 30 26,480,396 25,110,528 24,611,507 26,480,396 25,110,528 24,611,507 Capital reserves 428,365 428,365 Revenue reserves 42,704,203 33,001,468 25,296,044 20,221,756 15,841,968 13,523,969 Other components of equity 31 20,634,571 12,797,149 9,770,533 83,457 229,595 (163,790) 89,819,170 71,337,510 60,106,449 46,785,609 41,182,091 37,971,686 Non-controlling interest 11,366,240 8,863,336 7,641,956 Total equity 101,185,410 80,200,846 67,748,405 46,785,609 41,182,091 37,971,686 Non current liabilities Insurance contract liabilities 32 17,388,494 14,710,527 12,662,500 Borrowings 33 11,857,764 12,220,907 8,275,452 3,752,621 5,060,493 5,442,865 Deferred tax liabilities 24 1,222,210 707,970 647,960 Employee benefit liabilities 34 1,385,072 1,372,161 1,215,597 134,075 126,864 104,752 Other deferred liabilities 35 50,228 2,948 3,460 Other non current liabilities 36 530,075 773,884 746,938 32,433,843 29,788,397 23,551,907 3,886,696 5,187,357 5,547,617 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 37 14,608,263 14,875,221 11,114,166 229,990 246,050 146,500 Amounts due to related parties 41 15,280 1,650 2,237 13,156 6,926 9,274 Income tax liabilities 38 981,013 823,195 791,606 Short term borrowings 39 1,853,767 1,009,057 232,000 Current portion of borrowings 33 3,048,936 2,476,627 2,197,557 1,314,424 1,348,887 1,167,139 Other current financial liabilities 74,593 Other current liabilities 40 1,635,534 860,681 1,252,349 105,478 17,588 11,028 Bank overdrafts 3,356,243 4,347,354 3,904,116 510,205 679,037 34,510 25,499,036 24,468,378 19,494,031 2,173,253 2,298,488 1,368,451 Total equity and liabilities 159,118,289 134,457,621 110,794,343 52,845,558 48,667,936 44,887,754 I certify that the financial statements comply with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007. M J S Rajakariar Group Financial Controller The Board of directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these financial statements. S C Ratnayake J R F Peiris Chairman Group Finance Director The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 195 to 280 form an integral part of these financial statements. 28 May 2013 190 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW Group Company For the year ended 31st March Note 2013 2012 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit before working capital changes A 9,846,382 10,277,429 (304,073) (233,670) (Increase) / decrease in inventories 372,595 1,977,219 760 (Increase) / decrease in trade and other receivables (1,742,603) (1,682,515) (716,506) 553,549 (Increase) / decrease in other current assets 32,307 (701,016) (42,040) 30,549 (Increase) / decrease in other non current assets (1,191,682) (2,359,927) (2,407) (4,811) Increase / (decrease) in trade and other payables (748,809) 4,040,965 (9,833) 97,201 Increase / (decrease) in other current liabilities 767,041 (370,644) 87,890 6,560 Increase / (decrease) in other current financial liabilities (74,593) 74,593 Increase / (decrease) in insurance contract liabilities 2,677,967 2,048,027 Cash generated from operations 9,938,605 13,304,131 (986,969) 450,138 Finance income received 4,666,717 2,874,360 1,295,593 730,388 Finance cost paid (1,067,590) (670,918) (279,471) (498,806) Dividend received 2,816,971 2,467,993 7,263,400 4,529,887 Tax paid (1,514,495) (1,413,937) 27,130 (3,252) Gratuity paid (117,217) (85,444) (11,664) (7,411) Net cash flow from operating activities 14,722,991 16,476,185 7,308,019 5,200,944 CASH FLOWS FROM / (USED IN) INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchase and construction of property, plant and equipment (5,169,745) (5,486,248) (15,291) (53,236) Purchase of intangible assets (67,517) (35,431) (42,383) (19,344) Addition to investment property (1,102,168) (620,364) Acquisition of business, net of cash acquired 4.1 4.3 (350,000) 126,719 Acquisition of associates (238,312) (227,961) Increase in interest in subsidiaries (2,055,277) (1,182,158) Increase in interest in associates (97,522) (76,755) (335,834) (227,961) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 145,084 145,462 6,747 7,722 Proceeds from sale of non current investments 4.2 137,808 54,563 Proceeds from sale of interest in associates 585,675 Proceeds from sale of financial instruments fair valued through profit or loss 859,778 247,798 Purchase of financial instruments fair valued through profit or loss (1,243,528) (780,097) (Purchase)/disposal of other financial assets (net) (4,481,155) (1,709,334) (5,710,049) (300,195) (Purchase)/disposal of other investments (net) (5,332,042) (586,430) 165,892 (968,720) Net cash flow from / (used in) investing activities (16,353,644) (9,002,641) (7,931,632) (2,743,892) CASH FLOWS FROM / (USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES Proceeds from issue of shares 1,369,868 499,021 1,369,868 499,021 Proceeds from shareholders with non-controlling interest, on issue of rights in subsidiaries 82,499 63,405 Direct cost on issue of shares (7,609) (12,742) Acquisition of non-controlling interest (8,516) Dividend paid to equity holders of parent (2,982,422) (2,313,519) (2,982,422) (2,313,519) Dividend paid to shareholders with non-controlling interest (839,437) (264,356) Proceeds from long term borrowings 3,169,386 4,156,113 Repayment of long term borrowings (2,948,314) (2,408,745) (1,328,690) (1,112,302) Proceeds from (repayment of) other financial liabilities (net) 844,710 777,057 Net cash flow from / (used in) financing activities (1,319,835) 496,234 (2,941,244) (2,926,800) NET INCREASE / (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (2,950,488) 7,969,778 (3,564,857) (469,748) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE BEGINNING 19,810,729 11,840,951 8,998,200 9,467,948 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE END 16,860,241 19,810,729 5,433,343 8,998,200 ANALYSIS OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Favorable balances Short term investments 29 16,661,680 19,890,908 5,880,389 9,222,742 Cash in hand and at bank 3,554,804 4,267,175 63,159 454,495 Unfavorable balances Bank overdrafts (3,356,243) (4,347,354) (510,205) (679,037) Total cash and cash equivalents 16,860,241 19,810,729 5,433,343 8,998,200 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 195 to 280 form an integral part of these financial statements. Annual Report 2012/13 l 191 PROGRESSIVE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2013 2012 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s A Profit before working capital changes Profit before tax 15,775,165 12,820,028 7,427,712 4,725,394 Adjustments for: Finance income (4,769,891) (2,874,360) (1,295,593) (730,387) Dividend income (6,817,632) (4,815,059) Finance costs 1,081,218 1,415,827 293,101 512,434 Change in fair value of investment property (2,012,077) (1,413,474) Share of results of equity accounted investees (3,369,313) (2,764,838) (Profit) / loss on sale of non current investments (92,904) 30,152 Profit on sale of non current investments in associates (129,939) Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2,249,694 1,863,077 25,489 32,913 Provision for impairment losses 17,562 22,304 (Profit) / loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 59,836 (2,371) (2,697) (3,415) Amortisation of lease rental paid in advance 682,599 524,671 Amortisation of intangible assets 244,924 246,830 16,520 14,927 Amortisation of other deferred liabilities (512) (512) Gratuity provision and related costs 137,586 236,860 18,875 29,523 Unrealised (gain) / loss on foreign exchange (net) (27,624) 203,698 Unrealised (profit) / loss 58 (311) 9,846,382 10,277,429 (304,073) (233,670) 192 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com GROUP Attributable to equity holders of parent Stated Revaluation Foreign currency Other Available Revenue Total Non Total capital reserve translation capital for sale reserves controlling equity In Rs.’000s reserve reserves reserves interest As at 1 April 2011 24,611,507 8,110,642 1,021,061 428,365 638,830 25,296,044 60,106,449 7,641,956 67,748,405 Profit for the year 9,686,913 9,686,913 1,291,236 10,978,149 Other comprehensive income 1,377,152 1,966,415 (316,951) 173,034 3,199,650 291,909 3,491,559 Total comprehensive income 1,377,152 1,966,415 (316,951) 9,859,947 12,886,563 1,583,145 14,469,708 Exercise of share options 499,021 499,021 499,021 Direct cost on issue of shares (10,986) (10,986) (1,756) (12,742) STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Final dividend paid 2010/11 (629,833) (629,833) (629,833) Interim dividend paid 2011/12 (1,683,686) (1,683,686) (1,683,686) Subsidiary dividend to non-controlling interest 176,581 176,581 (440,937) (264,356) Acquisition, disposal and changes in non-controlling interest (6,599) (6,599) 80,928 74,329 As at 31 March 2012 25,110,528 9,487,794 2,987,476 428,365 321,879 33,001,468 71,337,510 8,863,336 80,200,846 Profit for the year 12,201,079 12,201,079 1,389,547 13,590,626 Other comprehensive income 8,292,638 (257,619) (428,365) (197,597) 422,564 7,831,621 1,947,934 9,779,555 Total comprehensive income 8,292,638 (257,619) (428,365) (197,597) 12,623,643 20,032,700 3,337,481 23,370,181 Exercise of share options 1,369,868 1,369,868 1,369,868 Direct cost on issue of shares (6,883) (6,883) (726) (7,609) Final dividend paid 2011/12 (1,275,977) (1,275,977) (1,275,977) Interim dividend paid 2012/13 (1,706,445) (1,706,445) (1,706,445) Subsidiary dividend to non-controlling interest 74,409 74,409 (913,846) (839,437) Acquisition, disposal and changes in non-controlling interest (6,012) (6,012) 79,995 73,983 As at 31 March 2013 26,480,396 17,780,432 2,729,857 124,282 42,704,203 89,819,170 11,366,240 101,185,410 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 195 to 280 form an integral part of these financial statements. Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Annual Report 2012/13 l 193 PROGRESSIVE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY COMPANY Stated Available Revenue Total capital for sale reserves equity In Rs.’000s reserves As at 1 April 2011 24,611,507 (163,790) 13,523,969 37,971,686 Profit for the year 4,631,518 4,631,518 Other comprehensive income 393,385 393,385 Total comprehensive income 393,385 4,631,518 5,024,903 Exercise of share options 499,021 499,021 Final dividend paid 2010/11 (629,833) (629,833) Interim dividend paid 2011/12 (1,683,686) (1,683,686) As at 31 March 2012 25,110,528 229,595 15,841,968 41,182,091 Profit for the year 7,362,210 7,362,210 Other comprehensive income (146,138) (146,138) Total comprehensive income (146,138) 7,362,210 7,216,072 Exercise of share options 1,369,868 1,369,868 Final dividend paid 2011/12 (1,275,977) (1,275,977) Interim dividend paid 2012/13 (1,706,445) (1,706,445) As at 31 March 2013 26,480,396 83,457 20,221,756 46,785,609 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 195 to 280 form an integral part of these financial statements. 194 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.1. CORPORATE INFORMATION Statement of Directors’ Responsibility report in economic environment in which they operate Reporting entity the Annual report. as their functional currency. John Keells Holdings PLC. is a public limited liability Company incorporated and domiciled Statement of compliance Each material class of similar items is in Sri Lanka and listed on the Colombo Stock The financial statements which comprise the presented cumulatively in the Financial Exchange. The registered office and principal income statement, statement of comprehensive Statements. Items of dissimilar nature or place of business of the Company is located at income, statement of financial position, function are presented separately unless they 130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. statement of changes in equity and the cash are immaterial as permitted by the Sri Lanka flow statement, together with the accounting Accounting Standard-LKAS 1 on ‘Presentation Ordinary shares of the Company are listed policies and notes (the “financial statements”) of Financial Statements’. on the Colombo Stock Exchange. Global have been prepared in accordance with depository receipts (GDRs) of John Keells Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/ All values are rounded to the nearest rupees Holdings PLC are listed on the Luxembourg LKAS) as issued by the Institute of Chartered thousand (Rs.’000) except when otherwise Stock Exchange. Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) and indicated. the requirement of the Companies Act No. 7 John Keells Holdings PLC became the holding of 2007. The significant accounting policies are Company of the Group during the financial year discussed in note 1.3 below. ended 31 March 1986. For all periods up to and including the year ended 31 March 2012, the Group prepared The indicative US Dollar financial statements Consolidated financial statements its financial statements in accordance with on pages 285 and 286 does not form part The financial statements for the year ended Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLAS) which of the Financial Statements prepared in 31 March 2013, comprise “the Company” were effective up to 31 March 2012. These accordance with SLFRS/LKAS. referring to John Keells Holdings PLC as the financial statements for the year ended 31 holding Company and “the Group” referring Basis of consolidation March 2013 are the first financial statements to the companies whose accounts have been The consolidated financial statements the Group has prepared in accordance with consolidated therein. comprise the financial statements of the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/ Company and its subsidiaries as at 31st LKAS) immediately effective from 1 April 2012. Approval of financial statements March 2013. The financial statements of These SLFRS/LKASs have materially converged The Financial statements for the year ended 31 the subsidiaries are prepared in compliance with the International Financial Reporting March 2013 were authorised for issue by the with the Group’s accounting policies unless Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International directors on 28 May 2013. otherwise stated. Accounting Standards Board (IASB). The effect of the transition to SLFRS/LKAS on previously Principal activities and nature of operations All intra-Group balances, income and reported financial performances, financial holding Company expenses, unrealised gains and losses positions and cash flows of the Group and the John Keells Holdings PLC, the Group’s holding resulting from intra-Group transactions and Company is given in note 2 to the financial Company, manages a portfolio of holdings dividends are eliminated in full. statements. consisting of a range of diverse business operations, which together constitute the John Subsidiaries 1.2. BASIS OF PREPARATION Keells Group, and provides function based Subsidiaries are those enterprises controlled The consolidated financial statements have services to its subsidiaries and associates. by the parent. Control exists when the parent been prepared on an accrual basis and under holds more than 50% of the voting rights or the historical cost convention except for Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures otherwise has a controlling interest. investment properties, land and buildings, The companies within the Group and its derivative financial instruments, fair value business activities are described in the Group Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the through profit or loss financial assets and Directory under the Supplementary Information date of acquisition or incorporation, being the available-for-sale financial assets that have section of the Annual Report. date on which the Group obtains control, and been measured at fair value. continue to be consolidated until the date that There were no significant changes in the such control ceases. Presentation and functional currency nature of the principal activities of the The consolidated financial statements are Company and the Group during the financial The financial statements of the subsidiaries presented in Sri Lankan Rupees, the Group’s year under review. are prepared for the same reporting period functional and presentation currency, which is as the parent Company, which is 12 months the primary economic environment in which Responsibility for financial statements ending 31 March, using consistent accounting the Holding Company operates. Each entity in The responsibility of the Directors in relation policies. the Group uses the currency of the primary to the financial statements is set out in the Integrated Annual Report 2012/13 l 195 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements Effective from 1st April 2012 the basis of t 3FDPHOJTFTUIFGBJSWBMVFPGBOZ The total profits and losses for the year consolidation will include the following changes: investment retained; of the Company and of its subsidiaries (i) Losses within a subsidiary are attributed t 3FDPHOJTFTBOZTVSQMVTPSEFGJDJUJOUIF included in consolidation are shown in the to the non-controlling interest even if that income statement; and consolidated income statement and statement results in a deficit balance. t 3FDMBTTJGJFTUIFQBSFOUTTIBSFPG of comprehensive income and all assets (ii) A change in the ownership interest of a components previously recognised in and liabilities of the Company and of its subsidiary, without a loss of control, is other comprehensive income to the subsidiaries included in consolidation are accounted for as an equity transaction. income statement or retained earnings, as shown in the statement of financial position. (iii) If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it: appropriate. Non-controlling interest which represents the t %FSFDPHOJTFTUIFBTTFUT JODMVEJOH Subsidiaries consolidated have been listed in portion of profit or loss and net assets not held goodwill) and liabilities of the subsidiary; the Group directory. by the Group, are shown as a component of t %FSFDPHOJTFTUIFDBSSZJOHBNPVOUPGBOZ The following companies, with equity control profit for the year in the consolidated income non-controlling interest; equal to or less than 50%, have been statement and statement of comprehensive t %FSFDPHOJTFTUIFDVNVMBUJWFUSBOTMBUJPO consolidated as subsidiaries based on the income and as a component of equity in the differences recorded in equity; power to govern the financial and operating consolidated statement of financial position, t 3FDPHOJTFTUIFGBJSWBMVFPGUIF policies of those entities. separately from parent’ shareholders’ equity. consideration received; The consolidated statement of cash flow % Holding includes the cash flows of the Company and its DHL Keells (Pvt) Limited 50.00 subsidiaries. Trans-ware Logistics (Pvt) Limited 50.00 Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Limited 49.00 1.3. ACCOUNTING POLICIES Tea Smallholder Factories PLC 37.62 1.3.1 Changes in accounting policies The changes to accounting policies have been The following subsidiaries have been incorporated outside Sri Lanka: applied consistently to all financial periods presented in these financial statements and in Country of Incorporation Name preparing the opening SLFRS/LKAS statement India of financial position as at 1 April 2011 for John Keells Air Services India (Pvt) Ltd the purpose of the transition to SLFRS/LKAS, John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Ltd unless otherwise indicated. John Keells Foods India (Pvt) Ltd Serene Holidays (Pvt) Ltd Comparative information Mauritius The presentation and classification of the John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd financial statements of the previous years John Keells BPO International (Pvt) Ltd have been amended, where relevant for better John Keells BPO Investments (Pvt) Ltd presentation and to be comparable with those John Keells Holdings Mauritius (Pvt) Ltd of the current year. John Keells Hotels Mauritius (Pvt) Ltd Republic of Maldives 1.3.2 Significant accounting judgements, Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd estimates and assumptions John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd The preparation of the financial statements Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd of the Group require the management to Tranquility (Pte) Ltd make judgments, estimates and assumptions, Travel Club (Pte) Ltd which may affect the amounts of income, Singapore expenditure, assets , liabilities and the John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd disclosure of contingent liabilities, at the United Kingdom end of the reporting period. In the process of John Keells Computer Services (UK) Ltd applying the Group’s accounting policies, the USA key assumptions made relating to the future John Keells BPO Solutions US inc. and the sources of estimation at the reporting Canada date together with the related judgments that John Keells BPO Solution Canada Inc have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets 196 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information and liabilities within the financial year are different cash generating units, are further Rs.6,546 million). These losses relate to discussed below. explained in note 20. subsidiaries that have a history of losses that do not expire and may not be used to offset Revaluation of property, plant and Fair value of financial instruments other tax liabilities and where the subsidiary equipment and investment properties Where the fair value of financial assets and has no taxable temporary differences nor any The Group measures land and buildings at financial liabilities recorded in the statement of tax planning opportunities available that could revalued amounts with changes in fair value financial position cannot be derived from active partly support the recognition of these losses being recognised other comprehensive income markets, their fair value is determined using as deferred tax assets. Further details on taxes and in the statement of equity. In addition, it valuation techniques including the discounted are disclosed in note 12.4 in the financial carries its investment properties at fair value, cash flow model. The inputs to these models statement. with changes in fair value being recognised are taken from observable markets where in the income statement. The Group engaged possible. The Group has contingent liabilities amounting independent valuation specialists to determine to Rs.876 million (2012 Rs.850 million). fair value of investment properties and land Where this is not feasible, a degree of These have been arrived at after discussing and buildings as at 31 March 2013. judgment is required in establishing fair values. with independent and legal tax experts and The judgments include considerations of inputs based on information available. All assumptions The valuer has used valuation techniques such such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility. are revisited at the reporting date. Further as market values and discounted cash flow Changes in assumptions about these factors details on contingent liabilities are disclosed in methods where there was lack of comparable could affect the reported fair value of financial note 42 in the financial statement. market data available based on the nature of instruments. the property. Employee benefit liability Taxes The employee benefit liability of the Group is The determined fair values of investment The Group is subject to income tax and other based on the actuarial valuation carried out by properties, using investment method, are most taxes including VAT. Significant judgment was Independent actuarial specialist. The actuarial sensitive to the estimated yield as well as the required to determine the total provision for valuations involve making assumptions about long term occupancy rate. The methods used current, deferred and other taxes pending the discount rates and future salary increases. to determine the fair value of the investment issue of tax guidelines on the treatment of The complexity of the valuation, the underlying properties, are further explained in note 19. the adoption of SLFRS/LKAS in the Financial assumptions and its long term nature, the Statements and the taxable profit for the defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to Impairment of non-financial assets purpose of imposition of taxes. Uncertainties changes in these assumptions. All assumptions Impairment exists when the carrying value of exist, with respect to the interpretation of the are reviewed at each reporting date. Details of an asset or cash generating unit exceeds its applicability of tax laws, at the time of the the key assumptions used in the estimates are recoverable amount, which is the higher of preparation of these financial statements. contained in note 34. its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use (VIU). The fair value less costs to sell Uncertainties also exist with respect to the Valuation of insurance contract liabilities calculation is based on available data from an interpretation of complex tax regulations and investment contract liabilities – Union active market, in an arm’s length transaction, and the amount and timing of future taxable Assurance PLC (UA) of similar assets or observable market prices income. Given the wide range of business Insurance operations Product classification less incremental costs for disposing of the relationships and the long-term nature Insurance contracts are contracts under which asset. The value in use calculation is based and complexity of existing contractual one party (the Insurer) accepts significant on a discounted cash flow model. The cash agreements, differences arising between the insurance risk from another party (the flows are derived from the budget for the next actual results and the assumptions made, or policyholder) by agreeing to compensate the five years and do not include restructuring future changes to such assumptions, could policyholder if a specified uncertain future activities that the Group is not yet committed necessitate future adjustments to tax income event (the insured event) adversely affects the to or significant future investments that will and expense already recorded. Where the policyholder. enhance the asset’s performance of the cash final tax outcome of such matters is different generating unit being tested. The recoverable from the amounts that were initially recorded, Significant insurance risk exists if an insured amount is most sensitive to the discount rate such differences will impact the income and event could cause an insurer to pay significant used for the discounted cash flow model deferred tax amounts in the period in which additional benefits in any scenario, excluding as well as the expected future cash inflows the determination is made. scenarios that lack commercial substance (i.e. and the growth rate used for extrapolation have no discernible effect on the economics of purposes. The key assumptions used to The Group has tax losses carried forward the transaction). The classification of contracts determine the recoverable amount for the amounting to Rs.7,324 million (2012 identifies both the insurance contracts that Annual Report 2012/13 l 197 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements issues and reinsurance contracts that holds. liability adequacy test as laid out under SLFRS Rendering of services 4. The liability value is adjusted to the extent Revenue from rendering of services is Life insurance contract liabilities that it is sufficient to meet future benefits and recognised by reference to the stage of These liabilities are measured by using the net expenses. In performing the adequacy test, completion. Where the contract outcome premium method. The liability is determined current best estimates of future contractual cannot be measured reliably, revenue is as the sum of the discounted value of the cash flows, including related cash flows such recognised only to the extent that the expenses expected future benefits, claims handling and as claims handling and policy administration incurred are eligible to be recovered. policy administration expenses, policyholder expenses, policyholder options and guarantees, options and guarantees and investment as well as investment income from assets General insurance business gross written income from assets backing such liabilities, backing such liabilities, are used. A number premium which are directly related to the contract, of valuation methods are applied, including Gross written premium is generally recognised less the discounted value of the expected discounted cash flows to the extent that the as written upon inception of the policy. Upon premiums that would be required to meet the test involves discounting of cash flows, the inception of the contract, premiums are future cash outflows based on the valuation interest rate applied based on management’s recorded as written and are earned primarily assumptions used. The liability is either based prudent expectation of current market interest on a pro-rata basis over the term of the related on current assumptions or calculated using rates. policy coverage. However, for those contracts the assumptions established at the time the for which the period of risk differs significantly contract was issued, in which case, a margin Any deficiencies shall be recognised in the from the contract period, premiums are earned for risk and adverse deviation is generally income statement by setting up a provision for over the period of risk in proportion to the included. Adjustments to the liabilities at each liability adequacy. amount of insurance protection provided. reporting date are recorded in the income statement in ‘Increase in life insurance 1.4 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT Life insurance business gross written contract liabilities. ACCOUNTING POLICIES premium The presentation and classification of the Premiums from traditional life insurance The liability is de-recognised when the contract financial statements of the previous period contracts, including participating contracts and expires, is discharged or is cancelled. have been amended, where relevant, for better non-participating contracts, are recognised as presentation and to be comparable with those revenue when cash is received from the policy At each reporting date, an assessment is made of the current period. holder. whether the recognised life insurance liabilities are adequate, by using an existing liability These accounting policies have been applied Turnover based taxes adequacy test in accordance with SLFRS 4. consistently by Group entities. Turnover based taxes include value added tax, economic service charge, nation building tax, For products containing discretionary 1.4.1 Revenue recognition turnover tax and tourism development levy. participating features (DPF) the amount of the Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is Companies in the Group pay such taxes in DPF is deemed to be the investment return probable that the economic benefits will flow accordance with the respective statutes. on all related assets where the apportionment to the Group, and the revenue and associated between the shareholder and the policyholder costs incurred or to be incurred can be Dividend has not yet been determined. The liability reliably measured. Revenue is measured at Dividend income is recognised when the includes certain elements of net unrealised the fair value of the consideration received or Group’s right to receive the payment is gains / (losses) and retained earnings receivable, net of trade discounts and value established. attributable to the DPF, based on the mandated added taxes, after eliminating sales within the rates applied to these gains and earnings on Group. Finance income the assumption that they had been realised as Finance income comprises interest income on of the statement of financial position date. The following specific criteria are used for funds invested (including available-for-sale recognition of revenue: financial assets), dividend income, gains on the The minimum mandated amounts, which are disposal of available-for-sale financial assets, to be paid to policyholders plus any declared / Sale of goods fair value gains on financial assets at fair undeclared additional benefits, are recorded in Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised value through profit or loss, gains on the reliabilities. when the significant risk and rewards of measurement to fair value of any pre-existing ownership of the goods have passed to the interest in an acquiree that are recognised in Liability adequacy test (LAT) Life insurance buyer with the Group retaining neither a income statement. At each reporting date, an assessment is continuing managerial involvement to the made of whether the recognised life insurance degree usually associated with ownership, nor Interest income or expense is recorded as it liabilities are adequate by using an existing an effective control over the goods sold. accrues using the effective interest rate (EIR), 198 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information which is the rate that exactly discounts the Finance costs The carrying values of property, plant and estimated future cash payments or receipts Finance costs comprise interest expense on equipment are reviewed for impairment when through the expected life of the financial borrowings, unwinding of the discount on events or changes in circumstances indicate instrument or a shorter period, where provisions, losses on disposal of availablethat the carrying value may not be recoverable. appropriate, to the net carrying amount of for-sale financial assets, fair value losses on the financial asset or liability. Interest income financial assets at fair value through profit or Where land and buildings are subsequently is included in finance income in the income loss, impairment losses recognised on financial revalued, the entire class of such assets statement. assets (other than trade receivables) that are is revalued at fair value on the date of recognised in the income statement. revaluation. Rental income Rental income arising from operating leases Borrowing costs directly attributable to the Any revaluation surplus is recognised in other on investment properties is accounted for on a acquisition, construction or production of an comprehensive income and accumulated in straight-line basis over the lease terms. asset that necessarily takes a substantial equity in the asset revaluation reserve, except period of time to get ready for its intended to the extent that it reverses a revaluation Gains and losses use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost decrease of the same asset previously Net gains and losses of a revenue nature of the respective assets. All other borrowing recognised in the income statement, in which arising from the disposal of property, plant costs are expensed in the period they occur. case the increase is recognised in the income and equipment and other non current assets, Borrowing costs consist of interest and other statement. A revaluation deficit is recognised in including investments, are accounted for in the costs that the Group incurs in connection with the income statement, except to the extent that income statement, after deducting from the the borrowing of funds. it offsets an existing surplus on the same asset proceeds on disposal, the carrying amount of recognised in the asset revaluation reserve. such assets and the related selling expenses. 1.4.3 Property, plant and equipment Basis of recognition Accumulated depreciation as at the revaluation Gains and losses arising from activities Property, plant and equipment are recognised date is eliminated against the gross carrying incidental to the main revenue generating if it is probable that future economic benefits amount of the asset and the net amount is activities and those arising from a group of associated with the asset will flow to the restated to the revalued amount of the asset. similar transactions, which are not material are Group and the cost of the asset can be reliably Upon disposal, any revaluation reserve relating aggregated, reported and presented on a net measured. to the particular asset being sold is transferred basis. to retained earnings. Basis of measurement Any losses arising from guaranteed rentals Plant and equipment are stated at cost Where land and buildings are subsequently are accounted for in the year of incurring less accumulated depreciation and any revalued, the entire class of such assets the same. A provision is recognised if the accumulated impairment loss. Such cost is revalued at fair value on the date of projection indicates a loss. includes the cost of replacing component parts revaluation. The Group has adopted a policy of the plant and equipment and borrowing of revaluing assets by professional valuers Other income costs for long-term construction projects at least every 5 years, except for properties Other income is recognised on an accrual if the recognition criteria are met. When held for rental and occupied mainly by group basis. significant parts of plant and equipment are companies, which are revalued by professional required to be replaced at intervals, the Group valuers at least every 3 years. 1.4.2 Expenditure recognition derecognises the replaced part, and recognises Expenses are recognised in the income Derecognition the new part with its own associated useful statement on the basis of a direct association An item of property, plant and equipment are life and depreciation. Likewise, when a major between the cost incurred and the earning derecognised upon replacement, disposal inspection is performed, its cost is recognised of specific items of income. All expenditure or when no future economic benefits are in the carrying amount of the plant and incurred in the running of the business and in expected from its use. Any gain or loss arising equipment as a replacement if the recognition maintaining the property, plant and equipment on derecognition of the asset is included in criteria are satisfied. All other repair and in a state of efficiency has been charged to the the income statement in the year the asset is maintenance costs are recognised in the income statement. derecognised. income statement as incurred. For the purpose of presentation of the income Depreciation Land and buildings are measured at fair value statement, the “function of expenses” method Depreciation is calculated by using a straightless accumulated depreciation on buildings has been adopted, on the basis that it presents line method on the cost or valuation of all and impairment charged subsequent to the fairly the elements of the Company and date of the revaluation. Group’s performance. Annual Report 2012/13 l 199 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements property, plant and equipment, other than asset is depreciated over the shorter of the Transfers are made to or from investment freehold land, in order to write off such estimated useful life of the asset and the property only when there is a change in use. amounts over the estimated useful economic lease term. Operating lease payments are For a transfer from investment property to life of such assets. recognised as an operating expense in the owner occupied property or inventory (WIP), the income statement on a straight-line basis over deemed cost for subsequent accounting is the The estimated useful life of assets is as follows: the lease term. fair value at the date of change in use. If owner occupied property becomes an investment Assets Years Group as a lessor property or inventory (WIP), the Group accounts Buildings (other than hotels) 50 Leases in which the Group does not transfer for such property in accordance with the policy Hotel buildings upto 60 substantially all the risks and benefits of stated under property, plant and equipment up Plant and machinery 10 20 ownership of the asset are classified as to the date of change in use. Equipment 3 15 operating leases. Initial direct costs incurred Furniture and fittings 2 15 in negotiating an operating lease are added to Where Group companies occupy a significant Motor vehicles 4 – 10 the carrying amount of the leased asset and portion of the investment property of a Laboratory equipment 10 recognised over the lease term on the same subsidiary, such investment properties are Returnable Containers 10 basis as rental income. Contingent rents are treated as property, plant and equipment in recognised as revenue in the period in which the consolidated financial statements, and The asset’s residual values and useful lives are they are earned. accounted using Group accounting policy for reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each property, plant and equipment. financial year end. 1.4.5 Lease rentals paid in advance Prepaid lease rentals paid to acquire land 1.4.7 Intangible assets 1.4.4 Leases use rights are amortised over the lease term Basis of recognition The determination of whether an arrangement in accordance with the pattern of benefits An Intangible asset is recognised if it is is, or contains, a lease is based on the provided. probable that future economic benefits substance of the arrangement at the inception associated with the asset will flow to the date, whether fulfillment of the arrangement Details of the pre-paid lease rentals are given Company and the cost of the asset can be is dependent on the use of a specific asset or in note 18 to the Financial Statements. reliably measured. assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset, even if that right is not explicitly 1.4.6 Investment properties Basis of measurement specified in an arrangement. Investment properties are measured initially at Intangible assets acquired separately are cost, including transaction costs. The carrying measured on initial recognition at cost. For arrangements entered into prior to 1 April value of an investment property includes the The cost of intangible assets acquired in a 2011, the date of inception is deemed to be 1 cost of replacing part of an existing investment business combination is the fair value as at the April 2011 in accordance with the SLFRS 1. property, at the time that cost is incurred if the date of acquisition. recognition criteria are met, and excludes the Group as a lessee costs of day-to-day servicing of the investment Following initial recognition, intangible assets Finance leases which transfer to the Group property. Subsequent to initial recognition, are carried at cost less any accumulated substantially all the risks and benefits the investment properties are stated at fair amortisation and any accumulated impairment incidental to ownership of the leased item, values, which reflect market conditions at the losses. are capitalised at the commencement of the reporting date. lease at the fair value of the leased property Internally generated intangible assets, or, if lower, at the present value of the Gains or losses arising from changes in fair excluding capitalised development costs, are minimum lease payments. Lease payments value are included in the income statement not capitalised, and expenditure is charged are apportioned between finance charges and in the year in which they arise. Fair values against income statement in the year in which reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve are evaluated at frequent intervals by an the expenditure is incurred. a constant rate of interest on the remaining accredited external, independent valuer. balance of the liability. Finance charges are Useful economic lives, amortisation and recognised in finance costs in the income Investment properties are derecognised when impairment statement. disposed, or permanently withdrawn from The useful lives of intangible assets are use because no future economic benefits are assessed as either finite or indefinite lives. A leased asset is depreciated over the useful expected. Any gains or losses on retirement Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised life of the asset. However, if there is no or disposal are recognised in the income over the useful economic life and assessed for reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain statement in the year of retirement or disposal. impairment whenever there is an indication ownership by the end of the lease term, the that the intangible asset may be impaired. 200 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information The amortisation period and the amortisation recognised as an intangible asset when the Following initial recognition of the development method for an intangible asset with a finite Group can demonstrate: expenditure of an asset, the cost model is useful life is reviewed at least at each financial t UIFUFDIOJDBMGFBTJCJMJUZPGDPNQMFUJOHUIF applied requiring the asset to be carried at year-end and such changes are treated intangible asset so that it will be available cost less any accumulated amortisation and as accounting estimates. The amortisation for use or sale, accumulated impairment losses. expense on intangible assets with finite lives is t JUTJOUFOUJPOUPDPNQMFUFBOEJUTBCJMJUZUP recognised in the income statement. use or sell the asset, Amortisation of the asset begins when t IPXUIFBTTFUXJMMHFOFSBUFGVUVSF development is complete and the asset is Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives economic benefits, available for use. It is amortised over the are not amortised but tested for impairment t UIFBWBJMBCJMJUZPGSFTPVSDFTUPDPNQMFUF period of expected future benefit from the annually, or more frequently when an indication the asset, use or expected future sales from the related of impairment exists either individually or at t UIFBCJMJUZUPNFBTVSFSFMJBCMZUIF project. During the period of development, the the cash-generating unit level. The useful life expenditure during development. asset is tested for impairment annually. of an intangible asset with an indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether A summary of the policies applied to the indefinite life assessment continues to be Group’s intangible assets is as follows. supportable. If not, the change in the useful life assessment from indefinite to finite is made on Intangible Assets Useful Internally generated Impairment testing a prospective basis. life / Acquired PVIB 12 Acquired When indicators of impairment arise. The Present value of acquired in-force business amortisation method is reviewed at each (PVIB) financial year end. The present value of future profits on a Purchased 05 portfolio of long term life insurance contracts Software as at the acquisition date is recognised as an Software License 05 intangible asset based on a valuation carried Developed 05 Internally generated Annually for assets not yet in use and more out by an independent actuary. Subsequent Software frequently when indicators of impairment to initial recognition, the intangible asset is arise. Assets in use, when indicators of carried at cost less accumulated amortisation impairment arise. The amortisation method and accumulated impairment losses. is reviewed at each financial year end. The PVIB is amortised over the average useful Gains or losses arising from derecognition is lower than the fair value of net assets life of the related contracts in the portfolio. of an intangible asset are measured as the acquired, a gain is recognised immediately in The amortisation charge and any impairment difference between the net disposal proceeds the income statement. losses would be recognised in the consolidated and the carrying amount of the asset and are income statement as an expense. recognised in the income statement when the The Group elects on a transaction-byasset is derecognised. transaction basis whether to measure nonPurchased software controlling interests at fair value, or at their Purchased software is recognised as an 1.4.8 Business combinations & goodwill proportionate share of the recognised amount intangible assets and is amortised on a straight Acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for of the identifiable net assets, at the acquisition line basis over its useful life. using the acquisition method of accounting. date. Transaction costs, other than those The Group measures goodwill at the acquisition associated with the issue of debt or equity Software license date as the fair value of the consideration securities, that the Group incurs in connection Software license costs are recognised as an transferred including the recognised amount of with a business combination are expensed as intangible asset and amortised over the period any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, incurred. of the related license. less the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and When the Group acquires a business, it Research and development costs liabilities assumed, all measured as of the assesses the financial assets and liabilities Research costs are expensed as incurred. acquisition date. assumed for appropriate classification and An intangible asset arising from development designation in accordance with the contractual expenditure on an individual project is When the fair value of the consideration terms, economic circumstances and pertinent transferred including the recognised amount conditions as at the acquisition date. of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree Annual Report 2012/13 l 201 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements If the business combination is achieved in Where goodwill forms part of a cashName Country of stages, the acquisition date fair value of the generating unit and part of the operation Incorporation acquirer’s previously held equity interest in within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill Information Systems United Arab the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the associated with the operation disposed of Associates Emirates acquisition date through profit or loss. is included in the carrying amount of the NDO Lanka (Pvt) Ltd Sri Lanka operation when determining the gain or loss Sentinel Reality (Pvt) Ltd Sri Lanka Any contingent consideration to be transferred on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed by the acquirer will be recognised at fair of in this circumstance is measured based on Financial statements of joint ventures are value at the acquisition date. Contingent the relative values of the operation disposed proportionately consolidated using their consideration which is deemed to be an asset of and the portion of the cash-generating unit respective 12 month financial reporting period. or liability, which is a financial instrument and retained. within the scope of LKAS 39, is measured at In the case of joint ventures where the reporting fair value with changes in fair value either 1.4.9 Interest in joint venture dates are different to Group reporting dates, in the income statement or as a change to A joint venture is a jointly controlled entity, adjustments are made for any significant other comprehensive income. If the contingent whereby the Group and other parties have a transactions or events up to 31 March. consideration is classified as equity, it will contractual arrangement that establishes joint not be remeasured. Subsequent settlement is control over the economic activities of the Upon loss of joint control, the Group measures accounted for within equity. In instances where entity. and recognises its remaining investment the contingent consideration does not fall at its fair value. Any differences between within the scope of LKAS 39, it is measured in The arrangement requires unanimous the carrying amount of the former jointly accordance with the appropriate SLFRS/LKAS. agreement for financial and operating controlled entity upon loss of joint control and decisions among the ventures. The Group the fair value of the remaining investment After initial recognition, goodwill is measured recognises its interest in the joint venture and proceeds from disposal are recognised at cost less any accumulated impairment using the proportionate consolidation method in the income statement. When the remaining losses. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment, until the date on which the Group ceases to investment constitutes significant influence, it annually or more frequently if events or have joint control. The Group’s share of each is accounted for as investment in an associate. changes in circumstances indicate that the of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses carrying value maybe impaired. of the joint venture are combined with similar 1.4.10 Investment in an associate items, line by line, in the consolidated financial Associates are those investments over which For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill statements. The financial statements of the Group has significant influence and acquired in a business combination is, from the joint venture are aligned to the Group holds 20% to 50% of the equity and which the acquisition date, allocated to each of accounting policies. are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures the Group’s cash generating units that are of the Group. The Group’s investments in its expected to benefit from the combination, The gains or losses arising from transactions associates are accounted for using the equity irrespective of whether other assets or between Group and the joint venture are method and use of the equity method of liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those recognised based on the substance of the accounting is discontinued on the date from units. transactions. The Group’s share of unrealised which, it no longer has significant influence in gain on asset purchases is not recognised the associate. Impairment is determined by assessing the until such assets are resold to a third party. recoverable amount of the cash-generating Losses on these transactions are recognised Associate companies of the Group which have unit to which the goodwill relates. Where the immediately if the loss provides evidence of a been accounted for under the equity method of recoverable amount of the cash generating reduction in the net realisable value of current accounting are: unit is less than the carrying amount, an assets or an impairment loss. The joint venture Name Country of impairment loss is recognised. The impairment is proportionately consolidated until the date Incorporation loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying on which the Group ceases to have joint Capitol Hotel Holdings (Pvt) Ltd Sri Lanka amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit control over the joint venture. Central Hospitals (Pvt) Ltd Sri Lanka and then to the other assets pro-rata to the Maersk Lanka (Pvt) Ltd Sri Lanka carrying amount of each asset in the unit. Joint ventures entered into by the Group, Nations Trust Bank PLC Sri Lanka which have been accounted for under the NDO India (Pvt) Ltd India Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising proportionate consolidation method are: Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd Sri Lanka on the acquisition of a foreign operation are South Asia Gateway treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign Terminals (Pvt) Ltd Sri Lanka operation and translated at the closing rate. 202 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information The investments in associates are carried Equity method of accounting has been applied Foreign exchange forward contracts in the statement of financial position at cost for associate financial statements using their Foreign exchange forward contracts are fair plus post acquisition changes in the Group’s corresponding/matching 12 month financial valued at each reporting date. Gains and share of net assets of the associates. Goodwill period. In the case of associates, where losses arising from changes in fair value are relating to an associate is included in the the reporting dates are different to Group included in the income statement in the period carrying amount of the investment and is reporting dates, adjustments are made for any in which they arise. neither amortised nor individually tested for significant transactions or events up to 31 impairment. After application of the equity March. Foreign operations method, the Group determines whether it The statement of financial position and income is necessary to recognise any additional Upon loss of significant influence over the statement of overseas subsidiaries and joint impairment loss with respect to the Group’s associate, the Group measures and recognises ventures which are deemed to be foreign net investment in the associate. The Group any remaining investment at its fair value. Any operations are translated to Sri Lanka rupees determines at each reporting date whether difference between the carrying amount of the at the rate of exchange prevailing as at the there is any objective evidence that the associate upon loss of significant influence and reporting date and at the average annual rate investment in the associate is impaired. If this the fair value of the remaining investment and of exchange for the period respectively. is the case, the Group calculates the amount proceeds from disposal is recognised in the of impairment as the difference between the income statement. The exchange differences arising on the recoverable amount of the associate and its translation are taken directly to other carrying value and recognises the amount 1.4.11 Foreign currency translation comprehensive income. On disposal of a in the ‘share of results of equity accounted Foreign currency transactions and balances foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount investees’ in the income statement and The consolidated financial statements are recognised in other comprehensive income statement of other comprehensive income. presented in Sri Lanka rupees, which is relating to that particular foreign operation is the Company’s functional and presentation recognised in the income statement. The income statement reflects the share of currency. the results of operations of the associate. The Group treated goodwill and any fair value Changes, if any, recognised directly in the The functional currency is the currency of the adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets equity of the associate, the Group recognises primary economic environment in which the and liabilities arising on the acquisition as its share and discloses this, when applicable in entities of the Group operate. assets and liabilities of the parent. Therefore, the statement of changes in equity. Unrealised those assets and liabilities are non-monetary All foreign exchange transactions are items already expressed in the functional gains and losses resulting from transactions converted to functional currency, at the currency of the parent and no further between the Group and the associate are rates of exchange prevailing at the time the translation differences occur. eliminated to the extent of the interest in the transactions are effected. associate. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in The Group’s share of profit of an associate is foreign currency are retranslated to functional shown on the face of the income statement currency equivalents at the spot exchange rate and represents profit or loss after tax and prevailing at the reporting date. non-controlling interests in the subsidiaries of the associate. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency The Group ceases to recognise further losses are translated using the exchange rates as at when the Group’s share of losses in an the dates of the initial transactions. Nonassociate equals or exceeds the interest in the monetary assets and liabilities are translated undertaking, unless it has incurred obligations using exchange rates that existed when the or made payments on behalf of the entity. values were determined. The gain or loss The accounting policies of associate arising on translation of non-monetary items companies conform to those used for similar is recognised in line with the gain or loss transactions of the Group. Accounting policies of the item that gave rise to the translation that are specific to the business of associate difference. companies are discussed in note 1.5. Annual Report 2012/13 l 203 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements The exchange rates applicable during the period were as follows: 1.4.13 Financial instruments — initial recognition and subsequent measurement Statement of Financial Position Income Statement Financial assets Closing rate Average rate Initial recognition and measurement 2013 2012 2013 2012 Financial assets within the scope of LKAS 39 are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, Singapore dollar 101.93 101.92 104.26 89.78 held-to-maturity investments, available-for-sale Pound sterling 191.83 204.64 205.25 179.58 financial assets, or as derivatives designated US dollar 126.75 128.10 129.91 112.56 as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, Canadian Dollar 124.72 128.61 129.68 113.42 as appropriate. The Group determines the Indian rupee 2.33 2.49 2.39 2.36 classification of its financial assets at initial UAE dirham 34.51 34.88 35.37 30.64 recognition. 1.4.12 Impairment of non-financial assets change in the estimates used to determine All financial assets are recognised initially at The Group assesses at each reporting date the asset’s recoverable amount since the fair value plus, in the case of assets not at fair whether there is an indication that an asset last impairment loss was recognised. If that value through profit or loss, directly attributable may be impaired. If any such indication exists, is the case, the carrying amount of the asset transaction costs. Purchases or sales of or when annual impairment testing for an asset is increased to its recoverable amount. That financial assets that require delivery of assets is required, the Group makes an estimate of increased amount cannot exceed the carrying within a time frame established by regulation the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s amount that would have been determined, or convention in the marketplace (regular way recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s net of depreciation, had no impairment loss trades) are recognised on the trade date, i.e., or cash generating unit’s fair value less costs been recognised for the asset in prior years. the date that the Group commits to purchase to sell and its value in use and is determined Such reversal is recognised in the income or sell the asset. for an individual asset, unless the asset does statement unless the asset is carried at not generate cash inflows that are largely revalued amount, in which case the reversal is The Group’s financial assets include cash independent of those from other assets or treated as a revaluation increase. After such a and short-term deposits, trade and other Groups of assets. Where the carrying amount reversal, the depreciation charge is adjusted receivables, loans and other receivables, of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, in future periods to allocate the asset’s revised quoted and unquoted financial instruments and the asset is considered impaired and is written carrying amount, less any residual value, on a derivative financial instruments. down to its recoverable amount. In assessing systematic basis over its remaining useful life. value in use, the estimated future cash flows Subsequent measurement are discounted to their present value using The following criteria are also applied in The subsequent measurement of financial a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current assessing impairment of specific assets: assets depends on their classification as market assessments of the time value of follows: money and the risks specific to the asset. Goodwill Goodwill is tested for impairment annually (as Financial assets at fair value through profit Impairment losses are recognised in the at 31 March) and when circumstances indicate or loss income statement, except that, impairment that the carrying value may be impaired. Financial assets at fair value through profit or losses in respect of property, plant and loss include financial assets held for trading equipment previously revalued are recognised Impairment is determined for goodwill by and financial assets designated upon initial against the revaluation reserve through the assessing the recoverable amount of each recognition at fair value through profit or loss. statement of other comprehensive income cash-generating unit (or Group of cashFinancial assets are classified as held for to the extent that it reverses a previous generating units) to which the goodwill relates. trading if they are acquired for the purpose revaluation surplus. Where the recoverable amount of the cash of selling or repurchasing in the near term. generating unit is less than their carrying Financial assets at fair value through profit or An assessment is made at each reporting amount, an impairment loss is recognised. loss are carried in the statement of financial date as to whether there is any indication that Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot position at fair value with changes in fair value previously recognised impairment losses may be reversed in future periods. recognised in finance income or finance costs no longer exist or may have decreased. If such in the income statement. indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated. A previously recognised impairment The Group evaluates its financial assets loss is reversed only if there has been a held for trading, other than derivatives, to determine whether the intention to sell them 204 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information in the near term is still appropriate. When the nor designated at fair value through profit or the income statement. Group is unable to trade these financial assets loss. Debt securities in this category are those due to inactive markets and management’s which are intended to be held for an indefinite Derecognition intention to sell them in the foreseeable future period of time and which may be sold in A financial asset (or, where applicable a part of significantly changes, the Group may elect response to needs for liquidity or in response a financial asset or part of a Group of similar to reclassify these financial assets in rare to changes in the market conditions. financial assets) is derecognised when: circumstances. The reclassification to loans and receivables, available-for-sale or held to After initial measurement, available-fort 5IFSJHIUTUPSFDFJWFDBTIGMPXTGSPNUIF maturity depends on the nature of the asset. sale financial investments are subsequently asset have expired This evaluation does not affect any financial measured at fair value with unrealised gains or losses recognised as other comprehensive t 5IF(SPVQIBTUSBOTGFSSFEJUTSJHIUTUP assets designated at fair value through income in the available-for-sale reserve until receive cash flows from the asset or has profit or loss using the fair value option at the investment is derecognised, at which time assumed an obligation to pay the received designation. the cumulative gain or loss is recognised in cash flows in full without material delay Loans and receivables other operating income, or determined to be to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ Loans and receivables are non-derivative impaired, at which time the cumulative loss is arrangement; and either (a) the Group financial assets with fixed or determinable reclassified to the income statement in finance has transferred substantially all the risks payments that are not quoted in an active costs and removed from the available-for-sale and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Group market. After initial measurement, such reserve. Interest income on available-for-sale has neither transferred nor retained financial assets are subsequently measured debt securities is calculated using the effective substantially all the risks and rewards of at amortised cost using the effective interest interest method and is recognised in the the asset, but has transferred control of rate method (EIR), less impairment. Amortised income statement. the asset. cost is calculated by taking into account any The Group evaluates its available-for-sale When the Group has transferred its rights discount or premium on acquisition and fees or financial assets to determine whether the to receive cash flows from an asset or has costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The ability and intention to sell them in the near entered into a pass-through arrangement, EIR amortisation is included in finance income term is still appropriate. When the Group and has neither transferred nor retained in the income statement. The losses arising is unable to trade these financial assets substantially all of the risks and rewards of the from impairment are recognised in the income due to inactive markets and management’s asset nor transferred control of it, the asset statement in finance costs. intention to do so significantly changes in is recognised to the extent of the Group’s Held-to-maturity investments the foreseeable future, the Group may elect continuing involvement in it. Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or to reclassify these financial assets in rare In that case, the Group also recognises an determinable payments and fixed maturities circumstances. Reclassification to loans and associated liability. The transferred asset and are classified as held-to-maturity when receivables is permitted when the financial the associated liability are measured on a the Group has the positive intention and assets meet the definition of loans and basis that reflects the rights and obligations ability to hold them to maturity. After initial receivables and the Group has the intent and that the Group has retained. measurement, held-to-maturity investments ability to hold these assets for the foreseeable are measured at amortised cost using the future or until maturity. Reclassification to the Continuing involvement that takes the form effective interest method, less impairment. held-to-maturity category is permitted only of a guarantee over the transferred asset is Amortised cost is calculated by taking when the entity has the ability and intention to measured at the lower of the original carrying into account any discount or premium on hold the financial asset accordingly. amount of the asset and the maximum amount acquisition and fees or costs that are an of consideration that the Group could be integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation For a financial asset reclassified out of the required to repay. is included in finance income in the income available-for-sale category, any previous gain statement. The losses arising from impairment or loss on that asset that has been recognised Impairment of financial assets are recognised in the income statement in in equity is amortised to the income statement The Group assesses at each reporting date finance costs. over the remaining life of the investment whether there is any objective evidence that a using the EIR. Any difference between the financial asset or a Group of financial assets Available-for-sale financial investments new amortised cost and the expected cash is impaired. A financial asset or a Group of Available-for-sale financial investments include flows is also amortised over the remaining financial assets is deemed to be impaired equity and debt securities. Equity investments life of the asset using the EIR. If the asset is if, and only if, there is objective evidence of classified as available-for-sale are those, subsequently determined to be impaired, then impairment as a result of one or more events which are neither classified as held for trading the amount recorded in equity is reclassified to that has occurred after the initial recognition Annual Report 2012/13 l 205 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements of the asset (an incurred ‘loss event’) and that income statement. Interest income continues amortised cost and the current fair value, loss event has an impact on the estimated to be accrued on the reduced carrying amount less any impairment loss on that investment future cash flows of the financial asset or the and is accrued using the rate of interest previously recognised in the income statement. Group of financial assets that can be reliably used to discount the future cash flows for estimated. the purpose of measuring the impairment Future interest income continues to be accrued loss. The interest income is recorded as part based on the reduced carrying amount of Evidence of impairment may include of finance income in the income statement. the asset, using the rate of interest used to indications that the debtors or a Group of Loans together with the associated allowance discount the future cash flows for the purpose debtors is experiencing significant financial are written off when there is no realistic of measuring the impairment loss. The interest difficulty, default or delinquency in interest prospect of future recovery and all collateral income is recorded as part of finance income. or principal payments, the probability that has been realised or has been transferred to If, in a subsequent year, the fair value of a debt they will enter bankruptcy or other financial the Group. If, in a subsequent year, the amount instrument increases and the increase can reorganisation and where observable data of the estimated impairment loss increases or be objectively related to an event occurring indicate that there is a measurable decrease decreases because of an event occurring after after the impairment loss was recognised in in the estimated future cash flows, such as the impairment was recognised, the previously the income statement, the impairment loss is changes in arrears or economic conditions that recognised impairment loss is increased or reversed through the income statement. correlate with defaults. reduced by adjusting the allowance account. If a future write-off is later recovered, the Financial liabilities Financial assets carried at amortised cost recovery is credited to finance costs in the Initial recognition and measurement For financial assets carried at amortised cost, income statement. Financial liabilities within the scope of LKAS the Group first assesses whether objective 39 are classified as financial liabilities at evidence of impairment exists individually for Available-for-sale financial investments fair value through profit or loss, loans and financial assets that are individually significant, For available-for-sale financial investments, the borrowings, or as derivatives designated as or collectively for financial assets that are not Group assesses at each reporting date whether hedging instruments in an effective hedge, individually significant. If the Group determines there is objective evidence that an investment as appropriate. The Group determines the that no objective evidence of impairment exists or a Group of investments is impaired. classification of its financial liabilities at initial for an individually assessed financial asset, recognition. whether significant or not, it includes the asset In the case of equity investments classified as in a Group of financial assets with similar available-for-sale, objective evidence would All financial liabilities are recognised initially credit risk characteristics and collectively include a significant or prolonged decline in at fair value and, in the case of loans and assesses them for impairment. Assets that are the fair value of the investment below its cost. borrowings, carried at amortised cost. This individually assessed for impairment and for ‘Significant’ is evaluated against the original includes directly attributable transaction costs. which an impairment loss is, or continues to cost of the investment and ‘prolonged’ against be, recognised are not included in a collective the period in which the fair value has been The Group’s financial liabilities include trade assessment of impairment. below its original cost. Where there is evidence and other payables, bank overdrafts, loans and of impairment, the cumulative loss measured borrowings, financial guarantee contracts, and If there is objective evidence that an as the difference between the acquisition cost derivative financial instruments. impairment loss has been incurred, the amount and the current fair value, less any impairment of the loss is measured as the difference Subsequent measurement loss on that investment previously recognised between the assets carrying amount and the The measurement of financial liabilities in the income statement is removed from other present value of estimated future cash flows depends on their classification as follows: comprehensive income and recognised in the (excluding future expected credit losses that income statement. Impairment losses on equity Loans and borrowings have not yet been incurred). The present investments are not reversed through the After initial recognition, interest bearing loans value of the estimated future cash flows is income statement; increases in their fair value and borrowings are subsequently measured at discounted at the financial asset’s original after impairments are recognised directly in amortised cost using the effective interest rate effective interest rate. If a loan has a variable other comprehensive income. method. Gains and losses are recognised in interest rate, the discount rate for measuring the income statement when the liabilities are any impairment loss is the current effective In the case of debt instruments classified as derecognised as well as through the effective interest rate. available-for-sale, impairment is assessed interest rate method (EIR) amortisation based on the same criteria as financial assets The carrying amount of the asset is reduced process. carried at amortised cost. However, the amount through the use of an allowance account and recorded for impairment is the cumulative Amortised cost is calculated by taking the amount of the loss is recognised in the loss measured as the difference between the into account any discount or premium on 206 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information acquisition and fees or costs that are an For financial instruments not traded in an other comprehensive income and not in the integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation active market, the fair value is determined income statement. Management periodically is included in finance costs in the income using appropriate valuation techniques. Such evaluates positions taken in the tax returns statement. techniques may include using recent arm’s with respect to situations in which applicable length market transactions; reference to the tax regulations are subject to interpretation Financial guarantee contracts current fair value of another instrument that is and establishes provisions where appropriate. Financial guarantee contracts issued by the substantially the same; a discounted cash flow Group are those contracts that require a analysis or other valuation models. Deferred tax payment to be made to reimburse the holder Deferred tax is provided using the liability for a loss it incurs because the specified An analysis of fair values of financial method on temporary differences at the debtor fails to make a payment when due instruments and further details as to how they reporting date between the tax bases of assets in accordance with the terms of a debt are measured are provided in note 15. and liabilities and their carrying amounts for instrument. Financial guarantee contracts are financial reporting purposes. recognised initially as a liability at fair value, 1.4.14 Derivative financial instruments adjusted for transaction costs that are directly Initial recognition and subsequent Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all attributable to the issuance of the guarantee. measurement taxable temporary differences, except: Subsequently, the liability is measured at the The Group uses derivative financial instruments t XIFSFUIFEFGFSSFEUBYMJBCJMJUZBSJTFTGSPN higher of the best estimate of the expenditure such as forward currency contracts, the initial recognition of goodwill or of an required to settle the present obligation at the interest rate swaps and forward commodity asset or liability in a transaction that is reporting date and the amount recognised less contracts to hedge its foreign currency risks, not a business combination and, at the cumulative amortisation. interest rate risks and commodity price time of the transaction, affects neither the risks, respectively. Such derivative financial accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; Derecognition instruments are initially recognised at fair and A financial liability is derecognised when the value on the date on which a derivative t JOSFTQFDUPGUBYBCMFUFNQPSBSZ obligation under the liability is discharged or contract is entered into and are subsequently differences associated with investments cancelled or expires. remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are in subsidiaries, associates and interests carried as financial assets when the fair value in joint ventures, where the timing of the When an existing financial liability is is positive and as financial liabilities when the reversal of the temporary differences can replaced by another from the same lender on fair value is negative. be controlled and it is probable that the substantially different terms, or the terms of temporary differences will not reverse in an existing liability are substantially modified, The fair value of commodity contracts that the foreseeable future. such an exchange or modification is treated meet the definition of a derivative as defined as a derecognition of the original liability by LKAS 39 are recognised in the income Deferred tax assets are recognised for all and the recognition of a new liability, and the statement in cost of sales. deductible temporary differences, and unused difference in the respective carrying amounts tax credits and tax losses carried forward, to is recognised in the income statement. Any gains or losses arising from changes in the extent that it is probable that taxable profit the fair value of derivatives are taken directly will be available against which the deductible Offsetting of financial instruments to the income statement. temporary differences and the unused tax Financial assets and financial liabilities are credits and tax losses carried forward can be offset and the net amount reported in the 1.4.15 Tax utilised except: consolidated statement of financial position Current tax t XIFSFUIFEFGFSSFEJODPNFUBYBTTFU if, and only if, there is a currently enforceable Current tax assets and liabilities for the current relating to the deductible temporary legal right to offset the recognised amounts and prior periods are measured at the amount difference arises from the initial and there is an intention to settle on a net expected to be recovered from or paid to the recognition of an asset or liability in basis, or to realise the assets and settle the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax a transaction that is not a business liabilities simultaneously. laws used to compute the amount are those combination and, at the time of the that are enacted or substantively enacted, at transaction, affects neither the accounting Fair value of financial instruments the reporting date in the countries where the profit nor taxable profit or loss; and The fair value of financial instruments that are Group operates and generates taxable income. t JOSFTQFDUPGEFEVDUJCMFUFNQPSBSZ traded in active markets at each reporting date differences associated with investments is determined by reference to quoted market Current income tax relating to items in subsidiaries, associates and interests prices, without any deduction for transaction recognised directly in equity is recognised in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are costs. in equity and for items recognised in other comprehensive income shall be recognised in Annual Report 2012/13 l 207 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements recognised only to the extent that it is 1.4.16 Inventories 1.4.20 Insurance contract liabilities life probable that the temporary differences Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and The directors agree to the long term and will reverse in the foreseeable future and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the unit link insurance business provisions on taxable profit will be available against estimated selling price less estimated costs of the recommendation of the actuary following which the temporary differences can be completion and the estimated costs necessary annual valuation of the life insurance business. utilised. to make the sale. The actuarial valuation takes into account all The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is The costs incurred in bringing inventories to its liabilities including contingent liabilities and is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced present location and condition, are accounted based on assumptions recommended by the to the extent that it is no longer probable that for as follows: independent external actuary. sufficient taxable profit will be available to Raw materials allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to On a weighted average basis 1.4.21 Insurance contract liabilities be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets Finished goods and work-in-progress general are reassessed at each reporting date and are At the cost of direct materials, direct Insurance provision comprises of reserve for recognised to the extent that it has become labour and an appropriate proportion the net unearned premium, reserve or the probable that future taxable profit will allow the of fixed production overheads based deferred acquisition cost (net), reserve for deferred tax asset to be recovered. on normal operating capacity but gross outstanding claims and the Incurred But excluding borrowing costs Not Reported (IBNR) provision. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are Other inventories measured at tax rates that are expected to At actual cost Unearned premium, deferred acquisition cost apply to the year when the asset is realised and the reserve for gross outstanding claims or liability is settled, based on the tax rates 1.4.17 Cash and cash equivalents are stated according to the industry practices and tax laws that have been enacted or Cash and short-term deposits in the statement whereas the IBNR reserve is decided by an substantively enacted as at the reporting date. of financial position comprise cash at banks independent external actuary to estimate the and in hand and short-term deposits with a outstanding liabilities as of reporting date. Deferred tax relating to items recognised maturity of three months or less. outside the income statement is recognised 1.4.22 Government grants outside the income statement. Deferred For the purpose of the cashflow statement, Government grants are recognised where there tax items are recognised in correlation to cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and is reasonable assurance that the grant will be the underlying transaction either in other short-term deposits as defined above, net of received and all attached conditions will be comprehensive income or directly in equity. outstanding bank overdrafts. complied with. When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as income over Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities 1.4.18 Defined benefit plan gratuity the period necessary to match to the costs, are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists The liability recognised in the statement of that it is intended to compensate. Where the to set off current tax assets against current tax financial position is the present value of the grant relates to an asset, the fair value is liabilities and when the deferred taxes relate to defined benefit obligation at the reporting date credited to a deferred income account and the same taxable entity and the same taxation using the projected unit credit method. Any is released to the income statement over the authority. actuarial gains or losses arising are recognised expected useful life of the relevant asset by immediately in the income statement. equal annual installments. Sales tax Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised 1.4.19 Defined contribution plan Where the Group receives non-monetary net of the amount of sales tax except: Employees’ Provident Fund and Employees’ grants, the asset and the grant are recorded t XIFSFUIFTBMFTUBYJODVSSFEPOBQVSDIBTF Trust Fund gross at nominal amounts and released to of a assets or services is not recoverable Employees are eligible for Employees’ the income statement over the expected from the taxation authority, in which case Provident Fund contributions and Employees’ useful life and pattern of consumption of the the sales tax is recognised as part of the Trust Fund contributions in line with respective benefit of the underlying asset by equal annual cost of acquisition of the asset or as part statutes and regulations. The companies installments. of the expense item as applicable; and contribute the defined percentages of gross t SFDFJWBCMFTBOEQBZBCMFTUIBUBSFTUBUFE emoluments of employees to an approved 1.4.23 Provisions, contingent assets and with the amount of sales tax included. Employees’ Provident Fund and to the contingent liabilities Employees’ Trust Fund respectively, which are Provisions are recognised when the Group The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, externally funded. has a present obligation (legal or constructive) or payable to, the taxation authority is included as a result of a past event, it is probable that as part of receivables or payables in the an outflow of resources embodying economic statement of financial position. 208 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information benefits will be required to settle the obligation expected life of the financial instrument or Fees or components of fees that are linked to and a reliable estimate can be made of the a shorter period, where appropriate, to the a certain performance are recognised after amount of the obligation. Where the Group net carrying amount of the financial asset or fulfilling the corresponding criteria. expects some or all of a provision to be financial liability. The calculation takes into reimbursed, for example under an insurance account all contractual terms of the financial Net trading income contract, the reimbursement is recognised instrument (for example, prepayment options) Results arising from trading activities include as a separate asset but only when the and includes any fees or incremental costs that all gains and losses from changes in fair value. reimbursement is virtually certain. The expense are directly attributable to the instrument and relating to any provision is presented in the are an integral part of the EIR, but not future 1.5.2 South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd income statement net of any reimbursement. Impairment losses. Revenue recognition Stevedoring revenue is recognised on the If the effect of the time value of money is The carrying amount of the financial asset berthing time of the vessel. Storage revenue is material, provisions are discounted using or financial liability is adjusted if the Group recognised on the issue of delivery advice. a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where revises its estimates of payments or receipts. appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. The adjusted carrying amount is calculated 1.6 SRI LANKA ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Where discounting is used, the increase in based on the original EIR and the change (SLFRS/LKAS) ISSUED BUT NOT YET the provision due to the passage of time is in carrying amount is recorded as ‘Interest EFFECTIVE recognised as a finance cost. Income’ for financial assets and ‘Interest Standards issued but not yet effective up to Expense’ for financial liabilities. the date of issuance of the Group’s financial All contingent liabilities are disclosed as a statements are listed below. This listing is of note to the financial statements unless the Once the recorded value of a financial asset standards and interpretations issued, which outflow of resources is remote. A contingent or a group of similar financial assets has been the Group reasonably expects to be applicable liability recognised in a business combination reduced due to an impairment loss, interest at a future date. The Group intends to adopt is initially measured at its fair value. income continues to be recognised using the those standards when they become effective. Subsequently, it is measured at the higher of: rate of interest used to discount the future t 5IFBNPVOUUIBUXPVMECFSFDPHOJTFEJO cash flows for the purpose of measuring the a) SLFRS 9-Financial Instruments: accordance with the general guidance for impairment loss. Classification and Measurement provisions above (LKAS 37) or SLFRS 9 as issued reflects the replacement t 5IFBNPVOUJOJUJBMMZSFDPHOJTFEMFTT XIFO Fee and commission income of LKAS 39 and applies to classification and appropriate, cumulative amortisation The Group earns fee and commission income measurement of financial assets and financial recognised in accordance with the guidance from a diverse range of services it provides to liabilities as defined in LKAS 39. The standard for revenue recognition (LKAS 18). its customers. Fee income can be divided into is effective for annual periods beginning on or the following two categories: after 1 January 2015. The adoption of SLFRS Contingent assets are disclosed, where inflow 9 will have an effect on the classification of economic benefit is probable. Fee income earned from services that are and measurement of the Group’s financial provided over a certain period of time assets, but will potentially have no impact on 1.5 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Fees earned for the provision of services classification and measurements of financial THAT ARE SPECIFIC TO THE BUSINESS OF over a period of time are accrued over that liabilities. This standard becomes effective for ASSOCIATE COMPANIES period. These fees include commission income annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 1.5.1 Nations Trust Bank PLC and asset management, custody and other 2015. Revenue recognition management and advisory fees. Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is b) SLFRS 10-Consolidated Financial probable that the economic benefits will flow Credit related fees are deferred and recognised Statements to the bank and the revenue can be reliably as an adjustment to the EIR of the loan. SLFRS 10 replaces the portion of LKAS measured. The following specific recognition 27 Consolidated and separate financial criteria must also be met before revenue is Fee income from providing transaction statements, that addresses the accounting recognised. services for consolidated financial statements. It Fees arising from negotiating or participating also includes the issues raised in Standing Interest income and expense in the negotiation of a transaction for a Interpretations Committee (SIC) 12 For all financial instruments interest income third party, such as the arrangement of the Consolidation Special Purpose Entities. or expense is recorded using the EIR. EIR acquisition of shares or other securities or the is the rate that exactly discounts estimated purchase or sale of businesses, are recognised SLFRS 10 establishes a single control model future cash payments or receipts through the on completion of the underlying transaction. that applies to all entities including special purpose entities. The changes introduced Annual Report 2012/13 l 209 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements by SLFRS 10 will require management to 1.7 DEFERRING APPLICATION OF IFRIC 15 and these operations comprise of South Asia exercise significant judgment to determine -AGREEMENTS FOR THE CONSTRUCTION ON Gateway Terminals in the port of Colombo, a which entities are controlled, and therefore REAL ESTATE marine bunkering business, joint ventures/ are required to be consolidated by a parent, This interpretation clarifies whether LKAS 18, associations with leading shipping and air compared with the requirements that were in ‘Revenue’ or LKAS 11 ‘Construction contracts’ transportation multinationals and logistics, LKAS 27. This standard becomes effective for should be applied to particular transactions. It travel and airline services in Sri Lanka, India annual periods beginning on or after 1 January also explains the point at which revenue and and the Maldives. 2014. related expenses from a sale of real estate unit should be recognised, if an agreement Leisure c) SLFRS 11-Joint Arrangements between a developer and a buyer is reached The leisure operation segment encompasses SLFRS 11 replaces LKAS 31 Interests in joint before the construction of the real estate two five star city hotels in Colombo and ventures and SIC on Jointly-controlled entities unit is completed. Considering the latest seven resort hotels spread in prime tourist and Non-monetary contributions by ventures. developments in revenue recognition – the five locations all over Sri Lanka and three resorts in SLFRS 11 removes the option to account step model, which will bring more clarity on Maldives offering beaches, mountains, wildlife for Jointly Controlled Entities (JCEs) using revenue recognition, the Institute of Chartered and cultural splendor under the two brands proportionate consolidation. Instead, JCEs that Accountants of Sri Lanka has decided to grant ‘Cinnamon Hotels and Resorts’ and ‘Chaaya meet the definition of a joint venture must be an option for entities to defer application of Hotels and Resorts’. The leisure operating accounted for using the equity method. The IFRIC 15 until the new five step model comes segment also has destination management application of this new standard will impact into effect. businesses in Sri Lanka and India. the financial position of the Group. This is due to the cessation proportionate consolidating The Group has not adopted IFRIC 15 which Property of joint ventures being changed to equity is related to recognition of revenue of The property operating segment concentrates accounting. This standard becomes effective construction of real estate. The group has primarily on development and sale of for annual periods beginning on or after 1 deferred application of this IFRIC based on the residential apartments. January 2014. ruling issued by CA Sri Lanka. Consumer Foods and Retail d) SLFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in other 1.8 SEGMENT INFORMATION The consumer foods and retail operating entities Operating segments segment competes in the two major categories SLFRS 12 includes all of the disclosures The Group’s internal organisation and namely manufacturing and retailing. Retailing that were previously in LKAS 27 related to management is structured based on individual business through the ‘Keells Super’ chain of consolidated financial statements, as well products and services which are similar in supermarkets and in partnership with Nations as all of the disclosures that were previously nature and process and where the risk and Trust Bank has created ‘Nexus’, coalition included in LKAS 31 and LKAS 28. These return are similar. The operating segments loyalty card in the country. disclosures relate to an entity’s interests in represent this business structure. subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates Financial Services and structured entities. A number of new In addition, segments are determined based on The financial services operating segment disclosures are also required. This standard the Group’s geographical spread of operations offer a complete range of financial solutions becomes effective for annual periods beginning as well. The geographical analysis of turnover including commercial banking, insurance, on or after 1 January 2014. and profits are based on location of customers stock broking, debt trading, fund management and assets respectively. and leasing. e) SLFRS 13-Fair Value Measurement SLFRS 13 establishes a single source of The activities of each of the operating business Information Technology guidance under SLFRS for all fair value segments of the Group are detailed in the The information technology operating segment measurements. SLFRS 13 does not state Group directory. comprises from BPO, software services and when an entity is required to use fair value, information integration to office automation but rather provides guidance on how to As such for management purposes, the Group which offers end-to-end ICT services and measure fair value under SLFRS when fair is organised into business units based on their solutions. value is required or permitted. The Group products and services and has seven operating business segments as follows: Others is currently assessing the impact that this This operating segment includes plantation standard will have on the financial position and Transportation services sector which operates tea factories, performance. This standard becomes effective Business of the transportation operating tea and rubber broking and pre-auction for annual periods beginning on or after 1 segment offer an array of transportation produce warehousing. This segment also January 2014. related services in Sri Lanka and the region 210 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information consists of John Keells Holdings PLC including as described in the accounting policies. In impairment and recognition or derecognition of its divisions / centre functions such as John preparing these financial statements, the intangible assets). In accordance with SLFRS 1, Keells Capital and Strategic Group IT (SGIT), Group’s opening statement of financial position the Group has tested goodwill for impairment as well as other companies providing ancillary was prepared as at 1 April 2011, the Group’s at the date of transition to SLFRS/LKAS. services. date of transition to SLFRS/LKAS. This note explains the principal adjustments made by b) Application of SLFRS 2 Share-based Segment information has been prepared the Group in restating its SLAS statement of Payment in conformity with the accounting policies financial position as at 1 April 2011, and it’s SLFRS 2 Share-based Payment has not been adopted for preparing and presenting the previously published SLAS financial statements applied to equity instruments’ in share-based consolidated financial statements of the Group. as at and for the year ended 31 March 2012. payment transactions that were granted on or before 1 January 2012. No operating segments have been aggregated Exemptions applied to form the above reportable operating SLFRS 1 First-Time Adoption of Sri Lanka c) SLFRS 4 Insurance contracts segments. An individual segment manager is Financial Reporting Standards allows first-time transitional provisions determined for each operating segment and adopters certain exemptions which are optional The Group has applied transitional provision of the results are regularly reviewed by the Board and certain exceptions which are mandatory insurance contracts. of Directors. The Board of Directors monitors from retrospective application of certain the operating results of its business units SLFRS/LKAS. d) Fair value of revaluation as deemed cost separately for the purpose of making decisions Freehold land and buildings, other than about resource allocation and performance Optional exemptions the Group has opted investment property, were carried in the assessment. Segment performance is to apply: statement of financial position prepared evaluated based on operating profit or loss a) SLFRS 3 Business Combinations in accordance with SLAS on the basis of which in certain respects, as explained in the This has not been applied to acquisitions of valuations performed prior to 31 March 2012. operating segments information, is measured subsidiaries, which are considered businesses The Group has elected to regard those values differently form operating profit or loss in the for SLFRS/LKAS, or of interests in associates as deemed cost at the date of the revaluation consolidated financial statements. However, and joint ventures that occurred before 1 since they were broadly comparable to fair except for Financial Services segment other April 2011. The Group has not applied LKAS value. segments’ financing activities are managed 21 retrospectively to fair value adjustments on a Group basis and are not allocated to and goodwill from business combinations e) IFRIC 4 Determining whether an operating segments. The income taxes are that occurred before the date of transition to arrangement contains a Lease managed on Group basis and are not allocated SLFRS/LKAS. Such fair value adjustments and The Group has applied the transitional to operating segments. goodwill are treated as assets and liabilities of provision in IFRIC 4 Determining whether the parent rather than as assets and liabilities an Arrangement contains a Lease and has Transfer prices between operating segments of the acquiree. Therefore, those assets assessed all arrangements based upon the are carried out in the ordinary course of and liabilities are already expressed in the conditions in place as at the date of transition. business. functional currency of the parent or are nonf) Investment in subsidiaries, jointly monetary foreign currency items and no further 2.0 FIRST-TIME ADOPTION OF SLFRS/LKAS controlled entities and associates translation differences occur. These financial statements, for the year The Group has measured its investments in ended 31 March 2013, are the first financial Use of this exemption means that the SLAS each subsidiary, joint venture and associate at statements the Group has prepared in carrying amounts of assets and liabilities, deemed cost, which is the carrying amount as accordance with SLFRS/LKAS. For periods which are required to be recognised under per SLAS at the date of transition 1 April 2011. up to and including the year ended 31 March SLFRS/LKAS, are stated at their deemed cost 2012, the Group prepared its financial g) Designation of previously recognised at the date of the acquisition. After the date of statements in accordance with Sri Lanka financial instruments Unquoted equity the acquisition, measurement is in accordance Accounting standards (SLAS) which were instruments with SLFRS/LKAS. Assets and liabilities that do effective up to 31 March 2012. The Group has designated unquoted equity not qualify for recognition under SLFRS/LKAS instruments held as at 1 April 2011 as are excluded from the opening SLFRS/LKAS Accordingly, the Group has prepared financial available-for-sale investments. statement of financial position. statements which comply with SLFRS/LKAS applicable for periods ending 31 March 2013, Optional exemptions which the Group has SLFRS 1 also requires that the SLAS carrying together with the comparative period data as opted not to apply: amount of goodwill must be used in the at and for the year ended 31 March 2012, h) Cumulative translation differences opening SLFRS/LKAS statement of financial The cumulative translation differences for position (apart from adjustments for goodwill Annual Report 2012/13 l 211 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements all foreign operations of the Group were not Mandatory exception applicable to the considered as deemed zero at the date of Group: transition to SLFRS/LKAS. a) Significant accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions i) Borrowing Costs Significant accounting judgments, estimates In the Group the treatment of borrowing costs and assumptions at 1 April 2011 and at were already aligned as per SLFRS/LKAS. 31 March 2012 are consistent with those made for the same dates in accordance with j) Employee benefits (LKAS 19) SLAS effective up to 31 March 2012 (after SLAS’s and the SLFRS/LKAS were already adjustments to reflect any differences in aligned as regards to these transactions. accounting policies). Optional exemptions not applicable to the The estimates used by the Group to present Group: these amounts in accordance with SLFRS/LKAS k) Assets and liabilities of subsidiary, effective from 1 April 2012 reflect conditions associates and joint ventures at 1 April 2011, the date of transition to The subsidiary, associate and joint ventures in SLFRS/LKAS and as of 31 March 2012. the Group have transited from SLAS to SLFRS/ LKAS simultaneously with the parent Company. b) Non-controlling interests The requirement of SLFRS 3 is that total l) Transfers of assets from customers as comprehensive income is attributed to per IFRIC 18 the owners of the parent and to the nonThe Group does not have these types of controlling interests even if this results in arrangements as at the date of transition. the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. The Group applies above requirement m) Compounded Financial instruments prospectively from the date of transition to The Group does not have these types of SLFRS/LKAS. financial instruments as at the date of transition. Mandatory exceptions not applicable to the Group: n) Decommissioning liabilities included in c) Derecognising of financial assets and the cost of property, plant and equipment financial liabilities The Group does not has any decommissioning Derecognition requirements in SLFRS 9 requires liabilities relating to property, plant and prospective application for transactions equiment. occurring on or after the date of transition. o) Financial assets or intangible assets d) Hedge accounting accounted for under IFRIC 12 The Group has not entered into any hedging The Group has not entered into agreements relationships. The standard states that hedging within the scope of IFRIC 12. relationships of a type that does not qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with LKAS 39 p) Extinguishing Financial liabilities with should not be reflected in the opening SLFRS/ equity instruments LKAS statement of financial position. The Group has not used equity instruments to extinguish financial liabilities and the Explanations for transition to SLFRS/LKASs provisions in IFRIC 19 extinguishing financial In preparing SLFRS/LKAS statement of liabilities are not applicable to the Group. financial position for previously reported financial periods, required adjustments have q) Severe hyperinflation been made in accordance with the respective The Group does not operate in a SLFRS/LKASs. The effect of the transition hyperinflationary economy. from SLASs to SLFRS/LKASs has been presented in the reconciliation statements and accompanying notes to the material reconciliation items. 212 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information First time adoption of SLFRS/LKAS 2.1 Reconciliation of comprehensive incomeConsolidated Income Statement Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2012 Note Effect of Effect of In Rs.’000s As per transition to As per As per transition to As per SLAS SLFRS/LKAS SLFRS/LKAS SLAS SLFRS/LKAS SLFRS/LKAS Revenue 2.6 76,699,683 990,189 77,689,872 576,239 (59,883) 516,356 Cost of sales 2.6 (58,536,524) (970,907) (59,507,431) (290,941) (290,941) Gross profit 18,163,159 19,282 18,182,441 285,298 (59,883) 225,415 Dividend income 104,360 (104,360) 4,529,888 285,171 4,815,059 Other operating income 2.7 4,156,410 (2,476,507) 1,679,903 783,760 (591,151) 192,609 Distribution expenses (2,631,622) (1,183) (2,632,805) Administrative expenses (7,876,566) (72) (7,876,638) (694,619) (942) (695,561) Other operating expenses (2,607,936) 438,218 (2,169,718) (336,772) 306,691 (30,081) Finance costs (670,918) (744,909) (1,415,827) (205,743) (306,691) (512,434) Finance income 2.7 2,874,360 2,874,360 730,387 730,387 Change in fair value of investment property 1,413,474 1,413,474 Share of results of equity-accounted investees 2.5 2,858,086 (93,248) 2,764,838 Profit before tax 12,908,447 (88,419) 12,820,028 4,361,812 363,582 4,725,394 Tax expense (1,841,879) (1,841,879) (93,876) (93,876) Profit for the year 11,066,568 (88,419) 10,978,149 4,267,936 363,582 4,631,518 2.2 Reconciliation of comprehensive income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2012 Note As per Effect of As per Effect of In Rs.’000s SLAS transition to As per SLAS transition to As per SLFRS/LKAS SLFRS/LKAS SLFRS/LKAS SLFRS/LKAS Profit for the year 10,978,149 10,978,149 4,631,518 4,631,518 Other comprehensive income Currency translation of foreign operations 1,060,558 1,060,558 Revaluation of land and buildings 1,543,566 1,543,566 Share of other comprehensive income of equity-accounted investees 1,211,692 1,211,692 Net (loss)/gain on available-for-sale financial assets 2.8 (349,606) (349,606) 393,385 393,385 Transfers to revenue reserves 46,167 46,167 Tax on other comprehensive income (20,818) (20,818) Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 3,491,559 3,491,559 393,385 393,385 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 14,469,708 14,469,708 5,024,903 5,024,903 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Annual Report 2012/13 l 213 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements First time adoption of SLFRS/LKAS 2.3 Reconciliation of equity Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Equity as at 31st March 2012 Equity as at 1st April 2011 (date of transition to SLFRS/LKAS) Effect of Effect of As per transition to As per As per transition to As per Note SLAS SLFRS/LKAS SLFRS/LKAS SLAS SLFRS/LKAS SLFRS/LKAS ASSETS Non current assets Property, plant and equipment 34,290,012 34,290,012 28,627,982 28,627,982 Lease rentals paid in advance 10,281,853 (3,504) 10,278,349 9,515,621 (3,504) 9,512,117 Investment property 7,631,494 7,631,494 5,386,166 5,386,166 Intangible assets 2,639,671 (6,598) 2,633,073 2,631,950 2,631,950 Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures 5,115 (5,115) 5,115 (5,115) Investments in associates 15,692,608 (38,227) 15,654,381 14,668,206 24,229 14,692,435 Other non current financial assets 2.8 2.9 12,378,883 1,310,936 13,689,819 11,792,453 1,484,172 13,276,625 Deferred tax assets 129,478 129,478 202,850 202,850 Other non current assets 2.9 3,499,915 (1,094,718) 2,405,197 3,231,401 (965,417) 2,265,984 86,549,029 162,774 86,711,803 76,061,744 534,365 76,596,109 Current assets Inventories 4,372,348 (21,983) 4,350,365 3,143,630 9,240 3,152,870 Trade and other receivables 2.10 13,971,848 (2,624,568) 11,347,280 12,072,147 (3,089,963) 8,982,184 Amounts due from related parties 10,715 10,715 18,520 18,520 Other current assets 2.10 2,923,080 2,923,080 2,979,734 2,979,734 Other investments 24,767,025 80,178 24,847,203 16,881,036 71,264 16,952,300 Cash in hand and at bank 4,267,175 4,267,175 2,112,626 2,112,626 47,389,111 356,707 47,745,818 34,227,959 (29,725) 34,198,234 Total assets 133,938,140 519,481 134,457,621 110,289,703 504,640 110,794,343 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Stated capital 25,110,528 25,110,528 24,611,507 24,611,507 Capital reserves 2.11 12,903,984 (12,475,619) 428,365 9,560,417 (9,132,052) 428,365 Revenue reserves 33,161,096 (159,628) 33,001,468 25,412,760 (116,716) 25,296,044 Other components of equity 2.8 2.11 12,797,149 12,797,149 9,770,533 9,770,533 71,175,608 161,902 71,337,510 59,584,684 521,765 60,106,449 Non-controlling interests 8,864,609 (1,273) 8,863,336 7,608,220 33,736 7,641,956 Total equity 80,040,217 160,629 80,200,846 67,192,904 555,501 67,748,405 Non current liabilities Insurance contract liabilities 14,744,712 (34,185) 14,710,527 12,662,500 12,662,500 Non-interest bearing borrowings 18,000 (18,000) 18,000 (18,000) Borrowings 12,284,414 (63,507) 12,220,907 8,352,587 (77,135) 8,275,452 Deferred tax liabilities 707,970 707,970 647,960 647,960 Employee benefit liabilities 1,372,161 1,372,161 1,215,597 1,215,597 Other deferred liabilities 3,631 (683) 2,948 4,143 (683) 3,460 Other non current liabilities 773,884 773,884 746,938 746,938 29,904,772 (116,375) 29,788,397 23,647,725 (95,818) 23,551,907 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 2.12 15,398,047 (522,826) 14,875,221 12,379,589 (1,265,423) 11,114,166 Amounts due to related parties 1,650 1,650 2,237 2,237 Income tax payable 828,303 (5,108) 823,195 796,714 (5,108) 791,606 Short term borrowings 1,009,057 1,009,057 232,000 232,000 Current portion of borrowings 2,408,740 67,887 2,476,627 2,134,418 63,139 2,197,557 Other current financial liabilities 74,593 74,593 Other current liabilities 2.12 860,681 860,681 1,252,349 1,252,349 Bank overdrafts 4,347,354 4,347,354 3,904,116 3,904,116 23,993,151 475,227 24,468,378 19,449,074 44,957 19,494,031 Total equity and liabilities 133,938,140 519,481 134,457,621 110,289,703 504,640 110,794,343 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 214 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information 2.4 Reconciliation of equity Company Statement of Financial Position Equity as at 31st March 2012 Equity as at 1st April 2011 (date of transition to SLFRS/LKAS) Effect of Effect of As per transition to As per As per transition to As per Note SLAS SLFRS/LKAS SLFRS/LKAS SLAS SLFRS/LKAS SLFRS/LKAS ASSETS Non current assets Property, plant and equipment 89,559 89,559 73,543 73,543 Intangible assets 48,141 48,141 43,724 43,724 Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures 24,664,271 12,885 24,677,156 23,482,112 12,885 23,494,997 Investments in associates 9,485,530 9,485,530 9,257,569 9,257,569 Other non current financial assets 2.8 2.9 1,582,506 440,178 2,022,684 581,806 78,773 660,579 Deferred tax assets 54,198 54,198 Other non current assets 2.9 228,845 (220,943) 7,902 258,539 (255,448) 3,091 36,098,852 232,120 36,330,972 33,751,491 (163,790) 33,587,701 Current assets Inventories 760 760 Trade and other receivables 2.10 865,031 (488,081) 376,950 589,015 (523,345) 65,670 Amounts due from related parties 532,981 445,767 978,748 612,073 84,709 696,782 Other current assets 2.10 342,926 342,926 373,475 373,475 Other investments 10,102,198 81,647 10,183,845 10,071,249 72,735 10,143,984 Cash in hand and at bank 454,495 454,495 19,382 19,382 11,954,705 382,259 12,336,964 11,292,479 7,574 11,300,053 Total assets 48,053,557 614,379 48,667,936 45,043,970 (156,216) 44,887,754 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Stated capital 25,110,528 25,110,528 24,611,507 24,611,507 Revenue reserves 15,393,677 448,291 15,841,968 13,439,260 84,709 13,523,969 Other components of equity 2.8 229,595 229,595 (163,790) (163,790) Total equity 40,504,205 677,886 41,182,091 38,050,767 (79,081) 37,971,686 Non current liabilities Borrowings 5,124,000 (63,507) 5,060,493 5,520,000 (77,135) 5,442,865 Employee benefit liabilities 126,864 126,864 104,752 104,752 5,250,864 (63,507) 5,187,357 5,624,752 (77,135) 5,547,617 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 331,525 (85,475) 246,050 220,667 (74,167) 146,500 Amounts due to related parties 6,926 6,926 9,274 9,274 Current portion of borrowings 1,281,000 67,887 1,348,887 1,104,000 63,139 1,167,139 Other current liabilities 17,588 17,588 11,028 11,028 Bank overdrafts 679,037 679,037 34,510 34,510 2,298,488 2,298,488 1,368,451 1,368,451 Total equity and liabilities 48,053,557 614,379 48,667,936 45,043,970 (156,216) 44,887,754 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Annual Report 2012/13 l 215 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements First Time Adoption of SLFRS/LKAS Given below are the key reconciling items reﬂected under the effect of transition to SLFRS/LKAS. NOTES TO THE RECONCILIATIONS 2.5 Comparatives For the year ended 31 March 2013, the share of results of listed associates have been mirrored for the actual corresponding periods, irrespective of their financial year ends. Accordingly, the comparatives for the period ended 31 March 2012, also have been amended as follows: Group As reported Current previously presentation Share of results of equity accounted investees 2,860,115 2,858,086 Profit before tax 12,910,476 12,908,447 Tax expense (1,841,879) (1,841,879) Profit for the year 11,068,597 11,066,568 Investments in associates As at 31st March 2012 (SLAS) 15,692,608 15,692,608 As at 1st April 2011 (SLAS) 14,670,235 14,668,206 2.6 Revenue recognition The Group operates a loyalty points programme. Under SLAS, the fair value of points issued are accounted as cost of sales. However, as per SLFRS/LKAS the fair value of the points issued is deferred and recognised as revenue when the points are redeemed. The Group reassesses its revenue arrangements against specific criteria in order to determine if it is acting as principal or agent. The Group has reassessed the revenue recognition policy on freight forwarding and out bound tour arrangements. From 1st April 2011, revenue is being recognised on gross basis. The changes relating to these are as follows: Group As per Effect of previous As per transition to SLAS SLFRS/LKAS SLFRS/LKAS Revenue 303,411 1,293,600 990,189 Cost of sales (67,554) (1,038,461) (970,907) Net impact 235,857 255,139 19,282 2.7 Other operating income As per previous SLAS interest income has been classified under other operating income. Under SLFRS/LKAS interest income has been classified in finance income. Reclassification from Other operating income Reclassification to Finance income Group Company For the Year ended 31 March 2012 2,874,360 730,387 2.8 Available-for-sale financial assets Under previous SLAS, the Group and Company accounted for long term investments measured at cost. Under SLFRS/LKAS, the Group and Company have designated such investments as available-for-sale investments. SLFRS/LKAS requires available-for-sale investments to be measured at fair value. Difference between the fair value under SLFRS/LKAS and carrying value under previous SLAS has been recognised as a separate component of equity, in the available for sale reserve net of deferred tax. Equity as at 31st March 2012 Equity as at 01st April 2011 (date of transition to SLFRS/LKAS) Fair value of these assets as per SLFRS/LKAS 12,679,366 12,449,445 Carrying amount of these assets as per SLAS 12,353,307 11,766,874 Net (loss) gain on available for sale financial assets Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2012 (349,606) 393,385 216 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information 2.9 Other non current asset Due to the application of LKAS 32 and 39, financial assets in other non current assets have been reclassified to other non current financial assets. Reclassification from Other non current assets Reclassification to Other non current financial assets Group Company As at 31st March 2012 1,094,718 220,943 As at 1st April 2011 965,417 255,448 2.10 Trade and other receivables Due to the application of LKAS 32 and 39, non financial assets (Prepayments and Tax refunds) in trade & other receivables have been reclassified to other current assets. Reclassification from Trade and other receivables Reclassification to Other current assets Group Company As at 31st March 2012 2,923,080 342,926 As at 1st April 2011 2,979,734 373,475 2.11 Capital reserves Due to the application of SLFRS/LKAS, presentation of financial statements has changed. Some capital reserves have been reclassified to other component of equity. Reclassification from Capital reserves Reclassification to Other components of equity Group Company As at 31st March 2012 12,475,619 As at 1st April 2011 9,132,052 2.12 Trade and other payables Due to the application of LKAS 32 and 39, non financial liabilities (Tax payables and Advance received) in trade & other payables have been reclassified to other current liabilities. Reclassification from Trade and other payables Reclassification to Other current liabilities Group Company As at 31st March 2012 860,681 17,588 As at 1st April 2011 1,252,349 11,028 2.13 Others The effect of transition, other than those mentioned above, relate to reclassification of balances to be in compliance with SLFRS/LKAS. 2.14 Statement of cash flows The transition from SLAS to SLFRS/LKAS has not had a material impact on the statement of cash flows. Annual Report 2012/13 l 217 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements 3 OPERATING SEGMENT INFORMATION 3.1 Business segments Transportation Leisure Property For the year ended 31st March 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s External revenue 19,437,737 18,427,773 20,593,302 17,415,145 3,169,654 3,790,043 Inter segment revenue 346,195 388,497 78,531 54,063 271,811 243,429 Total Segment Revenue 19,783,932 18,816,270 20,671,833 17,469,208 3,441,465 4,033,472 Elimination of inter segment revenue Net Revenue Segment results 974,446 1,121,200 5,103,228 4,232,348 1,729,985 2,063,181 Finance cost (46,057) (14,286) (527,113) (271,420) (12,138) (38,306) Finance income 243,610 92,660 335,041 108,809 122,524 55,675 Change in fair value of investment property 288,710 99,848 440,025 206,971 Share of results of associates 2,474,022 2,115,201 (1,083) Eliminations / adjustments (2,353) 3,936 1,205 (1,027,273) (1,310,026) Profit / (loss) before tax 3,643,668 3,314,775 5,202,719 4,170,790 1,253,123 977,495 Tax expense (246,406) (195,147) (432,795) (463,714) (61,777) (45,548) Profit/ (loss) for the year 3,397,262 3,119,628 4,769,924 3,707,076 1,191,346 931,947 Purchase and construction of PPE 140,983 91,207 2,835,090 4,157,938 174,461 7,209 Addition to IA Depreciation of PPE 94,894 94,213 1,075,031 838,355 17,307 10,075 Amortisation of IA 6,569 11,798 Amortisation of LRPA 681,424 523,290 Gratuity provision and related costs 8,124 13,906 53,322 69,846 254 4,089 In addition to segment results, information such as finance cost / tax expenses has been allocated to segments for better presentation. The finance income relating to financial services are included under their respective segment results. PPE (Property, plant and equipment), IA (Intangible assets), LRPA (Lease rentals paid in advance) Transportation Leisure Property Segment results 1% 3% 1% Segment assets Segment liabilities Segment assets Segment liabilities Segment assets Segment liabilities 8% 3% 11% 10% Rs. bn Rs. bn Rs. bn 10% 1.0 40% 2013 2012 11% 50% 0.8 16% 37.8 46.3 17% 0.1 19% 8.2 6.4 0.1 8.2 11.2 Leisure Financial Services Property Information Technology 10.6 11.2 Consumer Foods & Retail Others 3.8 4.9 2.1 Transportation 13.8 12.7 1.2 11.4 12.8 3.7 3.9 0.9 0.8 2012 2013 2013 2012 2012 2013 2013 2012 2012 2013 2013 2012 CA NCA CL NCL CA NCA CL NCL CA NCA CL NCL 218 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Consumer Foods & Retail Financial Services Information Technology Others Group Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 24,266,858 21,968,785 8,598,546 7,932,331 6,513,598 5,926,401 2,977,556 2,229,394 85,557,251 77,689,872 156,043 77,787 102,020 82,881 284,872 299,592 606,451 535,492 1,845,923 1,681,741 24,422,901 22,046,572 8,700,566 8,015,212 6,798,470 6,225,993 3,584,007 2,764,886 87,403,174 79,371,613 (1,845,923) (1,681,741) 85,557,251 77,689,872 1,147,349 1,700,173 869,084 1,190,253 347,640 210,523 61,249 (61,220) 10,232,981 10,456,458 (116,006) (90,657) (8) (442,277) (72,553) (47,441) (307,343) (511,440) (1,081,218) (1,415,827) 104,584 16,199 47,770 25,880 12,280 4,867 1,137,662 672,624 2,003,471 976,714 1,275,070 1,106,655 8,272 2,012,077 1,413,474 859,969 718,204 (4,909) (26,185) 41,314 (42,382) 3,369,313 2,764,838 9,862 (1,159) 31,526 (5,837) 222,843 (59,812) (761,459) (1,375,629) 2,420,859 2,731,211 1,776,815 1,492,060 313,984 135,927 1,163,997 (2,230) 15,775,165 12,820,028 (375,610) (361,188) (376,641) (320,964) (75,621) (69,897) (615,689) (385,421) (2,184,539) (1,841,879) 2,045,249 2,370,023 1,400,174 1,171,096 238,363 66,030 548,308 (387,651) 13,590,626 10,978,149 2,088,649 1,021,773 148,940 174,516 123,992 331,632 128,654 106,479 5,640,769 5,890,754 253,703 7,218 8,588 8,820 42,384 25,992 304,675 42,030 655,814 546,585 147,943 136,021 145,893 115,175 112,812 122,653 2,249,694 1,863,077 12,821 11,096 187,416 187,416 21,587 21,592 16,531 14,928 244,924 246,830 1,175 1,381 682,599 524,671 8,337 60,708 25,903 35,631 9,748 12,243 31,898 40,437 137,586 236,860 Consumer Foods & Retail Financial Services Information Technology Others Segment total Segment assets Segment liabilities Segment assets Segment liabilities Segment assets Segment liabilities Segment assets Segment liabilities Segment assets Segment liabilities Rs. bn Rs. bn Rs. bn Rs. bn Rs. bn 0.5 5.2 7.1 95.5 0.6 12.8 18.2 0.2 8.2 11.4 17.6 14.9 0.2 93.8 1.2 2.7 4.1 5.3 35.7 0.9 4.0 29.8 2.5 1.9 14.3 15.3 4.8 5.5 9.8 8.7 57.4 56.7 4.9 4.0 5.5 5.1 32.6 33.3 3.7 3.8 2012 2013 2013 2012 2012 2013 2013 2012 2012 2013 2013 2012 2012 2013 2013 2012 2012 2013 2013 2012 CA NCA CL NCL CA NCA CL NCL CA NCA CL NCL CA NCA CL NCL CA NCA CL NCL Annual Report 2012/13 l 219 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements 3.2 Business segments Transportation Leisure Property As at 31st March 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s Property, plant and equipment 318,735 283,243 30,485,884 21,466,724 1,839,360 739,071 Lease rentals paid in advance 14,205 25,569 9,469,382 10,228,966 Investment property 400,000 400,000 1,758,250 1,469,540 6,744,715 4,928,626 Intangible assets 1,207 7,776 Other non current financial assets 51,728 294,358 4,584,266 4,659,638 15,161 11,374 Other non current assets 17,360 15,156 2,459 2,567,029 2,544,131 Segment non current assets 803,235 1,010,946 46,312,938 37,827,327 11,166,265 8,223,202 Investments in associates 11,365,151 11,317,164 321,166 227,961 Deferred tax assets Goodwill Eliminations / adjustments Total non current assets Inventories 505,691 1,152,445 301,324 286,939 26,025 3,941 Trade and other receivables 2,618,275 3,077,294 2,496,198 3,401,935 2,181,981 1,850,114 Short term investments 2,819,496 3,514,472 8,419,984 8,195,363 1,597,019 1,808,297 Cash in hand and at bank 456,824 477,695 1,531,978 1,926,951 131,356 44,086 Segment current assets 6,400,286 8,221,906 12,749,484 13,811,188 3,936,381 3,706,438 Other current assets * Eliminations / adjustments Total current assets Total assets Insurance contract liabilities Borrowings 16,667 10,078,345 10,762,536 1,861,055 701,811 Employee benefit liabilities 88,162 89,020 380,930 382,274 17,888 38,125 Other deferred liabilities 34,160 1,923 Other non current liabilities 60,668 60,244 270,994 500,699 Segment non current liabilities 88,162 105,687 10,554,103 11,206,977 2,149,937 1,240,635 Deferred tax liabilities Eliminations / adjustments Total non current liabilities Trade and other payables 1,742,989 3,339,883 4,085,786 4,805,720 591,554 725,141 Short term borrowings 1,912,567 1,041,076 5,443,563 5,736,742 46,000 Current portion of borrowings 16,667 33,333 1,325,111 922,720 76,114 10,400 Other current financial liabilities Bank overdrafts 82,617 497,434 538,852 1,344,054 204,442 36,093 Segment current liabilities 3,754,840 4,911,726 11,393,312 12,809,236 872,110 817,634 Income tax liabilities Other current liabilities * Eliminations / adjustments Total current liabilities Total liabilities Total segment assets 7,203,521 9,232,852 59,062,422 51,638,515 15,102,646 11,929,640 Total segment liabilities 3,843,002 5,017,413 21,947,415 24,016,213 3,022,047 2,058,269 * Balance mainly comprises from tax refunds / other tax payables. 220 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Consumer Foods & Retail Financial Services Information Technology Others Group Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 6,059,305 4,260,761 1,312,584 1,311,684 430,919 466,119 1,194,682 844,179 41,641,469 29,371,781 45,378 50,471 9,528,965 10,305,006 5,040,924 3,765,854 3,113,441 2,102,175 17,057,330 12,666,195 57,616 49,679 49,500 49,500 56,967 73,276 74,004 48,191 239,294 228,422 206,152 128,932 16,714,231 11,393,303 48,678 50,229 1,791,648 2,174,668 23,411,864 18,712,502 16,623 111,647 8,011 916,927 3,652,753 2,546,590 11,380,620 8,205,226 18,187,962 12,754,487 544,575 589,624 7,136,080 5,219,684 95,531,675 73,830,496 3,049,214 2,735,640 454,935 988,830 918,681 15,724,361 15,654,381 212,227 129,478 950,884 717,900 (3,319,017) (3,620,452) 109,100,130 86,711,803 2,363,666 2,107,181 6,090 13,198 540,193 492,529 288,086 251,559 4,031,075 4,307,792 1,839,220 2,483,721 3,191,950 2,435,154 2,720,385 1,873,710 1,943,638 2,624,052 16,991,647 17,745,980 975,650 22,577 5,031,415 6,653,770 567,834 172,507 12,716,219 10,750,466 32,127,617 31,117,452 367,453 223,177 492,241 724,963 238,472 189,630 336,522 648,401 3,554,846 4,234,903 5,545,989 4,836,656 8,721,696 9,827,085 4,066,884 2,728,376 15,284,465 14,274,478 56,705,185 57,406,127 2,895,900 2,923,080 (9,582,926) (12,583,389) 50,018,159 47,745,818 159,118,289 134,457,621 17,388,494 14,710,527 17,388,494 14,710,527 558,269 283,442 106,761 140,193 3,772,620 5,129,699 16,377,050 17,034,348 385,386 408,759 184,249 171,556 84,481 80,681 243,976 201,746 1,385,072 1,372,161 15,230 838 1,025 50,228 2,948 198,413 212,941 530,075 773,884 1,157,298 905,142 17,572,743 14,882,083 191,242 220,874 4,017,434 5,332,470 35,730,919 33,893,868 1,222,210 707,970 (4,519,286) (4,813,441) 32,433,843 29,788,397 3,707,704 2,871,199 5,327,241 4,652,301 2,178,477 1,399,053 1,112,759 1,281,817 18,746,510 19,075,114 93,000 201,000 80,695 20,074 247,533 7,469,204 7,353,046 157,928 115,009 24,115 22,420 1,449,003 1,372,345 3,048,938 2,476,227 74,591 74,591 987,686 807,630 147,234 328,111 302,957 397,717 1,092,454 936,316 3,356,242 4,347,355 4,946,318 3,994,838 5,474,475 5,055,003 2,505,549 1,899,885 3,674,290 3,838,011 32,620,894 33,326,333 981,013 823,195 1,635,534 860,681 (9,738,405) (10,541,831) 25,499,036 24,468,378 57,932,879 54,256,775 16,926,609 13,041,882 26,909,658 22,581,572 4,611,459 3,318,000 22,420,545 19,494,162 152,236,860 131,236,623 6,103,616 4,899,980 23,047,218 19,937,086 2,696,791 2,120,759 7,691,724 9,170,481 68,351,813 67,220,201 Annual Report 2012/13 l 221 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements 3.3 Geographical segments, based on the location of assets Sri Lanka Asia (excluding Sri Lanka) Others Segment Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s Segment assets 116,907,558 99,303,627 33,595,341 29,657,836 1,976,230 800,844 152,479,129 129,762,307 Segment liabilities 52,678,865 49,932,174 13,328,739 15,264,346 2,344,209 1,630,454 68,351,813 66,826,974 Investment in associates 15,724,361 15,199,446 454,935 15,724,361 15,654,381 Segment revenue 77,046,900 70,629,625 10,107,220 8,615,026 249,054 126,962 87,403,174 79,371,613 Segment results 8,037,922 8,716,018 2,183,365 1,771,142 65,142 (30,702) 10,286,429 10,456,458 Purchase and construction of property, plant and equipment 5,263,123 5,501,020 360,032 372,964 17,614 16,770 5,640,769 5,890,754 Purchase of intangible assets 298,170 42,030 6,505 304,675 42,030 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1,937,047 1,590,930 302,858 268,670 9,789 3,477 2,249,694 1,863,077 Amortisation of intangible assets 235,044 246,830 9,880 244,924 246,830 Amortisation of lease rental paid in advance 16,985 17,192 665,614 507,479 682,599 524,671 Gratuity provision and related costs 130,030 211,389 6,927 23,045 629 2,426 137,586 236,860 Geographical segments, based on the location of assets Segment assets Segment liability 1% 1% 3% 2% 23% 23% 22% 20% 77% 76% 77% 75% 2013 2012 2013 2012 Sri Lanka Asia excluding Sri Lanka Other Sri Lanka Asia excluding Sri Lanka Other Segment revenue Segment results 11% 1% 17% 12% 21% 88% 89% 78% 83% 2013 2012 2013 2012 Sri Lanka Asia excluding Sri Lanka Other Sri Lanka Asia excluding Sri Lanka Other 222 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information 4 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND ACQUISITION OF NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS 4.1 Acquisitions in 2012/13 Acquisition of additional interest in Keells Food Products PLC In August 2012, the Group acquired an additional 6.96% of the voting shares of Keells Food Products PLC, increasing its ownership to 90.17%. A cash consideration of Rs.35.4 mn was paid to the shareholders with non-controlling interest. The carrying value of the net assets of Keells Food Products PLC (excluding goodwill on the original acquisition) at the acquisition date was Rs.411.6 mn, and the carrying value of the additional interest acquired was Rs.28.6 mn. The difference between the consideration and the carrying value of the interest acquired of Rs.6.8 mn has been recognised in retained earnings within equity. Acquisition of D&W Food Products (Pvt) Ltd by Keells Food Products PLC. (KFP) In August 2012, KFP acquired the Buildings, Plant and Machinary of D&W Food Products (Pvt) Ltd for a total consideration of Rs.700mn Fair value recognised In Rs.’000s on acquisition ASSETS Goodwill 242,269 Property, plant and equipment 457,731 Total purchase price 700,000 Of the purchase price of Rs.700mn, as at 31 March 2013 Rs.350mn had been paid out. 4.2 Disposals in 2012/13 In July 2012 John Keells Holdings PLC and John Keells Holdings Mauritius (Pvt) Ltd signed an agreement to divest 40% of the voting shares of John Keells Logistics Lanka (Pvt) Ltd and 80% of the voting shares of John Keells Logistics India (Pvt) Ltd. Value recognised In Rs.’000s on disposal ASSETS Cash in hand and at bank 19,369 Short term investments 2,079 Trade and other receivables 178,417 Goodwill 9,285 Deferred tax assets 6,874 Other non current financial assets 5,841 Property, plant and equipment 18,404 LIABILITIES Bank overdrafts (71,401) Employee benefit liabilities (7,423) Trade and other payables (98,081) Total identifiable net assets 63,364 Transferred to investment in associates (23,700) Profit on disposal of non current investments 92,904 Fair value of contingent consideration (44,713) Cash consideration received on disposal of non current investments 87,855 Cash and cash equivalents disposed 49,953 Net cash inflow on disposal of non current investments 137,808 Annual Report 2012/13 l 223 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements 4.3 Acquisitions in 2011/12 Acquisition of John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Ltd In June 2011, The Group obtained control of John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Ltd by increasing its stake to 100% from 49% (previously accounted for investment in associate), an unlisted company based in India and specialising in the business process outsourcing operations. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Ltd immediately before the date of acquisition were: Fair value recognised In Rs.’000s on acquisition ASSETS Cash in hand and at bank 114,471 Short term investments 49,204 Trade and other receivables 431,915 Property, plant and equipment 181,207 LIABILITIES Bank overdrafts (36,956) Employee benefit liabilities (4,726) Trade and other payables (292,133) Income tax liabilities (4,791) Total identifiable net assets at fair value 438,191 Preference shares converted to ordinary shares (854,442) Total identifiable net assets at fair value excluding preference shares (416,251) Share of net assets acquired (212,288) Goodwill 212,288 Total purchase price paid Paid in cash Cash and cash equivalents of subsidiary acquired 126,719 Net cash inflow 126,719 From the date of acquisition, John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Ltd has contributed Rs.901 mn of revenue and Rs.12.5 mn to the net profit before tax of the Group. If the combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, revenue would have been Rs.1,093.5 mn and the loss for the Group would have been Rs.30.7 mn. Acquisition of additional interest on Ceylon Cold Stores PLC In August 2011, the Group acquired an additional 0.89% effective interest of the voting shares of Ceylon Cold Stores PLC, increasing its ownership interest to 81.36%. A cash consideration of Rs.57.3 mn was paid by way of subscribing for additional rights. The carrying value of the net assets of Ceylon Cold Stores PLC (excluding goodwill on the original acquisition) at the acquisition date was Rs.4,478.5 mn, and the carrying value of the additional interest acquired was Rs.39.8 mn. The difference of Rs.17.5 mn between the consideration and the carrying value of the interest acquired has been recognised in retained earnings within equity. 4.4 Disposals in 2011/12 There were no divestments during 2011/12. 224 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2013 2012 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s 5 REVENUE 5.1 Revenue Gross revenue 85,860,655 77,941,730 599,248 516,356 Turnover tax (303,404) (251,858) Net revenue 85,557,251 77,689,872 599,248 516,356 For the year ended 31st March 2013 2012 Sale of Rendering of Total Sale of Rendering of Total In Rs.’000s goods services revenue goods services revenue 5.2 Business segment analysis Transportation 16,072,550 3,365,187 19,437,737 15,116,213 3,311,560 18,427,773 Leisure 20,593,302 20,593,302 17,415,145 17,415,145 Property 2,764,011 405,644 3,169,655 1,115,226 2,674,817 3,790,043 Consumer Foods & Retail 24,220,074 46,783 24,266,857 21,960,726 8,059 21,968,785 Financial Services 8,598,546 8,598,546 7,932,331 7,932,331 Information Technology 4,017,321 2,496,277 6,513,598 3,932,967 1,993,434 5,926,401 Others 2,977,556 2,977,556 2,229,394 2,229,394 Group revenue 47,073,956 38,483,295 85,557,251 42,125,132 35,564,740 77,689,872 Group For the year ended 31st March 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s 5.3 Geographical segment analysis (by location of customers) Sri Lanka 73,153,365 67,015,277 Asia (excluding Sri Lanka) 8,140,420 7,004,072 Europe 3,188,138 3,082,639 Others 1,075,328 587,884 Total Group external revenue 85,557,251 77,689,872 Company For the year ended 31st March 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s 6 DIVIDEND INCOME Income from investments in related parties 6,817,632 4,815,059 6,817,632 4,815,059 Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2013 2012 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s 7 OTHER OPERATING INCOME Exchange gain 212,649 509,835 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 2,371 2,697 3,415 Profit on sale of non current investments 92,904 Profit on sale of non current investments in associates 129,939 Promotional income and commission fee from Consumer Foods and Retail group 341,702 288,844 Write back of dealer deposits 42,958 201,724 Income from commercial projects 75,577 181,796 75,577 181,796 Sundry income 456,095 495,333 29,032 7,398 1,351,824 1,679,903 107,306 192,609 Annual Report 2012/13 l 225 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements Group Company For the year ended 31st March Note 2013 2012 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s 8 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES Nation Building Tax 844,843 605,332 13,550 13,037 Loss on sale of non current investments 30,152 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 59,836 Other overheads 1,742,895 1,564,386 19,008 17,044 2,647,574 2,169,718 62,710 30,081 9 FINANCE COST Interest expense on borrowings 1,058,243 670,918 272,033 205,743 Finance cost on other financial instruments 22,975 744,909 21,068 306,691 1,081,218 1,415,827 293,101 512,434 10 FINANCE INCOME Interest income 4,571,689 2,770,000 1,192,583 654,500 Finance income from other financial instruments 198,202 104,360 103,010 75,887 4,769,891 2,874,360 1,295,593 730,387 The above includes interest income of Rs. 2.66bn relating to Union Assurance PLC’s life and general funds, which net of related costs has been included under Financial Services segment results in note 3.1. 11 PROFIT BEFORE TAX Profit before tax is stated after charging all expenses including the following; Remuneration to executive directors 320,826 274,689 142,799 127,155 Remuneration to non executive directors 36,755 34,390 14,670 14,460 Auditors’ remuneration Audit 50,841 33,843 8,298 5,507 Non-audit 7,760 9,074 2,595 3,914 Costs of defined employee benefits Defined benefit plan cost 137,586 236,860 18,875 29,523 Defined contribution plan cost EPF and ETF 648,052 575,062 21,907 19,802 Staff expenses 8,881,309 7,145,560 338,658 346,256 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2,249,694 1,863,077 25,489 32,913 Amortisation of intangible assets 244,924 246,830 16,520 14,927 Amortisation of lease rentals paid in advance 682,599 524,671 Provision for impairment losses 17,562 22,304 Operating lease payments 1,034,866 865,048 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 59,836 Donations 18,815 22,767 4,980 11,550 12 TAX EXPENSE Current income tax Current tax charge 1,598,872 1,340,402 64,620 1,260 (Over)/Under provision of current tax of previous years (42,407) 76,788 882 38,418 Economic service charge 12.2 29,110 16,155 10% Withholding tax on inter company dividends 435,128 240,469 Deferred income tax Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 12.3 163,836 168,065 54,198 2,184,539 1,841,879 65,502 93,876 226 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2013 2012 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s 12.1 Reconciliation between tax expense and the product of accounting profit Profit before tax 15,775,165 12,820,028 7,427,712 4,725,394 Dividend income from Group companies 7,781,045 5,449,601 Share of results of equity accounted investees (3,369,313) (2,764,838) Other consolidation adjustments 866,510 1,316,365 21,053,407 16,821,156 7,427,712 4,725,394 Exempt profits (3,700,402) (2,537,829) (203,937) (189,640) Profits not charged to income tax (1,320,483) (32,660) Resident dividend (7,653,519) (5,247,329) (6,920,643) (4,890,946) Accounting profit / (loss) chargeable to income taxes 8,379,003 9,003,338 303,132 (355,192) Tax effect on chargeable profits 1,870,769 1,860,468 84,878 (99,453) Tax effect on non deductible expenses 108,721 68,830 54,283 106,983 Tax effect on deductions claimed (477,831) (776,577) (12,663) (12,488) Net tax effect of unrecognised deferred tax assets for the year (52,199) 84,771 (61,878) 13,879 Net tax effect of unrecognised deferred tax assets for prior years (10,850) 58,011 46,537 Tax effect on rate differentials (8,387) (Over)/Under provision for previous years (42,407) 76,788 882 38,418 Other income based taxes Economic service charge 29,110 16,155 Social responsibility levy (619) 10% WHT on inter company dividends 435,128 240,469 Current and deferred tax share of associates 324,098 221,970 2,184,539 1,841,879 65,502 93,876 Income tax charged at Standard rate 28% 790,158 720,315 64,620 1,260 Concessionary rate of 12% 452,011 451,366 Off-shore dividend 10% 2,136 Under provision for previous years (42,407) 76,788 882 38,418 Charge for the year 1,199,762 1,250,605 65,502 39,678 Deferred tax reversal 196,441 113,299 54,198 Other income based taxes Economic service charge 29,110 16,155 Social responsibility levy (619) 10% WHT on inter company dividends 435,128 240,469 Current and deferred tax share of equity accounted investments 324,098 221,970 Total income tax expense 2,184,539 1,841,879 65,502 93,876 Group tax expense is based on the taxable profit of individual companies within the Group. At present the tax laws of Sri Lanka do not provide for Group taxation. Group For the year ended 31st March 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s 12.2 Economic service charge (ESC) ESC written-off 29,110 16,155 29,110 16,155 Annual Report 2012/13 l 227 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2013 2012 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s 12.3 Deferred tax expense Income statement Deferred tax expense arising from; Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes 359,162 88,573 Revaluation of investment property to fair value (16,679) Employee benefit liabilities (5,378) (18,562) Benefit arising from tax losses (172,577) 33,667 54,198 Others 31,913 9,621 196,441 113,299 54,198 Share of associate company deferred tax (32,605) 54,766 Deferred tax charge 163,836 168,065 54,198 Other comprehensive income Deferred tax expense arising from revaluation of land and building to fair value 228,187 20,818 Total deferred tax charge 392,023 188,883 54,198 Deferred tax has been computed at 28% for all standard rate companies (including listed companies), and at 12% for Leisure Group companies and at rates as disclosed in notes 12.6 and 12.7. Temporary differences associated with the undistributed reserves in subsidiaries and joint ventures, for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised, amounts to Rs.2,260 mn (2012 Rs.1,137 mn). The deferred tax effect on undistributed reserves of subsidiaries has not been recognised since the parent can control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences. Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2013 2012 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s 12.4 Tax losses carried forward Tax losses brought forward 6,546,382 5,286,904 1,204,239 1,229,909 Adjustments on finalisation of liability (254,164) 410,090 560 Tax losses arising during the year 1,580,856 1,267,955 Utilisation of tax losses (548,910) (418,567) (162,360) (26,230) 7,324,164 6,546,382 1,041,879 1,204,239 Year of Cost of Relief investment approved claimed on investment investments 12.5 Details of investment relief John Keells Holdings PLC. (JKH) 1999/2000 579,036 413,771 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. (CCS) 2011/2012 257,174 64,293 2012/2013 167,104 106,069 Keells Food Products PLC. (KFP) 2012/2013 457,731 39,464 228 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information JKH is eligible for qualifying payment relief granted under Section 31(2)(s) of the Inland Revenue Act No 28 of 1979 and the transitional provisions under Section 218 of the Inland Revenue Act No 10 of 2006. The company has carried forward the unclaimed investment relief to set off in future years. CCS and KFP are eligible for qualifying payment relief granted under Section 34(2)(s) of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 duly amended by the Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No.8 of 2012. These companies have carried forward the unclaimed investment relief to set off in future years. 12.6 Applicable rates of income tax The tax liability of resident companies are computed at the standard rate of 28% except for the following companies which enjoy full or partial exemptions and concessions. Company / Sector Basis Exemptions or Period concessions Exemptions / concessions granted under the Inland Revenue Act Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. Off-shore activities for payment in Exempt Open-ended foreign currency John Keells Computer Services (Pvt) Ltd. do do do John Keels Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd. do do do Keells Hotel Management Services Ltd. do do do Keells Shipping (Pvt) Ltd. do do do Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd. do do do Walkers Tours Ltd. do do do John Keells Computer Services (Pvt) Ltd. On-shore activities for payment in do do foreign currency John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd. do do do InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd. do do do John Keells Holdings PLC. do do do Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd. Export consignment sales of do do petroleum products John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd. Operation & maintenance of facilities do do for storage John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd (sites which are do do do not covered by the BOI agreement) Leisure sector Promotion of tourism 12% do Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd. do do do Consumer Foods and Retail sector Qualified export profits do Upto 31 March 2014 Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd. do do Upto 31 March 2015 Annual Report 2012/13 l 229 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements Company / Sector Basis Exemptions or Period concessions Exemptions / concessions granted under the Board of Investment Law Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. Construction and operation of office Exempt 15 years from April 1996 with a and apartment complex 3 year extension on merger Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Construction of a tourist hotel do 8 years from 1st year of profit or 2 years from operations Sancity Hotels & Properties Ltd Construction of a tourist hotel do 7 years from 1st year of profit or 2 years from operations John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. Integrated supply chain management do 5 years from April 2009 John Keells Residential Properties (Pvt) Ltd. Infrastructure development do 8 years from April 2011 Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. For upgrading and refurbishment of a do 10 years from 1st year of profit hotel in the Eastern Province or 2 years from operations South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. Port services at Queen Elizabeth do 20 years from September 1999 Quay Other miscellaneous concessions Exemption on interest income earned from foreign currency denominated accounts. Capital gains from sale of shares are excluded from chargeability to income tax. Dividends and interest in off shore companies are exempt from income tax. 12.7 Income tax rates of off-shore subsidiaries Country of incorporation Company Rate India John Keells Foods India (Pvt)Ltd. 30.9% John Keells Air Services India (Pvt) Ltd. 30.9% Serene Holidays (Pvt) Ltd. 30.9% Mauritius John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd. 3%(Effective) John Keells BPO International (Pvt) Ltd. 3%(Effective) John Keells Holdings Mauritius (Pvt) Ltd. 3%(Effective) John Keells Hotels Mauritius (Pvt) Ltd. 3%(Effective) Republic of Maldives Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd. 15% Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. 15% Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. 15% John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd. 15% Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd. 15% Singapore John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd. 17% (Max) United Arab Emirates Information System Associates Nil United Kingdom John Keells Computer Services (UK) Ltd. 30% USA John Keells BPO Solutions US (Pvt) Ltd. 35%(Max) Canada John Keells BPO Solutions Canada (Pvt) Ltd. 26.5% 230 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Group For the year ended 31st March Note 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s 13 EARNINGS PER SHARE 13.1 Basic earnings per share Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 12,201,079 9,686,913 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 13.3 851,344 841,086 Basic earnings per share 14.33 11.52 13.2 Diluted earnings per share Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 12,201,079 9,686,913 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares 13.3 858,305 846,935 Diluted earnings per share 14.22 11.44 13.3 Amount used as denominator Ordinary shares at the beginning of the year 844,121 629,692 Sub division of ordinary shares 210,046 Effect of share options exercised 7,223 1,348 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue before dilution 851,344 841,086 Number of shares outstanding under the share option scheme 23,741 26,717 Number of shares that would have been issued at fair value (16,780) (20,868) Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares 858,305 846,935 For the year ended 31st March Rs. 2013 Rs. 2012 In Rs.’000s 14 DIVIDEND PER SHARE Equity dividend on ordinary shares Declared and paid during the year Final dividend* 1.50 1,275,977 1.00 629,833 Interim dividend 2.00 1,706,445 2.00 1,683,686 Total dividend 3.50 2,982,422 3.00 2,313,519 *Previous years’ final dividend paid in the current year. Basic earnings per share Dividend per share, payout and yield Rs. 14.33 % 49.0 Rs. 42.0 40.1 38.5 11.52 9.90 32.2 3.50 8.45 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 7.52 4.70 1.60 1.40 1.33 1.42 2009* 2010* 2011* 2012 2013 2009* 2010* 2011 2012 2013 EPS Dividend payout (%) Dividend yield (%) Dividend per share (Rs.) * ﬁgures based on previous version of SLAS. Annual Report 2012/13 l 231 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements 15 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS GROUP 15.1 Financial Assets and Liabilities by Categories Financial assets and liabilities in the tables below are split into categories in accordance with LKAS 39. Financial assets by categories Loans and receivables (L&R) As at 1 April As at 31 st March 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.‘000 Financial instruments in non current assets Other non current financial assets 3,180,300 2,588,484 2,829,468 Financial instruments in current assets Trade and other receivables 12,741,624 11,347,280 8,982,184 Amounts due from related parties 207,455 10,715 18,520 Short term investments 23,328,969 18,973,672 13,295,307 Cash in hand and at bank 3,554,804 4,267,175 2,112,626 Total 43,013,152 37,187,326 27,238,105 For financial assets both at fair value through profit or loss and available-for-sale financial assets, the carrying amount and fair value are equal. The fair value of loans and receivables does not significantly vary from the value based on the amortised cost methodology. The fair value of held to maturity investments amounts to Rs.14,064 mn (2012 9,743 mn, As at 1 April 2011 10,804) for the Group. Financial liabilities by categories As at 31 st March In Rs.‘000 Financial instruments in non current liabilities Borrowings Financial instruments in current liabilities Trade and other payables Amounts due to related parties Short term borrowings Current portion of borrowings Other current financial liabilities Bank overdrafts Total The Group designated financial assets amounting to Rs.204mn (2012 Rs.152mn, 2011Rs.46mn) upon initial recognition, as fair value through profit or loss. The fair value of financial liabilities does not significantly vary from the value based on the amortised cost methodology. 232 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Financial assets at fair value through Available-for-sale financial assets Held-to-maturity investments profit or loss (FVTPL) (AFS) (HTM) As at 1 April As at 1 April As at 1 April 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 44,619 1,935,053 1,844,906 450,804 13,656,721 9,256,429 9,996,353 33,422 1,939,311 1,445,286 1,245,608 982,774 4,428,245 2,411,385 335,000 2,017,352 1,445,286 1,245,608 2,917,827 6,273,151 2,862,189 13,991,721 9,256,429 9,996,353 Financial liabilities at fair value Financial liabilities measured through profit or loss at amortised cost As at 1 April As at 1 April 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 11,857,764 12,220,907 8,275,452 3,398 14,608,263 14,871,823 11,114,166 15,280 1,650 2,237 1,853,767 1,009,057 232,000 3,048,936 2,476,627 2,197,557 74,593 3,356,243 4,347,354 3,904,116 77,991 34,740,253 34,927,418 25,725,528 Financial assets by categories 16% 23% 24% 12% 5% 2013 2012 7% 2011 3% 3% 69% 3% 69% 66% L&R AFS FVTPL HTM Annual Report 2012/13 l 233 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements 15 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS COMPANY 15.2 Financial Assets and Liabilities by Categories Financial assets and liabilities in the tables below are split into categories in accordance with LKAS 39. Financial assets by categories Loans and receivables Available-for-sale financial assets As at 1 April As at 1 April As at 31 st March 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.‘000 Financial instruments in non current assets Other non current financial assets 39,576 205,467 237,448 1,671,077 1,817,217 423,131 Financial instruments in current assets Trade and other receivables 994,862 376,950 65,670 Amounts due from related parties 518,084 978,748 696,782 Short term investments 12,551,540 10,183,845 10,143,984 Cash in hand and at bank 63,159 454,495 19,382 Total 14,167,221 12,199,505 11,163,266 1,671,077 1,817,217 423,131 Both carrying amount and fair value of available-for-sale financial assets are equal. The fair value of loans and receivables does not significantly vary from the value based on the amortised cost methodology for the Company. Financial liabilities by categories Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost As at 1 April As at 31 st March 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.‘000 Financial instruments in non current liabilities Borrowings 3,752,621 5,060,493 5,442,865 Financial instruments in current liabilities Trade and other payables 229,990 246,050 146,500 Amounts due to related parties 13,156 6,926 9,274 Current portion of borrowings 1,314,424 1,348,887 1,167,139 Bank overdrafts 510,205 679,037 34,510 Total 5,820,396 7,341,393 6,800,288 The Company has not designated any financial assets or liabilities upon initial recognition, as fair value through profit or loss. The fair value of financial liabilities does not significantly vary from the value based on the amortised cost methodology. 234 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com 15.3 Financial Assets and Liabilities by Fair Value Hierarchy Group The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs with significant effect on the recorded fair values are observable, either directly or indirectly; Level 3: techniques that use inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data The Group held the following financial instruments carried at fair value in the statement of financial position: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 As at 1 April As at 1 April As at 1 April As at 31 st March 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.‘000 Financial assets Fair value through profit or loss Financial assets held for trading 1,780,296 1,293,372 1,199,292 Designated at fair value through profit or loss 13,608 203,634 138,306 46,316 Foreign exchange forward contracts 33,422 Available for sale 1,363,305 1,576,490 13 1,183,875 4,428,245 2,411,385 370,647 268,416 450,791 Total 3,143,601 2,883,470 1,199,305 1,420,931 4,566,551 2,457,701 370,647 268,416 450,791 Financial liabilities Fair value through profit or loss Foreign exchange forward contracts 77,991 Total 77,991 Financial assets fair value hierarchy 7% 4% 11% 29% 29% 37% 59% 2013 2012 2011 60% 64% Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Annual Report 2012/13 l 235 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements 15.4 Reconciliation of fair value measurements of Level 3 financial instruments The Group carries unquoted equity shares as available-for-sale financial instruments classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy. A reconciliation of the beginning and closing balances including movements is summarised below: In Rs.‘000 Available-for-sale financial assets As at 1 April 2011 450,791 Transferred to level 1 (207,209) Total gains and losses recognised in OCI 24,834 As at 31 March 2012 268,416 Sales Purchases Total gains and losses recognised in OCI 102,231 As at 31 March 2013 370,647 During the year ended 31 March 2012, one of the unquoted investments was listed in the Colombo Stock Exchange, which resulted in a transfer from Level 3 to Level 1 on fair value measurement. Fair value would not significantly vary if one or more of the inputs were changed. 15.5 Financial Assets and Liabilities by Fair Value Hierarchy Company The Company uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs with significant effect on the recorded fair values are observable, either directly or indirectly; Level 3: techniques that use inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data The Company held the following financial instruments carried at fair value in the statement of financial position: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 As at As at As at 1 April 1 April 1 April As at 31 st March 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.‘000 FINANCIAL ASSETS Available for sale 1,354,440 1,576,461 316,637 240,756 423,131 236 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information 15.6 Reconciliation of fair value measurements of Level 3 financial instruments The Company carries unquoted equity shares as available-for-sale financial instruments classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy. A reconciliation of the beginning and closing balances including movements is summarised below: In Rs.‘000 Available-for-sale financial assets As at 1 April 2011 423,131 Transferred to level 1 (207,209) Total gains and losses recognised in OCI 24,834 As at 31 March 2012 240,756 Sales Purchases Total gains and losses recognised in OCI 75,881 As at 31 March 2013 316,637 During the year ended 31 March 2012, one of the unquoted investments was listed in the Colombo Stock Exchange, which resulted in a transfer from Level 3 to Level 1 on fair value measurement. Fair value would not significantly vary if one or more of the inputs were changed. 16 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES The Group has loans and other receivables, trade and other receivables, and cash and short-term deposits that arise directly from its operations. The Group also holds available-for-sale investments and may enter into derivative transactions. The Group’s principal financial liabilities, comprise of loans and borrowings, trade and other payables, and financial guarantee contracts. The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Group’s operations and to provide guarantees to support its operations. The Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. 16.1 Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables) and from its financing activities, including deposits with banks and financial institutions, foreign exchange transactions and other financial instruments. The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties. It is the Group’s policy that all clients who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures. In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, such as cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale financial investments, short term investments, and certain derivative instruments, the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty. The Group manages its operations to avoid any excessive concentration of counterparty risk and the Group takes all reasonable steps to ensure the counterparties fulfill their obligations. Total credit risk exposure 3% 6% 2% 8% 1% 1% 27% 35% 18% 19% 2013 2012 1% 2% 5% 1% 2% 4% 38% 28% Government securities Reinsurance receivables Corporate debt securities Premium receivable Deposits with bank Amounts due from related parties Loans to executives Cash in hand and at bank Loans to life policyholders Deposits Trade and other receivables Annual Report 2012/13 l 237 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements 16.1.1 Risk exposure The maximum risk positions of financial assets which are generally subject to credit risk are equal to their carrying amounts (without consideration of collateral, if available). Following table shows the maximum risk positions. As at 31st March 2013 In Rs.’000s Note Other Cash in Trade Amounts non current hand and Short due from financial and at other term related % of assets bank receivables investments parties Total allocation Risk Exposure Group Government securities 16.1.2 11,915,463 3,734,734 15,650,197 27% Corporate debt securities 16.1.3 2,611,981 335,000 2,946,981 5% Deposits with bank 16.1.4 1,570,000 20,736,024 22,306,024 38% Loans to executives 16.1.5 681,627 207,982 889,609 2% Loans to life policyholders 16.1.6 303,670 303,670 1% Trade and other receivables 16.1.7 10,737,039 10,737,039 18% Reinsurance receivables 16.1.8 367,801 367,801 1% Premium receivable 16.1.9 1,462,224 1,462,224 2% Amounts due from related parties 16.1.10 207,455 207,455 0% Cash in hand and at bank 16.1.11 3,554,804 3,554,804 6% Total credit risk exposure 17,082,741 3,554,804 12,775,046 24,805,758 207,455 58,425,804 100% Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 16.3.4.1 1,780,296 Available-for-sale investments 16.3.4.2 1,733,952 Total equity risk exposure 1,733,952 1,780,296 Total 18,816,693 3,554,804 12,775,046 26,586,054 207,455 Risk Exposure Company Government securities 16.1.2 280,770 280,770 2% Deposits with bank 16.1.4 12,270,770 12,270,770 87% Loans to executives 16.1.5 39,576 19,522 59,098 0% Trade and other receivables 16.1.7 975,340 975,340 7% Amounts due from related parties 16.1.10 518,084 518,084 4% Cash in hand and at bank 16.1.11 63,159 63,159 0% Total credit risk exposure 39,576 63,159 994,862 12,551,540 518,084 14,167,221 100% Available-for-sale investments 16.3.4.2 1,671,077 Total equity risk exposure 1,671,077 Total 1,710,653 63,159 994,862 12,551,540 518,084 238 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information 2012 Other Cash in Trade Amounts non current hand and Short due from financial and at other term related % of assets bank receivables investments parties Total allocation 8,231,634 9,521,230 17,752,864 35% 2,153,890 2,153,890 4% 357,500 14,032,601 14,390,101 28% 846,632 222,993 1,069,625 2% 255,257 255,257 1% 9,772,579 9,772,579 19% 475,722 475,722 1% 875,986 875,986 2% 10,715 10,715 0% 4,267,175 4,267,175 8% 11,844,913 4,267,175 11,347,280 23,553,831 10,715 51,023,914 100% 1,293,372 1,844,906 1,844,906 1,293,372 13,689,819 4,267,175 11,347,280 24,847,203 10,715 2,079,100 2,079,100 18% 8,104,745 8,104,745 70% 49,826 20,825 70,651 1% 356,125 356,125 3% 155,641 342,926 498,567 4% 454,495 454,495 4% 205,467 454,495 376,950 10,183,845 342,926 11,563,683 100% 1,817,217 1,817,217 2,022,684 454,495 376,950 10,183,845 342,926 Annual Report 2012/13 l 239 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements 16.1.2 Government securities As at 31 March 2013 as shown in the table above, 27% (2012-35%) and 2% (2012-18%) of debt securities comprise investments in government securities which consist of treasury bonds, bills and reverse repo investments for the Group and Company respectively. Government securities are usually referred to as risk free due to the sovereign nature of the instrument. 16.1.3 Corporate debt securities As at 31 March 2013, corporate debt securities comprise 5% (2012-4%) of the total investments in debt securities, out of which 89% (2012 – 80%) were rated “A” or better, or guaranteed by a banking institution with a rating of “A” or better. Group As at 31st March 2013 2012 Fitch rating Rating % Rating % In Rs.’000s of total In Rs.’000s of total Corporate debt securities 11% 20% 16% 20% AA+ 600,000 20% 15% AA 695,000 24% 345,000 16% 2013 2012 AA867,680 30% 626,261 29% 21% 24% 29% A+ 0% 298,326 14% 30% A 450,000 15% 450,000 21% 14% AA+ A A10,000 0% 10,000 0% AA ANot rated 324,301 11% 424,303 20% AABBB+ A+ Not rated Total 2,946,981 100% 2,153,890 100% 16.1.4 Deposits with banks Deposits with banks mainly consist of fixed and call deposits. As at 31 March 2013, 90% (201261%) and 93% (2012-70%) of the fixed and call deposits were rated “A+” or better for the Group and Company respectively. Group Company As at 31st March 2013 2012 2013 2012 Fitch rating Rating % Rating % Rating % Rating % In Rs.’000s of total In Rs.’000s of total In Rs.’000s of total In Rs.’000s of total AAA 915,390 4% 1,332,000 9% 0% 0% AA+ 9,332,624 42% 2,129,000 15% 4,122,118 34% 1,123,253 14% AA 4,638,150 21% 1,953,000 14% 2,075,892 17% 1,161,909 14% AA5,199,810 23% 3,340,000 23% 5,156,001 42% 3,364,838 42% A+ 5,000 0% 0% 0% A 2,220,050 10% 5,567,000 39% 916,759 7% 2,454,745 30% BBB+ 64,101 0% 0% 0% Total 22,306,024 100% 14,390,101 100% 12,270,770 100% 8,104,745 100% 16.1.5 Loans to executives Deposits with banks Loans to executive portfolio is largely made up of vehicle loans which are given to staff 10% 4% 9% at assistant manager level and above. The respective business units have obtained the 39% 15% necessary Power of Attorney/promissory notes as collateral for the loans granted. 23% 2013 2012 42% 16.1.6 Loans to life policyholders 14% A loan issued by an insurance company (UA) considers the surrender value of the life 21% 23% policy as collateral. AAA A+ AA+ A AA BBB+ AA240 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information 16.1.7 Trade and other receivables Group Company As at 31st March 2013 2012 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s In Rs.’000s In Rs.’000s In Rs.’000s Neither past due nor impaired 6,674,774 6,594,847 950,480 305,163 Past due but not impaired < 30 days 2,248,993 1,344,596 17,974 45,334 31–60 days 1,316,516 1,247,600 1,138 651 61–90 days 219,400 142,840 4,007 > 91 days 277,356 442,696 5,748 970 Impaired 303,615 294,558 Gross carrying value 11,040,654 10,067,137 975,340 356,125 Less: impairment provision Individually assessed impairment provision (286,352) (274,553) Collectively assessed impairment provision (17,263) (20,005) Total 10,737,039 9,772,579 975,340 356,125 The Group has obtained customer deposits as collateral from major customers by reviewing their past performance and credit worthiness. The requirement for an impairment is analysed at each reporting date on an individual basis for major customers. Additionally, a large number of minor receivables are grouped into homogenous groups and assessed for impairment collectively. The calculation is based on actual incurred historical data. 16.1.8 Reinsurance receivables As part of its overall risk management strategy, Union Assurance PLC (UA) cedes insurance risk through proportional, non-proportional and specific risk reinsurance treaties. While these mitigate insurance risk, the recoverable from reinsurers and receivables arising from ceded reinsurance exposes UA to credit risk. Reinsurance is placed in line with policy guidelines approved by the board on an annual basis in line with the guidelines issued by the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka and concentration of risk is managed by reference to counterparties’ limits that are set each year and are subject to regular reviews. On a regular basis management assesses the credit worthiness of reinsurers to update the reinsurance strategy and ascertain the suitable allowance for impairment of re-insurance assets. 16.1.9 Premium receivable UA’s has a credit risk exposure to receivables where the policyholder or the Past due but not impaired intermediary cannot settle their dues to UA. 8% 14% 5% In life insurance, credit risk is minimal, since premium is collected before the policy 5% 55% 42% is issued. 2013 2012 In non life insurance, the premium warranty clause which states that a claim is not payable if the premium is not settled within 60 days has reduced the credit risk to a 32% 39% greater extent. <30 31-60 61-90 >91 The following steps have also been taken to further minimise credit risk;  t$VTUPNFSTBSFSFHVMBSMZSFNJOEFEPOUIFQSFNJVNXBSSBOUZDMBVTF  t0VUTUBOEJOHDSFEJUJTGPMMPXFEVQPOBEBJMZCBTJT  t1PMJDJFTOPUTFUUMFEXJUIJOBSFBTPOBCMFQFSJPEBSFNPOJUPSFEBOEDBODFMMFE  t0VUTUBOEJOHSFDFJWBCMFTBSFDIFDLFEBOEDPOGJSNFEQSJPSUPTFUUMJOHDMBJNT  t6OUJMQSFNJVNJTTFUUMFEBUFNQPSBSZDFSUJGJDBUFGPSEBZTJTTVFEGPSNPUPS policies. Annual Report 2012/13 l 241 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements 16.1.10 Amounts due from related parties The Group’s amounts due from related parties mainly consist of associates and other venture partners’ balances from joint ventures. The Company balance consists of the balance from affiliate companies. 16.1.11 Credit risk relating to cash and cash equivalents In order to mitigate the concentration, settlement and operational risks related to cash and cash equivalents, the Group consciously manages the exposure to a single counterparty taking into consideration, where relevant, the rating or financial standing of the counterparty, where the position is reviewed as and when required, the duration of the exposure in managing such exposures and the nature of the transaction and agreement governing the exposure. 16.2 Liquidity Risk The Group’s policy is to hold cash and undrawn committed facilities at a level sufficient to ensure that the Group has available funds to meet its short and medium term capital and funding obligations, including organic growth and acquisition activities, and to meet any unforeseen obligations and opportunities. The Group holds cash and undrawn committed facilities to enable the Group to manage its liquidity risk. The Group monitors its risk to a shortage of funds using a daily cash management process. This process considers the maturity of both the Group’s financial investments and financial assets (e.g. accounts receivable, other financial assets) and projected cash flows from operations. The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of multiple sources of funding including debentures, bank loans, loan notes, overdrafts and finance leases over a broad spread of maturities. 16.2.1 Net debt / (cash) Group Company As at 31st March 2013 2012 2013 2012 Rs.’000s Short term investments 26,586,054 24,847,203 12,551,540 10,183,845 Cash in hand and at bank 3,554,804 4,267,175 63,159 454,495 Adjustments to liquid assets (1,801,554) (1,712,396) Total liquid assets 28,339,304 27,401,982 12,614,699 10,638,340 Non current portion of borrowings 11,857,764 12,220,907 3,752,621 5,060,493 Short term borrowings 1,853,767 1,009,057 Current portion of borrowings 3,048,936 2,476,627 1,314,424 1,348,887 Bank overdrafts 3,356,243 4,347,354 510,205 679,037 Total liabilities 20,116,710 20,053,945 5,577,250 7,088,417 Net debt / (cash) (8,222,594) (7,348,037) (7,037,449) (3,549,923) 16.2.2 Liquidity risk management The mixed approach combines elements of the cash flow matching approach and the liquid assets approach. The business units attempt to match cash outflows in each time bucket against a combination of contractual cash inflows plus other inflows that can be generated through the sale of assets, repurchase agreements or other secured borrowings. The Group and Company net cash positions excluding long term borrwings amounting to Rs. 20,081 mn (2012 Rs. 19,569 mn) and Rs. 10,790 mn (2012 Rs. 8,610 mn) respectively. Maturity analysis Rs. bn 3.75 3.79 Net debt/(cash) 3.36 3.36 Total liquid assets Total liabilities 3.05 3.07 Rs. bn 3.19 2.48 2.44 1.75 2.56 3.36 4.93 2.59 4.35 2.58 1.93 1.80 3.90 0.93 15.35 19.30 16.95 24.85 26.59 16.76 15.71 10.71 14.88 16.67 0.19 >1 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5 <5 2009* 2010* 2011 2012 2013 2013 2012 2011 2010* 2009* Investments Cash Borrowings Bank OD 2013 2012 *ﬁgures based on previous version of SLAS. 242 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Maturity analysis The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2013 based on contractual undiscounted payments. Group Within Between Between Between Between More than In Rs.’000s 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total Borrowings 3,048,936 3,754,171 3,789,913 3,194,895 926,957 191,828 14,906,700 Trade and other payables 14,608,263 14,608,263 Amounts due to related parties 15,280 15,280 Short term borrowings 1,853,767 1,853,767 Bank overdrafts 3,356,243 3,356,243 22,882,489 3,754,171 3,789,913 3,194,895 926,957 191,828 34,740,253 The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2012 based on contractual undiscounted payments. Group Within Between Between Between Between More than In Rs.’000s 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total Borrowings 2,476,627 3,066,872 3,356,008 3,357,576 2,440,451 14,697,534 Trade and other payables 14,875,221 14,875,221 Amounts due to related parties 1,650 1,650 Short term borrowings 1,009,057 1,009,057 Other current financial liabilities 74,593 74,593 Bank overdrafts 4,347,354 4,347,354 22,784,502 3,066,872 3,356,008 3,357,576 2,440,451 35,005,409 Maturity analysis The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2013 based on contractual undiscounted payments. Company Within Between Between Between Between More than In Rs.’000s 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total Borrowings 1,314,424 1,140,173 1,306,224 1,306,224 5,067,045 Trade and other payables 229,990 229,990 Amounts due to related parties 13,156 13,156 Bank overdrafts 510,205 510,205 2,067,775 1,140,173 1,306,224 1,306,224 5,820,396 The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2012 based on contractual undiscounted payments. Company Within Between Between Between Between More than In Rs.’000s 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total Borrowings 1,348,887 1,285,123 1,270,123 1,255,123 1,250,124 6,409,380 Trade and other payables 246,050 246,050 Amounts due to related parties 6,926 6,926 Bank overdrafts 679,037 679,037 2,280,900 1,285,123 1,270,123 1,255,123 1,250,124 7,341,393 Annual Report 2012/13 l 243 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements 16.3 Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Market risk comprise of the following types of risk: * Interest rate risk * Currency risk * Commodity price risk * Equity price risk The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return. The sensitivity analysis in the following sections relate to the position as at 31 March in 2013 and 2012. The analysis excludes the impact of movements in market variables on the carrying values of other post-retirement obligations, provisions, and the non-financial assets and liabilities. The following assumptions have been made in calculating the sensitivity analyses: The statement of financial position sensitivity relates to derivatives and available-for-sale debt instruments The sensitivity of the relevant income statement item is the effect of the assumed changes in respective market risks. This is based on the financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31 March 2013 and 2012 16.3.1 Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s long-term debt obligations with floating interest rates. Most lenders grant loans under floating interest rates. To manage this, based on the market condition and outlook of the interest rate, the Group takes mitigating action such as interest rate swaps, caps, etc. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the profit before tax (through the impact on floating rate borrowings). Effect on profit before tax Rs.‘000s Increase/ (decrease) in basis points Group Company Rupee borrowings Other currency borrowings 2013 +150 +15 (80,011) (7,601) -150 -15 98,921 7,601 2012 +165 +20 (84,909) (12,819) -165 -20 68,409 12,819 The assumed spread of basis points for the interest rate sensitivity analysis is based on the currently observable market environment changes to base floating interest rates. 244 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information 16.3.2 Foreign currency risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Group has exposure to foreign currency risk where it has cash flows in overseas operations and foreign currency transactions which are affected by foreign exchange movements. Group treasury analyses the market condition of foreign exchange and provides market updates to the board, with the use of external consultants’ advice. Based on the suggestions made by Group treasury, the board takes decisions on whether to hold, sell, or make forward bookings of foreign currency. 16.3.2.1 Effects of currency transaction on forward contract The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the USD/LKR exchange rate, with all other variables held constant, of the Group’s profit before tax due to changes in the fair value of the Group’s forward exchange contracts. Effect on profit before tax Rs.‘000s Increase/(decrease) in exchange rate Group Company USD 2013 +3% (5,397) -3% 5,397 2012 +8% (21,426) -8% 21,426 16.3.2.2 Effects of currency translation For purposes of JKH’s consolidated financial statements, the income, expenses, assets and liabilities of subsidiaries located outside Sri Lanka are converted into Sri Lankan Rupees (LKR). Therefore, period-to-period changes in average exchange rates may cause translation effects that have a significant impact on, for example, revenue, segment results (earnings before interest and taxes EBIT) and assets and liabilities of the Group. Unlike exchange rate transaction risk, exchange rate translation risk does not necessarily affect future cash flows. The Group’s equity position reflects changes in book values caused by exchange rates. The Group’s exposure to foreign currencies other than USD is not material. Group Company Increase/(decrease) Effect on profit Effect on Effect on profit Effect on in exchange rate before tax equity before tax equity USD Rs.‘000s Rs.‘000s Rs.‘000s Rs.‘000s 2013 +3% 330,803 269,381 (16,738) -3% (330,803) (269,381) 16,738 2012 +8% 578,735 605,123 (163,714) -8% (578,735) (605,123) 163,714 Assumptions The assumed spread of the exchange rate is based on the current observable market environment. 16.3.3 Equity price risk The Group’s listed and unlisted equity securities are susceptible to market price risk arising from uncertainties about future values of the investment securities. Annual Report 2012/13 l 245 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements 16.3.3.1 Financial assets at fair value through Profit and loss The Group manages the equity price risk through diversification and by placing limits on individual and total equity instruments. Reports on the equity portfolio are submitted to the Group’s senior management on a regular basis. The board reviews and approves all equity investment decisions. Group 2013 2012 Rs.’000 % Rs.’000 % Banks Finance and Insurance 619,998 35% 420,048 32% Beverage Food and Tobacco 239,586 13% 125,802 10% Financial assets at fair value through Profit and loss Construction & Engineering 73,758 4% 71,991 6% 0.4% 4.2% 0.7% 2.0% 0.6% 0.4% 4.1% 5.6% Diversified Holdings 385,634 22% 305,286 24% 5.2% 0.5% 0.5% 6.2% 2.4% 32.5% Manufacturing 210,752 12% 252,571 20% 34.8% Motors 11,141 1% 54,339 4% 11.8% 2013 19.5% 2012 Power and Energy 92,016 5% 6,891 1% Other Services 36,162 2% 5,783 0% 13.5% 9.7% 21.7% 23.6% Telecommunications 111,249 6% 31,094 2% Banks Finance and Insurance Construction & Engineering Trading 0% 8,732 1% Diversified Holdings Other Services Beverage Food and Tobacco Motors Investment Trusts 0% 4,650 0% Manufacturing Trading Land and Property 0% 6,185 0% Telecommunications Investment Trusts 1,780,296 100% 1,293,372 100% Power and Energy Land and Property 16.3.3.2 Available-for-sale investments All unquoted equity investments are made after obtaining board approval. 16.3.3.3 Sensitivity analysis The follwing table demonstrates the sensitivity to a resonably possible change in the market index, with all other varibles held constant, of the Group and Company’s profit before tax and equity due to changes in the fair value of the listed equity securities; Group Company Change in year-end Effect on Profit Effect on Effect on Profit Effect on All Share Price Index before tax equity before tax equity Rs.‘000s Rs.‘000s Rs.‘000s Rs.‘000s 2013 +10% 178,030 136,331 135,444 -10% (178,030) (136,331) (135,444) 2012 +15% 194,006 236,474 236,469 -15% (194,006) (236,474) (236,469) 16.4 Capital management The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong financial position and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in the light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may issue new shares, have a rights issue or buy back shares. Group Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Debt / Equity 19.9% 25.0% 11.9% 17.2% 246 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Buildings on Equipment, Motor Motor Capital As at 31 st March Land and leasehold Plant and furniture vehicles vehicles Returnable work in Total Total In Rs.‘000s buildings land machinery and fittings Freehold Leasehold containers Others progress 2013 2012 17 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 17.1 Group Cost or valuation At the beginning of the year 17,457,568 8,123,198 5,480,536 7,557,098 696,038 3,593 675,511 3,248,060 1,940,896 45,182,498 38,035,613 Additions 984,533 394,182 1,694,118 1,401,870 82,759 13,292 123,688 483,251 463,076 5,640,769 5,890,754 Acquisition / (disposal) of subsidiary (969) (23,592) (16,720) (41,281) 223,691 Disposals (18,017) (54,265) (107,046) (212,948) (52,468) (3,593) (21,553) (122,154) (46,850) (638,894) (706,697) Revaluations 9,520,513 942,736 10,463,249 1,543,566 Impairment / derecognition 714 (8,943) (250) (1,996) (10,475) (30,132) Transfers to investment property / others 1,587,768 1,686,824 85,442 109,772 3,738 (2,250,929) 1,222,615 (221,788) Exchange translation difference (31,664) (4,358) (22,761) (449) (427) (1,236) (60,895) 447,491 At the end of the year 29,533,079 11,052,068 7,147,473 8,807,443 709,160 13,292 777,646 3,612,468 104,957 61,757,586 45,182,498 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At the beginning of the year (442,103) (1,099,200) (2,593,431) (4,156,797) (373,881) (2,698) (223,867) (2,000,509) (10,892,486) (9,407,631) Charge for the year (158,753) (313,826) (425,520) (830,183) (57,661) (919) (82,136) (380,696) (2,249,694) (1,863,077) Acquisition / (disposal) of subsidiary 710 18,713 3,454 22,877 (42,484) Disposals 481 36,844 78,456 175,722 37,530 2,698 4,429 97,814 433,974 563,606 Impairment / derecognition 121 2,112 (2,396) (163) 1,210 Transfers to investment property / others 21,259 203,398 (1,028) (9,907) 10,292 224,014 10,298 Exchange translation difference (10,195) (5,074) (6,057) 96 (1,899) (23,129) (154,408) At the end of the year (579,116) (1,182,979) (2,945,766) (4,806,397) (392,858) (919) (301,574) (2,274,998) (12,484,607) (10,892,486) Carrying value As at 31 March 2013 28,953,963 9,869,089 4,201,707 4,001,046 316,302 12,373 476,072 1,337,470 104,957 49,272,979 As at 31 March 2012 17,015,465 7,023,998 2,887,105 3,400,301 322,157 895 451,644 1,247,551 1,940,896 34,290,012 As at 1 April 2011 15,530,080 5,314,924 2,593,347 2,823,126 211,311 9,233 397,661 1,147,704 600,596 28,627,982 Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Annual Report 2012/13 l 247 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements As at 31st March Plant and Equipment, Motor Total Total machinery furniture vehicles 2013 2012 In Rs.‘000s and fittings 17.2 Company Cost At the beginning of the year 3,320 568,257 76,080 647,657 633,421 Additions 15,291 15,291 53,236 Disposals (88) (7,076) (7,164) (39,000) At the end of the year 3,320 583,460 69,004 655,784 647,657 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At the beginning of the year (2,578) (522,640) (32,880) (558,098) (559,878) Charge for the year (244) (13,801) (11,444) (25,489) (32,913) Disposals 37 3,075 3,112 34,693 At the end of the year (2,822) (536,404) (41,249) (580,475) (558,098) Carrying value As at 31 March 2013 498 47,056 27,755 75,309 As at 31 March 2012 742 45,617 43,200 89,559 As at 1 April 2011 5,666 35,337 32,540 73,543 Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2013 2012 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s 17.3 Carrying value of total assets At cost 14,725,013 17,343,711 75,309 89,559 At valuation 34,535,593 16,945,406 On finance lease 12,373 895 49,272,979 34,290,012 75,309 89,559 17.4 Land and building At cost 4,287,459 7,094,057 At valuation 34,535,593 16,945,406 38,823,052 24,039,463 Revaluation of land and buildings The Group uses the revaluation model of measurement of land and buildings. The Group engaged independent expert valuers, to determine the fair value of its land and buildings. Fair value is determined by reference to market-based evidence. Valuations are based on active market prices, adjusted for any difference in the nature, location or condition of the specific property. The date of the most recent revaluation was 31 March 2013. Refer note 17.5 for details of revaluations. Composition of property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment vs. land and building Rs. bn 49.27 0.5% 0.5% 1% 2% 3% 1% 1% 6% 4% 1% 8% 4% 10% 9% 10% 38.82 9% 2013 8% 2012 2011 34.29 20% 59% 50% 54% 29.97 29.99 28.63 19% 20% 23.56 24.04 23.22 Land and buildings Returnable containers 20.85 Buildings on leasehold land Motor vehicles Freehold Plant and machinery Capital work in progress 2009* 2010* 2011 2012 2013 Equipment,furniture and ﬁttings Motor vehicles -Leasehold Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings on free and leasehold Others * ﬁgures based on previous version of SLAS. 248 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Method of Effective date Property valuation of valuation valuer 17.5 Details of Group’s land, building and other properties stated at valuation are indicated below; Land and building of Investment method 31 December 2011 P B Kalugalagedara, Union Assurance PLC. Chartered Valuation Surveyor Land and building of Open market value 31 March 2013 P B Kalugalagedara, Transware Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. method Chartered Valuation Surveyor Land and building of Open market value 31 March 2013 P B Kalugalagedara, Mackinnons Keells Ltd. method Chartered Valuation Keells Realtors Ltd. Surveyor Ferguson Road, Colombo 15. (LOT A IN SP 2016) Land and building of Open market value 31 March 2013 P B Kalugalagedara, Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd. method Chartered Valuation Keells Food Products PLC. Surveyor Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. Land of Open market value 31 March 2013 P B Kalugalagedara, Resort Hotels Ltd. method Chartered Valuation Surveyor Land of Open market value 31 March 2013 S Fernando Ahungalla Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. method Chartered Valuation Surveyor Land and building of Open market value 31 March 2013 S Fernando Kandy Walk Inn Ltd. method Chartered Valuation Surveyor Buildings on leasehold land of Open market value 31 March 2013 P B Kalugalagedara, Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd. Bentota Beach Hotel method Chartered Valuation Surveyor Buildings on leasehold land of Open market value 31 March 2013 S Fernando Habarana Lodge Ltd. method Chartered Valuation Habarana Walk Inn Ltd. Surveyor Land of Open market value 31 March 2013 S Fernando Sentinel Realty (Pvt) Ltd. method Chartered Valuation Surveyor Land and building of Land and building 31 March 2013 K T D Tissera Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. method Chartered Valuation Surveyor Buildings on leasehold land of Open market value 31 March 2013 P B Kalugalagedara, Trans Asia Hotels PLC. * method Chartered Valuation Surveyor Land and building of Investment/ 31 March 2013 P B Kalugalagedara, Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. Summation basis Chartered Valuation Surveyor Land and building of Open market value 31 March 2013 S Fernando Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd. method Chartered Valuation Surveyor Annual Report 2012/13 l 249 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements Method of Effective date Property valuation of valuation valuer 17.5 Details of Group’s land, building and other properties stated at valuation are indicated below; Land of Open market value 31 March 2013 P B Kalugalagedara, Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. method Chartered Valuation Surveyor Land and building of Open market value 31 March 2013 P B Kalugalagedara, Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. method Chartered Valuation Trinco Walk Inn Ltd. Surveyor Buildings on leasehold land of Open market value 31 March 2013 P B Kalugalagedara, Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. method Chartered Valuation Jaykay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd. Surveyor Buildings on leasehold land of Investment 31 March 2013 K T D Tissera John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd. method Chartered Valuation Surveyor Buildings on leasehold land of Open market value 31 March 2013 S Fernando Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. method Chartered Valuation Rajawella Hotels Company Ltd. Surveyor Land and building of Open market value 31 March 2013 P B Kalugalagedara, John Keells PLC. method Chartered Valuation Keells Realtors Ltd. Surveyor Ferguson Road, Colombo 15.(LOT A IN SP NO. 2000) Whittall Boustead Ltd. John Keells Properties (Pvt) Ltd. John Keells Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd. Land and building of Open market value 31 March 2013 P B Kalugalagedara, Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. method Chartered Valuation Inner Harbour Road, Trincomalee Surveyor * The leasehold investment property was revalued as at 31 December 2012 by qualified valuers and the surplus arising from the valuation was transferred to the income statement and due to the change in the nature of use, the total value was reclassified as property plant and equipment. Group As at 31st March 2013 2012 In Rs.‘000s 17.6 The carrying amount of revalued land and buildings if they were arried at cost less depreciation, would be as follows; Cost 11,644,537 10,590,061 Accumulated depreciation and impairment (1,529,648) (1,627,958) Carrying value 10,114,889 8,962,103 17.7 Group land and buildings with a carrying value of Rs.6,007 mn (2012 Rs.4,403 mn) have been pledged as security for term loans obtained, details of which are disclosed in note 33.3. 17.8 Group property, plant and equipment with a cost of Rs.4,630 mn (2012 Rs.3,669 mn) have been fully depreciated and continue to be in use by the Group. The cost of fully depreciated assets of the Company amounts to Rs.532 mn (2012 Rs.493 mn). 250 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Group Lease rentals paid in advance As at 31st March 2013 2012 Rs. bn In Rs.‘000s 10.28 9.51 9.51 18 LEASE RENTAL PAID IN ADVANCE At the beginning of the year 10,278,349 9,512,117 Amortisation for the year (682,599) (524,671) Exchange gain / (loss) (82,079) 1,290,903 4.78 4.58 At the end of the year 9,513,671 10,278,349 2009* 2010* 2011 2012 2013 Prepaid lease rentals paid to acquire land use rights have been classified as lease Lease rentals paid in advance * ﬁgures based on previous version of SLAS. rental paid in advance/lease hold property and are amortised over the lease term in accordance with the pattern of benefits provided. Land extent Lease period Amount As at 31st March (in acres) As at 1 April In Rs.‘000s 2013 2012 2011 18.1 Details of lease rental paid in advance John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd. Muthurajawela 6.00 50 years from 19-09-2001 41,291 42,379 43,468 Rajawella Hotels Ltd. 10.00 95 years and 10 months from Kandy 02-02-2000 34,180 34,593 35,006 Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. Karawita Tea Factory 4.98 50 years from 15-08-1997 2,998 7,003 7,296 Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. Chaaya Island Dhonveli, Republic of Maldives 18.62 18 years from 26-08-2010 7,374,568 7,936,651 7,257,887 Trans Asia Hotels PLC. Colombo 7.65 99 years from 07-08-1981 831,068 843,472 855,876 Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo, Republic of Maldives 13.75 19 years from 03-08-2006 1,158,959 1,340,648 1,235,990 Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. Krinda 11.00 30 years from 27-11-1997 70,607 73,603 76,594 9,513,671 10,278,349 9,512,117 Group As at 31st March 2013 2012 In Rs.‘000s 19 INVESTMENT PROPERTY At the beginning of the year 7,631,494 5,386,166 Additions 1,102,168 620,364 Transfers (1,450,803) 211,490 Change in fair value during the year 2,012,077 1,413,474 Disposals At the end of the year 9,294,936 7,631,494 Freehold property 9,184,664 6,059,954 Leasehold property 110,272 1,571,540 9,294,936 7,631,494 Annual Report 2012/13 l 251 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements 19.1 Valuation details of investment property Fair value of the Investment Property is ascertained by annual independent valuations carried out by Messrs.’ P B Kalugalagedara & Associates Chartered valuation surveyors as at 31-03-2013, that has recent experience in valuing properties of akin location and category. Investment Property was appraised in accordance with LKAS 40 and 8th edition of International Valuation Standards published by the International Valuation Standards Committee (IVSC), by the independent valuer. The Market value has been used as the fair value. In determining the fair value, the current condition of the properties, future usability and associated redevelopment requirements have been considered. Also valuer has made reference to market evidence of transaction prices for similar properties, with appropriate adjustments for size and location. The appraised fair values are approximated within appropriate range of values. The significant assumptions used by the valuer in the years 2013 and 2012 are as follows; Market Value Per Perch As at 31 March Method of Valuation 2013 2012 In Rs.‘000s Freehold property Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. Investment method N/A N/A Crescat Boulevard, Colombo 3 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. Open market value 6,900 5,000 Slave Island Complex, Colombo 2 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. Open market value 500 450 Inner Harbour Road, Trincomalee Keells Realtors Ltd. Open market value 1,500 1,200 Ferguson Road, Colombo 15. Leasehold property Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. Open market value 450 400 Stores Complex, Peliyagoda Trans Asia Hotels PLC. * Open market value N/A N/A Commercial Centre, Colombo 2 * The leasehold investment property was revalued as at 31 December 2012 by qualified valuers and the surplus arising from the valuation was transferred to the income statement and due to the change in the nature of use, the total value was reclassified as property plant and equipment. Rental income earned from investment property by the Group amounts to Rs.301 mn (2012 Rs.281 mn) and direct operating expenses incurred by the Group amounted to Rs.81 mn (2012 Rs.74 mn). Investment property Rs. bn 9.29 7.63 5.39 2.33 2.33 2009* 2010* 2011 2012 2013 Investment property * ﬁgures based on previous version of SLAS. 252 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Company As at 31st March Developed Purchased Software Software 2013 2012 2013 2012 In Rs.‘000s software software licenses WIP PVIB Goodwill Other 20 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Cost/carrying value At the beginning of the year 104,781 73,193 157,798 6,965 2,249,000 717,900 49,500 3,359,137 3,110,355 88,335 68,991 Additions / transfers 8,588 18,645 44,458 232,984 304,675 42,030 42,383 19,344 New acquisitions 205,690 Impairment (6,965) (6,965) (716) Exchange translation difference 6,844 6,844 1,778 At the end of the year 120,213 91,838 202,256 2,249,000 950,884 49,500 3,663,691 3,359,137 130,718 88,335 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At the beginning of the year (41,223) (65,415) (57,177) (562,249) (726,064) (478,405) (40,194) (25,267) Amortisation (20,884) (7,350) (29,274) (187,416) (244,924) (246,830) (16,520) (14,927) Exchange translation difference (3,189) (3,189) (829) At the end of the year (65,296) (72,765) (86,451) (749,665) (974,177) (726,064) (56,714) (40,194) Carrying value As at 31 March 2013 54,917 19,073 115,805 1,499,335 950,884 49,500 2,689,514 74,004 As at 31 March 2012 63,558 7,778 100,621 6,965 1,686,751 717,900 49,500 2,633,073 48,141 As at 1 April 2011 63,895 20,292 101,258 17,226 1,874,168 505,611 49,500 2,631,950 43,724 20.1 Present Value of acquired In-force Business (PVIB) Upon acquiring a controlling stake in Union Assurance PLC (UA), the Group has recognised in the consolidated financial statements an intangible asset representing the present value of future profits on UA’s portfolio of long term life insurance contracts, known as the present value of acquired in-force business (PVIB) at the acquisition date. Further, PVIB recognised at the acquisition date will be amortised over the life of the business acquired and reviewed annually for any impairment in value. Intangible assets 2% 2% 1% 1% 2% 3% 4% 4% 2% 2% 4% 28% 19% 2013 2012 2011 35% 56% 64% 71% PVIB Other Goodwill Purchased software Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Software licenses Software WIP Developed software Annual Report 2012/13 l 253 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements 20.2 Goodwill Goodwill acquired through business combinations have been allocated to 7 cash generating units (CGU’s) for impairment testing as follows; Net carrying value of goodwill As at 31st March 2013 In Rs. ‘000s Airlines 5,054 Chaaya Hotels and Resorts 131,485 Cinnamon Hotels and Resorts 34,763 Consumer Foods and Retail 299,293 Financial Services 265,359 Information Technology 212,289 Logistics, Ports and Shipping 2,641 950,884 The recoverable amount of all CGUs have been determined based on the fair value less cost to sell or the value in use (VIU) calculation. Key assumptions used in the VIU calculations Gross margins The basis used to determine the value assigned to the budgeted gross margins is the gross margins achieved in the year preceding the budgeted year adjusted for projected market conditions. Discount rates The discount rate used is the risk free rate, adjusted by the addition of an appropriate risk premium. Inflation The basis used to determine the value assigned to the budgeted cost inflation, is the inflation rate, based on projected economic conditions. Volume growth Volume growth has been budgeted on a reasonable and realistic basis by taking into account the growth rates of one to four years immediately subsequent to the budgeted year based on Industry growth rates. Cash flows beyond the five year period are extrapolated using 0% growth rate. Company As at 1 April As at 31st March Note 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 21 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES 21.1 Carrying value Investments in subsidiaries Quoted 21.2 19,884,749 18,164,123 17,649,155 Unquoted 21.3 6,693,517 6,513,033 5,845,842 Investments in joint ventures 21.4 63,041 26,641,307 24,677,156 23,494,997 254 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Group Company 2013 As at 1 April As at 31st March Number of Effective Number of Effective 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s shares holding % shares holding % 21.2 Cost Group quoted investments Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. 347,824,190 78.56 347,824,190 78.56 5,216,367 5,216,367 5,216,367 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. 77,321,208 81.36 67,109,128 70.61 1,290,408 1,290,408 775,440 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. Preference shares 118 59.50 118 1 1 1 John Keells Hotels PLC. 1,169,598,478 80.32 1,169,598,478 80.32 7,102,140 7,102,140 7,102,140 John Keells PLC. 52,834,784 86.90 52,834,784 86.90 394,830 394,830 394,830 Keells Food Products PLC. 23,350,658 89.65 19,110,399 73.03 1,024,302 202,397 202,397 Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. 11,286,000 37.62 11,286,000 37.62 63,466 63,466 63,466 Trans Asia Hotels PLC. 184,107,284 82.74 97,284,256 48.64 1,594,665 1,594,665 1,594,665 Union Assurance PLC. 81,989,124 95.65 75,643,275 84.93 3,198,570 2,299,849 2,299,849 19,884,749 18,164,123 17,649,155 Group Company As at 1 April As at 1 April As at 31st March 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s Market Value Group quoted investments Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. 24,347,693 27,130,287 32,678,083 24,347,693 27,130,287 32,678,083 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. 10,507,952 6,958,909 13,046,666 9,120,130 6,039,822 11,304,578 John Keells Hotels PLC. 15,438,700 14,736,941 20,117,094 15,438,700 14,736,941 20,117,094 John Keells PLC. 3,238,772 3,497,663 4,892,501 3,238,772 3,497,663 4,892,501 Keells Food Products PLC. 1,634,546 718,006 1,077,009 1,303,603 558,131 837,196 Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. 507,870 553,014 959,310 507,870 553,014 959,310 Trans Asia Hotels PLC. 12,961,153 12,316,777 18,024,103 6,848,812 6,508,317 9,524,129 Union Assurance PLC. 7,026,468 6,485,340 6,083,593 6,238,522 5,758,076 5,401,381 75,663,154 72,396,937 96,878,359 67,044,102 64,782,251 85,714,272 Annual Report 2012/13 l 255 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements Group Company 2013 As at 1 April As at 31st March Number of Effective Number of Effective 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s shares holding % shares holding % 21.3 Group unquoted investments Ahungalla Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd 13,200,000 80.32 Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt ) Ltd. 133,815,000 79.45 British Overseas (Pvt) Ltd 51 51.00 51 51.00 1 1 Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd. 12,119,739 79.24 DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd. 1,000,000 50.00 1,000,000 50.00 10,000 10,000 10,000 Facets (Pvt) Ltd. 15,000 100.00 15,000 100.00 Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd. 7,299 80.32 Habarana Lodge Ltd. 12,981,548 78.99 Habarana Walk Inn Ltd. 4,321,381 79.34 Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. 95,263,546 79.24 InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd. 2,000,000 100.00 2,000,000 100.00 20,000 20,000 20,000 International Tourists and Hoteliers Ltd. 22,998,223 79.45 J K Packaging (Pvt) Ltd. 1,450,000 100.00 1,450,000 100.00 JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd. 202,239,025 81.36 John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd. 19,000,000 100.00 John Keells BPO International (Pvt) Ltd. 1,500,000,000 100.00 John Keells BPO Investments (Pvt) Ltd. 14,700 100.00 John Keells BPO Investments (Pvt) Ltd. Preference A 57,200,000 John Keells BPO Solutions Canada (Pvt) Ltd. 5,000 100.00 John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Ltd. 34,131,306 100.00 John Keells BPO Solutions Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 32,843,578 100.00 John Keells BPO Solutions US (Pvt) Ltd. 5,000 100.00 John Keells Computer Services (Pvt) Ltd. 9,650,000 100.00 9,650,000 100.00 96,500 96,500 96,500 John Keells Computer Services (UK) Ltd. 98 100.00 98 100.00 9 9 9 John Keells Foods India (Pvt) Ltd. 9,000,000 89.65 John Keells Holdings Mauritius (Pvt) Ltd. 2,303,225 100.00 2,303,225 100.00 258,532 255,882 222,312 John Keells Hotels Mauritius (Pvt) Ltd. 34,100 80.32 John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd. 199,160,000 100.00 199,160,000 100.00 1,991,600 1,991,600 1,880,340 John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. 20,000,000 100.00 20,000,000 100.00 200,000 200,000 200,000 John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd. 49,044,238 80.32 John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd. 500,000 100.00 500,000 100.00 5,000 5,000 5,000 John Keells Properties (Pvt) Ltd. 24,000,000 100.00 24,000,000 100.00 192,169 192,169 192,169 John Keells Properties Ja-ela (Pvt) Ltd 85,436,000 100.00 85,436,000 100.00 854,360 522,360 John Keells Residential Properties (Pvt) Ltd. 92,520,000 100.00 92,520,000 100.00 925,200 925,200 925,200 John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd. 160,000 80.00 160,000 80.00 4,209 4,209 4,209 JKOA Mobiles (Pvt) Ltd. 800,000 100.00 800,000 100.00 John Keells Stock Brokers (Pvt) Ltd. 750,000 90.04 180,000 24.00 120 120 120 John Keells Teas Ltd. 12,000 100.00 12,000 100.00 120 120 120 John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd. 12,000,000 86.90 Kandy Walk Inn Ltd. 6,165,484 79.03 Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd. 16,000 100.00 16,000 100.00 1,419 1,419 1,419 Keells Hotel Management Services Ltd. 1,000,000 100.00 1,000,000 100.00 19,055 19,055 19,055 Keells Realtors Ltd. 7,500,000 92.37 3,000,000 40.00 30,000 30,000 30,000 Keells Shipping (Pvt) Ltd. 50,000 100.00 50,000 100.00 502 502 502 Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd. 34,805,470 99.44 34,805,470 99.44 1,325,218 1,325,218 1,325,218 256 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Group Company 2013 As at 1 April As at 31st March Number of Effective Number of Effective 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s shares holding % shares holding % 21.3 Group unquoted investments Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd. 500,000 100.00 500,000 100.00 7,563 7,563 7,563 Mack Air Services Maldives (Pvt) Ltd. 4,900 49.00 4,700 47.00 2,021 2,021 2,021 Mackinnon Keells Ltd. 1,080,000 100.00 972,000 90.00 11,912 11,912 11,912 Mackinnon Mackenzie and Company (Shipping) Ltd. 500,000 100.00 Mackinnon Mackenzie and Company of Ceylon Ltd. 9,000 100.00 6,600 73.33 Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd. 500,000 100.00 500,000 100.00 13,901 13,901 13,901 Mortlake (Pvt) Ltd. 300 100.00 300 100.00 327,240 327,240 327,240 NDO India (Pvt) Ltd. (formally known as John Keells Logistics India (Pvt) Ltd.) Redeemable non voting preference shares 41,097 41,097 NDO Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. (formally known as John Keells Logistics Lanka (Pvt) Ltd.) 105,069 105,069 Nexus Networks (Pvt) Ltd. 10,000 99.99 10,000 99.99 100 100 100 Rajawella Hotels Company Ltd. 2,695,067 80.32 Resort Hotels Ltd. 79,107 79.24 Serene Holidays (Pvt) Ltd. 800,000 98.74 Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. 637,500 80.32 Trans-ware Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. 11,000,000 50.00 11,000,000 50.00 121,100 129,100 129,100 Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. 29,059 80.32 Trinco Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd 8,120,005 80.32 Trinco Walk Inn Ltd. 3,000,000 80.32 Walkers Tours Ltd. 4,925,577 98.51 4,925,577 98.51 128,141 128,141 128,141 Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd. 9,918,880 100.00 7,258,264 73.18 106,590 106,590 106,590 Whittall Boustead (Travel) Ltd. 750,000 100.00 675,000 90.00 40,935 40,935 40,935 Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd. 1,576,750 80.32 Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. 28,268,000 75.33 Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd.Non voting preference shares 10,000,000 80.32 6,693,517 6,513,033 5,845,842 Group Company 2013 As at 1 April As at 31st March Number of Effective Number of Effective 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s shares Holding % shares Holding % 21.4 Investments in joint ventures Information Systems Associates. 73 50.00 NDO Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 7,800,000 60.00 7,800,000 60.00 63,041 Sentinel Reality (Pvt) Ltd. 1,578,800 40.16 63,041 The summarised financial information of joint ventures are given in note 22.1 Annual Report 2012/13 l 257 Group Company As at 1 April As at 1 April Number of Effective Number of Effective As at 31st March shares Holding % 2013 2012 2011 shares Holding % 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s PROGRESSIVE 22 INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES Quoted Nations Trust Bank PLC. 68,951,695 29.90 1,561,355 1,561,355 1,561,355 46,121,532 20.00 1,011,052 1,011,052 1,011,052 Notes to the financial statements Unquoted Capitol Hotel Holdings (Pvt) Ltd. 3,249,232 27.80 324,923 3,249,232 27.80 324,923 Central Hospitals (Pvt) Ltd. 58,823,529 27.21 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 52,941,176 24.60 900,000 900,000 900,000 John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Ltd. 12,689 258 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Ltd. Preference A 766,420 Maersk Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 30,000 30.00 150 150 150 30,000 30.00 150 150 150 NDO India (Pvt) Ltd. 186,120 20.00 23,700 Quatrro FPO Solutions (Pvt) Ltd. 77,326,071 44.00 615,358 615,358 Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. 23,831,160 40.00 238,312 23,831,160 40.00 238,312 Sancity Hotels (Pvt) Ltd. 5,600 27.80 560 227,961 5,600 27.80 560 227,961 South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. 159,826,750 42.19 7,346,367 7,375,263 7,375,263 159,826,750 42.19 7,346,367 7,346,367 7,346,367 Cumulative profit accruing to the Group net of dividend 3,610,293 3,226,859 2,896,099 Share of net assets 1,618,701 1,647,435 465,101 15,724,361 15,654,381 14,692,435 9,821,364 9,485,530 9,257,569 Group’s shareholding in Nations Trust Bank PLC The JKH Group currently holds 29.9% in Nations Trust Bank PLC (NTB). The Monetary Board had previously directed that the Group reduces its share holdings in NTB to 15% or below by April 2012. Founder shareholders including JKH have written to the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) requesting an extension of the deadline and a response is awaited. Meanwhile, the CBSL has also informed NTB that the requests made by its shareholders are currently under consideration. Group Company As at 1 April As at 1 April As at 31st March 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Market Value Quoted Nations Trust Bank PLC. 4,206,053 3,923,351 5,261,014 2,813,413 2,624,315 3,519,073 4,206,053 3,923,351 5,261,014 2,813,413 2,624,315 3,519,073 Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Associates Joint Ventures As at 31st March 2013 2012 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s 22.1 Summarised financial information of associates/joint ventures Group share of; Revenue 9,043,108 8,417,000 433,162 245,043 Operating Expenses (5,701,944) (5,637,539) (357,400) (168,449) Finance income 137,759 101,558 3,712 11,325 Finance cost (109,610) (116,181) Profit for the year 3,369,313 2,764,838 79,474 87,919 Group share of; Total assets 46,628,532 40,953,458 407,615 124,373 Total liabilities (35,813,319) (30,424,257) (130,059) (36,046) Net assets 10,815,213 10,529,201 277,556 88,327 Goodwill 4,909,350 5,125,324 Unrealised profits (202) (144) 15,724,361 15,654,381 277,556 88,327 Contingent liabilities 11,861,607 11,757,483 Capital and other commitments 12,335,910 10,371,068 The Group and the Company have neither contingent liabilities nor capital and other commitments in respect of its associates and joint ventures. Group Company As at 1 April As at 1 April As at 31st March Note 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 23 OTHER NON CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS Other quoted equity investments 23.1 1,363,305 1,576,490 13 1,354,440 1,576,461 Other unquoted equity investments 23.2 370,647 268,416 450,791 316,637 240,756 423,131 Other non equity investments 23.3 17,082,741 11,844,913 12,825,821 39,576 205,467 237,448 18,816,693 13,689,819 13,276,625 1,710,653 2,022,684 660,579 Group Company As at 1 April As at 1 April Number of Number of As at 31st March shares 2013 2012 2011 shares 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 23.1 Other quoted equity investments Access Engineering PLC. 40,000,000 788,000 1,060,000 40,000,000 788,000 1,060,000 Expo Lanka Holdings PLC. 83,300,000 566,440 516,460 83,300,000 566,440 516,461 Other equity instruments 8,865 30 13 1,363,305 1,576,490 13 1,354,440 1,576,461 23.2 Other unquoted equity investments Asia Power (Pvt) Ltd. 777,055 311,522 235,641 210,807 777,055 311,522 235,641 210,807 Expo Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 207,209 207,209 Other equity instruments 59,125 32,775 32,775 5,115 5,115 5,115 370,647 268,416 450,791 316,637 240,756 423,131 Annual Report 2012/13 l 259 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements Group Company As at 1 April As at 1 April As at 31st March Note 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 23.3 Other non equity investments Bank deposits 1,570,000 357,500 321,572 Debentures 2,611,981 2,153,890 1,229,300 Government securities 11,915,463 8,231,634 10,331,106 Loans to executives 23.4 681,627 846,632 704,423 39,576 49,826 47,807 Loans to life policyholders 303,670 255,257 239,420 Loans to subsidiaries 41.3 155,641 189,641 17,082,741 11,844,913 12,825,821 39,576 205,467 237,448 Group Company As at 31st March 2013 2012 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s 23.4 Loans to executives At the beginning of the year 1,069,625 879,493 70,651 68,129 Loans granted / transfers 391,805 562,841 15,657 30,631 Recoveries (571,821) (372,709) (27,210) (28,109) At the end of the year 889,609 1,069,625 59,098 70,651 Receivable within one year 207,982 222,993 19,522 20,825 Receivable between one and five years 681,627 846,632 39,576 49,826 889,609 1,069,625 59,098 70,651 Group Company Assets Liabilities Assets As at 31st March 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s 24 DEFERRED TAX At the beginning of the year 129,478 202,850 707,970 647,960 54,198 Charge and release 97,656 (73,846) 522,288 60,220 (54,198) Transfers / exchange translation difference (14,907) 474 (8,048) (210) At the end of the year 212,227 129,478 1,222,210 707,970 The closing deferred tax asset and liability balances relate to the following; Revaluation of land and building to fair value (1,524) (8,651) 417,277 192,019 Revaluation of investment property to fair value (934) (934) 1,051 16,324 Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes (237,247) (195,636) 886,619 563,871 Employee benefit liability 56,556 55,757 (143,130) (139,769) Losses available for offset against future taxable income 385,537 273,452 (71,323) (20,153) Others 9,839 5,490 131,716 95,678 212,227 129,478 1,222,210 707,970 24.1 The Group has tax losses amounting to Rs.7,324 mn (2012 Rs.6,546 mn) that are available indefinitely to offset against future taxable profits of the companies in which the tax losses arose. 260 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information 24.2 Deferred tax liability amounting to Rs.150 mn (2012 Rs.110 mn) for the Group recognised on the impact pertaining to the current year on declared dividends of subsidiaries and the Group portion of distributable reserves of equity accounted investees. 25 OTHER NON CURRENT ASSETS Group’s other non current assets mainly comprise of work-in-progress of apartments. Group Company As at 1 April As at 1 April As at 31st March Note 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 26 INVENTORIES Raw materials 363,261 350,977 260,263 Work-in-progress 21,130 64,392 Finished goods 2,740,801 3,152,816 2,120,337 Produce stocks 268,168 230,884 264,054 Other stocks 605,540 551,296 508,216 760 3,998,900 4,350,365 3,152,870 760 27 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Trade and other receivables 10,737,039 9,772,579 7,158,121 975,340 356,125 45,348 Reinsurance receivables 27.1 367,801 475,722 656,901 Premiums receivable 27.2 1,462,224 875,986 992,092 Loans to executives 23.4 207,982 222,993 175,070 19,522 20,825 20,322 12,775,046 11,347,280 8,982,184 994,862 376,950 65,670 Group As at 1 April As at 31st March 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 27.1 Reinsurance receivables Reinsurance receivables on outstanding claims 301,635 369,942 522,172 Reinsurance receivables on settled claims net of dues 70,560 111,813 136,430 Less: Impairement (4,394) (6,033) (1,701) Total assets arising from reinsurance contracts 367,801 475,722 656,901 27.2 Premiums receivable Premium receivable 1,469,830 884,017 1,000,123 Less: Impairement (7,606) (8,031) (8,031) 1,462,224 875,986 992,092 Group Company As at 1 April As at 1 April As at 31st March 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 28 OTHER CURRENT ASSETS Prepayments and non cash receivables 1,853,325 884,754 1,058,946 370,825 328,785 359,334 Tax refunds 1,042,575 2,038,326 1,920,788 14,141 14,141 14,141 2,895,900 2,923,080 2,979,734 384,966 342,926 373,475 Annual Report 2012/13 l 261 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements Group Company As at 1 April As at 1 April As at 31st March Note 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 29 SHORT TERM INVESTMENTS Quoted equities at market value 29.1 1,780,296 1,293,372 1,199,292 Debentures 335,000 Bank deposits (more than 3 months and less than 1 year) 7,046,511 1,347,070 684,510 6,671,151 961,103 660,908 Government securities (more than 3 months and less than 1 year) 762,567 2,315,853 1,260,164 9,924,374 4,956,295 3,143,966 6,671,151 961,103 660,908 Bank deposits (less than 3 months) 13,689,513 12,685,531 5,463,864 5,599,619 7,143,642 5,338,930 Government securities (less than 3 months) 2,972,167 7,205,377 8,344,470 280,770 2,079,100 4,144,146 Reported for cash flow 16,661,680 19,890,908 13,808,334 5,880,389 9,222,742 9,483,076 26,586,054 24,847,203 16,952,300 12,551,540 10,183,845 10,143,984 Group Cost Market value As at 1 April As at 1 April Number of As at 31st March shares 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 29.1 Quoted equities at market value Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. 224,522 16,779 16,609 Aitken Spence PLC. 318,482 38,885 42,220 38,076 36,436 Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. 279,369 20,678 9,063 19,551 8,925 AIA Insurance Lanka PLC. 38,212 10,895 22,168 19,710 13,374 16,455 20,638 Brown and Company PLC. 13,284 3,889 8,732 4,549 C T Holdings PLC. 131,116 18,802 16,531 Cargills (Ceylon) PLC. 111,953 16,918 16,971 Carsons Cumberbatch PLC. 135,467 61,853 59,412 Central Finance Company PLC. 15,952 41,480 14,304 139,980 Ceylon Grain Elevators PLC. 4,758 2,967 Ceylon Tobacco Company PLC. 123,797 109,681 21,910 96,039 29,000 Chemical Industries Colombo PLC. 2,211 2,403 Chevron Lubricants Lanka PLC. 390,944 60,478 40,184 24,921 84,740 54,261 32,896 Colombo Dockyard PLC. 344,719 76,807 69,912 38,193 73,758 71,991 45,637 Colombo Land & Development Company PLC 15,937 11,107 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC. (Non voting) 842,799 68,206 52,958 17,015 87,067 68,508 36,625 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC. 1,212,209 128,852 78,304 19,910 136,954 69,247 20,384 DFCC Bank PLC. 342,690 42,409 23,249 11,312 44,909 23,837 9,758 Dialog Axiata PLC. 5,056,785 39,855 17,801 58,215 45,511 17,750 72,941 Diesel and Motor Engineering PLC. 22,062 33,340 33,340 66,436 11,141 21,669 63,991 Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC. 641,274 105,176 106,495 43,592 106,773 96,802 54,108 Environmental Resources Investments PLC. 14,007 5,787 4,650 5,249 Expolanka Holdings PLC. 7,617,707 99,444 95,829 51,801 44,130 Galadari Hotels (Lanka) PLC. 1,454 1,264 Hatton National Bank PLC.(Non voting) 626,469 51,943 51,943 44,971 82,569 57,555 79,464 Hatton National Bank PLC. 495,620 68,276 53,888 79,449 42,181 262 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Group Cost Market value As at 1 April As at 1 April Number of As at 31st March shares 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 29.1 Quoted equities at market value Hayleys PLC. 51,490 15,338 15,291 Hemas Holdings PLC. 405,750 6,708 6,708 11,954 10,955 10,671 23,803 HNB Assurance PLC. 336,266 23,645 23,645 21,018 16,074 15,401 23,539 Janasakthi Insurance Company PLC. 1,262 1,297 John Keels Holdings PLC. 736,862 146,113 134,138 38,439 181,944 138,295 36,985 John Keels Hotels PLC. 6,341 5,463 Lanka Capital Holdings PLC. 3,016 2,173 Lanka Floortiles PLC. 455,200 61,211 64,543 31,636 31,489 Lanka ORIX Finance PLC. 25,702 20,412 Lanka Tiles PLC. 128,070 9,938 63,217 8,896 61,578 Laugfs Gas PLC. 267,100 9,844 6,891 LB Finance PLC. 8,196 1,977 7,460 2,451 Merchant Bank of Sri Lanka PLC. 1,391 1,391 National Development Bank PLC. 245,742 35,903 6,311 40,520 6,025 Nations Trust Bank PLC. 12,217 3,775 10,447 3,472 Nawaloka Hospitals PLC. 1,226 1,222 Nestle Lanka PLC. 13,468 19,198 19,804 Overseas Reality (Ceylon) PLC. 2,882 2,682 Pan Asia Banking Corporation PLC. 1,666 1,621 Piramal Glass Ceylon PLC. 2,680,106 21,502 22,589 16,585 16,349 16,023 20,803 Richard Pieris and Company PLC. 15,139 4,819 11,564 5,673 Royal Ceramics Lanka PLC. 36,392 46,806 46,353 122,601 Sampath Bank PLC. 529,487 88,117 64,221 28,083 119,081 69,395 66,772 Seylan Bank PLC. 2,514 1,985 Softlogic Holdings PLC. 1,117,806 32,416 97,289 11,625 40,624 Sri Lanka Telecom PLC. 1,511,261 73,787 13,844 24,933 65,738 13,344 29,651 The Bukit Darah PLC. 131,133 94,382 92,016 The Lanka Hospital Corporation PLC. 7,608 5,783 Tokyo Cement Company (Lanka) PLC. 993,143 18,035 13,528 9,878 20,876 27,025 38,577 Tokyo Cement Company (Lanka) PLC. (Non voting) 2,757,500 84,147 84,147 55,515 48,256 74,453 95,326 Union Bank of Colombo PLC. 5,083 4,846 United Motors Lanka PLC. 52,251 53,978 32,670 47,563 Vallibel One PLC. 18,381 16,471 1,799,717 1,492,620 812,729 1,780,296 1,293,372 1,199,292 The above list mainly comprises of the investments made by Union Assurance PLC (UA) under the unit linked equity tracker fund, which invests in the companies that comprise the Standard and Poor Sri Lanka 20. Annual Report 2012/13 l 263 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements As at 1 April As at 31st March 2013 2012 2011 In ‘000s Number of Value of Number of Value of Number of Value of shares shares shares shares shares shares Rs. Rs. Rs. 30 STATED CAPITAL Fully paid ordinary shares At the beginning of the year 844,121 25,110,528 629,693 24,611,507 619,474 23,322,400 Share options exercised 13,122 1,369,868 4,382 499,021 10,219 1,289,107 Increase in number of shares due to share subdivision 210,046 At the end of the year 857,243 26,480,396 844,121 25,110,528 629,693 24,611,507 The number of shares in issue as at 31-03-2013, include global depository receipts (GDRs) of 1,129,677 (20121,185,047). Further information on the composition of shares in issue is given under the share information section of the annual report. 17,656,972 shares (2012 31,157,486) have been reserved to be issued under the employee share option plan as at 31 March 2013. Debt/equity Net assets and market price per share. % Rs. 285.60 42.8 247.00 206.00 184.00 31.0 25.0 21.8 19.9 104.78 83.22 62.80 69.51 58.13 53.09 2009* 2010* 2011 2012 2013 2009* 2010* 2011 2012 2013 Debt/equity Net assets Market price * ﬁgures based on previous version of SLAS. * figures based on previous version of SLAS. Group Company As at 1 April As at 1 April As at 31st March Note 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 31 OTHER COMPNENTS OF EQUITY Revaluation reserve 31.1 17,780,432 9,487,794 8,110,642 Foreign currency translation reserve 31.2 2,729,857 2,987,476 1,021,061 Available for sale reserve 31.3 124,282 321,879 638,830 83,457 229,595 (163,790) 20,634,571 12,797,149 9,770,533 83,457 229,595 (163,790) 31.1 Revaluation reserve consists of the net surplus on the revaluation of property, plant and equipment and present value of acquired in-force business (PVIB). 31.2 Exchange translation reserve comprises the net exchange movement arising on the currecny translation of foreign operations and net equity investments of other currency denominated asociates into Sri Lankan rupees. 31.3 Available for sale reserve includes changes on fair value of financial instruments designated as available for sale financial assets. Group As at 1 April As at 31st March 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 32 INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES Insurance contract liabilities 17,051,085 14,482,271 12,475,589 Unclaimed benefits 337,409 228,256 186,911 17,388,494 14,710,527 12,662,500 Long duration contract liabilities included in the life insurance fund, result primarily from traditional participating and non participating life insurance products. Short duration contract liabilities are primarily group term, accident and health insurance products. 264 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information The actuarial reserves have been established based on the following; Insurance contract liabilities Rs. bn Interest rates which vary by product and as required by regulations issued by the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka (IBSL). 17.39 14.71 Mortality rates based on published mortality tables adjusted for actual experience as 12.95 required by regulations issued by the IBSL. 11.03 12.66 Surrender rates based on the actual experience. The amount of policy holder dividend to be paid is determined annually by the UA. The 2009* 2010* 2011 2012 2013 dividend includes life policy holders’ share of net income that is required to be allocated Insurance contract liabilities by the insurance contract or by insurance regulations. * ﬁgures based on previous version of SLAS. The valuation of conventional life insurance fund as at 31 December 2012 was conducted by Mr. M. Poopalanathan of Actuarial & Management Consultants (Pvt) Ltd, who recommended a sum of Rs. 425 mn to be transferred from conventional life insurance fund to the shareholders fund for the year 2012. Subsequent to the transfer the conventional life fund stands as Rs. 14,914 mn, including the liability in respect of bonuses and dividends declared up to and including for the year 2012 of UA. Similarly the non unit fund of linked long term business valuation was made by Mr. M. Poopalanathan of Actuarial & Management Consultants (Pvt) Ltd, who recommended a sum of Rs. 100 mn to be transferred from the non unit fund of the linked long term fund to shareholders fund for the year 2012. Subsequent to the transfer the fund stands at Rs.104 mn as at 31 December 2012. As at 31st December 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s Movement in life insurance fund Life fund conventional 15,339,009 13,559,952 Transfer to shareholders (525,000) (429,000) Non unit fund of linked long term business 203,638 80,407 15,017,647 13,211,359 Group Company As at 31st March 2013 2012 2013 2012 In Rs. ‘000s 33 INTEREST BEARING BORROWINGS 33.1 Movement At the beginning of the year 14,697,534 10,473,009 6,409,380 6,610,004 Additions 3,182,678 5,272,726 Repayments (2,948,314) (2,403,997) (1,328,690) (1,112,302) Amortisation of transaction cost 13,628 13,628 13,628 13,628 Exchange difference (38,826) 1,342,168 (27,273) 898,050 At the end of the year 14,906,700 14,697,534 5,067,045 6,409,380 Repayable within one year 3,048,936 2,476,627 1,314,424 1,348,887 Repayable after one year Repayable between one and five years 11,665,936 12,220,907 3,752,621 5,060,493 Repayable after five years 191,828 11,857,764 12,220,907 3,752,621 5,060,493 14,906,700 14,697,534 5,067,045 6,409,380 Group interest bearing borrowings include finance lease obligations amounting to Rs. 143 mn (2012 Rs.163 mn), details of which are disclosed in note 33.2. Annual Report 2012/13 l 265 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements Group As at 31st March 2013 2012 In Rs. ‘000s 33.2 Finance leases At the beginning of the year 162,613 5,792 Additions 13,290 162,613 Repayments (33,006) (5,792) Adjustments / transfers At the end of the year 142,897 162,613 Finance lease obligations repayable within one year Minimum lease payments 46,632 43,651 Finance charges (17,168) (21,232) Present value of minimum lease payments 29,464 22,419 Finance lease obligations repayable between one and five years Minimum lease payments 141,750 185,521 Finance charges (28,317) (45,327) Present value of minimum lease payments 113,433 140,194 Net cash Borrowings Rs. bn Rs. bn 8.22 16.56 14.91 7.35 14.71 14.70 14.74 10.47 12.22 11.86 10.45 4.97 4.17 8.28 1.38 4.17 2.48 3.05 2.20 1.82 2009* 2010* 2011 2012 2013 2009* 2010* 2011 2012 2013 Net cash Current Non current Total * ﬁgures based on previous version of SLAS. * ﬁgures based on previous version of SLAS. Cash ﬂow/(used in) Rs. bn 16.5 14.7 9.5 8.5 4.1 2.3 -0.7 0.5 -4.0 -4.5 -1.3 -5.8 -6.8 -9.0 -16.4 2009* 2010* 2011* 2012 2013 Operating Investing Financing * ﬁgures based on previous version of SLAS. 266 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com As at 1 April As at 31st March Lending Nature of Interest rate Repayment 2013 2012 2011 In Rs. '000s institution facility and security terms 33.3 Security and repayment terms John Keells Holdings PLC. International Term Loan 6 months LIBOR + 2.75%, Bi-annual repayments commencing from 5,067,046 6,409,380 6,610,004 Finance 331 mn shares of Asian Hotels & December 2009 Corporation Properties PLC, 862 mn shares of John Keells Hotels PLC, 57 mn shares of Trans Asia Hotels PLC and 52 mn shares of Union Assurance PLC 5,067,046 6,409,380 6,610,004 Group companies British Overseas (Pvt) Ltd. HNB Term loan AWPLR Quarterly installments commencing June 15,600 26,000 Floating Mortgage Bond 2012 Guarantee 8%, Floating Mortgage Bond Repayment by 31-05-13 928,000 928,000 Term loan AWPLR + 1%, 5 equal monthly installments 165,000 Corporate guarantee from John Keells commencing November 2014 Hotels Beruwala Holiday Resorts HNB Term loan 01 month SLIBOR 72 monthly installments commencing 1,940,232 1,743,192 (Pvt) Ltd. Primary floating mortgage bond over July 2013 hotel property SCB Term Loan 03 month LIBOR+3.25%, 16 Quarterly Installments Commencing 509,244 Corporate Guarantee from John Keells March 2014 Holdings PLC Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Annual Report 2012/13 l 267 As at 1 April As at 31st March Lending Nature of Interest rate Repayment 2013 2012 2011 In Rs. '000s institution facility and security terms 33.3 Security and repayment terms PROGRESSIVE Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. NDB E Friendly 6.5%, Kaduwela land, building and 90 monthly installments commencing 3,169 6,626 loan machinery of soft drink plant March 2008 NDB Project loan 10.5%, Kaduwela land, building and 60 monthly installments commencing 14,933 59,733 machinery of soft drink plant August 2007 Notes to the financial statements DFCC Project loan 10.5%, Kaduwela land, building and Repayment over 4 years commencing 36,458 machinery of soft drink plant November 2007 DFCC Term loan AWDR + 0.75%, Kaduwela land, building 48 monthly installments commencing 10,000 40,000 268 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com and machinery of soft drink plant July 2008 DFCC Project loan AWPR -0.5%, Kaduwela land, building 48 monthly installments commencing 134,166 191,667 230,000 and machinery of soft drink plant August 2011 DFCC Project loan AWDR + 2.5%, Kaduwela land, building 60 monthly installments commencing 195,367 139,682 and machinery of soft drink plant January 2012 DFCC Project loan AWPR + 2.25%, Kaduwela land, building 60 monthly installments commencing 135,000 and machinery of soft drink plant October 2012 Fantasea World Investments HNB Term Loan 3 months LIBOR + 3.25%, leasehold Repayment over 5 years commencing 1,033,130 1,377,194 1,473,943 (Pte) Ltd. right of Hakuraa huraa Island resort August 2011 Habarana Lodge Ltd. HNB Term loan AWPLR Repayment over 5 years commencing 320,200 400,000 April 2012 Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts DFCC Term loan AWPLR + 1%, 72 monthly installments commencing 883,495 1,000,000 (Pvt) Ltd. Lease rights of land and movable November 2013 property, plant and equipment John Keells Logistics (Pvt) SCB Term Loan 1 month SLIBOR + 1%, Letter of comfort 12 equal quarterly installments 16, 667 50,000 83,333 Ltd. from John Keells Holdings PLC commencing November 2010 As at 1 April As at 31st March Lending Nature of Interest rate Repayment 2013 2012 2011 In Rs. '000s institution facility and security terms 33.3 Security and repayment terms John Keells Maldivian Resorts Sampath Term loan 3 months LIBOR + 1.3% for first two 30 quarterly installments commencing 380,250 589,260 794,880 (Pte) Ltd. Bank years, Head lease rights of Dhonveli March 2008 resorts HSBC Term loan 3 months LIBOR + 3.0%, Letter of 48 equal monthly installments 327,437 459,025 comfort from John Keells Hotels PLC commencing November 2011 People’s Term loan 3 months LIBOR + 4.25%, Corporate 36 monthly installments commencing 312,102 Bank guarantee from John Keells Hotels PLC September 2009 John Keells Properties Ja-Ela Commercial Term loan AWPLR + 1.5% 60 monthly installments commencing 328,569 (Pvt) Ltd. Bank April 2013 John Keells Residential HSBC Term loan 3 months cost of funds + 3% Option 1 repay in full as a bullet 500,000 Properties (Pvt) Ltd. payment in June 2015 Option 2 repay in full between March 2015 and June 2015 John Keells Warehousing Deutsche Asset backed 21.98%, Corporate guarantee from John Repayment over 10 years commencing 1,958 23,544 41,025 (Pvt) Ltd. Bank notes Keells PLC May 2003 Keells Food Products PLC. DFCC Project loan 3 months AWDR + 4.5%, Corporate 60 equal monthly instalments after a 251,664 guarantee from John Keells Holdings grace period of 1 Year PLC. Kandy Walk Inn Ltd. HSBC Term loan 1 week SLIBOR + 2.75% 48 monthly installments commencing 521,267 October 2013 Tea Smallholder Factoies PLC People’s Term loan 9%, Mortgage of Peliyagoda warehouse 83 monthly installments commencing 3,597 5,868 8,140 Bank and lease rights of the land November 2013 Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. BOC Term loan LIBOR + 2%, 28 quarterly installments commencing 577,164 738,862 770,828 Maldives Sub lease rights and corporate guarantee November 2009 from John Keells Hotels PLC. Whittal Boustead Ltd. Debenture 7.5%, unsecured 145 145 Commercial Term loan AWPLR + 0.5% 125,000 Bank Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. People's Term loan AWPLR + 3% 72 monthly installments commencing 403,750 425,000 Bank December 2012 Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information 14,763,803 14,534,921 10,467,217 Annual Report 2012/13 l 269 As at 1 April As at 31st March Lending Nature of Interest rate Repayment 2013 2012 2011 In Rs. '000s institution facility and security terms 33.3 Security and repayment terms PROGRESSIVE Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd. NTB Finance lease 672 Habarana Lodge Ltd. NTB Finance lease 555 Habarana Walk Inn Ltd. NTB Finance lease 414 Notes to the financial statements John Keells Logistics (Pvt) NTB Finance lease 3,407 Ltd. Kandy Walk Inn Ltd. NTB Finance lease 414 Trinco Walk Inn Ltd. NTB Finance lease 330 270 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com John Keells BPO Solutions DLF Assets Finance lease 130,874 162,613 India (Pvt) Ltd. (Pvt) Ltd. Tea Smallholder Factories Central Higher 12,023 PLC. Finance PLC. Purchase 142,897 162,613 5,792 14,906,700 14,697,534 10,473,009 Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Group Company As at 31st March 2013 2012 2013 2012 In Rs. ‘000s 34 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT LIABILITIES At the beginning of the year 1,372,161 1,215,597 126,864 104,752 Current service cost 110,096 113,052 7,796 8,334 Acquisitions/disposals (7,423) 4,726 Transfers (7,516) 1,244 Interest cost on benefit obligation 137,216 121,560 12,686 10,475 Payments (117,217) (85,444) (4,148) (8,655) (Gain)/Loss arising from changes in assumptions or due to (over)/under provision in the previous year (109,726) 2,248 (1,607) 10,714 Exchange translation difference (35) 422 At the end of the year 1,385,072 1,372,161 134,075 126,864 The expenses are recognised in the income statement in the following line items; Cost of sales 51,923 90,230 8,092 8,309 Distribution expenses 7,623 9,134 Administrative expenses 78,040 137,496 10,783 21,214 137,586 236,860 18,875 29,523 The employee benefit liability of the Group is based on the actuarial valuations Employee beneﬁt liabilities Rs. bn carried out by Messrs. Actuarial & Management Consultants (Pvt) Ltd., actuaries. 1.37 1.39 The principal assumptions used in determining the cost of employee benefits were: 1.22 2013 2012 1.04 0.96 Discount rate 11% 10% 2009* 2010* 2011 2012 2013 Future salary increases 6% 10% 6% 10% Employee beneﬁt liabilities * ﬁgures based on previous version of SLAS. 34.1 Sensitivity of assumptions used If a one percentage point change in the assumed discount rate would have the following effects: Group Company In Rs.’000s Increase to Decrease to Increase to Decrease to 12% 10% 12% 10% Effect on the defined benefit obligation liability (86,545) 58,619 (5,337) 5,690 Group As at 1 April As at 31st March Note 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 35 OTHER DEFERRED LIABILITIES Government grants 35.1 2,436 2,948 3,460 Deferred revenue 47,792 50,228 2,948 3,460 Annual Report 2012/13 l 271 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements Group As at 31st March 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s 35.1 Government grants At the beginning of the year 2,948 3,460 Amortisation (512) (512) At the end of the year 2,436 2,948 Amounts expected to be amortised within one year 512 512 Amounts expected to be amortised after one year 1,924 2,436 2,436 2,948 Basis of amortisation Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. Sri Lanka Tea Board subsidy 10% p.a. Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. Ceylon Chamber of Commerce grant 10% p.a. Group As at 1 April As at 31st March 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 36 OTHER NON CURRENT LIABILITIES Advances received 331,663 560,943 490,294 Deposits with the company 198,412 212,941 256,644 530,075 773,884 746,938 Group Company As at 1 April As at 1 April As at 31st March Note 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 37 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Trade and other payables 10,471,465 11,008,057 7,463,130 229,990 246,050 146,500 Reinsurance payables 509,815 540,253 458,520 Insurance provision general 37.1 3,302,418 3,002,078 2,822,274 Advances and deposits 324,565 324,833 370,242 14,608,263 14,875,221 11,114,166 229,990 246,050 146,500 Group As at 1 April As at 31st March 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 37.1 Insurance provision general Reserve for net unearned premiums 2,313,464 2,008,481 1,781,488 Reserve for gross outstanding claims 988,954 993,597 1,040,786 3,302,418 3,002,078 2,822,274 272 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Group Company As at 31st March Note 2013 2012 2013 2012 In Rs. ‘000s 38 INCOME TAX LIABILITIES At the beginning of the year 823,195 791,606 Charge for the year 12.1 1,199,762 1,250,605 65,502 39,678 New acquisitions 4,791 Payments and set off against refunds (1,041,944) (1,223,817) (65,502) (39,678) Exchange translation difference 10 At the end of the year 981,013 823,195 Group As at 1 April As at 31st March 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 39 SHORT TERM BORROWINGS Loans 1,853,767 1,009,057 232,000 1,853,767 1,009,057 232,000 Group Company As at 1 April As at 1 April As at 31st March 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 40 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES Non refundable deposits 714,829 562,699 1,109,057 Other tax payables 920,705 297,982 143,292 105,478 17,588 11,028 1,635,534 860,681 1,252,349 105,478 17,588 11,028 41 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Group and Company carried out transactions in the ordinary course of business with the following related entities. The list of directors at each of the subsidiary, joint venture and associate companies have been disclosed in the Group directory. Group Company As at 1 April As at 1 April As at 31st March Note 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 41.1 Amounts due from related parties Subsidiaries 41.3 423,948 890,466 611,884 Joint ventures 53,021 7,669 7,564 1,576 Associates 41.4 154,434 3,046 10,956 92,560 88,282 84,898 Key management personnel Post employment benefit plan 207,455 10,715 18,520 518,084 978,748 696,782 Annual Report 2012/13 l 273 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements Group Company As at 1 April As at 1 April As at 31st March Note 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 41.2 Amounts due to related parties Subsidiaries 41.3 13,156 6,926 9,274 Joint ventures 7,254 Associates 8,026 1,650 2,237 Key management personnel Post employment benefit plan 15,280 1,650 2,237 13,156 6,926 9,274 Company Amounts due from Amounts due to As at 1 April As at 1 April As at 31st March 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 In Rs. ’000s 41.3 Subsidiaries Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. 2,543 348,352 2,235 Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. 307 219 81 British Overseas ( Pvt) Ltd. 12,532 1,255 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. 3,101 8,282 4,353 Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd. 78 553 539 DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd. 41,014 4,062 21,919 Facets (Pvt) Ltd. 432 32 Fantasea World Investments (Pvt) Ltd. 10 34 30 Habarana Lodge Ltd. 476 470 497 Habarana Walk Inn Ltd. 390 408 452 Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. 76 319 3,400 InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd. 1,997 1,867 5,399 International Tourist & Hoteliers Ltd. 84 JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd. 5,536 16,262 20,038 John Keells Air Services (Pvt) Ltd. 396 396 John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd. 270 2,743 John Keells BPO International (Pvt) Ltd. 46 John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Ltd. 2,304 515 John Keells BPO Solutions Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 401 333 352 365 John Keells BPO Solutions US Inc. 7 John Keells Computer Services (Pvt) Ltd. 1,947 1,275 303 John Keells Hotels PLC. 404 205 John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd. 266 673 3,578 John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. 1,100 735 976 NDO India (Pvt) Ltd. (Formally known as John Keells Logistics India (Pvt) Ltd.) 7,167 4,692 NDO Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. (Formally known as John Keells Logistics Lanka (Pvt) Ltd.) 1,522 1,537 John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd. 170 814 146 John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd. 1,941 1,999 1,729 John Keells PLC. 4,851 5,933 5,570 John Keells Properties (Pvt) Ltd. 59 641 274 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Company Amounts due from Amounts due to As at 1 April As at 1 April As at 31st March 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 In Rs. ’000s 41.3 Subsidiaries John Keells Properties Ja Ela (Pvt) Ltd. 6,082 729 John Keells Residential Properties (Pvt) Ltd. 259 440 3,094 John Keells Teas Ltd. 292 37 498 John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd. 339 261 263 Kandy Walk Inn Ltd. 2 360 419 Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd. 481 352 307 Keells Food Products PLC. 3,006 2,214 2,238 Keells Hotel Management Services Ltd. 785 7,286 1,406 Keells Realtors Ltd. 8 221 Lanka Marine Services Ltd. 3,116 7,195 2,857 Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd. 1,583 1,442 1,763 Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd. 31 10,589 48 Mackinnon Keells Ltd. 1,552 1,921 4,104 Mackinnon Mackenzie and Company (Shipping) Ltd. 133 92 46 Mackinnon Mackenzie and Company of Ceylon Ltd. 78 31 7 Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd. 986 207 5,297 Nexus Networks (Pvt) Ltd. 121 221 15 Serene Holidays (Pvt) Ltd. 690 362 Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. 125 190 74 Tranquility Private Ltd. 21 168 52 Trans Asia Hotels PLC. 2,472 1,917 2,162 Transware Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. 31 167 35 Travel Club (Pvt) Ltd. 30 25 72 Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. 3,652 2,186 1,972 Union Assurance PLC. 12,179 8,610 915 Walkers Tours Ltd. 874 1,328 2,119 Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd. 307,423 Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd. 4,662 2,131 1,225 Whittall Boustead (Travel) Ltd. 85 74 13 Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. 55 367 1,705 423,948 452,507 97,166 13,156 6,926 9,274 Loans Current British Overseas ( Pvt) Ltd. 31,000 JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd. 147,000 164,164 John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd. 15,000 John Keells Properties (Pvt) Ltd. 3,003 John Keells Properties Ja-ela (Pvt) Ltd. 15,000 Keells Food Products PLC. 81,902 Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. 82,500 82,500 Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd. 162,459 168,149 437,959 514,718 Annual Report 2012/13 l 275 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements Company Amounts due from Amounts due to As at 1 April As at 1 April As at 31st March 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 In Rs. ’000s 41.3 Subsidiaries Loan Non current Mackinnon Keells Ltd. 155,641 189,641 155,641 189,641 41.4 Associates Nations Trust Bank PLC. 87,977 87,973 84,709 South Asia Gateway Terminals ( Pvt ) Ltd. 125 309 189 NDO India (Pvt) Ltd. 3,359 Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. 1,099 92,560 88,282 84,898 Group Company For the year ended 31st March Note 2013 2012 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s 41.5 Transactions with related parties Subsidiaries (Purchases) / sale of goods (5,532) (4,079) (Receiving) / rendering of services 41.6 562,400 451,716 Loans given 41.6 851,949 642,940 Interest received / (paid) 82,457 59,883 Rent received / (paid) (77,439) (49,016) Guarantees received / (given) Joint Ventures (Receiving) / rendering of services 43,269 20,836 Associates (Purchases) / sale of goods 3,439 616 (Receiving) / rendering of services 27,485 104,945 4,281 2,604 Interest received / (paid) 41.7 340,781 140,200 176,560 101,936 Loans taken Leases taken (3,114) Key management personnel (Receiving) / rendering of services Close family members of KMP (Receiving) / rendering of services Post employment benefit plan Contributions to the provident fund 184,709 181,636 42,025 41,657 276 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Company For the year ended 31st March 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s 41.6 Transactions with related parties Subsidiaries (Receiving) / Rendering of services Asian Hotels & Properties PLC. 21,900 19,241 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. 44,281 40,278 DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd. 134,010 111,357 InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd. 15,860 14,620 JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd. 35,277 28,081 John Keells Computer Services (Pvt) Ltd. 10,384 (5,039) John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd. 16,526 15,263 John Keells PLC. 16,003 15,232 Keells Food Products PLC. 20,080 16,878 Keells Hotel Management Services Ltd. 72,392 58,019 Union Assurance PLC. 33,694 19,137 Walkers Tours Ltd. 20,937 18,371 Other subsidiaries 121,056 100,278 562,400 451,716 Loans given British Overseas (Pvt) Ltd. 124,500 31,000 John Keells Properties Ja Ela (Pvt) Ltd. 257,000 537,631 John Keells Properties (Pvt) Ltd. 5,000 Keells Food Products PLC. 350,000 Mackinnon Keells Ltd. 24,923 Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. 40,000 Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd. 55,526 69,309 851,949 642,940 Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2013 2012 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s 41.7 Transactions with related parties Associates Interest received / (paid) Nations Trust Bank PLC. 340,781 140,200 176,560 101,936 The Group and Company held interest bearing deposits of Rs. 2,220 mn and Rs. 916 mn respectively, at Nations Trust Bank PLC as at 31 March 2013. 41.8 Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties Transactions with related parties are carried out in the ordinary course of the business. Outstanding current account balances at year end are unsecured, interest free and settlement occurs in cash. Interest bearing borrowings are at pre-determined interest rates and terms. Refer Group directory in the Supplementary Information section of the annual report for effective equity holding percentages of Group investments. Annual Report 2012/13 l 277 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements 41.9 Compensation of key management personnel Key management personnel include members of the Board of Directors of John Keells Holdings PLC and its subsidiary companies. Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2013 2012 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s Short-term employee benefits 357,581 309,079 157,469 141,615 Post employment benefits Other long-term benefits Termination benefits Share based payments 357,581 309,079 157,469 141,615 Directors’ interest in the employee share option plan of the Company As at 31 March 2013, the executive members of the Board of Directors held options to purchase ordinary shares under the employee share option plan as follows; 1,422,213 Ordinary Shares at a price of Rs. 120.19 each, exercisable before 16-12-2014 1,090,351 Ordinary Shares at a price of Rs. 219.00 each, exercisable before 8-12-2015 1,103,584 Ordinary Shares at a price of Rs. 172.10 each, exercisable before 6-12-2016 No share options have been granted to the non-executive members of the Board of Directors under the employee share option plan. 42 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 42.1 JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC (JKH) The contingent liability of the Company as at 31 March 2013, relates to the following;  t(457 5 TTFTTNFOUTGPSUIFZFBSPGBTTFTTNFOU The Company has filed appeals against these assessments and these are currently pending with the Court of Appeal.  t*ODPNFUBYBTTFTTNFOUSFMBUJOHUPZFBSPGBTTFTTNFOU The Company has filed an appeal against this assessment and is currently pending with the Tax Appeal Commission of the Department of Inland Revenue. Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based on information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2013 is estimated at Rs.123 mn. 278 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information 42.2 LANKA MARINE SERVICES (PVT) LTD. (LMS) The contingent liability of LMS as at 31 March 2013, relates to the following;  t1PTUQSJWBUJTBUJPOUVSOPWFSUBYMFWJFECZUIF8FTUFSO1SPWJODJBM$PVODJM The company has disputed this on the basis that its business activity is that of an export. An appeal has been made by the company to the Western Provincial Council.  t*ODPNF5BY TTFTTNFOUSFMBUJOHUPZFBSPGBTTFTTNFOU Assessment was received by the company based on normal tax rates. The company has appealed against this assessment on the grounds that the sale of bunker to foreign ships is an export, which is liable to concessionary rates of taxes, but this has been disputed by the Department of Inland Revenue. The appeal made by the company is currently with the Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka.  t*ODPNF5BY TTFTTNFOUTSFMBUJOHUPZFBSTPGBTTFTTNFOUT  BOE Assessments were received in August 2008, October 2009 and March 2011, consequent to the Supreme Court judgement, whereby the original BOI concessions granted were annulled. Although the assessments were based on normal tax rates the company computed and paid income taxes at concessionary rates of taxes, based on opinions from independent legal counsel and tax consultants, that the supply of bunkers to foreign vessels is an export and therefore eligible to concessionary rates of taxes as provided in the Inland Revenue Act. Appeals have been lodged against the balance taxes assessed and penalties charged by the Inland Revenue. The 2008/09 appeal is now at a commissioner’s hearing stage. The rest of appeals made by the company to the Board of Review were transferred to the Tax Appeals Commission (TAC). The appeals relating to 2005/06 and 2006/07 have been postponed by the TAC due to jurisdictional issues raised at the initial hearing. The 2007/08 appeal has been heard by the TAC and a determination is awaited.  t*ODPNF5BY TTFTTNFOUTSFMBUJOHUPZFBSTPGBTTFTTNFOUT BOE Assessments were received in January 2009, once again based on normal tax rates. It is the view of the company, based on opinions from independent legal counsel and tax consultants, that the subject years were statutorily time barred as provided in the Inland Revenue Act. The appeals made by the company to the Board of Review were transferred to the Tax Appeals Commission (TAC), but the hearings have been postponed due to jurisdictional issues raised. Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based on information available, the contingent liability as a 31st March 2013 is estimated at Rs.727mn. 42.3 Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd (MTL) The contingent liability of MTL as at 31 March 2013, relates to the following;  t7 5 TTFTTNFOUTSFDFJWFEGPSZFBSTPGBTTFTTNFOUTBOE The company has filed appeals against these assessments with the Inland Revenue Department. Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based on information available, the contingent liability as at 31st March 2013 is estimated at Rs.26mn. 43 CAPITAL AND OTHER COMMITMENTS Group Company As at 31st March 2013 2012 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s Capital commitments approved but not provided for 2,675,214 1,147,386 192,158 Guarantees 609,568 62,636 399,900 3,284,782 1,210,022 399,900 192,158 Annual Report 2012/13 l 279 PROGRESSIVE Notes to the financial statements Company As at 31st March 2013 2012 In Rs.’000s 44 LEASE COMMITMENTS Lease rentals due on non-cancellable operating leases; Within one year 200,994 364,865 Between one and five years 777,829 1,483,940 After five years 2,588,923 3,457,704 3,567,746 5,306,509 Company Lessor Leased properties 44.1 Details of leases Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. Colombo Divisional Secretariat Land occupied. Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd. Sri Lanka Tourist board Land occupied. Hikkaduwa Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka Tourist board Land occupied. Fantasea World Investment (Pte) Ltd. Government of Maldives Land occupied. Habarana Lodge Ltd. Kekirawa Divisional Secretariat Land occupied. Habarana Walk Inn Ltd. Kekirawa Divisional Secretariat Land occupied. Jaykay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd. R.J. S. Exports (Pvt) Ltd / Mr. Ramesh Abeywardena Land occupied. John Keells PLC. Colombo Divisional Secretariat Land occupied. Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. Government of Maldives and a sub lease with Land occupied. Ellaidhoo Investments (Pte) Ltd. Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. Government of Maldives Land occupied. Yala Village ( Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka Tourist Board Land occupied. 44.2 Extent of lease hold land is given in the Group real estate portfolio in the Supplementary Information section of the annual report. Lease commitments 6% 7% 21% 28% 2013 2012 73% 65% 0-1yr 1-5Yr >5yr 45 ASSETS PLEDGED Assets pledged for facilities obtained is given in note 33.3 to the financial statements. 46 EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD The Board of Directors of the Company has declared a final dividend of Rs.1.50 per share for the financial year ended 31 March 2013. As required by section 56 (2) of the Companies Act no 07 of 2007, the Board of Directors has confirmed that the Company satisfies the solvency test in accordance with section 57 of the Companies Act No.07 of 2007,and has obtained a certificate from auditors, prior to declaring a final dividend which is to be paid on the 17 June 2013. In accordance with the LKAS 10, Events after the reporting period, the final dividends has not been recognised as a liability in the financial statements as at 31 March 2013. 280 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Rs. Millions Transportation Leisure Property Consumer Foods Financial Information Others Total Eliminations/ Group Total and Retail Services Technology Adjustments For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 % 2012 % Direct economic value generated Revenue 19,885 18,818 22,798 19,288 3,550 4,033 24,752 22,402 8,709 8,022 6,811 6,244 3,681 2,813 90,186 81,620 (4,629) (3,931) 85,557 88.15 77,689 89.90 Finance income 259 103 949 1,185 292 146 99 16 2,732 1,924 16 7 8,582 5,298 12,929 8,679 (8,159) (5,805) 4,770 4.91 2,874 3.33 Share of results of associates 2,474 2,115 (1) 860 718 (5) (26) 41 (42) 3,369 2,765 3,369 3.47 2,765 3.20 Profit on sale of assets & other income 115 285 272 276 262 82 519 596 14 208 179 115 221 241 1,582 1,803 (230) (125) 1,352 1.39 1,678 1.94 ECONOMIC VALUE STATEMENT Valuation gain on investment property 289 100 1,458 1,508 1,275 1,107 8 3,030 2,715 (1,018) (1,301) 2,012 2.08 1,414 1.63 22,733 21,321 24,308 20,849 5,561 5,769 26,645 24,121 12,315 10,872 7,001 6,340 12,533 8,310 111,096 97,582 (14,036) (11,162) 97,060 100.00 86,420 100.00 Economic value distributed Operating costs 18,199 17,242 11,633 10,411 2,709 3,025 19,851 17,326 8,603 7,162 5,039 4,732 2,825 2,529 68,859 62,427 (3,114) (2,036) 65,745 67.76 60,391 69.88 Employee wages & benefits 641 559 3,061 2,378 76 154 2,413 2,088 1,055 997 1,385 1,191 876 724 9,507 8,091 9,507 9.79 8,091 9.36 Payments to providers of funds 896 758 4,435 3,020 995 671 892 625 112 617 96 68 3,758 2,850 11,184 8,609 (5,732) (4,333) 5,452 5.62 4,276 4.95 Payments to government 272 225 1,158 1,037 87 57 1,189 1,241 883 801 124 125 197 109 3,910 3,595 3,910 4.03 3,595 4.16 Community investments 2 3 22 15 2 12 7 2 1 2 3 13 28 53 59 53 0.05 59 0.07 20,010 18,787 20,309 16,861 3,867 3,909 24,357 21,287 10,655 9,578 6,646 6,119 7,669 6,240 93,513 82,781 (8,846) (6,369) 84,667 87.25 76,412 88.42 Economic value retained Depreciation 95 94 1,075 838 17 10 656 547 148 136 146 115 113 123 2,250 1,863 2,250 2.30 1,863 2.16 Amortisation 7 12 678 523 13 11 187 187 22 22 18 16 925 771 925 0.95 771 1 Profit after dividends 2,621 2,428 2,246 2,627 1,677 1,850 1,619 2,276 1,325 971 187 84 4,733 1,931 14,408 12,167 (5,190) (4,793) 9,218 9.50 7,374 8.53 Retained for reinvestment / growth 2,723 2,534 3,999 3,988 1,694 1,860 2,288 2,834 1,660 1,294 355 221 4,864 2,070 17,583 14,801 (5,190) (4,793) 12,393 12.75 10,008 11.58 Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Annual Report 2012/13 l 281 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Keeping our eye on the next level INSIGHTFUL LO O K I N G AT A C CEP TED ID EAS IN DETAIL Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information HISTORY OF THE JOHN KEELLS GROUP 1870 Lanka at that time commenced operations to own, 2008 2009 The foundation was laid for the corporate journey operate and develop the Queen Elizabeth Quay at the JKH acquired a further 8.44 per cent in SAGT and of John Keells Holdings, when two English brothers, port of Colombo. also increased stakes in UA, CCS, John Keells PLC George and Edwin John set up E. John & Co., a firm and Keells Food Products PLC. The privatisation of of produce and exchange brokers. 2000 LMS was declared null and void as per judgement JKH was rated among the best 300 small companies delivered by the Supreme Court. The stake in AMW 1948 in the world by Forbes Global magazine. JKH also was divested. Acquired a 44 per cent stake in The firm merged with two London based tea brokers, became the first company in Sri Lanka to obtain the Quatrro Finance & Accounting Solutions. William Jas and Hy Thompson & Co., and GeoWhite SL AAA rating from Fitch Rating Ltd. JKH was admitted & Co., thereby evolving into a private liability as a full member of the World Economic Forum. 2009 2010 company in the name of E. John, Thompson, White & The market capitalisation exceeded USD 1 billion. Company Ltd. DECADE AT A GLANCE JKH increased its effective stake of UA to 80.6 per 2003 2004 cent. JKH purchased a 24.6 per cent stake in Central 1960 In the largest ever transaction on the CSE at that Hospital (Private) Limited. At the conclusion of the Ever more enthusiastic to expand its activities, the time, JKH acquired Asian Hotels & Properties, an KHL 1:3 rights issue, JKH owned 82.9 per cent of firm amalgamated with Keell and Waldock Ltd., acquisition that brought with it 40 per cent of the KHL. JKH was ranked first by the Business Today another long established produce, share and freight five star room capacity in Colombo. The Group sold magazine’s ’Top 10’ award. Trans Asia Hotel was broking company thus changing its name to John its 50 per cent stake in RPK Management Services re-branded and re-launched as Cinnamon Lakeside Keell Thompson White Ltd. (Pvt) Ltd (its Plantations management company). Colombo. The group released its first stand alone Sustainability Report for 2008/09 in adherence to 1973 2004 2005 the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G3) framework. The company acquired a controlling stake in Walkers John Keells Hotels Limited (KHL) was created Tours and Travels (Ceylon) Ltd., one of the country’s as a holding company for all Group resorts. JKH 2010 2011 leading inbound tour operators. acquired a controlling stake in Mercantile Leasing JKH was ranked first in the LMD magazine’s Limited (MLL). The John Keells Social Responsibility “Most Respected Entities in Sri Lanka” for the 5th 1974 Foundation, the Group’s CSR arm, was established consecutive time. The head lease of Alidhoo island The firm became a rupee quoted public company as a charitable company and registered as a was divested while the Group acquired the head and took the name of John Keells Ltd. voluntary social service organisation. lease of Dhonveli Island for a period of 18 years. Rebranding and re-launching of Chaaya Tranz formerly 1986 2005 2006 known as Coral Gardens Hotel Hikkaduwa took place. A newly incorporated John Keells Holdings Ltd. (JKH) The Group entered into a MOU to develop a third The 200 room hotel in Beruwela “Chaaya Bey” too acquired a controlling stake in John Keells Limited resort in the Maldives on Alidhoo Island. JKH commenced construction. The Group acquired 6.3 and obtained a quotation on the Colombo Stock acquired 80 per cent of Yala Village Hotel. With the million shares of Nations Trust Bank through the Exchange (CSE) amidst a heavily over-subscribed sale of Keells Plantations, the Group exited from conversion of warrants and effectively maintained public share issue. the ownership of plantations. JKH entered into the its stake. JKH also acquired 5.6 million shares of BPO space through a joint venture with Raman Roy Union Assurance PLC and increased its stake to 95.6 1991 Associates. The Group also launched its new hotel per cent. Ceylon Cold Stores added “KIK” as its cola JKH was involved in the biggest ever deal at the time, brands ‘‘Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts’’ and ‘‘Chaaya brand in its portfolio of soft drinks. JKH’s property when Whittalls group of companies was acquired thus Hotels & Resorts’’. NTB merged with Mercantile arm commenced construction of “OnThree20”, a gaining controlling stakes in Ceylon Cold Stores (CCS) Leasing Limited. 475 unit apartment complex in the heart of Colombo. (the country’s leading producer of carbonated soft Walkers Tours and Whitall Boutstead became the drinks and ice cream), Ceylon Holiday Resorts (owner 2006 2007 only destination management companies to obtain of Bentota Beach Hotel and Coral Gardens Hotel) and The Group acquired a lease on Dhonveli Beach and both ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certifications. a stake in Union Assurance (UA). Spa and Ellaidhoo Tourist Resort in the Maldives. Furthermore, JKH acquired 20 per cent of Associated 2011 2012 1994 Motorways PLC (AMW). JKH increased its stake in “The Emperor” apartment project at Crescat City, JKH became the first Sri Lankan company to obtain a SAGT by 7.5 per cent to 33.75 per cent. The Group Colombo was completed. Chaaya Tranz Hikkaduwa listing abroad, and issued Global Depository Receipts exited its restaurant businesses with the sale of and Chaaya Wild Yala were re-opened after (GDRs) that were quoted on the Luxembourg Stock majority stakes in Keells Restaurants (Pvt) Limited refurbishment. JKH was ranked number one in the Exchange. and Crescat Restaurants (Pvt) Limited. John Keells LMD Magazine’s “Top 50” of Sri Lanka’s leading Holdings Ltd was renamed as John Keells Holdings companies for 2010/11 and number one in the 1996 PLC. Business Today magazine’s “Top 20” rankings for the Velidhu Resort Hotel, an 80 roomed island resort 7th time since 1999. in the Maldives, was acquired making it JKH’s first 2007 2008 major overseas investment. The Group’s first ‘‘Cinnamon’’ resort in the Maldives, 2012 2013 ‘‘Cinnamon Island Alidhoo’’, commenced operations. Please refer “Operating highlights and significant 1999 The lease held by the Group in the Velidhu Island events” section. Nations Trust Bank (NTB) was established in a joint of the Maldives, expired. The International Finance venture with the IFC and Central Finance Co. Ltd. Corporation (IFC), a member of the World Bank Fortune magazine named JKH “One of the ten best group, signed a long term funding arrangement Asian stocks to buy”. South Asia Gateway Terminals amounting to USD 75 million to support the Group’s (SAGT) the largest private sector investment in Sri expansion plans. 74 per cent stake Keells Business Systems Ltd was divested. Annual Report 2012/13 l 283 PROGRESSIVE DECADE AT A GLANCE 31st March 2013* 2012* 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Rs.Millions OPERATING RESULTS Group revenue 85,557 77,690 60,500 47,980 41,023 41,805 32,855 29,463 23,232 22,285 EBIT 16,856 14,236 11,425 7,908 7,986 8,197 6,115 4,850 3,569 3,458 Finance cost (1,081) (1,416) (796) (1,370) (1,695) (1,618) (1,314) (525) (404) (458) Share of results of equity accounted investees 3,369 2,765 2,641 2,556 2,340 2,243 1,701 958 833 703 Profit before tax 15,775 12,820 10,629 6,538 6,291 6,579 4,801 4,325 3,165 2,393 Tax expense (2,185) (1,842) (1,566) (986) (1,326) (1,054) (852) (819) (645) (286) Profit after tax 13,590 10,978 9,063 5,552 4,965 5,525 3,949 3,506 2,520 2,107 Extra-ordinary item 185 Profit for the year 13,590 10,978 9,063 5,552 4,965 5,525 3,949 3,506 2,705 2,107 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 12,201 9,687 8,245 5,201 4,733 5,119 3,540 3,064 2,291 1,905 Non-controlling interest 1,390 1,291 818 351 232 406 409 442 414 202 13,591 10,978 9,063 5,552 4,965 5,525 3,949 3,506 2,705 2,107 CAPITAL EMPLOYED Stated capital 26,480 25,111 24,612 23,322 22,525 22,464 22,246 9,205 9,095 9,005 Capital reserves and other components of equity 20,635 13,226 9,560 7,574 7,437 6,019 3,137 2,815 2,115 1,892 Revenue reserves 42,704 33,001 25,415 18,936 15,545 14,914 13,087 10,011 6,686 5,545 89,819 71,338 59,587 49,832 45,507 43,397 38,470 22,031 17,896 16,442 Non-controlling interest 11,366 8,863 7,608 6,430 4,960 4,770 3,696 3,630 3,712 4,936 Total equity 101,185 80,201 67,195 56,262 50,467 48,167 42,166 25,661 21,608 21,378 Total debt 20,117 20,054 14,641 17,453 21,596 12,667 15,363 5,327 9,105 4,056 121,302 100,255 81,836 73,715 72,063 60,834 57,529 30,988 30,713 25,434 ASSETS EMPLOYED Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) 49,273 34,290 28,628 29,989 29,965 28,381 19,688 18,423 19,299 18,103 Non current assets other than PP&E 59,827 52,422 47,436 34,104 33,456 19,128 17,730 8,850 6,033 3,649 Current assets 50,018 47,746 34,228 34,566 28,718 23,440 27,759 11,478 13,589 9,798 Liabilities net of debt (37,816) (34,203) (28,456) (24,944) (20,076) (10,115) (7,648) (7,763) (8,208) (6,116) 121,302 100,255 81,836 73,715 72,063 60,834 57,529 30,988 30,713 25,434 CASH FLOW Net cash flows from operating activities 14,723 16,476 8,501 9,485 4,146 6,914 2,523 2,664 4,620 3,138 Net cash flows from / (used in) investing activities (16,354) (9,003) (4,469) (5,823) (3,972) (4,359) (10,088) (2,848) (4,482) (6,746) Net cash flows from / (used in) financing activities (1,320) 496 (6,791) (636) 2,332 (6,262) 18,422 (1,027) 271 5,414 Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (2,951) 7,969 (2,759) 3,026 2,506 (3,707) 10,857 (1,211) 409 1,806 KEY INDICATORS Basic earnings per share (Rs.) 14.3 11.5 9.9 6.3 5.7 6.1 4.5 4.0 3.0 2.6 Interest cover (no. of times) 15.6 10.1 14.4 5.8 4.7 5.1 4.7 9.2 8.8 7.6 Net assets per share** (Rs.) 104.78 83.22 69.51 58.13 53.09 50.62 44.88 25.70 20.88 19.18 Enterprise value 203,516 166,541 175,672 109,548 42,815 76,713 95,962 64,389 47,222 33,578 EV / EBITDA 10.0 13.1 13.1 10.9 4.3 7.8 13.0 10.7 10.0 9.1 Debt / equity ratio (%) 19.9 25.0 21.8 31.0 42.8 26.3 36.4 20.8 29.0 18.3 Dividend payout (Rs.‘millions) 2,982 2,314 1,869 1,844 1,883 3,176 1,412 1,197 1,075 726 Current ratio (no. of times) 2.0 2.0 1.8 1.8 2.1 1.8 1.9 1.2 1.2 1.6 Market price per share unadjusted (Rs.) 247.0 206.0 285.6 184.0 62.8 119.8 155.0 157.8 137.5 111.0 Market price per share diluted (Rs.) 247.0 206.0 214.2 138.0 47.1 89.1 115.3 85.1 61.8 45.4 * The figures are derived from financial statements prepared in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS) for the years ended 2013 and 2012. Figures for the remaining periods are derived from financial statements prepared in accordance with previous version of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLAS). ** Net assets per share has been calculated, for all periods, based on the net assets of the Group and number of shares in issue as at 31 March 2013. 284 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information INDICATIVE US DOLLAR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INCOME STATEMENT For information purposes only Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2013 2012 2013 2012 In USD’000s Continuing Operations Sale of goods 238,940 228,034 Rendering of services 436,070 378,444 4,728 4,031 Revenue 675,010 606,478 4,728 4,031 Cost of sales (513,622) (464,539) (2,785) (2,271) Gross profit 161,388 141,939 1,943 1,760 Dividend income 53,788 37,588 Other operating income 10,665 13,114 847 1,504 Distribution expenses (22,575) (20,553) Administrative expenses (75,688) (61,488) (5,391) (5,430) Other operating expenses (20,888) (16,938) (495) (235) Results from operating activities 52,902 56,074 50,692 35,187 Finance cost (8,530) (11,053) (2,312) (4,000) Finance income 37,632 22,438 10,222 5,702 Net finance income 29,102 11,385 7,910 1,702 Change in fair value of investment property 15,874 11,034 Share of results of equity accounted investees 26,582 21,583 Profit before tax 124,460 100,076 58,602 36,889 Tax expense (17,235) (14,378) (517) (733) Profit for the year 107,225 85,698 58,085 36,156 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 96,262 75,618 Non-controlling interest 10,963 10,080 107,225 85,698 Exchange rate 126.75 128.10 126.75 128.10 This information does not constitute a full set of financial statements in compliance with SLFRS/LKAS. The above should be read together with the Auditors’ opinion and the notes to the financial statements. Exchange rates prevailing at each year end have been used to convert the Income Statement and Statement of Financial Position. Annual Report 2012/13 l 285 PROGRESSIVE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION For information purposes only Group Company As at 1 April As at 1 April As at 31st March 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 In USD’000s ASSETS Non current assets Property, plant and equipment 388,743 267,682 259,312 594 698 669 Lease rentals paid in advance 75,059 80,237 86,160 Investment property 73,333 59,575 48,788 Intangible assets 21,219 20,555 23,840 584 376 396 Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures 210,188 192,640 212,817 Investments in associates 124,056 122,204 133,084 77,486 74,048 83,854 Other non current financial assets 148,455 106,868 120,259 13,496 15,790 5,983 Deferred tax assets 1,674 1,011 1,837 490 Other non current assets 28,211 18,776 20,525 81 62 27 860,750 676,908 693,805 302,429 283,614 304,236 Current assets Inventories 31,550 33,961 28,559 6 Trade and other receivables 100,789 88,581 81,360 7,849 2,943 594 Amounts due from related parties 1,637 84 168 4,087 7,640 6,311 Other current assets 22,847 22,819 26,990 3,037 2,677 3,382 Short term investments 209,752 193,967 153,553 99,026 79,499 91,883 Cash in hand and at bank 28,046 33,311 19,136 498 3,548 175 394,621 372,723 309,766 114,497 96,307 102,351 Total assets 1,255,371 1,049,631 1,003,571 416,926 379,921 406,587 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Stated capital 208,918 196,023 222,930 208,918 196,023 222,930 Capital reserves 3,344 3,880 Revenue reserves 336,917 257,623 229,131 159,540 123,669 122,499 Other components of equity 162,797 99,900 88,501 658 1,792 (1,483) 708,632 556,890 544,442 369,116 321,484 343,946 Non-controlling interest 89,674 69,191 69,221 Total equity 798,306 626,081 613,663 369,116 321,484 343,946 Non current liabilities Insurance contract liabilities 137,187 114,836 114,697 Borrowings 93,552 95,401 74,959 29,606 39,504 49,301 Deferred tax liabilities 9,643 5,527 5,869 Employee benefit liabilities 10,928 10,712 11,011 1,058 990 948 Other deferred liabilities 396 23 31 Other non current liabilities 4,182 6,041 6,766 255,888 232,540 213,333 30,664 40,494 50,249 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 115,253 116,122 100,672 1,815 1,921 1,326 Amounts due to related parties 121 13 20 104 54 84 Income tax liabilities 7,740 6,426 7,170 Short term borrowings 14,625 7,877 2,101 Current portion of borrowings 24,055 19,334 19,905 10,370 10,530 10,571 Other current financial liabilities 582 Other current liabilities 12,904 6,719 11,344 832 137 99 Bank overdrafts 26,479 33,937 35,363 4,025 5,301 312 201,177 191,010 176,575 17,146 17,943 12,392 Total equity and liabilities 1,255,371 1,049,631 1,003,571 416,926 379,921 406,587 Exchange rate 126.75 128.10 110.40 126.75 128.10 110.40 286 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information SRI LANKAN ECONOMY Summary Indicator Units 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 GDP growth Per cent 4.0 5.9 5.4 6.2 7.7 6.8 6 3.5 8 8.2 6.4 GDP (current prices) Rs.billion 1,582 1,822 2,091 2,453 2,939 3,578 4,411 4,835 5,604 6,544 7,582 GDP (current prices) USD billion 16.53 18.88 20.66 24.41 28.27 32.34 40.72 42.07 49.57 59.18 59.42 GDP per capita (USD) growth Per cent 3.4 9.0 8.6 20.5 14.5 13.8 24.6 2.1 16.7 18.3 4 GDP per capita (market prices) Rs.000 83.2 94.7 107.4 124.7 147.8 178.8 218.2 236.4 271.3 313.6 373.0 GDP per capita (market prices) USD 870 948 1,030 1,241 1,421 1,617 2,014 2,057 2,400 2836 2,923 Inflation (CCPI100=2006) YoY Per cent 6.2 6.7 7.6 Current account balance USD billion (0.2) (0.07) (0.6) (0.7) (1.5) (1.4) (1.4) (0.2) (1.1) (4.6) (3.9) Current account % of GDP Per cent (1.4) (0.4) (3.1) (2.7) (5.3) (4.2) (9.5) (0.5) (2.2) (7.8) (6.60) Population Million 19.0 19.3 19.5 19.7 19.9 20.0 20.2 20.5 20.7 20.9 20.3 Exchange rate (annual average) Rs/USD 95.7 96.5 101.2 100.5 104.0 110.6 108.3 114.9 113.1 110.57 127.6 Exchange rate change (annual average) Per cent 7.0 0.9 4.8 (0.7) 3.4 6.4 (2.1) 6.1 (1.6) (2.2) 15.4 12m T-bill yield (yr-end) Per cent 9.9 8.0 7.7 10.4 13.0 20.0 19.12 9.33 7.55 9.31 11.69 Prime lending rate (yr-end) Per cent 12.2 9.3 10.2 12.2 15.2 18.0 18.5 10.91 9.27 10.49 14.29 M2b money supply growth Per cent 13.4 15.3 19.6 19.1 17.8 16.6 8.5 18.6 15.8 19.1 17.6 Exports USD billion 4.7 5.1 5.8 6.3 6.7 7.7 8.1 7.1 8.6 10.6 9.8 Imports USD billion 6.1 6.7 8.0 8.9 10.3 11.3 14.1 10.2 13.5 20.3 19.2 Balance of payments Per cent of GDP 2.0 2.7 (1.0) 2.1 0.7 1.6 (3.5) 6.5 1.9 (1.9) 0.3 Budget deficit Per cent of GDP (8.5) (7.3) (7.5) (7.0) (7.0) (6.9) (7.0) (9.9) (8.0) (6.9) (6.4) Unemployment rate Per cent 8.8 8.4 8.3 7.2 6.5 6.0 5.4 5.8 4.9 4.2 4 All share index (yr-end) Points 815 1,062 1,507 1,922 2,722 2,541 1,503.0 3,386 6,636 6,074 5,643 Tourist arrivals No.’ 000 393 501 566 549 560 494 438 447 654 856 1,006 GDP growth for 2012 was reported at 6.4%, increasingly be important towards determining the from the formal hotels sector. compared to 8.2% reported in the previous year. overall BOP performance. The Central Bank implemented measures such With a slower than expected economic growth in as increased interest rates and credit ceilings to Inward remittances from workers abroad rose 16% 2012, aggregate consumption grew by 13.7%, a address a ballooning trade deficit and excessive in 2012 from the year before to US$ 5985mn, a drop from a growth of 22.4% recorded in 2011. growth in credit. The Central Bank expects the significant contribution to countering balance of Growth in investment in real terms reduced to economy to grow at 7.5% in 2013. payments worries. Remittances will continue to play 18.5% as compared to 26.8% in 2011, which was a key role in determining the health of Sri Lanka’s predominantly due to the reduction in growth in The Government has set a target to reduce the external accounts. private sector investment. Private sector investment budget deficit to 5.8% of GDP in 2013. The estimate dropped from 29.1% seen in 2011 to 16% in 2012. of a budget deficit of 6.2% for 2012 fell slightly The Year That Was Pubic sector investment was at a robust 28.1%, up short of the actual reported number of 6.4%. As The GDP growth for the full year of 2012 came from last year’s 18.8%. Aggregate investment as a a part of the move for fiscal consolidation the in at 6.4%. The three major sub sectors of GDP; percentage of GDP increased marginally from 30% government is in the process of reducing subsidies agriculture, industry and services recorded growth in 2011 to 30.6% in 2012. Private sector savings to state owned enterprises such as the CEB and the rates of 5.8%, 10.3% and 4.6% respectively. increased by 29% in 2012, public sector reduced CPC. This reform will result in the pass-on of costs by a significant 48%. The savings to Investment gap to the general public. The agriculture sector had a higher growth in 2012 reduced to 6.7% of GDP from 7.8% of GDP seen compared to the growth of 1.5% recorded in 2011, last year. During the first few months of 2012, the Central tea exports contracted by 1.2% due to geopolitical Bank carried out significant policy changes to reduce tension in Middle Eastern markets, but a significant The first few months of 2012 saw relatively low credit growth and aggregate demand. This was improvement was seen in coconut and other food inflation, however a gradual rise was observed. done due to a need to reduce the imbalances in the crop production, the fisheries sector increased Inflation eventually peaked at 9.89% in July 2012 country’s balance of payments which vastly improved production by 9.3% slowing from a growth of just and began to level off as monetary tightening in 2012; recording a surplus of $151.4mn. The free above 15% in 2011. measures began to take effect. Depreciation of the float of the rupee resulted in a major fall of imports rupee and higher energy prices contributed to the that reduced the trade deficit for the year, however, Growth in the industrial sector was driven by upward pressure in prices. waning demand from export markets such as Europe significant increases in Construction which increased and the Middle East saw exports decline as well, by 21.6% in 2012. Mining and Quarrying also was Export Earnings and Import Expenditure dropped resulting in a reduction in the trade balance, while a key contributor growing at 18.9%, while Textile in 2012. Exports fell by 7.4% and imports fell by still being significant, that was less than anticipated. exports contracted by 4.9% due to lagging demand. 5.8%. This resulted in the trade gap decreasing by 4%. Most imports fell in 2012 with a notable Due to problems in the Euro zone being unresolved, The service sector which accounts for the largest decrease in imports of vehicles as a result of the the outlook for exports remains pessimistic. Locally, share of GDP reported a slower growth in 2012, added restriction of higher taxes. Except for export structural concerns like a high savings-investment growing at 4.6%, down from last year’s growth of of minerals and minor agricultural produce such as gap and an increasing dependency on debt flows 8.6% and the previous year’s 8%. This slowdown is spices all other export categories saw a drop in their to compensate for large current account deficits largely attributed to the slowing in import and export earnings. exposes the economy to more risk, based on global trade. Wholesale and retail trade only grew by 3.7%, investor confidence. Political stability and relative compared to the 10.3% seen last year. Transport and There was a marginal improvement in the overall investor perceptions will play a role in determining communication grew at 6.2% (slowing from 2011’s fiscal situation in the country as mentioned above the level of FDI and other investments that can be 11.3%) and banking, insurance and real estate grew with the budget deficit reducing to 6.4% of GDP from expected in the year to come. at 6.7% (slowing from 2011’s 7.9%). The biggest 6.9% in 2011. Expenditure and net lending of the contributor to growth in the service sector was the government declined from 21.4% of GDP in 2011 to Tourism income rose from Rs 92 billion in 2011 to subcategory of Hotels and Restaurants which grew at 19.7% of GDP in 2012. Rs 132 billion n in 2012, a 44.1% increase, while a significant 20.2%, slowing from last year’s 26.4%. arrivals crossed the 1 million mark in December The increasing prominence of the informal hotel 2012. This inflow on account of tourism will sector is expected to also have driven business away Annual Report 2012/13 l 287 PROGRESSIVE GROUP REAL ESTATE PORTFOLIO Net book value Buildings Land in acres 2013 2012 Owning company and location in (Sq. Ft) Freehold Leasehold Rs.‘000s Rs.‘000s PROPERTIES IN COLOMBO Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. Slave Island Complex, Colombo 2. 26,910 4.49 3.16 4,985,050 3,716,094 John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd. No.90 ,Union Place, Colombo 2. 9,100 6,483 6,709 John Keells PLC. 130, Glennie Street , Colombo 2. 122,338 1.71 0.58 2,044,524 1,582,311 56/1, 58, 58 1/1 Kirulapone Avenue, Colombo 5. 0.08 1,250 1,250 John Keells Properties (Pvt) Ltd. 125, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. 26,550 0.53 639,365 444,000 Keells Realtors Ltd. 427 & 429, Ferguson Road, Colombo 15. 27,750 1.22 279,938 252,086 Mackinnon Keells Ltd. Leyden Bastian Road, York Street, Colombo 01. 31,656 0.45 411,382 404,984 Union Assurance PLC. No 20, St. Michaels’ Road, Colombo 03. 57,916 0.58 773,830 782,779 Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd. No.199 ,Union Place, Colombo 2. 14,014 0.50 347,000 347,000 148, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2. 97,128 3.06 2,041,772 1,653,175 Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd 100, Glennie Street , Colombo 2. 0.37 307,423 413,362 12.99 3.74 11,838,017 9,190,388 PROPERTIES OUTSIDE COLOMBO Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. Kaduwela. 299,798 27.35 1,094,328 677,007 Trincomalee. 23,840 1.06 84,775 77,004 Facets (Private) Limited Ahungalla 6.31 367,914 John Keells BPO Solutions India Private Limited Floor 8, Tower B &C, Building No.6, DLF SEZ Cyber City, Phase III, Gurgaon, Haryana. 48,659 55,130 77,910 John Keells PLC. 17/1, Temple Road, Ekala, Ja-Ela. 3.77 105,683 84,380 John Keells Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd No 525, Colombo Road, Kapuwatta, Ja-Ela. 143,714 6.60 1,505,302 527,615 John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd. Muthurajawela. 141,276 6.00 326,291 140,222 Keells Food Products PLC. 41, Temple Road, Ekala, Ja-Ela. 51,728 3.00 3.26 365,040 123,451 Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. Broadlands. 56,478 4.14 58,000 40,778 Halwitigala. 48,747 9.61 49,000 28,434 Hingalgoda. 63,676 17.00 80,000 34,789 Karawita. 80,364 4.98 87,998 79,929 Kurupanawa. 51,410 11.80 53,000 41,317 Neluwa. 48,888 5.27 49,500 31,313 New Panawenna. 44,568 10.34 42,000 30,088 Pasgoda. 40,091 7.24 32,000 21,930 Peliyagoda. 31,629 0.98 110,272 102,000 Raxawa. 32,750 1.22 25,000 11,870 288 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Net book value Buildings Land in acres 2013 2012 Owning company and location in (Sq. Ft) Freehold Leasehold Rs.‘000s Rs.‘000s PROPERTIES OUTSIDE COLOMBO Transware-Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. Tudella, Ja-Ela. 63,670 18.67 397,648 400,000 Union Assurance PLC. No 06,Rajapihilla Road, Kurunegala. 27,904 0.20 142,000 142,000 Whittall Boustead Ltd. 150, Badulla Road, Nuwara Eliya. 4,343 0.46 86,500 69,615 1,303,533 134.04 15.22 5,117,381 2,741,652 HOTEL PROPERTIES Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. Cinnamon Grand Premises, Colombo 2. 648,793 7.91 13,928,737 8,105,310 Crescat Boulevard, Colombo 2. 145,196 1,860,500 1,632,000 Ahungalla Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd. Ahungalla 6.50 148,850 Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Cinnamon Bey, Beruwala 336,110 11.39 3,119,608 462,680 Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd. Bentota Beach Hotel, Bentota 236,524 2.32 11.02 700,808 517,818 Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd. Chaaya Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa, Republic of Maldives. 150,412 13.42 774,348 810,843 Habarana Lodge Ltd. Cinnamon Lodge, Habarana 202,999 25.47 665,689 659,180 Habarana Walk Inn Ltd. Chaaya Village, Habarana. 121,767 9.34 348,454 192,716 Hikkaduwa Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd. Chaaya Tranz, Hikkaduwa 233,965 0.29 4.69 1,234,432 1,275,990 Kandy Walk Inn Ltd. Cinnamon Citadel, Kandy 160,550 5.79 902,259 311,348 Resort Hotels Ltd. Medway Estate, Nilaveli 4,485 44.37 667,600 107,900 Rajawella Hotels Company Ltd. Mahaberiatenna, Kandy. 3,700 10.00 34,802 35,192 Trans Asia Hotels PLC. Cinnamon Lakeside, Colombo 2. 423,966 7.65 4,895,974 4,230,229 Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. Chaaya Island Dhonveli, Republic of Maldives. 246,358 18.62 7,722,430 8,256,604 Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo, Republic of Maldives. 170,877 13.75 1,578,060 1,826,633 Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Chaaya Blu, Trincomalee. 120,910 13.24 697,807 512,223 Trinco Walk Inn Ltd. Club Oceanic, Trincomalee. 14.64 361,364 250,586 Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd. Randunukelle Estate, Wirawila. 25.15 70,000 32,555 Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. Cinnamon Wild, Tissamaharama 110,248 11.00 508,622 530,643 Sentinel Reality Vakarai 8.43 17,750 15,788 3,316,860 140.03 124.96 40,238,094 29,766,238 Improvements to Keells Super outlets on leased hold properties 438,171 251,028 Consolidated Value of Land and Buildings 5,033,755 287.06 144.48 57,631,663 41,949,306 Annual Report 2012/13 l 289 PROGRESSIVE GROUP DIRECTORY John Keells Holdings PLC has business interests across six industry groups, namely, Transportation, Leisure, Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd (99.44%) Property, Consumer Foods & Retail, Financial Services, Information Technology and Other including Plantation Importer & supplier of heavy marine fuel oils & Services. The Group consisits of eighty six subsidiaries and associates companies with significant business lubricants operations in Sri Lanka, India and the Maldives. The holding compay is located at 130, Glennie Street Colombo 2. 4, Leyden Bastian Road Colombo 1. 2475410-421 The Group has considered all its subsidiary and associate companies in capturing its financial performance. Directors: For the purpose of reporting on its sustainability performance, the Group has considered the companies in S C Ratnayake Chairman its sphere of influence, which are the legal entities for which the Group remains accountable and has direct A D Gunewardene, R M David, R S Fernando control. The companies not included for reporting on Sustainability Performance are companies in which the Stated capital: Rs.350,000,000 Group does not exercise significant management control, and companies which are non-operational, are investment entities, land only holding companies, investment holding companies, managing companies and .BDLJOOPO.BDLFO[JF$PPG$FZMPO-UE  rental of office spaces, which do not carry out any operations. Such companies have been clearly identified Foreign recruitment agents & consultants below. No. 11, York Street Colombo 1. The customer base serviced by the John Keells Group of companies can be classified primarily into three 2475200 sections as illustarted below Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman R M David Individuals Businesses & Corporates Government Stated capital: Rs.90,000 Consumer Foods & Retail, Property IT, Transportation, Leisure, Other IT Leisure, Financials Services (Plantation Services), Financial Services N D O Lanka (Pvt) Ltd (60%) ** International freight forwarding and clearing & forwarding No. 11, York Street In serving these customer segments, the use of outsourced products and services at JKH are limited to Colombo 1. activities where it is an industry practice to do so or it has been proven to be an efficient and effective business 2475200 model versus performing these functions in-house. For example, in the Transportation industry group, certain Directors: transportation and loading functions as well as the barge crew and warehousing staff are outsourced to gain S C Ratnayake Chairman (resigned w.e.f maximum efficiency in the respective operations. Similarly, the production and or the packaging of certain 26.09.2012) products in the Consumer Foods and Retail industry group too are outsourced. R M David, H C K Hewamallika (appointed w.e.f 26.09.2012), J R Gunarathne, G G G Col (appointed w.e.f 26.09.2012) Stated capital: Rs.130,000,000 TRANSPORTATION South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd (42.19%)** PORTS AND SHIPPING Ports & shipping services N D O India (Pvt) Ltd (20%) ** Keells Shipping (Pvt) Ltd (100%) Port of Colombo, P.O. Box 141 Shipping agency representation & freight forwarding Shipping agency representation & logistics services Colombo 1. & logistics services No. 11, York Street, Colombo 1. 2457500 No 172, Third Floor, 2nd Main 2475200 Directors: Kasturi Nagar, East of NGEF Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman Bangalore 560043, India S C Ratnayake Chairman A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris, R M David +91(080)42040004, 42040005 R M David, J R Gunaratne C Kuo Cheng, H O Madsen (resigned w.e.f 31.05.2012) Directors: Stated capital: Rs.500,000 H G Wieske, Dr S Senerath, D C Alagarathnam S C Ratnayake Chairman (resigned w.e.f Capt N Keppetipola, K N J Balendra, P Sondergaard 29.01.2013) .BDLJOOPO.BDLFO[JF$P 4IJQQJOH -UE  P M English, T Hougaard (appointed w.e.f R M David, R S Fernando, G G G Col (appointed Shipping agency representation & logistics services 01.06.2012) w.e.f 08.02.2013), C Hewamallika, H F Montjotin 4, Leyden Bastian Road, Colombo 1 Stated capital: Rs.3,788,485,900 (appointed w.e.f. 08.02.2013), R M David 2307526 Stated capital: Rs.128,313,710 Directors: LOGISTICS S C Ratnayake Chairman DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd (50%)** Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd (40%) ** R M David,J R Gunaratne Express courier services Domestic air line operations Stated capital: Rs.5,000,000 No. 148, Vauxhall Street No.11, York Street, Colombo 01 Colombo 2. 2475502 Maersk Lanka (Pvt) Ltd (30%)** 2304304 / 4798600 Directors: Shipping agency representation & freight forwarding Directors: A D Gunewardene, R M David, J R Gunaratne services S C Ratnayake Chairman B A B Goonetilleke, K Balasundaram, F Omar No. 36, D. R Wijewardene Mawatha Colombo 10. R M David, M A Monteiro, G E A P Berczely R T Abeyasinghe 2423700 Stated capital: Rs.20,000,020 Stated capital: Rs.595,779,000 Directors: Directors: W T Ellawala, Dinesh Lal, R M David John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd (100%) Trans-ware Logistics (Pvt) Ltd (50%)* Hariharan Iyer, Robert Janvan Trooijen Integrated supply chain & third party logistics Integrated container depot operations & logistics Rizwan Sultan Ali solutions services provider Stated capital: Rs.10,000,000 No. 11, York Street No.150,150/1, Pamunugama Road, Tudella, Ja-Ela. Colombo 1. 2475508/2475538 2475200 Directors: Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman S C Ratnayake Chairman A D Gunawardene, R M David, E H Gui (resigned A D Gunawardene, R M David w.e.f 24.07.2012), A A Miskon (Alt.N A Latif) Stated capital: Rs.200,000,000 Y K Boo (Appointed w.e.f 24.07.2012), H H Pang (Appointed w.e.f 05.11.2012) Stated capital: Rs.240,000,000 290 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd Cargo Division (100%) John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd (80.32%) Trans Asia Hotels PLC (82.74%) International freight forwarder & logistics services Hotel holding company in the Maldives Owner & operator of the five star city hotel No.148, Vauxhall Street 2nd Floor, H Maizan Building ‘Cinnamon Lakeside’. Colombo 2. Sosun Magu, Male No. 115, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner 2475299 Republic of Maldives. Mawatha, Colombo 2. Directors: 00960 3329083/00960 3304601/ 2491000 S C Ratnayake Chairman 00960 3313738 Directors: A D Gunewardene, R M David, S Rajendra Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman Stated capital: Rs.99,188,800 S C Ratnayake Chairman, A D Gunewardene A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris, D S J Pelpola B J S M Senanayake, S A S Perera (resigned w.e.f. 26.06.2012), N L Gooneratne AIRLINES Stated capital: Rs.3,978,671,681 R L Nanayakkara (resigned w.e.f.26.06.2012) John Keells Air Services India (Pvt) Ltd (100%) C J L Pinto, E H Wijenaike (appointed w.e.f. (Formerly known as Matheson Keells Air John Keells Hotels PLC (80.32%)* 27.06.2012) Services (Pvt) Ltd) General sales agents for airlines Holding company of group resort hotel companies in Stated capital: Rs.1,112,879,750 in India. Sri Lanka & Maldives No 172, Third Floor No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. 4BODJUZ)PUFMT1SPQFSUJFT-UE  2nd Main Kasturi Nagar, East of NGEF 2306600 Developer of City Business Hotels Bangalore 560043, India. Directors: No.59, Ananda Coomaraswami Mawatha, Colombo 03. +91(080)42040004, 42040005 S C Ratnayake Chairman 2306000 Directors: A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris, J E P Kehelpannala Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman M A Omar (Resigned w.e.f 26.02.2013) A D Gunewardene, S Rajendra, M S Weerasekera R M David, R S Fernando, C Hewamallika R T Wijesinha, D A Cabraal, B J S M Senanyake W R K Wannigama, D A Kannangara Stated capital: Rs.17,995,097 N B Weerasekera Stated capital: Rs.1,162,300,100 Stated capital: Rs.9,500,246,939 Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd (100%) RESORT HOTELS SRI LANKA General sales agents for airlines in Sri Lanka John Keells Hotels Mauritius (Pvt) Ltd (80.32%)* Ahungalle Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd (80.32%)* No. 11 A, York Street, Colombo 1. Hotel holding company in the Mauritius Developer of the planned five star hotel 2475375/2475335 IFS Court, Twenty Eight, Cybercity Ebene, Mauritius. No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. Directors: (230) 467 3000 2306000 S C Ratnayake Chairman Directors: Directors: R M David, C N Lawrence K D Joory, A D Gunewardene, D C Alagaratnam S C Ratnayake – Chairman Stated capital: Rs.12,500,000 F Soreefan A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala Stated capital: Rs.3,832,000 Stated capital: Rs.132,000,000 Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd (100%) IATA accredited travel agent and travel related Sentinel Realty (Pvt) Ltd (40.16%)** Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd (79.45%) services Investment company for Hotel Development land Owner of Real Estate Ceylon Cold Stores Building No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. No. 1, Justice Akbar Mawatha 2306000 2306600, 2421101-8 Colombo 2. Directors : Directors: 2318600 A D Gunewardene, S Rajendra, B A B Goonettileke S C Ratnayake Chairman Directors: K Balasundaram A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala S C Ratnayake Chairman Stated capital: Rs.31,576,000 Stated Capital: Rs.1,338,150,000 A D Gunawardene, R M David Stated capital: Rs.5,000,000 CITY HOTELS Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd-Bentota Beach Hotel Asian Hotels and Properties PLC Cinnamon Grand (79.24%) Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd (49%)* (78.56%) Owner & operator of ‘Bentota Beach Hotel’ in Bentota General sales agents for airlines in the Maldives Owner & operator of the five star city hotel Galle Road, Bentota. 4th Floor, STO Aifaanu Building ‘Cinnamon Grand’ 034 2275176/034 2275266 Boduthakurufaanu Magu, Male 20-05 77, Galle Road, Colombo 3. Directors: Republic of Maldives. 2437437 /2497442 S C Ratnayake Chairman +9603334708 09 Directors: A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman Stated capital: Rs.744,517,303 S C Ratnayake Chairman A D Gunewardene Managing Director A D Gunewardene, R M David, S Hameed, A Shihab J R F Peiris, R J Karunarajah, S Rajendra Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Limited (79.24%) Stated capital: Rs.677,892 S K G Senanayake, S A Jayasekara, C J L Pinto Owner & operator of ‘Chaaya Tranz’ in Hikkaduwa Stated capital: Rs.3,345,118,012 P.O. Box 1, Galle Road, Hikkaduwa. LEISURE 091 2298000 HOTEL MANAGEMENT Capitol Hotel Holdings Ltd (27.8%) ** Directors: Keells Hotel Management Services Ltd (100%) Developer of City Business Hotels S C Ratnayake Chairman Manager & marketer of resort hotels No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. 2306000 Stated capital: Rs.952,635,460 2306600, 2421101-8 Directors : Directors: A D Gunewardene, S Rajendra, M S Weerasekera Habarana Lodge Ltd (78.99%) S C Ratnayake Chairman W R K Wannigama, D A Kannangara Owner & operator of ‘The Cinnamon Lodge’ in A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala Stated capital: Rs.1,168,800,100 Habarana Stated capital: Rs.19,520,000 P.O Box 2, Habarana 066 2270011-2/066 2270072 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala Stated capital: Rs.341,555,262 Annual Report 2012/13 l 291 PROGRESSIVE Group Directory Habarana Walk Inn Ltd (79.34%) Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd (80.32%)* DESTINATION MANAGEMENT Owner & operator of ‘Chaaya Village Habarana’ Owner of real estate Serene Holidays (Pvt) Ltd (98.74%) P.O Box 1, Habarana No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. Tour operators 066 2270046-7/066 2270077 2306780, 2421101-8 204, Accord Complex Directors: Directors: Opp. Goregaon Station S C Ratnayake Chairman S C Ratnayake Chairman Goregaon (East), Mumbai 400 063 India. A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala A D Gunewardene, D C Alagaratnam (appointed 091-22 42105210 Stated capital: Rs.126,350,000 w.e.f.01.08.2011) Directors: J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f.01.08.2011) A D Gunewardene Chairman International Tourists and Hoteliers Ltd (79.45%)* Stated capital: Rs.16,611,750 V Leelananda Owner of real estate Stated capital: Rs.34,150,000 No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd (75.33%) 2306600, 2421101-8 Owner and operator of ‘Yala Village’ in Yala Walkers Tours Ltd (98.51%) Directors: P.O Box 1, Kirinda, Tissamaharama. Inbound tour operators S C Ratnayake Chairman 047 2239449-52 No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. A D Gunewardene,J E P Kehelpannala Directors: 2306306 D C Alagaratnam M A Perera Chairman Directors: Stated capital: Rs.1,039,675,925 S C Ratnayake Deputy Chairman S C Ratnayake Chairman A D Gunewardene, J A Davis, J E P Kehelpannala A D Gunewardene,V Leelananda Kandy Walk Inn Ltd (79.03%) Stated capital: 419,427,600 Stated capital: Rs.51,374,200 Owner & operator of ‘The Chaaya Citadel’ in Kandy No.124, Srimath Kuda Ratwatte Mawatha, Kandy. RESORT HOTELS MALDIVES Whittall Boustead (Travel) Ltd (100%) 081 2234365-6/081 2237273-4 Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd (80.32%) Inbound tour operators Directors: Owner & operator of ‘Chaaya Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa’ No.130, Glennie Street Colombo 2. S C Ratnayake Chairman in Maldives 2306384 A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala, R T Molligoda 2nd Floor, H Maizan Building Directors: Stated capital: Rs.115,182,009 Sosun Magu, Male, Republic of Maldives. S C Ratnayake Chairman 00960 6720014/00960 6720064/ 00960 A D Gunewardene, V Leelananda Rajawella Hotels Ltd (80.32%)* 6720065 Stated capital: Rs.7,500,000 Owner of real estate Directors: No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. S C Ratnayake Chairman PROPERTY 2306780, 2421101-8 A D Gunewardene, B J S M Senanayake PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT Directors: S A S Perera Asian Hotels and Properties PLC Crescat S C Ratnayake Chairman Stated capital: Rs.341,573,190 Boulevard, The Monarch, The Emperor (78.56%) A D Gunewardene, J R Gunaratne Developer and manager of integrated properties Stated capital: Rs.29,300,000 John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd (80.32%) No.77, Galle Road, Colombo 3. Hotel holding company in the Maldives 5540404 Resort Hotels Ltd (79.24%)* 2nd Floor, H Maizan Building Directors: Owner of real estate Sosun Magu, Male, Republic of Maldives. S C Ratnayake Chairman No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. 00960 3329083/00960 3304601 / 00960 A D Gunewardene Managing Director 2306780, 2421101-8 3313738 J R F Peiris, R J Karunarajah, S Rajendra Directors: Directors: S K G Senanayake, S A Jayasekara, C J L Pinto S C Ratnayake Chairman S C Ratnayake Chairman Stated capital: Rs.3,345,118,012 A D Gunewardene A D Gunewardene, B J S M Senanayake, S A S Perera Stated capital: Rs.6,350,670 Stated capital: Rs.3,978,671,681 British Overseas (Pvt) Ltd (51%)** Developer of ‘7th Sense’ Project Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pte) Ltd (80.32%) Tranquility (Pte) Ltd (80.32%) No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. Owner & Operator of ‘Chaaya Blu’ in Trincomalee Owner and operator of ‘Chaaya Island Dhonveli’ in 2306000 Alles Garden, Uppuvelli Maldives Directors: Sampathiv Post. 2nd Floor, H Maizan Building A D Gunewardene, K N J Balendra 2421101-8 Sosun Magu, Male, Republic of Maldives. D C Alagaratnam, S Rajendra, S P G N Rajapakse Directors: 00960 6640055 / 00960 6640012 Stated capital: Rs.1,000 S C Ratnayake Chairman Directors: A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala S C Ratnayake Chairman John Keells Residential Properties (Pvt) Limited Stated Capital: Rs.357,000,000 A D Gunewardene, B J S M Senanayake (100%) S A S Perera Developer of ‘OnThree20’ Project Trinco Walk Inn Ltd (80.32%)* Stated capital: Rs.552,519,608 No. 130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. Owner of Real Estate 2300065 Alles Garden, Uppuveli, Sampathiv Post Travel Club (Pte) Ltd (80.32%) Directors: Trincomalee. Operator of ‘Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo’ in Maldives S C Ratnayake Chairman 026 112421101-8, 2306600 2nd Floor, H Maizan Building A D Gunewardene, S Rajendra Directors: Sosun Magu, Male, Republic of Maldives. Stated capital: Rs.925,200,000 S C Ratnayake Chairman 00960 6660839/00960 6660663/ 00960 A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala 6660664 J K Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd (100%) Stated capital: Rs.119,850,070 Directors: Developer & Manager of Mall operations S C Ratnayake Chairman No. 130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. A D Gunewardene, B J S M Senanayake, S A S Perera 2306000 Stated capital: Rs.143,172,000 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman A D Gunewardene, S Rajendra Stated capital: Rs.854,360,000 292 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information REAL ESTATE RETAIL J K O A Mobiles (Pvt) Ltd (100%) J K Properties (Pvt) Ltd (100%)* JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd (81.36%) Marketer of software packages Renting of office space Owns and Operates the “Keells Super” chain of No. 148, Vauxhall Street,Colombo 2. No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. supermarkets and K-Zone Malls 2300770-77 2306000/2397263 No.125, Glennie Street, Colombo 2 Directors: Directors: 2316800 A D Gunewardene Chairman S C Ratnayake Chairman Directors: G S Dewaraja, R S Fernando A D Gunewardene, S Rajendra S C Ratnayake Chairman J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f.01.08.2011) Stated capital: Rs.240,000,030 A D Gunewardene, M R N Jayasundera-Moraes Stated capital: Rs.8,000,000 K N J Balendra Keells Realtors Ltd (92.37%)* Stated capital: Rs.998,000,000 John Keells Computer Services (UK) Ltd (100%)* Owner of Real Estate Software development services (UK) No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. Nexus Networks (Pvt) Ltd (99.99%) 268, Bath Road, Slough, SLI 4DX 2306000/2397263 Operator of the ‘Nexus’ loyalty card programme United Kingdom. Directors: No. 125, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. 441753725283 S C Ratnayake Chairman 2343792/2343794-98 Directors: A D Gunewardene, S Rajendra Directors: A D Gunewardene Chairman Stated capital: Rs.75,000,000 S C Ratnayake Chairman, G S Dewaraja, R S Fernando M R N Jayasundera Moraes, K N J Balendra Stated capital: Rs.9,507 Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd Real Estate Division (100%)* Stated capital: Rs.100,000 Renting of office space John Keells Computer Services (Pvt) Ltd (100%) No.148, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2. FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP Software services 2397263 /2327805 John Keells Stock Brokers (Pvt) Ltd (90.04%) No. 148, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2. Directors: Share broking services 2300770-77 S C Ratnayake Chairman No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. Directors: A D Gunewardene, R M David, S Rajendra 2446694-5/2338066/4710721-4 0112306250 A D Gunewardene Chairman Stated capital: Rs.99,188,800 Directors: S C Ratnayake, G S Dewaraja, R S Fernando A D Gunewardene Chairman Stated capital: Rs.96,500,000 CONSUMER FOODS AND RETAIL S C Ratnayake, K N J Balendra CONSUMER FOODS Stated capital: Rs.7,500,000 OFFICE AUTOMATION Ceylon Cold Stores PLC (81.36%) John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd (100%) Manufacturer & distributor of beverages, frozen Nations Trust Bank PLC (29.9%)** Distributor/reseller and services, provider in office confectionery, and the holding company of JayKay Commercial banking and leasing operations automation (OA) retail automation (RA) and mobile Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd. No. 242, Union Place, Colombo 2. devices No. 1, Justice Akbar Mawatha Colombo 2. 4313131 Corporate Office: 90 Union Place Colombo 2. 2328221/7, 2318777 Directors: Technical Services:148 Vauxhall Street Colombo 2. Directors: A K Gunaratne Chairman 2313000, 2431576, 2445760 S C Ratnayake Chairman J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f 14.09.2012) Directors: A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris, J R Gunaratne S G Rajakaruna (resigned w.e.f 31.10.2012) A D Gunewardene Chairman U P Liyanage, P S Jayawardena, A R Rasiah M E Wickremesinghe, A R Rasiah, D Weerakoon G S Dewaraja, R S Fernando Stated capital: Rs.918,200,000 K N J Balendra, Murtaza Jafferjee, Kemal de Soysa Stated capital: Rs.5,000,000 D P De Silva, N S Panditharatne, Suran Wijesinghe Keells Food Products PLC (89.65%) (appointed w.e.f 01.11.2012), C H S K Piyaratna IT ENABLED SERVICES Manufacturer and distributor of branded meat and R N K Fernando (appointed w.e.f 15.09.2012) InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd (100%) convenience food products. Stated capital: Rs. 5,101,368,736 IT enabled services P.O Box 10, No.16, Minuwangoda Road, Ekala, No.4, Leyden Bastian Road, Colombo 1. Ja-Ela. Union Assurance PLC (95.65 %) (94) 112149700 2236317/2236364 Life and general insurance underwriters Directors: Directors: No. 20, St. Michaels’ Road, Colombo 3. S C Ratnayake, M J S Rajakariar S C RatnayakeChairman 2428428 R S Fernando A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris, J R Gunaratne Directors: Stated capital: Rs.20,000,000 R Pieris, S H Amarasekera, A D E I Perera A D Gunewardene Chairman M P Jayawardena D C Alagaratnam, S Rajendra, A S De Zoysa John Keells BPO Holdings Private Limited (100%)* Stated capital: Rs.1,294,815,000 G F C De Saram, H A J De Silva Wijeyeratne Holding company of AuxiCogent group companies Stated capital: Rs.1,138,433,000 IFS Court, 28, Cybercity, Ebene Mauritius. John Keells Foods India (Pvt) Ltd (89.65%)* (230) 467 3000 Marketing of branded meat and convenience food INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Directors: products IT SERVICES S C Ratnayake Chairman Luthra and Luthra Chartered Accountants Information Systems Associates (48.99%)** A D Gunewardene, R S Fernando, K N J Balendra A 16/9, Vasant Vihar Software development services K D Joory, A F Soreefan New Delhi -110057, India. P.O Box. 132, Sharjah, UAE. Stated capital: Rs.1,988,300,000 0091 1142591823, 0091 1126148048 97165088810 26151853, 26147365 Directors: Fax: +91-11-2614 5222 A Ali, P Suckling, A Hamdany, J R F Peiris Directors: G S Dewaraja, R S Fernando S C Ratnayake Chairman Stated capital: Rs.97,594,274 J R Gunaratne,R S Fernando Stated capital: Rs. 220,294,544 Annual Report 2012/13 l 293 PROGRESSIVE Group Directory John Keells BPO International (Pvt) Ltd (100%)* T de Zoysa, K D W Ratnayaka,Y A Hansen A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris, E F G Amerasinghe Investment holding company S T Ratwatte Steven Enderby (resigned w.e.f 08.03.2013) IFS Court, 28, Cybercity, Ebene Mauritius. Stated capital: Rs.152,000,000 T Das, S S Thiruchelvam, Dr I Coomaraswamy (230) 467 3000 A R Gunasekera, M A Omar (appointed w.e.f Directors: John Keells (Teas) Ltd (100%) 01.03.2013) S C Ratnayake Chairman Manager of eight bought leaf tea factories Stated capital: Rs.26,480,396,977 A D Gunewardene, R S Fernando, K N J Balendra No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. K D Joory, A F Soreefan 2306518 John Keells Holdings Mauritius (Pvt) Ltd (100%)* Stated capital: Rs.1,616,700,008 Directors: Holding company of AuxiCogent group companies S C Ratnayake Chairman IFS Court, 28, Cybercity, Ebene Mauritius. John Keells BPO Solutions Lanka (Private) Limited A D Gunewardene, R S Fernando 2304673000 (100%)* Stated capital: Rs.120,000 Directors: BPO operations in Sri Lanka SC Ratnayake, AD Gunewardene, KD Joory, AF No.4, Leyden Bastian Road, Colombo 1. John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd (86.90%) Soreefan (94) 112479709 Warehousing of Tea and Rubber Stated capital: Rs.258,531,533 Directors: No.93,1st Avenue, Muturajawela S C Ratnayake, A D Gunewardene, R S Fernando Hendala, Wattala, Muturajawala. John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd (100%)* R M David 4819560 Regional holding company providing administrative & Stated capital: Rs.328,435,800 Directors: function based services S C Ratnayake Chairman No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. John Keells BPO Solutions US Inc. (100%)* A D Gunewardene, R S Fernando 2306000 /2421101-9 Provides sales & marketing support for AuxiCogent in Stated capital: Rs.120,000,000 Directors: North America S C Ratnayake Chairman 9225, Ulmerton Road, Suite H, Largo Florida 33771, Tea Smallholder Factories PLC (37.62%) A D Gunewardene USA. Owner and operator of bought leaf factories Stated capital: Rs.1,991,600,000.00 +1 727 518 0000 No.4, Leyden Bastian Road, Colombo 1. Director: 2335870/2149994 John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd (80%)* Mithila Prasanna Gunaratna Directors: International trading services Stated capital: Rs.40,243,250 S C Ratnayake Chairman (Alt.Mr J R Gunaratne) No.3, Raffles Place, #07-01 A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris, E H Wijenaike Bharat Building, Singapore-048617. John Keells BPO solutions Canada Inc(100%) R Seevaratnam, R E Rambukwella, A S Jayatilleke 65 67329636 BPO Operation in Canada J S Ratwatte,R S Fernando Directors: 1900, 736-6th Avenue S.W., Calgary Alberta T2P Stated capital: Rs.150,000,000 S C Ratnayake Chairman 3T7, Canada. A D Gunewardene, R M David, R Ponnampalam Directors: $&/53&05)&34 D C Alagaratnam AD Gunewardene, Deepak Kumar Malik Central Hospitals Ltd (27.21%)** Stated capital: Rs.9,638,000 KNJ Balendra, RS Fernando Providers of healthcare services Stated capital: Rs.49,339,992 114, Norris Canal Road, Colombo 10. Keells Consultants (Private) Ltd (100%) 4666000, 4665500, 4665544 Company secretarial services to the group John Keells BPO Investments Private Limited Directors: No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. (100%)* A K Pathirage, S Selliah, D S Rajapakse 2421101-9 Investment holding company D Wimalasundera, K M P Karunaratne Directors: IFS Court, 28, Cybercity, Ebene Mauritius. Mrs S D Nimalasuriya, S A B Rajapaksa S C Ratnayake Chairman (230) 467 3000 A D Gunewardene, K N J Balendra A.D Gunewardene, D C Alagaratnam Directors: H D I Hettiarachchi, G L H Premaratne Stated capital: Rs.160,000 SC Ratnayake, AD Gunewardene, RS Fernando Stated capital: Rs.2,992,147,950 KNJ Balendra, KD Joory, AF Soreefan, R Roy Mackinnons Keells Ltd (100%)* (resigned w.e.f. 08.10.2012) Facets (Pvt) Ltd (100%)* Rental of office space R Datta (resigned w.e.f.18.10.2012) Owner of real estate No.4, Layden Bastian Road Stated capital: Rs.619,229,966 No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. Colombo 1. 2306000 2475102-3 John Keells BPO Solutions India Private Limited Directors: Directors: (100%) S C Ratnayake Chairman S C Ratnayake Chairman BPO operations in India (Formerly known as Quatrro D C Alagaratnam A.D Gunewardene , S Rajendra Business Support Services (Pvt) Ltd) Stated capital: Rs.150,000 Stated capital: Rs.10,800,000 Basement-24, C Block Community Centre, Janakpuri J K Packaging (Pvt) Ltd (100%)* Mortlake Ltd (100%)* New Delhi. Printing and packaging services provider for the Investment company +91 124 4561000 export market No. 148, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2. Directors: No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. 2475308 J R F Peiris, R S Fernando, K N J Balendra 2475308 Directors: Stated capital: Rs.899,836,136 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman S C Ratnayake Chairman A D Gunewardene, R M David, D C Alagaratnam OTHERS R.M.David, R S Fernando Stated capital: Rs.3,000 PLANTATION SERVICES Stated capital: Rs.14,500,000 John Keells PLC (86.90 %) * The company is a non-operational company / investment company / holding company or owner of real estate. Produce Broking and Real Estate Ownership John Keells Holdings PLC No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. Group holding company & function based services ** The company has not been considered for Sustainability 2306000 No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. Reporting as the Group does not exercise management Directors: 2306000 /2421101-9 control over the entity S C Ratnayake Chairman Directors: A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris, R S Fernando S C Ratnayake Chairman 294 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information MEMBERSHIPS, CERTIFICATIONS AND AWARDS Senior management personnel of the Group holds positions of membership on the following professional and governance bodies and participates in various sub committees and projects initiated by such bodies. The Group views these memberships as a vital part of business, given the ability of such bodies to recommend policy changes, address industry concerns and carry out necessary lobbying for the betterment of the industry from a triple bottom line perspective. The Group’s senior management are involved in the following bodies as active members, and in addition, members of the Group Executive Committee hold positions such as Chairman of Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, President Sri Lanka Institute of Directors, President of Chartered Institute of Logistics & Transport, Chairman Colombo Stock Exchange of Sri Lanka and Chairperson of the steering committee for HR and Education of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce and a member of the National Labour Advisory Committee. Transportation Information Technology Bombay Chamber of Commerce Sri Lanka Germany Business Council Freight Forwarders Association of India (FFFAI) Sri Lanka Institute of Directors Sri Lanka Freight Forwarders Association (SLAFFA) Consumer Food and Retail International Air Transportation Agents Association (IATA) Consumer Goods Forum World Cargo Alliance (WCA) Membership Employers’ Federation of Ceylon (EFC) Employers Federation of Ceylon (EFC) National Chamber of Commerce International Air Transport Association Agents Association of Sri Lanka Export Development Board Logistics and Transportation Faculty Industry Committee of the National Chamber of Exporters University of Moratuwa Ceylon Chamber of Commerce International Bunker Industry Association (IBIA) Sri Lanka Maldives Bilateral Business Council Association of Licensed Bunker Operators of Sri Lanka (ALBOSL) Lanka Confectionery Manufacturers Association Ship Chandlers Association of Sri Lanka Sri Lanka Association of Testing Laboratories Lanka Association of Ship Owners (LASO) Leisure American Chamber of Commerce SKAL International Colombo Civil Aviation Authority American Chamber of Commerce Accredited Agent of International Air Transport Association European Chamber of Commerce of Sri Lanka Travel Agents Association of Sri Lanka Dutch Burger Union Sri Lanka Tourism Board Tourist Hotels Association Italian Business Council Business with Britain Sri Lanka France Business Council Indian Association of Tour Operators Certificate of Corporate Partnership with The Chartered Institute of Sri Lanka Association of Inbound Tour Operators Logistics & Transport (CILT) Field Ornithology Group of Sri Lanka Sri Lanka Association of Airline Representatives Cultural Triangle Hoteliers Association Sri Lanka India Business Association Natural Disaster Management of Palugaswewa Division Sri Lanka Korea Business Association SWITCH-ASIA Sri Lanka Belgium Business Association Compost Production Membership -Ministry of Agriculture Sri Lanka Airline Cargo Association (SLACA) Sri Lanka Conventions Bureau Air Promoters Group (APG) La Chaine des Rotisseurs European Chamber of Commerce of Sri Lanka Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Information Technology Pacific Asia Travel Association Sri Lanka Association of Software and Service Companies (SLASSCOM) Indo-Lanka Chamber of Commerce Leading Edge Alliance Sri Lanka British Business Council Employers’ Federation of Ceylon (EFC) Sri Lanka Japan Business Council Oracle Partner Network Sri Lanka New Zealand Business Council Gold partnership of Microsoft Sri Lanka Malaysia Business Council Strategic partnership of IATA Sri Lanka German Business Council IBM partner World Sri Lanka Benelux Business Council Ministerial Advisory Committee on IT/BPO exports convened by the EDB Sri Lanka Canada Business Council Nordic Business Council Sri Lanka Maldives Bilateral Business Council American Chamber of Commerce Sri Lanka Malaysian Business Council European Chamber of Commerce Sri Lanka Netherland Business Council Annual Report 2012/13 l 295 PROGRESSIVE Memberships, certifications and awards Leisure Property Sri Lanka Poland Business Council Chamber of Construction Industry of Sri Lanka Sri Lanka France Business Council Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Sri Lanka Singapore Business Council Employers’ Federation of Ceylon Sri Lanka Italy Business Council Financial Services Sri Lanka Australia Business Council Colombo Stock Brokers Association Sri Lanka Russia Business Council Colombo Stock Exchange Sri Lanka Pakistan Business Council Insurance Association of Sri Lanka Sri Lanka Vietnam Business Council American Chamber of Commerce in Sri Lanka Sri Lanka China Business Council Financial Services Employers’ Federation of Ceylon National Chamber of Commerce Wild Life Focus Group of the Sri Lanka Tourism Promotions Bureau Association of Insurers and Reinsurers of Developing Countries Responsible Tourism Partnership Other Friends of Sri Lanka Association, UK Employers’ Federation of Ceylon Sri Lanka Conventions Bureau National Chamber of Commerce of Sri Lanka Sri Lanka Institute of Tourism and Hotel Management Sri Lanka Institute of Directors European Business Council Lanka Business Coalition on HIV & AIDS Sri Lanka Tourism Promotions Bureau Sri Lanka Tea Board Kandy Hoteliers Association Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Maldives Association of Tourism Industry National Chamber of Commerce Field Ornithology Group of Sri Lanka – Nature Odyssey Sri Lanka Tea Factory Owners Association Tourism Development Committee of Hambantota District under Planters’ Association of Ceylon Hambantota District Chamber of Commerce Colombo Tea Traders’ Association Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority International Tea Committee Bentota/Beruwela Hoteliers Association Harvard Management Communications Ltd Tourist Hotels Association of Sri Lanka Harvard Business Review Chefs Guild of Sri Lanka European Chamber of Commerce Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Sri Lanka Tea Factory Owners Association Ceylon Hotel School Graduates Association Tea Research Board of Sri Lanka Bird Friendly Concept Network Colombo Tea Traders Association Wild Life and Nature Protection Society Colombo Rubber Traders Association Travel Trade Sports Club Rubber Dealers’ License – Director of Rubber Development Department Signature Travel Network Federation of Information Technology in Sri Lanka (FITIS) International Association of Travel & Tourism Professionals SAP Services Partner in Sri Lanka Pacific Asia Travel Association (Sri Lanka) chapter (PATA) Sri Lanka Institute of Directors Sri Lanka Association of Professional Conference Exhibition & Event Organisers Travel Agents Association of India Japan Association of Travel Agents The Hotels Association of Sri Lanka SL Africa and Middle East Business Council 296 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information AWARDS RECEIVED BY THE GROUP 2012/13 Leisure John Keells Hotels Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo Joint Runner Up Award – Medium Scale category for Best Five Star (City) Hotel – Sri Lanka Tourism Awards 2011 sustainability reporting at the Annual ACCA Sustainability Best Luxury Hotel, Sri Lanka – Business Destinations Travel Reporting Awards Awards 2012 Nature Trails Best Nature & Wildlife Service Provider Sri Lanka First hotel in Sri Lanka to be 2nd time recertified for Green Globe Tourism Awards 2011 standards Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo A Certificate of Compliance (Hotel Companies) at the Annual Gold Award from Travelife for Sustainability in tourism Report Awards 2012 conducted by the Institute of Chartered Trip Advisor Certificate for Excellence, 2012 Accountants of Sri Lanka Spirit of Leisure Award – Leisure Awards 2012 All island First Runner Up in the flaring category 21st National 5 Merit Awards at the Hotel Asia Exhibition & International Bartender’s Cocktail and Flaring competition Culinary Challenge 2012 Second Runner Up spot in the classic category 21st National Gold Award – Best First Choice 3 Tier category Award by TUI Bartender’s Cocktail and Flaring competition Travel PLC Best EGB mocktail World Spice Food Festival 2012 Chaaya Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa Best stall World Spice Food Festival 2012 Gold Award – Best Thomson 4 Tier Category Award by TUI Travel Best prawn dish World Spice Food Festival 2012 PLC Awarded “A” grade at the CMC hotel hygiene classification audit Trip Advisor Certificate of Excellence for 2012 Cinnamon Grand Colombo Merit Award at the Hotel Asia Exhibition & International Culinary Bronze at the 48th Annual Reports Awards (by the Institute of Challenge 2012 Chartered Accountants) Bentota Beach Hotel Merit Award at the Sri Lanka National Energy Efficiency Awards National Green Award – 2012: Bronze award 2012 (by the Ministry of Power & Energy, Sri Lanka) National Cleaner Production Awards 2011: Merit award Merit Award at the EU-SWITCH – Asia Greening Hotels Award The Trip Advisor Certificate of Excellence 2012 2012 (by the EU-SWITCH – Asia Greening Sri Lanka Hotels Winner of the Community Award for the recognition of CSR Project implemented by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce) from the community Bronze Award at the National Green Award 2012 (by the Central Pastry and Bakery competition organised by Technical and Environmental Authority and the Ministry of Environment, Vocational Education and Training Sector (TVET) : Silver medal Sri Lanka) Absolut Bartenders Challenge 2012 Down South Region : Gold Medal at the annual Mystery Box competition (by the Chefs Emerged Double Champions Guild of Sri Lanka) Champions of the Classic Cocktail category and Flaring category 2 Gold Medals and 1 Silver Medal at the International Culinary Mystery Basket Cooking Competition 2012: Became 2nd Runner Olympics in Germany (by International Chefs’ Guild) Up in overall category with high marks for desserts presentation Gold Medal at the Prawn Curry Challenge (World Spice Festival, and achieved the 3rd place in Overall Category Sri Lanka, organised by the Sri Lanka Tourism Development Chaaya Blu Trincomalee Authority) Trip Advisor Certificate of Excellence 2nd Runner Up at Cocktail and Mocktail challenges (World Cinnamon Lodge Habarana Spice Festival, Sri Lanka, organised by the Sri Lanka Tourism Trip Advisor Travellers Choice award for year 2013 and selected Development Authority) as No. 02 in the top 25 hotels in Sri Lanka Chaaya Island Dhonveli Trip Advisor Certificate of Excellence Gold Award – Best First Choice 4 Tier category & Best Thomson Water Conservation Champion in the Large Hotels and Boutique 4 Tier category Awards by TUI Travel PLC Hotels category at the EU-SWITCH Asia Greening Hotels Awards GMR Travel Awards Leading Surf Resort in Maldives 2012 Award received from His Excellency the President of Republic of Bronze Award at the National Green Awards 2012 organised by Maldives Dr. Wahid Hassan Manik on CSR initiatives the Central Environmental Authority Trip Advisor Certificate for Excellence, 2012 Best 5 Star ResortSri Lanka Tourism Awards 2011 Spirit of Leisure Award – Leisure Awards 2012 4 Silver medals, 5 Bronze medals and two Merit awards at Hotel Asia Exhibition & International Culinary Challenge, 2012 Annual Report 2012/13 l 297 PROGRESSIVE Awards received by the Group 2012/13 Chaaya Village Habarana Keells Food Products Chaaya Village Habarana won the coveted Trip Advisor Travellers ICASL Best Annual Report Awards 2012 Choice award for year 2013 & was selected as No.8 in the top Food & Beverage sector Gold award 25 hotels in Sri Lanka Best CSR Project Awards 2012 Certificate of Merit for Trip Advisor Certificate of Excellence 2012 Sustainable Sourcing Chaaya Tranz Hikkaduwa Information Technology Four Star Certification Award 2012 John Keells Computer Services Inter Hotel culinary challenge Champions of the culinary team Overall Gold Award – BCS National Best Quality Software Cinnamon Citadel Kandy Awards 2012 Trip Advisor Certificate of Excellence 2012 Category Gold for Tourism and Hospitality software won by Cinnamon Wild Yala Zhara HS – BCS National Best Quality Software Awards 2012 Best Nature & Wildlife Accomodation Sri Lanka Tourism Awards Financial Services 2011 Union Assurance 4 Star ClassificationSri Lanka Tourist Board ICASL Best Annual Report Awards 2012 ChampionClassical cocktail category of Deep Down South Overall Corporate Governance Disclosure Gold 21st Marie Brizard bartenders competition 2012 Insurance Sector Gold Trip Advisor Certificate of Excellence 2012 Overall Excellence in Annual Financial Reporting – Silver Leisure Inbound SAFA Best Presented Annual Report Awards 2011 Walkers Tours Insurance Category – 2nd Place Best Inbound Tour Operator (large category) Corporate Governance Disclosure3rd Place Best Destination Promotion Website Celent and Asia Insurance Review 2012 Most Outstanding National Guide Lecturer – Adventure Best Insurer Technology award 2012 for best product design Most Outstanding National Guide Lecturer – Nature/Wildlife and definition for Union eMotor solution Best Chauffeur Guide Lecturer Association of Certified Chartered Accountants (ACCA) Best Chauffeur Guide Lecturer – Culture & Heritage Medium Scale category for Sustainability – 2nd Place Whittall Boustead (Travel) National Business Excellence Awards – 2012 Best Destination Loyal Partner Foreign Insurance Sector – 2nd Place (Sri Lanka Tourism Awards 2012) SLIM Brand Excellence Awards 2012 Transportation Service Brand of the Year – 2nd Place Mackinnons Travels Global Brand Congress Awards 2012 Awarded by AMEX in recognition of continuous partnership for a Excellence in banking and financial service sector 2012 period of 10 years Others Awarded by Travel port (Galileo) for service Excellence 2011/12 John Keells Holdings Awarded by Singapore Airlines for Top Agent Award for the year ICASL Best Annual Report Awards 2012 2011/12 Overall Excellence in Annual Reporting Gold Awarded by Malaysian Airlines for Top Agent Award for the year CASL – Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting Silver 2011/12 Award $POTVNFS'PPET3FUBJM Diversified Holdings (Group above 5 subsidiaries) Sector Ceylon Cold Stores Gold Award CIMA Business Case Awards 2012 – First Runner Up Golden Peacock Global Award for Sustainability ICASL Awards 2012 Food and Beverages Sector – Silver Award Strategic Group IT National export Gold -Medium Scale Agriculture category SAP ACE AWARD for Best Run Business in Sri Lanka (Focused Slim Brand excellence – Gold award – Best Turnaround Brand of Mobility/ Analytics) the year – Elephant House Ice cream John Keells Slim Brand excellence – Bronze award – New entrant brand of ICASL Awards 2012 – Placed second (Silver Award) for Sectorthe year Elephant House 2bar Diversified Holdings (upto 5 subsidiaries) SLIM-Nielsen Peoples Awards 2012 – Most Popular FMCG Beverage Brand of the Year, for Elephant House Cream Soda EFFIE Awards 2012 – Advertising effectiveness awards Bronze award for Necto 298 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information CERTIFICATIONS ACHIEVED BY THE GROUP 2012/13 ISO 22000:2005 Cinnamon Grand Colombo, Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo Kitchen and Stewarding Bentota Beach Hotel, Chaaya Blu Trincomalee, Chaaya Tranz Hikkaduwa, Cinnamon Citadel Kandy, Chaaya Village Habarana, Cinnamon Lodge Habarana, Cinnamon Wild Yala Chaaya Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa, Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo, Chaaya Island Dhonveli Keells Food Products Tea Smallholder Factories PLC – Neluwa, Hingalgoda, Halwitigala, Kurupanawa, New Panawenna, Karawita Tea Factories, John Keells Warehousing ISO 9001:2008 Mackinnons Travels, Mack Air Processes Walkers Tours, Whittal Boustead (Travels) Ceylon Cold Stores, Keells Food Products John Keells Computer Services, John Keells Office Automation Strategic Group IT ISO 14001:2004 Cinnamon Grand Colombo Environment Bentota Beach Hotel, Chaaya Blu Trincomalee, Chaaya Tranz Hikkaduwa, Cinnamon Citadel Kandy, Chaaya Village Habarana, Cinnamon Lodge Habarana, Cinnamon Wild Yala Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo, Chaaya Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa Walkers Tours, Whittal Boustead (Travels) OHSAS 18001:2007 Cinnamon Grand Colombo, Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo Occupational Health and Safety Bentota Beach Hotel, Chaaya Blu Trincomalee, Chaaya Tranz Hikkaduwa, Cinnamon Citadel Kandy, Chaaya Village Habarana, Cinnamon Lodge Habarana, Cinnamon Wild Yala Chaaya Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa, Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo, Chaaya Island Dhonveli John Keells Logistics Crescat Boulevard Shopping Mall, K Zone Mall, Moratuwa Tea Smallholder Factories PLC – Broadlands Tea Factory, John Keells Warehousing ISO 27001: 2005 Infomate, John Keells BPO Green Globe Certification Cinnamon Grand Colombo, Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo Bentota Beach Hotel, Chaaya Blu Trincomalee, Chaaya Tranz Hikkaduwa, Cinnamon Citadel Kandy, Chaaya Village Habarana, Cinnamon Lodge Habarana, Cinnamon Wild Yala Others Switch Asia certification Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo, Chaaya Village Habarana Star Crescent certification Chaaya Blu Trincomalee, Bentota Beach Hotel, Cinnamon Lodge Habarana, Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo Carbon natural certification Walkers Tours SLS Certificate of Conformity: Tea Smallholder Factories PLC – Neluwa Tea Factory, Hingalgoda Tea Factory SLS Mark certifications for Hams range, SLS Mark certifications for Bacon range, SLS Mark certifications for Pannala plant Keells Food Products SLS mark certifications for carbonated beverages, SLS mark certifications for ice cream Ceylon Cold Stores Certificate for complying with the code of practices and guidelines for Legionella Control & Prevention Bentota Beach Hotel Annual Report 2012/13 l 299 PROGRESSIVE GRI INDEX G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level B Disclosure Level of Page IFC* UNGC** Reporting STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation. Fully 7 1 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Fully 52, 53 1 2. Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation. Fully 3 22 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully 4 22 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, operating companies, Fully 4 22 subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. Fully 3 22 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries with either Fully 3 22 major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully 3 22 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/ Fully 290 22 beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. Fully 6 22 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. Fully 5 22 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully 297 22 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Fully 2 22,23 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully 48 22,23 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully 2 22,23 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Fully 49 22,23 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully 48, 54 22,23 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, Fully 48 22,23 suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness Fully 48 22,23 principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and Fully 48 22,23 other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and Fully 2 22,23 techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and Fully 48 22,23 the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement Fully 48 22,23 methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Fully 300 22,23 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Fully 48, 64 24 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under the highest governance Fully 17-18, 2 body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight. 20-21 *IFC Sustainability Framework Performance Standard **UNGC Advanced Principles 300 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level B Disclosure Level of Page IFC* UNGC** Reporting 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Contd. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. Fully 20,33 2 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of Fully 126, 30 2 members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the Fully 25 2 highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior Fully 25, 35-38 2 managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organisation’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Fully 46 2 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the Fully 12, 19, 35 2 highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles Fully 3, 29 2 relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organisation’s identification Fully 51,18-19, 2 and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant 27 risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with Fully 35-36 2 respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the Fully 52 13 organisation. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other Fully 48, 52 4 initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international Fully 295 advocacy organisations in which the organisation: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. Fully 54-56 3 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Fully 54 3 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by Fully 54-56 3 stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the Fully 56 3 organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC Economic performance Fully 122 Market presence Fully 122 Indirect economic impacts Fully 157 EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN Materials Fully 140 13 Energy Fully 137 3 13,14 Water Fully 139 4 13,14 Biodiversity Fully 144 6 13,14 Annual Report 2012/13 l 301 PROGRESSIVE GRI Index G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level B Disclosure Level of Page IFC* UNGC** Reporting EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN Contd. Emissions, effluents and waste Fully 134, 3 13,14 139-140 Products and services Not Compliance Fully 145 13,14 Transport Not Overall Fully 134 LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA Employment Fully 124, 128 9,10 Labor/management relations Fully 129 2 9,10 Occupational health and safety Fully 133 9,10 Training and education Fully 130 9,10 Diversity and equal opportunity Fully 131 2 9,10 Equal remuneration for women and men Not HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR Investment and procurement practices Not Non-discrimination Fully 131, 146 2 5,6 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Fully 129 2 9,10 Child labor Fully 146 2 5,6 Prevention of forced and compulsory labor Fully 146 2 5,6 Security practices Not Indigenous rights Not Assessment Not Remediation Not SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO Local communities Fully 154 -157 Corruption Fully 148 17,18 Public policy Not Anti-competitive behavior Not Compliance Fully 149 PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR Customer health and safety Not Product and service labelling Fully 150 Marketing communications Fully 153 Customer privacy Not Compliance Fully 150 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Economic Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, Fully 120 employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to Not climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations. Fully 123 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Not *IFC Sustainability Framework Performance Standard **UNGC Advanced Principles 302 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level B Disclosure Level of Page IFC* UNGC** Reporting Market presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant Not locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations Fully 122 of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local Not community at significant locations of operation. Indirect economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for Fully 157 public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of Not impacts. Environmental Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Not EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Not Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Fully 136 3 15,16 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Fully 136 3 15,16 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Fully 137 3 15,16 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and Not reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Not Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully 138-139 15,16 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Not EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Not Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and Fully 142 6 15,16 areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in Not protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. Not EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas Not affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Fully 134-136 3 15,16 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Not EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Not EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Not EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Not EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Fully 139 3 15,16 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Fully 141 3 15,16 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Fully 145 3 15,16 Annual Report 2012/13 l 303 PROGRESSIVE GRI Index G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level B Disclosure Level of Page IFC* UNGC** Reporting Environmental Emissions, effluents and waste EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the Not terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats Not significantly affected by the reporting organisation’s discharges of water and runoff. Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact Not mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Not Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonFully 145 3 15,16 compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials Not used for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Not Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by Fully 124-127 11,12 gender. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, Fully 128 2 11,12 and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time Not employees, by major operations. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. Not Labor/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Fully 129 2 11,12 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is Not specified in collective agreements. Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and Not safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of workFully 131-132 2 11,12 related fatalities by region and by gender. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist Fully 132-133 2 11,12 workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Not Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. Fully 130-131 2 11,12 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability Not of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by Fully 129 2 11,12 gender. *IFC Sustainability Framework Performance Standard **UNGC Advanced Principles 304 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level B Disclosure Level of Page IFC* UNGC** Reporting Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category Fully 126 2 11,12 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Equal remuneration for women and men LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant Not locations of operation. Social: Human Rights Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that Not include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have Not undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human Not rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Not Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of Not association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Child labor HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child Fully 146 2 7,8 labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Forced and compulsory labor HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced Fully 146 2 7,8 or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Security practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisation’s policies or procedures Not concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Not Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews Not and/or impact assessments. Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal Not grievance mechanisms. Social: Society Local communities SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact Fully 154-157 assessments, and development programs. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Not SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or Not actual negative impacts on local communities. Annual Report 2012/13 l 305 PROGRESSIVE GRI Index G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level B Disclosure Level of Page IFC* UNGC** Reporting Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to corruption. Fully 149 19,20 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. Not SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Not Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. Not SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related Not institutions by country. Anti-competitive behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices Not and their outcomes. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonFully 149 compliance with laws and regulations. Social: Product Responsibility Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed Not for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Not health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant Fully 152 products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Not product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer Not satisfaction. Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing Fully 153 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Not marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses Not of customer data. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning Fully 150 the provision and use of products and services. *IFC Sustainability Framework Performance Standard **UNGC Advanced Principles 306 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information GLOSSARY OF FINANCIAL TERMS ACCRUAL BASIS DIVIDEND PAYABLE NET WORKING CAPITAL Recording revenues and expenses in the period in Final dividend per share multiplied by the latest Current assets minus current liabilities. which they are earned or incurred regardless of available total number of shares as at the date of whether cash is received or disbursed in that period. the report. PRICE EARNINGS RATIO Market price per share (diluted) over diluted ASSET TURNOVER DIVIDEND PAYOUT RATIO earnings per share. Revenue including associate company revenue Dividend as a percentage of company profits divided by average total assets. adjusted for non-cash gains items. PRICE TO BOOK RATIO Market price per share (diluted) over net asset value BETA DIVIDEND YIELD per share. Co-variance between daily JKH share return and Dividends adjusted for changes in number of shares market return divided by variance of daily market in issue as percentage of the share price at the end PROFIT RATIO return over a 5 year period. of the period. Profit after tax attributable to equity holders of the parents divided by total revenue including share of CAPITAL EMPLOYED EARNINGS PER SHARE associates. Shareholders’ funds plus non-controlling interests Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent and debt. divided by the weighted average number of ordinary PUBLIC HOLDING (FREE FLOAT) shares in issue during the period. Public holding means shares of a listed entity held CAPITAL STRUCTURE LEVERAGE (CSL) by any person other than those directly or indirectly Average total assets divided by average EBIT held by; shareholders’ equity. Earnings before interest and tax (includes other a) its parent, subsidiary or associate companies operating income). or any subsidiaries or associates of its parent CASH EARNINGS PER SHARE company; and, Profit after tax adjusted for non cash items minus EBIT MARGIN b) its Directors who are holding office as Directors share of associate company profits plus dividends EBIT divided by turnover inclusive of share of of the Entity, their spouses and children under 18 from associate companies divided by the weighted associate company turnover. years of age; and, average number of ordinary shares in issue during c) Chief Executive Officer, his/her spouse and the period. EBITDA children under 18 years of age; and, Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and d) any single shareholder who holds 10% or more CASH INTEREST AND TAX COVER amortisation. of the shares Cash flow from operations before working capital changes divided by cash interest and tax payments. EFFECTIVE RATE OF TAXATION QUICK RATIO Tax expense divided by profit before tax. Cash plus short term investments plus receivables, CASH RATIO divided by current liabilities. Cash plus short term investments divided by current EV (ENTERPRISE VALUE) liabilities. Market capitalisation plus net debt. RETURN ON ASSETS INTEREST COVER Profit after tax divided by the average total assets. CASH TO PRICE EARNINGS Diluted market price per share divided by diluted Consolidated profit before interest and tax over RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED cash earnings per share. finance expenses. Consolidated profit before interest and tax as a LONG TERM DEBT TO TOTAL DEBT percentage of average capital employed. COMMON EARNINGS LEVERAGE (CEL) Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent Long term loans as a percentage of total debt. RETURN ON EQUITY divided by profit after tax. Profit attributable to shareholders as a percentage MARKET CAPITALISATION Number of shares in issue at the end of period of average shareholders’ funds. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES A condition or situation existing at the balance sheet multiplied by the market price at the end of period. SHARE TURN RATIO date due to past events, where the financial effect is Total volume of shares traded during the year not recognised because: MARKET VALUE ADDED Market capitalisation minus shareholder’s funds. divided by average number of shares in issue. 1. the obligation is crystalised by the occurrence or non occurrence of one or more future events or, SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS NET ASSETS 2. a probable outflow of economic resources is not Total of stated capital, capital reserves and revenue Total assets minus current liabilities minus long expected or, reserves. term liabilities minus non-controlling interests. 3. it is unable to be measured with sufficient reliability NET ASSETS PER SHARE TOTAL DEBT Net assets as at a particular financial year end Long term loans plus short term loans plus overdrafts. CURRENT RATIO divided by the number of shares in issue as at the TOTAL EQUITY Current assets divided by current liabilities. current financial year end. Shareholders’ funds plus non-controlling interest. DEBT/EQUITY RATIO NET DEBT (CASH) TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN Debt as a percentage of shareholders’ funds and Total debt minus (cash plus short term deposits). (P1 P0 + D) / P0 x100 non-controlling interests. P1 = Market price at the end of the financial year NET PROFIT MARGIN DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) P0 = Market price (diluted) at the beginning of the Profit after tax divided by turnover inclusive of share Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent financial year of associate company turnover. divided by the weighted average number of ordinary D = Adjusted divided for the year shares in issue during the period adjusted for options granted but not exercised. Annual Report 2012/13 l 307 PROGRESSIVE NOTES 308 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Annual Report 2012/13 l 309 PROGRESSIVE NOTICE OF MEETING Notice is hereby given that the Thirty Fourth Annual General Meeting of John Keells Holdings PLC will be held on 28th June 2013 at 10.00 a.m at The Auditorium, The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, 30A, Malalasekera Mawatha (Longdon Place), Colombo 7. The business to be brought before the meeting will be: 1 to read the notice convening the meeting. 2 to receive and consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the Financial Year ended 31st March 2013 with the Report of the Auditors thereon. 3 to re-elect as Director, Mr. A D Gunewardene, who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company. 4 to re-elect as Director, Dr. I Coomaraswamy, who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company. 5 to re-elect as a Director, Mr. M A Omar, who retires in terms of Article 91 of the Articles of Association of the Company. 6 to re-elect as Director, Mr. T Das who is over the age of 70 years and who retires in terms of section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, for which notice of the following ordinary resolution has been given by a member: “THAT the age limit stipulated in Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 shall not apply to Mr. T Das, who is 74 years and that he be re-elected a Director of the Company.” 7 to re-appoint Auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration. 8 to consider any other business of which due notice has been given in terms of the relevant laws and regulations. By Order of the Board JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC Keells Consultants (Private) Limited Secretaries 03 June 2013 Notes: i. A member unable to attend is entitled to appoint a Proxy to attend and vote in his/her place. ii. A Proxy need not be a member of the Company. iii. A member wishing to vote by Proxy at the Meeting may use the Proxy Form enclosed. iv. In order to be valid, the completed Proxy Form must be lodged at the Registered Office of the Company not less than 48 hours before the meeting 310 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com PROXY FORM I/We …………………………………………………..………………..……...................................................................…….…… of ………………………………………………………………………………......…………….... being a member/s of John Keells Holdings PLC hereby appoint ………………………………………………..................................................................……………………..……………..…… of …………………………………………………………..........................................................……………………… or failing him/her MR. SUSANTHA CHAMINDA RATNAYAKE or failing him MR. AJIT DAMON GUNEWARDENE or failing him MR. JAMES RONNIE FELITUS PEIRIS or failing him MR. EMMANUEL FRANKLYN GAMINI AMERASINGHE or failing him MR. TARUN DAS or failing him MRS. SITHIE SUBAHNIYA TIRUCHELVAM or failing her DR. INDRAJIT COOMARASWAMY or failing him MR. ANTHONY RANJIT GUNASEKARA or failing him MR. MOHAMED ASHROF OMAR as my/our proxy to represent me/us and vote on my/our behalf at the Thirty Fourth Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 28th June 2013 at 10.00 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof, and at every poll which may be taken in consequence thereof. I/We, the undersigned, hereby direct my/our proxy to vote for me/us and on my/our behalf on the specified Resolution as indicated by the letter “X” in the appropriate cage: FOR AGAINST To re-elect as Director, Mr. A D Gunewardene, who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company. To re-elect as Director, Dr. I Coomaraswamy, who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company. To re-elect as Director, Mr. M A Omar, who retires in terms of Article 91 of the Articles of Association of the Company To re-elect as Director, Mr. T Das who is over the age of 70 years and who retires in terms of section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 To re-appoint Auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration. Signed on this ………………… day of …………………… Two Thousand and Thirteen. ………………..............……………. Signature/s of Shareholder/s NOTE: INSTRUCTIONS AS TO COMPLETION OF PROXY FORM ARE NOTED ON THE REVERSE. Annual Report 2012/13 l 311 INSTRUCTIONS AS TO COMPLETION OF PROXY 1. Please perfect the Form of Proxy by filling in legibly your full name and address, signing in the space provided and filling in the date of signature. 2. The completed Form of Proxy should be deposited at the Registered Office of the Company at No. 130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2, not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the Meeting. 3. If the Form of Proxy is signed by an Attorney, the relevant Power of Attorney should accompany the completed Form of Proxy for registration, if such Power of Attorney has not already been registered with the Company. 4. If the appointer is a Company or Corporation, the Form of Proxy should be executed under its Common Seal or by a duly authorised officer of the company or Corporation in accordance with its Articles of Association or Constitution. 5. If this Form of Proxy is returned without any indication of how the person appointed as Proxy shall vote, then the Proxy shall exercise his/her discretion as to how he/she votes or, whether or not he/she abstains from voting. Name : …………………………………………………................………………………………. Address : …………………………………………………................………………………………. …………………………………………………................………………………………. …………………………………………………................………………………………. Jointly with : …………………………………………………................………………………………. Share Folio No.: …………………………………………………................………………………………. 312 l JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC l www.keells.com Corporate Information Name of Company Bankers Group Sustainability and John Keells Holdings PLC Bank of Ceylon Enterprise Risk Management Citibank N.A John Keells Holdings PLC Legal Form Commercial Bank 130 Glennie Street Public Limited Liability Company Deutsche Bank A.G Colombo 2, Sri Lanka Incorporated in Sri Lanka in 1979 DFCC Bank Telephone: +94 11 230 6182 Ordinary Shares listed on the DFCC Vardhana Bank Facsimile: +94 11 230 6249 Colombo Stock Exchange Hatton National Bank Email: sustainability@keells.com GDRs listed on the Luxembourg Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation Stock Exchange Muslim Commercial Bank Contact for Media Nations Trust Bank Corporate Communications Division Company Registration No. National Savings Bank John Keells Holdings PLC PQ 14 Pan Asia Banking Corporation 130 Glennie Street People’s Bank Colombo 2, Sri Lanka Directors Sampath Bank Telephone: +94 11 230 6191 S C Ratnayake – Chairman Seylan Bank Email: jkh@keells.com A D Gunewardene – Deputy Chairman Standard Chartered Bank J R F Peiris Auditors E F G Amerasinghe Depository for GDRs Ernst & Young I Coomaraswamy Citibank N.A Chartered Accountants T Das New York P.O. Box 101 A R Gunasekara Colombo, Sri Lanka M A Omar Registered office of the Company S S Tiruchelvam 130 Glennie Street Colombo 2, Sri Lanka Senior Independent Director Internet: www.keells.com E F G Amerasinghe Email: jkh@keells.com Audit Committee Secretaries and Registrars A R Gunasekara – Chairman Keells Consultants (Pvt) Limited E F G Amerasinghe 130 Glennie Street I Coomaraswamy Colombo 2, Sri Lanka Telephone: +94 11 230 6245 Human Resources and Compensation Facsimile: +94 11 243 9037 Committee E F G Amerasinghe – Chairman Investor Relations I Coomaraswamy John Keells Holdings PLC A R Gunasekara 130 Glennie Street S S Tiruchelvam Colombo 2, Sri Lanka Telephone: +94 11 230 6165 Nominations Committee +94 11 230 6000 T Das – Chairman Facsimile: +94 11 230 6160 S S Tiruchelvam Email: investor.relations@keells.com S C Ratnayake Designed and produced by emagewise Photography by Dhanush de Costa Digital plates by Imageline (Pvt) Ltd Printed by Gunaratne Offset Ltd www.keells.com
