SELF-ASSESSMENT  Includes an explicit statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption  Includes a measurement of outcomes  Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer  Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. 4th October 2013 To our stakeholders: MAKA Engineering & Supplies, via its daily business activities and stakeholder relationships, aims to contribute to the UN Millennium Development Goals by reaffirming its support to the Ten principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. As a company, MAKA’s mission is to set the foundations for a sustainable and socially-responsible society via the creation of dynamic, innovative and transparent initiatives, all while ensuring its own corporate practices fall in line with the principles and ethical culture nurtured by the UN Global Compact. Sincerely Yours, Wong Ken General Manager. HUMAN RIGHTS  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. Our Human Resources related company policy embodies human rights and the UNGC Principles. The human rights principles are maintained by our company in the entire business environment and assure our stakeholders of the legitimacy of their cooperation with us.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. MAKA is an inter-disciplinary international team employing people from different cultures and religions for which respect, fairness and equality of opportunity are highly esteemed values.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. We ask our employees yearly to share their view about our business and we conduct personal development discussions with them. The company strives with sustainability combining a satisfied team with a great deal of entrepreneurial experience. LABOUR  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rightsrelated risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. MAKA fully support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour.  Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. At MAKA, staff are selected based on their suitability for the work and education. Staff can resign when they like subject to notice period. All staff have a written contract of employment. Overtime is voluntary and extra payments are made for overtime and holiday working. Staff keep their ID documents. Termination of staff is in accordance with Malaysian labour laws. The company will not use suppliers who use compulsory or child labour.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. There have been no reported instances of forced or compulsory labor in the history of MAKA. ENVIRONMENT  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Conserving and preserving the environment is also a main concern at MAKA.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. In accordance to principles 7 and 8 of the UNGC, we try and keep to a sustainable practice as to reduce, reuse and recycle as much as we can. We often make double sided prints on recycled paper, switch off the lights in the office during lunch breaks and save up on water as best we can.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. At the moment we are embarking on a new phase of our efforts to develop green energy in Malaysia, which when realized, will be a big step towards our goal of encouraging and developing environmentally friendly technologies (Principle 9). ANTI-CORRUPTION  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anticorruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. MAKA restricts itself to business that is possible without any corrupt elements. This applies in particular to all activities for clients from developing markets. Therefore we do not give or accept any illegal favours, gifts or remuneration from our clients and partners.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. Our employees ensure the confidentiality of our customers’ data and avoid all types of conflicts of interest.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. Our reputation and integrity are protected through these actions, and we adhere to high standards, exceeding what others expect from us.
