CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Sustainability Report 2012 table of contents CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Sustainability Report 2012 Introduction The CEO Interview 3 About H&M Conscious 6 Key Highlights from 2012 8 The Challenges Along Our Value Chain 11 Engaging with Our Stakeholders and Joining Forces for Solutions 14 How We Organise Ourselves 15 Commitments Provide Fashion for Conscious Customers 16 Choose and Reward Responsible Partners 27 Be Ethical 47 Be Climate Smart 57 Reduce, Reuse, Recycle 65 Use Natural Resources Responsibly 70 Strengthen Communities 81 Information How We Report 90 Auditor’s Review Report 91 Get in Touch 93 H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 2 of 93 introduction The CEO interview 2012 was another successHow do you view the concept of fashion in regards to sustainability? ful and exciting year for Fashion is and remains a form of H&M. But how do continued self-expression. I’m proud to know strong growth and sustainthat we play a part in that. We want ability go together? Read to help people create their personal about this and more in an style and love what they buy for sevinterview with our CEO eral seasons. And we want to make it easy for them to choose more Karl-Johan Persson. sustainable fashion and to take care of their clothes in a conscious way. How does sustainability fit with H&M’s business model and continued growth? Our business idea is to offer fashion and quality at the best price. Sustainability is an increasingly important part of this. I strongly believe that sustainability will more and more become a hygiene factor in our industry. Our goal is for H&M to be at the forefront of sustainability. Adding sustainability value We take a long-term view on our business. And there is no way for We work hard to always strengthen to our products is one of us not to think about and invest in ” our customer offering. I think that our sustainability, because it simply adding sustainable value to our prodthe keys to strengthen our makes business sense. ucts is one of the keys to do so. customer offering. To begin with, using resources effiWhat opportunities do you see ciently often means reducing costs. in integrating sustainability into But there’s much more to this than Karl-Johan Persson, CEO the business model? the obvious. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 3 of 93 introduction The CEO interview I’m really happy to see that our Ensuring that all workers in supplier customers and colleagues show such There is no way for us not factories earn enough to live on in interest in sustainability. This opens great opportunities to strengthen our to think about and invest a decent number of hours is another key challenge. It’s a complex issue customer offering, build our brands in our sustainability, and solutions need to consider the ” and attract and retain the talent we competitiveness and development need for our continued growth. because it simply makes of entire countries. Our whole industry has more to do to find and And contributing to economic business sense. implement exactly such solutions. growth, jobs and stability in our purAnd the tragic, recent factory fires chasing markets and creating strong show again that safety can’t be partnerships with the best suppliers taken serious enough. helps to secure the supply we need in the years to come. More than that, our strong presence in these of clean water for all of us in the countries provides us with the great years to come. opportunity to improve the lives of hundreds of thousands of people and What are the challenges? help develop entire communities. There are many challenges in our new ones, reducing the impact on industry and our business. I’m proud What were the biggest steps on the environment and providing us of all my dedicated colleagues who this journey in 2012? with access to future resources for work with great passion every day We were named the biggest user of making more sustainable fashion. to make H&M and our industry more organic cotton in the world for the sustainable. But in order to achieve second year in a row. From 2013, together with WWF, great results, we need to focus and, we will set new standards for water together with our stakeholders, balWe are the first fashion retailer in stewardship in our industry. Again, ance the right priorities. To name a the world to launch a global system this collaboration opens great few of these priorities, it’s about closing to collect old clothes and help them opportunities to engage our customthe loop on textile fibres and waste and to a new life. In the long run, we ers on the important issue of water playing our part in combating climate want to upcycle these clothes into and to help secure the availability change and growing water scarcity. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 4 of 93 introduction The CEO interview I also think that we have more to do to overcome common misconcepIn order to create lasting tions such as that only expensive products can be sustainable. In fact, improvements, we need to the retail price of a garment doesn’t promote systemic change ” show how hard a brand has worked to improve conditions. Obviously, that involves everyone it is our job to engage more closely with our stakeholders and customers concerned. on this matter. How do you work to tackle these challenges? In a variety of ways. As an integral At H&M we believe in a fast pace part of our day-to-day work and our and sometimes I feel that the strategy. And of course in the close changes we want to see do not hapcollaboration with our suppliers and pen as fast as we would like. But other stakeholders. in order to create lasting improvements, we need to promote systemic But many of these challenges can’t be change that involves everyone con30 years from now, where do you in the future, upcycling old clothes solved by one company alone. That’s cerned. Our size gives us the opporsee H&M and sustainability in will be a standard in our industry, why we play a very active role in initunity to promote such change well the fashion industry in general? that workers in supplier factories tiatives like the Sustainable Apparel beyond our own operations. We take a long-term view on our can negotiate wages and working Coalition and the Global Compact. business. My grandfather founded conditions in a fair dialogue with And we need to support authorities We see a lot of innovative smaller the company in 1947. I want to see their employers, that making clothes in making the right decisions. For sustainable fashion brands on the H&M continue to be successful and will have a minimal impacts on example, I met with Sheikh Hasina, market. I think this is a great develcreate jobs and growth all over the waters and that consumers all over Prime Minister of Bangladesh, to opment. At H&M, we can help lift world for many years to come. I want the world can easily build their perexpress H&M’s support to raise the such innovations to a larger scale. H&M to be seen as a leader in terms sonal style with sustainable fashion. minimum wage for garment workers Together this will hopefully lead to of innovation, sustainability and, of And that H&M has played its part on and for regular wage reviews. a more sustainable fashion future. course, great fashion. I hope that this journey. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 5 of 93 introduction About H&M CONSCIOUS We want to take on the challenge of making fashion sustainable and sustainability fashionable. At H&M, we like to think But it goes beyond that. We want of sustainability as a word to make more sustainable choices of action, something we do in fashion available, affordable and The global need for attractive to as many people as possirather than something we energy is estimated ble. Together with our millions of cussimply say. It is an ongoing tomers we can bring massive change to increase by 45% process with a clear direction – from improving the livelihood of to be continuously improved. a cotton farmer to how our customers by 2030 It is a journey that requires determination, passion and * care for the clothes they buy. We want our colleagues to be proud of teamwork. Because together The need for fresh where they work. We want our customwith our colleagues, stakeholders, business partners water by 30%* ers to feel reassured about the fashion they buy and that we have exceeded and peers, real, lasting their expectations. We can see there change is possible. And for food by are clear opportunities to further strengthen our customer offering by It’s about the 3 Ps. People, planet, and profit. All highly interconnected. All 50%* adding sustainability value to our product lines. We want to take on the equally important. The earth is facing challenge of making fashion sustainscarcity issues on many fronts. Clean able and sustainability fashionable. water, energy and cotton, to name a few. Our business is no exception. Our We have made great achievements vision is that all our operations should on this journey, but together with our be run in a way that is economically, entire industry we have much more socially and environmentally sustainto do. The biggest challenges today able. Turning this vision into a reality include climate change, impacts on helps us do great business using fewer water across the textile value chain as resources. It also allows us to conwell as overtime and wages in supplier tribute to better lives for people and * Source The report of the United Nations Secretaryfactories. Another major challenge is communities around the world. General’s High Level Panel on Global Sustainability. the growing resource scarcity, while H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 6 of 93 introduction About H&M CONSCIOUS too many textiles end up in landfills. Our sev en commitments We want to use our scale to bring about systemic change to our industry and across our entire value chain. 1. In doing so, we are at the forefront Provide fashion for conscious of sustainability. customers That is why we have created H&M Conscious. With seven ambitious 2. strategic commitments at its heart, Choose and reward responsible this is the name for all the work partners we do for a more sustainable fashion future. Hundreds of what we call 3. Conscious Actions – big and small, short and long term – work to put Be ethical these commitments into practice. 4. This is our 11th sustainability report. Be climate smart While we remain humble before our challenges, we are very excited by 5. the Conscious Actions we have taken and the progress we have made. This Reduce, reuse, recycle report outlines some of the Conscious Actions we have taken or worked 6. towards during 2012. Use natural resources responsibly This report has been prepared using the GRI G3.1 guidelines. Please find 7. further details on how we report here (page 90). Strengthen communities H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 7 of 93 introduction Key highlights from 2012 Don’t let fashion go to waste! Too much fashion ends up in landfills. We love fashion and thought: Does this really have to be the end of the story? We think not. That’s why we are now the first fashion company in the world that offers its customers around the globe the opportunity to hand in clothes, from any brand, that they no longer want. In return, they receive a small reward as thanks. We will then help to reuse and recycle all of them, ultimately aiming to close the textile loop. No.1 in orga nic cotton Game-changing Water – The story continues Partner ship with W W F According to the organisation Textile Exchange, For the past ten years, we have worked hard to we are topping the charts in organic cotton use reduce water impacts along our value chain. Now, for the second year in a row. But wait, there’s together with WWF, we are taking this to a whole more. Aside from further increasing our use of new level. In a three-year partnership, we will organic cotton in the future, we’re investing heavwork towards implementing a holistic water stewily in Better Cotton and gradually increasing ardship strategy that aims to be a game-changer our use of recycled cotton. All together, we are for our industry and beyond. Starting with the right on track with our target to use only cotton decisions our designers make at the drawing table coming from these sources by 2020 at the latest. all the way through to promoting better water management amongst public policy-makers. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 8 of 93 introduction Key highlights from 2012 Clever care Tr a nspa r ency to labels are a go the next lev el Did you know that 36 percent of the climate For many years we have worked hard to build impact in a garment’s life happens when being strong, long-term relations with our suppliers washed or tumble dried in our homes? Well, if based on trust and transparency. We invested not, you’re certainly not alone. To make it easier time, money and a lot of heart. Now, we’re taking for all of us to care for our clothes in a conscious this work to the next level and have just published way, we collaborated with Ginetex, the owner of our supplier factory list. Why? Because we think the current global care label standard to develop that transparency brings positive change. And the new so-called clevercare label. Our first garbecause we want to incentivise our suppliers to ments will carry this label in Summer 2013. take ownership over their sustainability and recognise the progress they are making. Joining forces for fair dialogue in Cambodi a Together with IF Metal, one of Sweden’s largest unions, we are starting up a unique project to strengthen the dialogue between employees and employers in the Cambodian textile industry. Today’s relations are often confrontational. The aim is to help both trade unions and employers, to find lasting solutions in fair collective bargaining processes that benefit the workers and create a stable market. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 9 of 93 introduction Key highlights from 2012 No to PFCs Perfluorinated compounds (PFCs) are commonly used to make products water repellent. As practical as they are, once released into the environment they remain for a long time and can harm the reproduction of organisms. For many years, we have worked hard to find better alternatives which meet our quality requirements. In 2010, we launched our first products made with a PFC-free alternative. And we’ve continued the work to scale this up. Now, we are one of the first brands that has banned PFCs from all its products. For FAIR wages All for Children We believe that everyone in the fashion industry goes Bangl a desh should earn a fair wage that is enough to live on. We extended our All for Children collaboration In 2012, our CEO Karl-Johan Persson met the with UNICEF to now include Bangladesh. With Bangladeshi Prime Minister, Sheikh Hasina, to one of the largest garment industries in the world, underline H&M’s support for higher minimum the country is experiencing strong economic wages and regular wage reviews. It’s a complex growth. That said, half of the 60 million children challenge, but we keep working hard together still live below the international poverty line. The with our suppliers, their workers, industry peers project will run for five years to support about one and governments and by setting up model factomillion people in and around the capital Dhaka. ries to achieve the needed systemic change. With almost USD 8 million, this also marks our biggest single community investment to date. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 10 of 93 introduction The challenges along our value chain H&M Conscious aims to tackle the challenges across our entire value chain and, in doing so, creates new opportunities for long-term business success. For those challenges most closely related to our core operations, we have the ability to directly influence the impact we make. For others, our influence is indirect; for example, we can make a difference by choosing conscious raw materials or responsible business partners, or by collaborating with our stakeholdDesign raw materials fabric processing ers to tackle the challenges that we influence High impact High influence Low impact High influence Low impact High share with our industry and with the communities in which we operate. Sustainability starts with the very Working conditions, intense water Fabric processing also raises confirst design idea. Our challenge and chemical use are concerns assocerns regarding water, chemicals is to create affordable fashion that ciated with processing raw materials and working conditions as well as our customers love from season (e.g. cotton). We do not purchase carbon emissions. Usually, we do to season and that is easy to care raw materials directly, but by making not have direct business relationfor in a conscious way. It’s about conscious choices we can signifiships with mills but we work with the materials we choose and using cantly reduce impacts. We need to a dedicated mill development prothese as efficiently as possible, use raw materials as efficiently as gram and with important stakeholders while considering impacts on people, possible and work towards closing such as Solidaridad and NRDC. We costs and the environment right the loop. Our active involvement also work to increase the traceabilfrom the start. with the BCI, Textile Exchange or ity of fabric used for our clothes to UNICEF increases our influence. increase our influence. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 11 of 93 introduction The challenges along our value chain Manufacturing Transport Sales Use influence Medium impact High influence Medium impact Low influence High impact Medium influence Medium impact High Ensuring high social and environTransport represents approximately Our more than 2,800 stores in The way our customers take care mental standards with our 785 sup3 percent of the carbon emissions 48 countries across 4 continents of our products has a major envipliers can be a challenge especially in a garment’s lifecycle. However, (incl. franchises) are where most ronmental impact. From a life cycle in terms of complex industry-wide by choosing the right modes of of our colleagues work. This is perspective, about 36 percent of issues such as wages, overtime transport we can reduce this impact also where about 90 percent of our all carbon emissions occur when and safety. We not only monitor further. And, as a customer, we also direct energy use occurs. Our chalconsumers wash and tumble dry factory compliance but also provide use our influence to promote envilenge is to ensure that we live our their clothes. We are working to training for our suppliers and their ronmental consciousness amongst corporate values and that we work inspire our customers towards workers, promote social dialogue our transport providers. in a resource-efficient way wherconscious garment care and reward and collaborate with others such as ever we operate, including energy them for bringing old clothes to Better Work, the Fair Labor Associaefficiency and increasingly sourcing H&M stores. We will then help tion and the Fair Wage Network. renewable energy. to reuse and recycle all of them. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 12 of 93 introduction The challenges along our value chain Challenges in the life of a T-shirt… …and ways to tackle them 10% of all pesticides in the world are Choosing organic cotton used in cotton production . means zero pesticides . H&M’s current organic and Better Cotton usage Conventional cotton used in a T-shirt needs as means over 140,000 kg fewer pesticides many as 15 bathtubs of water to grow. used in 2012 alone. 4 m 2 of agricultural land has been used. The space Better Cotton requires 20% less water. required to produce 100 T-shirts is enough to grow 700 kg of potatoes . Recycled materials do not need to be grown on any agricultural land. 36% of its climate impact occurs when it is washed and tumble-dried at home. Switching from 60 to 40 degrees when washing saves 41% of the energy used. With an average of 3 wash loads per week, German households could save 5% of all waste in US landfills is textiles. more than 440 million euros each year. Enough to fill 32,750 Boeing 747s . 95% of all textiles can be recycled . figures are Estimations based on following sources panna.org; epa.gov; landtechnik.uni-bonn.de. The impact reduction figures from Better Cotton are based on results from BCI projects in India (water & pesticides), Pakistan and Mali (pesticides). H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 13 of 93 introduction Engaging with our stakeholders and joining forces for solutions 13 million fans on Facebook No one understands the situpation in several multi-stakeholder try collaborations, partnerships and ation of a garment worker initiatives and as part of our stratemulti-stakeholder initiatives, such Acknowledgements better than the garment gic business intelligence. as the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI), Knowledge bears weight, but Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC), achievement bears lustre as the sayworker. Or the experiences Joined forces Fair Labor Association (FLA), Fair ing goes and here are some of the of a sales advisor than someBut more than that, we seek to join Wage Network (FWN), Better Work indeces, rankings and awards that one actually working on the forces with our stakeholders in order and the Roadmap to Zero Discharge assessed and recognised our sustainstore floor. This is why the to tackle some of the major chalof Hazardous Chemicals. ability performance during the year. constant and open dialogue lenges in our industry. Challenges with our stakeholders is so that affect everyone along our value > hm.com/memberships Dow Jones Sustainability Index chain and that no company can > hm.com/stakeholderdialogue important to us. FTSE4Good solve on its own. *Including customers, colleagues, communities, suppliers and their employees, industry peers, Global 100 List Close collaboration with our stakeIn order to find and implement the NGOs, IGOs, policy-makers and investors. holders, both internal and external, required solutions, we need to team World’s Most Ethical Companies is essential in enabling us to tackle up with our peers, suppliers, NGOs Newsweek Green Ranking the challenges we face throughout and many more players. We see sharour value chain. Diversity and a multitude of voices lead to innovation ing best practice and developing ways to jointly tackle common challenges 9,815 interviews Source Award Finalist Textile Exchange Future Shaper and the insight into our stakeholders’ as key to taking our sustainability with garment workers knowledge and viewpoints helps us work further and making the whole Rank a Brand 423 responses to anonymous prioritise the Conscious Actions we industry more sustainable. take and the resources we invest. Collaborating with others can help to > hm.com/whatotherssay Throughout the year, we work to increase the level of influence we have supplier satisfaction survey maintain regular dialogue with each and set new standards – voluntary or major group*. We do this on day-today basis, through regular formal legislative, well beyond our sphere of direct influence. 86% of colleagues stakeholder roundtables on a global filled in employee survey and local level, dedicated surveys, To this end, we are involved in media analyses, our active particia number of local and global indusH & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 14 of 93 introduction How we organise ourselves Our Head of Sustainability reports directly to our CEO Our sustainability ambitions Our CEO, CFO and Head of SustainOrganisation chart are born from our corporate ability review the progress made values and our drive for twice a year. Just as frequently as our Head of Sustainability reports perBoard of constant improvement. This formance against key sustainability Directors is demanded and monitored indicators to our Board of Directors. throughout our business. Major sustainability issues influencBi-annual Sustainability is an integral element ing more than one department or performance of our business strategy. Our Head of conflicting interests are discussed reporting CEO Sustainability reports directly to our in a decision-making forum called CEO and the responsibility for the the Green Room with the involveimplementation of our sustainabilment of our CEO. ity strategy is held by our executive management team. About 100 people from our sustainability team operate from our 15 proHead of Other senior We have a total of around 170 colduction offices around the world. They Sustainability executive functions leagues who work with sustainability work directly with our suppliers to as a core task. Our over 20 people support them in complying with our strong, head office Sustainability team Code of Conduct and help to make is responsible for developing global tarour supply chain more sustainable. gets, reviewing progress, encouraging Central Sustainability Conscious and advising all relevant departments Around 50 so-called Conscious Department Coordinators on the development and implementaCoordinators work in our different tion of material Conscious Actions. departments and country offices ” supporting the implementation of With this support, all our departments are then individually responour global sustainability strategy in their organisations. Around 170 people work with sible for developing and carrying out the Conscious Actions necessary to sustainability as a core task. fulfil our seven commitments. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 15 of 93 Commitment One Provide fashion O ur business concept is to for conscious customers offer fashion and quality at the best price. To us, quality is so much more than the fabric you can touch between your fingertips. Quality includes that our products should be designed, produced, transported and sold with care for people and the environment. It’s about every facet along our entire value chain. And of course about listening to our customers. Because it’s all about the fashion they love and what inspires them. More sustainable fashion is an added value to our offering that our customers are increasingly looking for. Our Conscious Collections show that choosing more sustainable fashion does not mean compromising on design or price. Our permanent Conscious range applies these innovations on a larger scale and makes a better choice easily accessible all year long. Together we can contribute to a more sustainable fashion future. Conscious fashion, however, is not just about our customers’ choices. We keep working hard to make all our products more sustainable, piece by piece. Because, quite simply, it’s the right thing to do. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 16 of 93 commitment one Provide fashion for conscious customers Performance overview highlights from 2012 progress report – We used more certified organic polyester as is equivalent to 7.9 milcommitment one cotton than any other company lion plastic bottles. Provide fashion for conscious customers status in the world, for the second year in on track/ a row. – To make it easier for consumers to CONSCIOUS ACTION started more to do achieved care for their clothes in a conscious 1.1 Use only more sustainable cotton* – 11.4% of the cotton we used came way, we collaborated with Ginetex, from more sustainable sources, the owner of the current global care 1.2 Support innovation in sustainable fibres including 7.8% organic cotton and label standard to develop a new clev1.3 Promote more sustainable leather 3.6% Better Cotton. By 2020 at the ercare label. Make 7 million pairs of shoes using water based adhesives latest, we want to reach 100%. 1.4 – We became a member of the board 1.5 Inspire our customers to join our Conscious Actions – We launched a collection of evenof the Sustainable Apparel Coalition 1.6 Introduce conscious wash and care instructions ing dresses made of conscious mate(SAC). rials worn by celebrities around the 1.7 Help set industry standard for measuring product sustainability world, clearly showing that afford1.8 Collaborate with French government in pilot on product lifecycle assessment able more sustainable fashion is ready for the red carpet. 1.9 Provide best possible sustainability training for buyers and designers 1.10 Increase the knowledge amongst our sales advisors about our sustainability work – Our support for innovation in sustainable materials continues. For 1.11 Translate new sustainability website into multiple languages example, we used as much recycled * Please find an independent assurance statement related to GRI 3.1 indicator EN1 (cotton) here (page 91-92). 2,200 hours 27% of our leather shoes 375,000 visitors to 7.4 million were made from leather certified by our sustainability of training on pairs of shoes made sustainability the Leather Working Group (LWG) website using water-based for our designers and buyers adhesives H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 17 of 93 commitment one Provide fashion for conscious customers Stakeholder Voice Niels Oskam, Cotton Initiative and the Roadmap Founder, Rank a Brand towards Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals. In addition, we would Through the use of clear and translove to see H&M shift their targets parent labelling, H&M is enabling from reducing carbon emissions relathe rapidly-increasing number of tive to sales to reducing their absoconscious consumers to make more lute annual carbon emissions. As sustainable shopping choices. H&M the turnover of H&M grows year after labelling indicates, for example, year, planet earth does not. when clothing is made of preferred materials such as organic cotton. All together there is a long way to go, to make fashion garments in a way The annual Sustainability Report that is fair and sustainable, but that published by H&M gives good is what consumers expect from cominsight into the company’s policies panies, and it’s totally worth it! and performance around: reducing carbon emissions, environmental impact and improving labour conditions in the countries which produce their goods. This allows consumer organisations like Rank H&M is enabling the a Brand to use the information and provide consumers with clear facts, rapidly-growing number empowering them to make sustainof conscious consumers ” able shopping decisions. to make more sustainable Rank a Brand encourages H&M to expand its investments in sustainshopping choices. ability projects such as the Better Niels Oskam, Founder, Rank a Brand H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 18 of 93 commitment ONE Provide fashion for conscious customers Conscious Action 1.1 Use only more sustainable cotton Started More to do on track latest Organic Cotton Market % of mor e sustainable cotton H&M’s r a nk as user of orga nic Report 2011. Since then we have on our total cotton use cotton 2008 –2011 continued to increase the volume of 1 1 organic cotton we use by more than 11.4% 0.6% of the time scale 2020 20 percent and it now represents global cotton production is Status 11.4% more sustainable cotton 7.8 percent of our total cotton use. estimated to be organic bet t er co t t on 3.6% We also took big steps into Better Estimation 7.6% Cotton is the material we use most. Cotton, which now makes 3.6 perabove based on Textile It is a natural, renewable material cent of our cotton use. This means Exchange and with many advantages, but it also significant reductions in water and ICAC data. orga nic orga nic cot ton 4 raises a number of concerns. For chemical use and better livelicot ton 7.6% 7.8% example, conventionally-grown hood for hundreds of thousands of cotton can have a heavy impacts cotton farmers who are trained in 5 on the environment such as intense better farming techniques through use of water and pesticides. Organic the Better Cotton Initiative’s (BCI) 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 cotton, Better Cotton and recycled implementation partners SolidariAs requested by many of our stakeholders and for Latest available data according to Textile Exchange’s comparability reasons we report our use of more Organic Cotton Market Report 2011, published in cotton reduce this impact signifidad and WWF. sustainable cotton in percentages and not by weight. Autumn 2012. cantly. That’s why, by 2020 at the Please find an independent assurance statement related to GRI 3.1 indicator EN1 (cotton) here (page 91-92). latest, we aim for all our cotton to Recycled cotton is still a niche n o o d u c e d w come from such more sustainable product today, but we believe that r cpe h e a t st m e r What is mor e si ic ic u se fe g i a d l r ni sources. Doing so also helps farmin line with our ambition to close t f il ic e f u r e so is a se t sustainable cotton? c e nt r l il is ia s y e ers and their communities improve the textile loop, more recycled cotl o r r e r B a c r pe d n it e s u t e c o n r ia ic d id c their standard of living. ton will be available in the future. l a GMO a e he r g p pl s m u i e -s c o i e se c c t t d a l a l o n e a va il a Looking at our 2012 figures, we “H&M’s world-leading use of organic cotton continb il e it r y are on track on this journey. We ues to drive demand. This supports cotton farmers, Conventional Cotton no no no no no yes Better Cotton yes no yes yes no yes maintained our position as the largencourages innovation and with its fashion forward Organic Cotton no yes yes no yes no est user of certified organic cotton Conscious Collections, H&M lifts more sustainable Recycled Cotton yes yes yes no no no for the second consecutive year fashion to scale.” We consider certified organic cotton, Better Cotton according to Textile Exchange’s LaRhea Pepper, Managing Director, Textile Exchange and recycled cotton as more sustainable cotton. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 19 of 93 commitment ONE Provide fashion for conscious customers No. 1 user of organic cotton in the world Stakeholder Voice Janet Mensink, International program coordinator sustainable Fashion, Solidaridad Network What are the benefits of Better Both standards have proven to Cotton? impact the lives of cotton farmers Better Cotton is a holistic and and their environment. Solidaridad innovative approach to change is working with the two systems the cotton sector. It strives for in the field, meaning that we train continuous improvement on ecoand support farmers to convert nomic, social and environmental to smarter and more sustainable issues that have a very negative agriculture. More cotton with fewer footprint if cotton is cultivated resources. We have first-hand expeconventionally. Its scope is global, rience that both better and organic aiming for a mainstream solution. cotton lead to measurable improveThe Better Cotton Initiative is set ments at the farmer level, including up in a multi-stakeholder setting, less pesticide use, increased income and backed by major brands and and better conditions for labourers. retailers, farmer organisations, traders and manufacturers and What difference does it make for civil society organisations. The people and the environment if a interesting aspect of Better Cotton company like H&M switches from is that brands and retailers aren’t conventional cotton to more susThat H&M switches to more simply complying with a standard; tainable cotton? sustainable cotton can ” they are also investing in trainConverting to a more sustaining farmers to help them cultivate able economy is only possible more sustainable cotton. when the private sector is driving organic and Better Cotton can litchange the lives of hundreds Why do you support Better Cotton this change. H&M can be a game changer! That H&M switches to erally change the lives of hundreds of thousands of farmers and the of thousands of farmers. in addition to organic cotton? more sustainable cotton, such as communities they live in. Janet Mensink, Solidaridad Network H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 20 of 93 commitment ONE Provide fashion for conscious customers Conscious Action 1.2 Conscious Action 1.3 Support innovation in sustainable fibres Promote more sustainable leather started more to do on track to inform our material choices. started more to do on track came from Portugal which has not Besides promoting the best options, been prioritised for certification we are working to gradually phase due to high EU standards. China out those materials classified as is another important sourcing time scale ongoing time scale ongoing least sustainable (class D). We also Status 27% of leather shoes made with certimarket for leather with greater Status we used 1,450 tonnes of recycled wool support Mistra and their ‘Future fied leather environmental challenges. As a Fashion’ project, which promotes consequently, 63 percent of Chinese systemic change in the fashion leather used came from LWGAlongside our target to use only industry. It produces detailed Leather products can require certified tanneries. more sustainable cotton, H&M is an research on textile recycling and intense chemical treatment using important user of many innovative amongst other things, on how to substances that can harm the H&M only accepts products made fabrics like Tencel®, recycled wool, speed up the market introduction environment. While we restrict of leather from animals that have recycled cotton, organic linen and of material innovations. hazardous chemicals through our been bred for meat production. No organic hemp. Chemical Restriction List, we do not vulnerable or endangered species > hm.com/consciousmaterials source any leather directly and have may be used. We do not sell exotic By driving demand, we want to therefore less direct influence over animal skins and do not allow cow strengthen the market for these this stage of our value chain. This is leather originating from India due materials and encourage further innovation. This is a key to H&M plays a leadership why in 2009 we joined the Leather Working Group (LWG) to promote to poor transport conditions. role by showing other 27% tackling some of the challenges in sustainable business practices in > leatherworkinggroup.com our industry and offers business this sector. Tanneries must comply opportunities – like turning PETbrands in the same space with high environmental standards bottles into exclusive red carpet before being certified by the Group. dresses. This reduces both the that it is possible to create need for virgin resources as well as fashion collections that We work to ensure that as much ” consumer waste. We used as much of the leather used to make our of our leather recycled polyester as is equivalent to 7.9 million PET bottles in 2012. are more environmentally products as possible comes from LWG-certified tanneries. In 2012, shoes were made from responsible. 27 percent of the leather shoes in LWG-certified We use the fibre benchmark created our stores were made of such leather. by the organisation MADE-BY Allanna McAspurn, CEO, MADE-BY Most of the leather used, however, leather H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 21 of 93 commitment ONE Provide fashion for conscious customers Conscious Action 1.4 Make 7 million pairs of shoes using water-based adhesives started more to do Achieved 7 million pairs. We exceeded that goal as well and produced 7.4 million pieces. We aim to further increase this figure in the future. time scale 2012 Status we achieved 7.4 million pieces Solvent-based adhesives are often used in shoe and bag production, but they can be harmful to workers in factories if not handled with sufficient protection. In 2009, we started working with chemical manufacturers, adhesive producers and accessory, bag and shoe suppliers to idenNo. of shoes produced using tify possible water-based alternatives. water-based adhesiv es Trials showed that the content of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) 7.4 m i llion (ta rget 7 m i llion) could be reduced by 65 percent without compromising quality. In 2010, 450,000 pairs were produced this way. By the end of 2011, we had increased these numbers by more than 400 percent to more than 2.4 million 2.4 million pairs. Since then, 100 Using waterpercent of our bags are also probased adheduced using water-based adhesives. sives is better 450,000 for the health of those who make For 2012, our goal was to produce 2010 2011 2012 the products. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 22 of 93 commitment ONE Provide fashion for conscious customers Conscious Action 1.5 Inspire our customers to join our Conscious Actions started more to do on track our work with UNICEF in India and Bangladesh on children’s rights. We are also expanding our community investments through in-store donatime scale ongoing Status global system to collect old clothes for tion campaigns. reuse and recycling launched We want to create fashion that our customers love from season to While we need to keep working hard season and that helps them build to make fashion more sustainable, their personal style. But if the point we know that our customers play comes when some clothes are no an important role, too. That’s why longer right, we want to make it we want to inspire them to join our easy for customers to not let them Conscious Actions. To achieve this, go to waste. Through our new global we want to make conscious choices initiative we are collecting unwanted easy, available, affordable and clothes, from any brand, in H&M attractive to as many people as posstores in all our markets to help sible. But more sustainable product reuse and recycle them. choices alone are not enough. We also try to inspire climate and H&M has the strength and ability to bring We involve our customers on a number of fronts. Through dedicated water-conscious garment care. And we are working in several ways to sustainability ideas to the marketplace collections and campaigns we team make informed choices as easy as at scale. In the future I would like to see ” up with them to help communities possible for consumers, for example and raise awareness of important through the Sustainable Apparel new business models – fewer products matters. Our Fashion Against Aids Coalition. campaign focused on HIV/Aids and different ideas about fashion. awareness, H&M for Water on water Kate Fletcher, author of the book Sustainable Fashion and Textiles: issues in some of the poorest comDesign Journeys (2008) and reader at the Centre for Sustainable munities in the world and our All Fashion, London College of Fashion for Children collections support H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 23 of 93 commitment ONE Provide fashion for conscious customers Conscious Action 1.6 Conscious Action 1.7 Introduce conscious wash Help set industry standard for measuring and care instructions product sustainability started more to do on track our customers to reduce this impact. started more to do on track their products. This in turn helps to That’s why we started discussions highlight areas ripe for technologiwith Ginetex in 2011. Ginetex is the cal innovation and to set the right owner of the current global standard priorities. At H&M, we tested the time scale ongoing time scale 2013 care labeling system. Our aim was Status Sustainable Apparel Coalition launpilot version of the Higg Index during Status new clevercare label launched to develop a globally-applicable care ched the Higg Index the year and found great value in it. label that encourages consumers A challenge of how to apply the index to care for their clothes in a more on a larger scale, however, remains Making fashion more sustainable conscious way. Joining forces with industry peers and will require continued work. includes inspiring our customers to and other stakeholders is key to choose conscious garment care. We chose to collaborate with Ginetackling the major sustainability Ultimately, taking this groundbreaktex in order to create a common challenges in our industry. This ing work another step further, the The ‘user phase’ accounts for about standard for all brands globally to is why we joined the Sustainable Sustainable Apparel Coalition aims 36 percent of the climate impact of avoid a patchwork of different standApparel Coalition in 2011. This to translate the Higg Index into a garment’s lifecycle. Water eutrophards and labels, that would make quick-growing multi-stakeholder iniconsumer labelling, allowing cusication – resulting, for example, from things more confusing for everyone. tiative today brings about 50 percent tomers to compare the sustainability washing detergents and softeners This new so-called clevercare label of the global apparel and footwear performance of apparel and footwear – also arises to about 30 percent when is now available to all apparel brands production including brands such products across products and even clothes are washed in our homes. globally. The first orders carrying as Patagonia, GAP Inc., Nike Inc. brands. In line with our aim to make this new label are planned to reach and many more together with other more sustainable choices as easy as There are many ways to reduce this our stores in summer 2013. key stakeholders such as suppliers, possible for consumers, we fully supimpact in a smart way without comacademics, and NGOs. Together, port this ambition. promising on comfort or increasing > hm.com/care we are working to build a common costs. For example, reducing the > clevercare.info approach for evaluating product sus> apparelcoalition.org washing temperature from 60 to tainability performance, using what 40 degrees can save 41 percent in is known as the Higg Index. energy use. What’s more, it keeps clothes just as clean and fresh 60° 40° Created in 2012, the index provides – and it saves money! all members with a common tool to measure and benchmark the 41% less energy use We want to play a part in inspiring environmental and social impacts of H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 24 of 93 commitment ONE Provide fashion for conscious customers Conscious Action 1.8 Conscious Action 1.9 Collaborate with French government in Provide best possible sustainability pilot on product lifecycle assessment training for buyers and designers started more to do Achieved The results underline the imporstarted more to do on track tance of the user phase on CO2 emissions and water eutrophication and the high water-intensity of cottime scale 2012 ton cultivation. time scale ongoing Status pilot conducted Status 2,200 hours of training provided The take-home from this project will be of great help in our conDuring 2011, we started collaborattinued work to analyse and miniIn order to offer more sustainable ing with the French government in an mise impacts of apparel products fashion to our conscious customers, initiative called the Grenelle Project. throughout their lifecycle. It will buyers and designers have to be well The project involves identifying meashopefully also support the process of informed about the sustainability urements for environmental impact developing legislation for transparent values and the impact of different and finding the best ways to make this product impact disclosure in the EU products and their decisions. impact transparent for customers. – an ambition that we support. To this end, we provide dedicated As part of the project, we looked at En v ironmental impact of a t-shirt mandatory training for these colone of our t-shirts and evaluated the throughout its lifecycle leagues. total water use, CO2 emissions and eutrophication impacts throughout Additional internal and external inits life cycle, from growing the cotCarbon depth training courses are encourton to the disposal or recycling of 4.47 kg/CO2 e aged for people in key positions and the garment. on a voluntary basis, for example in collaboration with the SustainCollecting the necessary quality able Fashion Academy. In 2012, we data for this ambitious undertaking provided a total of 2,200 hours of Water was a challenge that helped us in eutrophication Water use sustainability training for our buyers gaining valuable knowledge. In 2012, 4.83 gr/phosphate 4.34 m3 and designers. we launched a dedicated website equivalents disclosing the exact results of this analysis to our French customers. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 25 of 93 commitment one Provide fashion for conscious customers Conscious Action 1.10 Conscious Action 1.11 Increase the knowledge amongst our sales Translate new sustainability website advisors about our sustainability work into multiple languages Started More to do on track started more to do Achieved time scale 2013 onwards time scale 2012 Status new training programme in Status website translated into 8 languages development We want our colleagues to feel proud We want to make a conscious and of where they work and confident informed choice as easy and attracthat they can deliver the best postive to our customers as possible. sible customer service. So together As part of this, we translated our with the launch of our first Conscious new sustainability website into eight Collection in 2011, we rolled out a major languages spoken in some mandatory training programme for of our most important markets. all our sales advisors. The aim is to provide as transparent information as possible to both our 375,000 A study showed that while our interested customers as well as other colleagues were well-versed in I would like to see more stakeholders, complementing our conscious materials, other aspects of our sustainability work were not sustainability training for annual sustainability reporting. always as well known. staff and more sustainabiThe website also features a regularly updated blog from our Head of Susvisitors to our lity communication to our That is why in 2012, we started tainability, keeping our stakeholders sustainability ” developing a broader sustainability informed about our progress and training ladder including extencustomers in store, such activities. website sive mandatory training for all our colleagues. Additional mandaas signs or posters. > hm.com/conscious tory role-specific and voluntary Marcel Krink, Sales Advisor in H&M store training courses are planned from DE714, Karlsruhe, Germany 2013 onwards. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 26 of 93 Commitment two and environmental consciousness throughout our value chain. Our commitment is to choose and Choose and reward responsible reward responsible partners who share our values and who are willing partners to be transparent and work with us to improve their social and environmental practices. We provide training and support for improvements. Production takes place at around 1,800 factories that are owned or subcontracted by 785 suppliers. We W look for long-term partnerships with e set high standards for our suppliers and engage in strateour suppliers and regularly gic partnerships with the best ones. monitor how well they live And we reward good sustainability up to them. Likewise, in order for performance with better business. them to deliver their very best we As a result, our some 150 strategic need to be a good partner ourselves. partners make more than 50 percent of our products. The challenge is that garment production is often located where We focus on working towards human rights are at risk and envigreater involvement of the workers ronmental awareness is less develthemselves and on empowering our oped. As a labour-intense industry, suppliers to take ownership of their for many of these countries this sustainability issues. A close colmeans the first step in industrial laboration with our industry peers development, contributing to jobs and many other stakeholders is key and economic growth. As a comfor change. pany, we want to make sure that sourcing from these countries conAll this in turn can contribute to tributes to a positive development for greater stability in the producing the community and to better lives countries and tends to translate into for the people working in this sector. more efficient operations and higher quality products. Respect for people and the environment is an essential part of our Increasingly, we are also working to values. We use our influence to improve conditions in other parts promote better working conditions of our value chain. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 27 of 93 commitment two Choose and reward responsible partners Performance overview highlights from 2012 progress report – We conducted 2,541 audits at – Our supplier sustainability perforcommitment two our supplier factories (first tier). mance index (ICoC) increased from Choose and reward responsible partners status Together with training and other 76.5 to 78.4 during 2012. on track/ support, this totals an average of CONSCIOUS ACTION Started More to do achieved 3.6 activities per factory, all working – As a result of our work to build 2.1 Be a responsible partner to our suppliers to improve their sustainability. strong, long-term relationships with our suppliers, we decided to publish 2.2 Choose responsible partners – Our CEO visited the Prime Minister our supplier list. 2.3 Have best possible knowledge about our value chain and our suppliers’ sustainability performance* of Bangladesh, Sheikh Hasina, to 570,821 workers Go beyond monitoring and help suppliers strengthen their sustainability ownership emphasise H&M’s support for higher 2.4 minimum wages and regular wage in Bangladesh 2.5 Further increase sustainability performance amongst supplier factories adjustments in the country. trained in their rights 2.6 Reward good sustainability performance with better business – Together with the Swedish union, 2.7 Increase workers’ awareness of their rights IF Metall, we initiated a project in since 2008 2.8 Promote higher wages for garment workers across the industry Cambodia aiming to improve the 9,815 interviews dialogue between employers and 2.9 Set up model factories unions and to strengthen collective 2.10 Ensure freedom of association and promote social dialogue bargaining. with workers in our supplier factories 2.11 Reduce overtime in supplier factories 2.12 Support better health for factory workers in Cambodia 2.13 Continue to promote improved fire safety in Bangladesh More than 100,000 workers and middle 2.14 Continue to promote an end to Sumangali schemes in the Indian textile industry managers in Bangladesh have received additional 2.15 Request ban on Uzbek cotton training in fire safety * Please find an independent assurance statement related to GRI 3.1 indicator AF 14 here (page 91-92). H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 28 of 93 commitment two Choose and reward responsible partners Stakeholder Voice ” Viveka Risberg, aspects a role model in the industry: Director, Swedwatch On a strategic level because of its H&M is a forerunner and in some continuous dialogue with decision What are the biggest challenges makers and on the operational level aspects a role model in the industry. of the fashion industry from your because of the focus on worker’s Viveka Risberg, Director, Swedwatch perspective? rights in the factories. Garments are produced mainly in countries with repressive regimes Where do you see H&M’s that do not promote human rights strengths? and sound wage processes based on The company’s size and expansion UN standards and gender equality. are natural strengths that give H&M Women especially, who constitute a mandate and possibility to influa majority of the workforce in the ence. The top management’s engagefashion industry, are deprived of their ment stands out as a good example rights. Therefore a major challenge in the sector. The company’s efforts for the industry is to both support in measuring and rewarding compligarment workers and at the same ant suppliers shows that CSR is not time use its leverage on a national only an external issue but on its way and international level for increased to be core. wages and improved working conditions. Less water consumption, clean What actions would you like to see cotton production and replacing from H&M in the future? cotton with other materials are of I would like to see H&M upgrading course important challenges for the the Code of Conduct’s demand for industry, too. minimum wage to a wage to live on as well as greater actions for respectWhat role do you think H&M plays ing human rights in Bangladesh and in tackling these challenges? extra attention to the situation of H&M is a forerunner and in some working women. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 29 of 93 commitment two Choose and reward responsible partners Conscious Action 2.1 Be a responsible partner to our suppliers started more to do on track to utilise their capacity as effectively as possible and plan their continued growth. That’s why as part of our Our 148 strategic partners make 53% of our products supplier relationship management time scale ongoing Status 423 responses from suppliers to first we offer our strategic partners up to broad supplier survey five-year mutual capacity planning. In order to check how well we live We have high expectations of our up to our partnership approach, we suppliers in terms of quality, prices, surveyed our suppliers to see how lead times and sustainability. But they feel about working with us. demanding positive change from our It was the first time we conducted suppliers starts with us. We have such an extensive supplier survey a responsibility to ensure that our and we received 423 responses to purchasing processes enable our the anonymous questionnaire. The suppliers to live up to our demands results indicate that the vast majorby providing fair lead times, fair ity of the respondents were satisfied pricing, on-time payments and clear with their business relationship communication. We work with them with us (around 90 percent), while in close partnership to learn from satisfaction was even higher amongst and understand each other and to our strategic partners. More than 70 reward suppliers with good sustainpercent said that their partnership ability performance. with H&M has improved since we introduced our supplier relationship Having our own production offices management programme in 2011. It close to our suppliers allows us to also shows that most of our suppliers have a constant dialogue with them. think that we have reasonable and Long-term We strive for long-term relationships. clear demands on lead times, prices partnerships Key for our suppliers are long-term and flexibility. and mutual capacity planpartnerships and mutual growth, ning are key to together with good planning in order > hm.com/responsiblepurchasing suppliers. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 30 of 93 commitment two Choose and reward responsible partners 96% of all factories Conscious Action 2.2 audited before first order placement Choose responsible partners started more to do on track ner. If, based on this understanding, We set high they continue to show a strong willsocial and environmental ingness to work with us in a trustful standards for and transparent manner, our comour suppliers. time scale ongoing Status compliance with minimum requiremercial sourcing teams often starts ments necessary to place orders with a factory with a compliance screening process, supported by dedicated tools. We are a growing company. With 10 If this first assessment is positive, to 15 percent new stores per year, our auditors conduct an in-depth we constantly need to source new head audit. They have the mandate to production capacity. As part of our take the final decision about whether sourcing strategy, we only allow a supplier or individual factory fulfils production to take place with supour minimum requirements and has pliers and in factories that sign our the potential for further improveCode of Conduct and commit to our ment. Only after our auditors’ values. This is the case whether they approval orders can be placed with are owned directly by our suppliers any factory. or subcontracted by them. And it remains the case regardless of the In 2012, we audited 485 potential price they offer. new supplier factories and of these New partners must comply with did not approve 25 percent (119) . All factories that are approved in 25% the minimum requirements of our this initial assessment are covered of potential Code from the beginning and show by our Full Audit Programme (FAP), new the necessary willingness to work towards full compliance. When through which we continuously monitor the progress made by each factories were assessing a potential new partner, factory and work to remediate any we start by providing them with non-compliance that might arise. rejected detailed training about the expectaat the first tions we have of a responsible part> hm.com/monitoring audit H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 31 of 93 commitment two Choose and reward responsible partners Conscious Action 2.3 Have best possible knowledge about our value chain and our suppliers’ sustainability performance 2,646 Started More to do on track inspection of the factory, management interviews, document checks and interviews with workers. Audits are complemented with thorough time scale ongoing Status 2,646 audits and 9,815 worker management system analysis, aiming interviews conducted to prevent any non-compliance in audits conducted a sustainable manner. Through our 15 production offices No. of audits on Initial head audits are largely unanaround the world, more than 1,800 activ e factor ies nounced (2012: 66 percent). Our Code of our colleagues work to maintain of Conduct covers 100 percent of our close relations with our suppliers and T o ta l au dit s commercial goods suppliers, with support their performance in various 2,646 audit intensity varying based on our 62 areas. This gives us the opportunity 58 F oll ow risk assessments and the importance to understand each market and supup au dit s of the factory to our business. Any T o ta l plier on an in-depth level. Through 1,854 non-compliance detected requires 2,541 47 our strong presence, we can also 28 the supplier to draft a remediation work as closely as possible together plan which is followed up on by us. with our suppliers on a daily basis, Head 1,779 Wherever needed, we provide or faciliAu dit s integrate what we learn in our busiT o ta l tate additional support in implement792 ness decisions and interact with local 15 ing the remediation plan. We publish 30 stakeholders. all detailed audit results here. 747 There are around 100 sustainabilResults from our audits are aggreity experts based in our producnoncom m erci a l gated in our Index Code of Conduct tion offices who regularly audit our product s (ICoC index). Each factory and eachsupplier factories’ compliance with secon d -ti er su ppli er s supplier is rated with an ICoC score our Code of Conduct and support fact or i e s (cu t & sew + pro ce ssi ng) (max. 100 percent) based on their improvements. Our audits follow compliance. These scores are clearly a constantly updated list of around FLA v er i fic at ions: 14 communicated to each factory. It’s 300 questions and include an ( 7 a sse ssm en t s/ 7 wor k er su rv eys) also an integrated working tool in H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 32 of 93 commitment two Choose and reward responsible partners 62% of our suppliers’ emloyees are female Supplier factory complia nce lev el The data shows the compliance level of all supplier our purchasing processes. Our data also extending the use of our Code factories approved for production as of 30 Nov 2012. per ar ea of r equir ements shows that strategic factories show of Conduct to include suppliers of Further details including a regional breakdown are available at hm.com/suppliercompliance. a stronger performance than factonon-commercial products such as Ch i ld ries that we have just started workstore interiors and marketing matel a bou r Tr a nspa r enc y & mon it or i ng 100% Housi ng ing with – a clear indication of the rial and conducted a total of 62 H e a lth con ditions 91% 97% improvements that our partnership headand follow-up audits. Wor k er s’ Wor k er s’ & sa fet y 82% Ch em ic a l M eta l ba sic r igh t s pl ati ng approach promotes. r igh t s 75% En v iron m en t h a n dli ng 72% 75% 76% 67% Hom e Seeking to further expand the transwor k er s 61% Additional independent verification parency of our supply chain, we have R equ ir e m en t s f or audits conducted by the Fair Labor decided to disclose the list of our you ng wor k er s Association (FLA) ensure the quality supplier factories, covering about 47% of our audit programme and help us 95 percent of our production volume. to constantly improve our methods as This publication is a consequence we strive to tackle root causes of nonof our focus on strong and long-term Please find an independent assurance statement related to GRI 3.1 indicator AF 14 here (page 91-92). compliance in a transparent, trustful partnerships with suppliers, allowing and sustainable manner. us to disclose their names without Av er age sustainability per for m a nce No. of suppliers and factories by region major concerns about competition scor e (ICoC) per factory category We have continued our work to on production capacity. Str ategic Fact or i e s Fact or i e s (a ll) 1,798 A ll increase our influence over stages N ew fact or i e s 53% of pi ece s 81.7 further down in our value chain. > hm.com/monitoring fact or i e s 78.4 Far East produced by str ategic 760 For the past few years, we have > hm.com/supplychain 71.4 pa rt n er s increased our engagement through > hm.com/supplierlist 9,815 our Mill Development Programme, Sou th Asi a which we continue to work with. Su ppli er s (a ll) 499 785 In 2012, we conducted a total of 58 Fa r East 340 str ategic audits on second-tier suppliers and EMEA 539 fact or i e s Sou th Asi a 440 we now require all our first-tier sup242 str ategic Pa rt n er s pliers to provide us with information EMEA 148 on the fabric mill for each order. The worker interviews 203 aim is to deepen our knowledge and New factories = results at first audit One supplier can own or subcontract to one or more influence over fabric mills. We are conducted All and strategic factories = results from factories. Strategic factories are normally factories existing factories by 1 Dec 2011 owned or subcontracted by our strategic partners. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 33 of 93 commitment two Choose and reward responsible partners Conscious Action 2.4 Go beyond monitoring and help suppliers strengthen their sustainability ownership started more to do on track tices and auditing, we ultimately aim to significantly extend the improveAv er age number of sustainability activ ities A healthy business requiments in the sustainability perforstr ategic factor ies vs. res long-term sustainabimance amongst our suppliers. all factor ies time scale ongoing lity. H&M’s self-assessment Status 1,588 management systems analysed During 2012, we conducted 1,588 management system analyses Str ategic Fact or i e s project helped us to calibrate our internal audit 4.7 amongst our supplier factories. ” A ll Monitoring our suppliers is imporTogether with about 2,300 other fact or i e s tant, but not enough to create lastactivities (such as capacity building 3.6 procedures according to ing change. Over the past few years and workshops) and 2,541 audits, we have therefore focused on going each factory received an average of H&M’s requirements. beyond monitoring to create sustain3.6 (strategic factories 4.7) activities Mrs. Ranga Ranmadugala, CEO, Brandix able progress with the active particiaiming to improve their sustainability. Essentials Ltd., Sri Lanka pation of our supplier factories and their workers. Our long-term aim is We are happy to see that more and for our suppliers to increasingly take more of our suppliers are taking a charge of their own sustainability. strong ownership over sustainability That’s why we are investing major today, publishing their own sustain1,588 resources in helping them improve ability reports and showing a strong their management systems and prorecord of performance measurevide and facilitate extensive training ments. In Sri Lanka, we have thereto factory management, mid-level fore started to test self-reporting management and workers themof sustainability performance with selves in order to strengthen their selected suppliers that have reached in-house sustainability capacities. a very mature level in their sustainsupplier management Our focus is on our strategic partability. The test will be conducted and evaluated throughout 2013. system analyses ners, where we have stronger influence and bigger impact. This way, > hm.com/beyondmonitoring conducted complementing our purchasing pracH & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 34 of 93 commitment two Choose and reward responsible partners Conscious Action 2.5 Further increase sustainability performance amongst supplier factories started more to do on track clearly communicated. Through our Progr ess in factory in-house production office organisasustainability per for m a nce tion, they are closely integrated into (in ICoC scor es) our purchasing systems. We conduct 81.7% time scale ongoing Status sustainability performance (ICoC) annual dialogue meetings with our increased from 76.5% to 78.4% suppliers in which we amongst other 80.0% 79.3% things discuss their sustainability 79.3% 78.8% performance and their achieved ICoC 78.4% Ultimately, by being a good partner score and together set priorities for 77.5% to our suppliers, continuously monifurther improvements. 76.5% 76.6% 76.4% toring and strengthening our suppliers’ sustainability management, Over the year we have seen continued Dec Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 and rewarding good performance we progress across our entire supplier The sus2011 2012 2012 2012 2012 tainability want to increase their sustainability base with constantly increasing ICoC performance Str ategic A ll performance further. In addition, by scores, while our strategic factories amongst our fact or i e s FACTORIE S increasing awareness of their rights have shown an overall higher persupplier factoApplies to comparable factories that were used for ries improves production from 1 Dec 2011. amongst factory workers, promotformance level as well as a stronger measurably. ing social dialogue and rewarding increase throughout the year. We the best performing suppliers with will continue our work to promote better business, we hope to conimprovements and closely monitor H&M’s efforts in tribute to a positive development in and report on the progress made. the factories and their surrounding measuring and communities. > hm.com/monitoring rewarding compliWe focus on our strategic factories ant suppliers shows ” where we have the strongest impact. We use our ICoC index to measure that CSR is on its their sustainability performance, consisting of compliance results from way to be core. our audits. Each factory and each Viveka Risberg, Director, supplier holds an ICoC score that is Swedwatch H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 35 of 93 commitment two Choose and reward responsible partners 5.8 Conscious Action 2.6 years average Reward good sustainability performance length of supplier with better business Stakeholder Voice relations started more to do on track volume with scores weighted against the available capacity in our factory Joyce Chen, Merchandise Manager, Hempel (China), Co. Ltd base. The data show that we choose better performing factories in our How long have you been working projects on workers’ rights and time scale ongoing Status we choose better performing factories order placement. Our supplier survey as supplier of H&M? environmental protection backed by in our order placement indicates that our suppliers experiWe have been working with H&M clear values and targets to achieve. ence and appreciate such reward. for around 20 years, since we started our business in 1992. Back then we How would you decribe your In order to sustain and incentivise We have also integrated sustainabilonly had 120 workers. Since then partnership with H&M? good sustainability performance, we ity closely in our supplier relationwe have been growing together with It’s a close collaboration between need to ensure that we reward our ship management, offering long-term H&M year by year and today, we business partners. H&M has high suppliers with what they would apprestrategic partnerships with our best employ more than 3,000 people. demands on transparency and in ciate most long-term business relaperforming suppliers. Such strategic And we keep expanding – we opened turn offers the same. The feedback tionships and growth opportunities. partnerships provide mutual bena new factory in 2010. is fast, helping us to react quickly efits, for example by securing stable and keep a fair mutual dialogue. Our strong in-house sustainability business through long-term capacWhat has changed since the start? Long-term capacity planning and teams, based in our production ity planning up to five years ahead. In our industry, production has continuous increases in orders are offices close to our suppliers, help Out of our 785 suppliers, curmoved from Turkey to China and important for our business and us integrate results from audits into rently 148 strategic partners ICoC recently from China to Bangladesh. closely linked to H&M’s sustainabilour order placement and sourcing (19 percent) make 53 percent Weighted We have continued to grow, but we ity requirements. processes. We have integrated the of our products. need to continuously improve in performance score (ICoC) for each order to keep up with demands on What would you like to see supplier factory into our planning > hm.com/supplierrelations by or der quality, on-time delivery, capacity, from H&M to further improve and order systems, aiming to place volume 78.8 prices and sustainability. During the the partnership? more and bigger orders with the betby Supplier partnership, H&M has perfected the Most important is stable order capacity ter performing factories. 77.3 related systems and continuously placement also during the low increased the focus on sustainability. season. I would also like to see In order to measure how well we As a supplier, we receive in-depth even more sharing of best practice perform in terms of this ambition, training to improve our sustainabilamongst suppliers when it comes we compare the ICoC scores of our ity and H&M itself is driving several to quality and sustainability. supplier factories weighted by order H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 36 of 93 commitment two Choose and reward responsible partners Stakeholder Voice Dan Rees, Director, What do you think are H&M’s Better Work strengths when it comes to sustainability? How long have you been colH&M is ahead of the curve in CSR. laborating with H&M? Their commitment to sustainWe started our collaboration with ability is supported by all levels of H&M in 2005 in the Better Factories their organisation. The company Cambodia Programme. has strong and decisive leadership, good relations with key stakeholdWhat was your first impression ers, skilled staff and it is large of H&M? enough to drive real change in the Our impression was that H&M supply chain. was a company that took CSR seriously, focusing on improving What actions would you like factory conditions and not just folto see from H&M in the future? lowing a “tick-the-box” approach We would like to scale up our in auditing, which was common impact and make the most of at that time. H&M’s leadership. We would encourage H&M to get more How did the partnership evolve? suppliers involved in Better Work. Better Work is now partnering Sustainability should be placed at with H&M in more countries. the heart of H&M’s business stratWe have seen how the business egy, decision-making and negotiahas developed more strength and tions with suppliers. depth in its efforts to improve factory conditions. H&M is honest about what they want and what they can and cannot do. And they deliver on promises. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 37 of 93 commitment two Choose and reward responsible partners 570,821 workers have been educated Conscious Action 2.7 about their rights since 2008 Increase workers’ awareness of their rights started more to do on track We also work to increase workers Workers in awareness on their rights through our supplier factories in our regular work with all our supBangladesh plier factories, requiring the availreceive traintime scale ongoing ability of our Code of Conduct for ing on their Status 570,821 workers trained since 2008 rights using workers in local language and putshort films. ting focus on functioning grievance systems and social dialogue. Workers in supplier factories are often unaware of their rights. We Each year we conduct thousands believe that only workers who are of worker interviews through which aware of their rights can construc– among other things – we check the tively claim them and contribute to level of awareness for example on a more sustainable garment industry. their right to freedom of association or how their wages are actually calIn 2008, we teamed up with suppliculated. Looking back into the past No. of wor kers educated % of wor kers who k now how ers and local NGOs in Bangladesh four years, we can see good improveabout their r ights their wage has been calculated to develop a series of five short films ments in workers’ awareness particSi nce 20 08 and training packages in order to ularly in China making us confident 169,071 570,821 increase this awareness. 570,821 to further focus on this strategic 100% I n di a workers and middle managers element of our work. Ba ngl a de sh received this training since the start 128,958 128,790 Ch i na of the project in 2008. During 2012, > hm.com/beyondmonitoring 115,195 T u r k ey 128,790 workers and middle managers were trained. 50% 2009 2010 2011 2012 In 2012, we developed similar short films also in India together with four 28,807 other brands. We will implement the program in 2013. Based on results from 3,420 worker interviews. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 38 of 93 commitment two Choose and reward responsible partners Conscious Action 2.8 Promote higher wages for garment workers across the industry Started More to do On track different customers? And how can Fair Wage Network and as part of we ensure that wage developments this the FLA conducted independin garment factories contribute to ent assessments of wage structures a natural growth in society without in about 200 of our supplier factime scale ongoing Status independent fair wage assessments risking the competitiveness of entire tories. Following this, we work to conducted countries? implement the fair wage concept in selected model factories aiming These are serious challenges but to deliver best practice examples. Everyone in the garment industhey are not excuses. We believe try should earn enough to live on. that empowered workers are the We work to strengthen the social There is no doubt. One of the basic ultimate key to fair wages and dialogue in our supplier factories requirements set out in our Code working conditions. While we are and reward those that have trade of Conduct, is that factory workers realistic about the fact that there union representation and functionmust be paid at least the minimum is a long way to go in many couning worker committees in place. wage guaranteed by law. The Code tries, until wages are negotiated in of Conduct also expresses a clear fair collective bargaining processes, When it comes to workers’ Both empowered workers and best intent that the salary must enable this must be the ultimate aim. In practice examples from individual for the workers to support themorder to achieve this, we work on wages our standpoint factories can help to bring systemic selves and their families. three levels. change to countries and sectors. is clear: We support the In order to ensure this throughout our industry, further systemic We work to increase the awareness on their rights among workers Bangladeshi workers’ We also want to contribute to this by directly using our influence on change is needed. The challenges through dedicated projects in Bangdemand for higher wages decision makers and promote func” along this way are diverse and comladesh and India and through our tioning systems for minimum wages, plex. For example: Can individual regular work with all our suppliers. and regular reviews of the their reviews and collective bargainfactories pay higher wages than ing on industry level. their competitors without putting On the factory level, we have for minimum salary. their business and jobs at risk? many years now been monitoring Karl-Johan Persson, Our CEO met with the Bangladeshi How can one single buyer ensure the compliance with applicable minCEO, H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB Prime Minister, Sheikh Hasina, to that workers earn more in a factory imum wages or collective bargaining underline H&M’s support for workthat may be working for 10 or 20 agreements. In 2011, we joined the ers’ claims for higher wages and H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 39 of 93 commitment two Choose and reward responsible partners Conscious Action 2.9 Set up model factories systems to continuously review and applicable monthly minimum wages started more to do on track By doing this, together with these adjust wages to increases in the vs. av er age wages model factories we also want to work cost of living. The meeting followed to implement the fair wage concept. two letters sent to the Government We are currently in the process of USD 476 time scale starting 2013 of Bangladesh in 2010, after which AV er age WAGE Status plan to create model factories with identifying the best suited partners minimum wages in the country minimum some of our best suppliers for this endeavour. WAGE were increased by up to 81 percent, although systems for annual reviews USD 389 > hm.com/beyondmonitoring are still missing. USD 374 We place high demands on our supplier factories – in various regards In Cambodia, we teamed up with including sustainability. We are the Swedish union IF Metall to help USD 90 USD 176 USD 100 already seeing many of our strateUSD 61 local employer organisations and USD 91 gic partners performing very well USD 42 USD 83 unions develop functioning colagainst these requirements while Ch i na T u r k ey lective bargaining systems for the Ba ngl a de sh C a m bodi a I n di a (Gua ngd ong (Ba ngastill keeping up with constant prov i nce) l or e) entire sector. Rewarding suppliers improvements. But we also know for good sustainability performance Data based on audit results from representatively selected factories in that many of our suppliers and our supports this work with clear busieach country/region. Wages applicable for machine operators (usually entire industry have more potential the largest group of employees) excluding overtime. In China, piece-rate ness benefits and security for supplisystems often apply, hence wage data for China is not comparable. to improve. ers through a strong integration of sustainability into our purchasing To showcase that leadership in practices and our commitment to sustainability can go well together long-term relationships. with best performance in all other areas, we want to team up with > hm.com/beyondmonitoring some of our best partners and create > fair-wage.com model factories. These best practice examples should set standards for our industry in many areas, including quality, sustainability, efficiency and lead times. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 40 of 93 commitment two Choose and reward responsible partners Conscious Action 2.10 Ensure freedom of association and promote social dialogue Started More to do on track with higher ICoC scores. Freedom dia has a long history of collective % of supplier factor ies with of association, however, remains bargaining and trade union representr ade u nion r epr esentation a major challenge in many of the tation. 100 percent of our supplier per r egion markets in which we operate due factories in the country have trade 78% time scale ongoing Status 21% of our supplier factories have to various political and societal unions in place. However, negotiatrade union representation in place reasons. We want to play our part tions in the sector are often confronin going beyond just monitoring freetational, resulting in dead ends. dom of association and contribute At H&M, we believe that social diato improved social dialogue in our Together with the Swedish trade logue and the fundamental right to supply chain. union IF Metall, and several other freedom of association are key elestakeholders, we have set up a ments of successful and stable busiIn 2011, we launched a social unique project aiming to educate 18% 21% ness operations – both for ourselves dialogue project in Bangladesh. trade unions and employers on the 6% and for our suppliers. But many of We selected five factories to set best importance of solution-oriented, the countries in which our suppliers practice examples on democratic fair negotiations. We hope that EMEA Fa r E a st * Sou th Asi a t o ta l 2012 2012 2012 2012 are located lack systems of social workplace representation. Since this results in more stable market dialogue, such as collective bargainthen we provided the management conditions with better results for * China and Vietnam are not included as national legislation allows only one national trade union. ing on wages and working condiand workers with comprehensive the workers in Cambodia. tions. In Bangladesh and Cambodia training through external experts in particular, this has led to violent who also facilitated a total of 140 In China, freedom of association unrest and instability in the past. improvement circles involving more remains a challenge due to politithan 2,500 workers. In these circles, cal reasons. Workplace representaIn 2011, we made a major shift in workers and managers discussed tion brings new opportunities for the way we assess compliance with issues such as wages, leave, working worker involvement which is why the right to freedom of associaclothes and protective gear at work, we promote workplace committees tion. Instead of asking if a worker’s leading to jointly-agreed solutions. amongst our suppliers. right to freedom of association is respected, we now measure if trade In 2012, we initiated a new exciting > hm.com/beyondmonitoring unions are actually in place. Factoproject in another important producries with trade union representation tion market: Cambodia. Unlike many in place are now being rewarded other emerging markets, CamboH & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 41 o f 9 3 commitment two Choose and reward responsible partners Stakeholder Voice Erik Andersson, International workers. The trade union moveH&M has a close cooperation both aiming to train and educate both Secretary at the Swedish ment needs to be better equipped with the suppliers, unions, governthe employers and the unions in through education and training ment bodies and Better Factories negotiating collective bargaining union IF Metall in order to better represent their Cambodia. agreements in good faith. What are the biggest challenges members in negotiations with of the fashion industry from your employers and to improve employWhat actions you would like to perspective? ment conditions and wages through see H&M take in the future? The biggest challenge certainly is collective bargaining agreements. As major action for the future, I see to achieve decent and fair working that H&M and IF Metall together conditions for all employees in the What role does H&M have in carry out the project which we textile industry. tackling these challenges? are jointly planning for Cambodia, Through its auditing program, H&M How important is the collaboramonitors and follows up on that tion amongst companies and the applicable ILO conventions other stakeholders in overcoming which are stated in H&M’s Code these challenges? of Conduct are followed by their It is very important that H&M suppliers. In Cambodia, H&M has a is working for good cooperaclose cooperation with ILO’s Better tion between suppliers and their Factories Cambodia which is active employees. in improving compliance with the ILO conventions in the readymade Looking at Cambodia – how does garment industry in the country. the country differ from other markets and what is needed to Where do you see H&M’s improve the situation of garment strengths? workers? H&M has its own organisation on Cambodia is a country with a low the ground in Cambodia that folstandard of employment condilows up the suppliers’ compliance tions and low wages for the garment with H&M’s Code of Conduct. And H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 42 of 93 commitment two Choose and reward responsible partners Conscious Action 2.11 Reduce overtime in supplier factories started more to do on track tions and management systems are needed. Adding to the complexity of the issue, overtime compensation is often an important contributor to time scale ongoing additional income, resulting in workStatus further industry efforts needed ers themselves often demanding for overtime to increase their pay. Overtime continues to be a major Together with our suppliers we have challenge in the garment industry. gained knowledge about the strucEven though we require all suppliers tural causes of overtime and entered to comply with national labour laws several projects in this regard, for regarding overtime, non-compliance example aiming to decrease overis common throughout the industry. time by increasing their efficiency. By the end of 2012, we registered Through our supplier relationship a compliance rate of 17 percent on management we can reduce stress overtime hours within the legal limon suppliers through our purchasing its among our supplier factories. decisions, and through our management system analysis and capacity One way we can help minimise building we work to help suppliers overtime is through our own buyovercome structural issues in their ing behaviour – fair lead times, operations. clear communication and long-term capacity planning help suppliers to However, the challenge of overtime improve their staff planning and remains a core issue in our industo reduce the need for overtime to try. It will require further scalable meet production deadlines. solutions in close connection with further promotion of higher wages Sadly, this alone does not yet while considering market-specific guarantee less overtime. Further needs. We are committed to further improvements in supplier operafocus on this challenge. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 43 of 93 commitment two Choose and reward responsible partners Conscious Action 2.12 Support better health for factory workers in Cambodia started time scale ongoing more to do on track In line with recommendations, the concerned factories developed dedicated action plans. Improvements have been achieved in cooling, ventilation and chemical handling. ing solutions to this complex challenge throughout the sector. > hm.com/beyondmonitoring > betterfactories.org 179 human resource Status 179 human resource employees trained employees in in improved communication In other areas, including grievance handling, health and safety committees that involve workers have supplier factories trained improved In 2012, incidents of workers been created. fainting or feeling nauseous were in reported in seven factories in Cambodia. Out of these factories, four We also initiated a six-month programme to engage more local staff communication also produced garments for H&M to take middle management posiand 218 workers were affected there. tions. This is intended to improve We ordered independent assesscommunication between Khmerments to find the root causes of speaking workers and the often these worrying incidents, but the Chinese-speaking management. results were not conclusive. One We are also training HR and Complireason was that these incidents ance employees in improved comonly happened in Cambodia and in munication and grievance systems. factories producing different kinds Some 179 key personnel received of products making it difficult to this training. find a pattern. We are continuing our work to also To address this concerning issue, address this issue on an industry we have worked together with Betlevel through our close relationship ter Factories Cambodia (ILO-BFC), with the ILO-BFC programme and our suppliers and industry associawith other concerned stakeholders We work tions to adopt measures to prevent across Cambodia. Furthermore, we closely with various such incidents. are continuing to work on a broader stakeholders in action plan to help implement lastCambodia. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 44 of 93 commitment two Choose and reward responsible partners Conscious Action 2.13 Continue to promote improved fire safety in Bangladesh started more to do on track uted to more than 1,250 factories well as a specialist to assess the elecand we hope that the continuation and at H&M supplier factories alone trical installation in four factories. of related training programmes more than 100,000 workers have will help to address this issue with received the training. Our aim is These assessments were finalised stronger impact. time scale ongoing Status 109,400 workers and middle managers to reach out to approximately 4,500 in Spring 2012 and their results received additional fire safety training exporting garment factories in were presented to concerned > hm.com/beyondmonitoring Bangladesh with around 3 million stakeholders at a seminar in Dhaka. workers by the end of 2013. The most common shortcomings in Fire safety is a major issue in regards to electrical safety such as Bangladeshi garment factories. Based on a study that we conducted poor-quality materials, poor mainte109,400 Poor electrical installations and bad in 2011, we raised the concern of nance and lack of proper electrician maintenance often create significant lapsed fire-safety licenses with the training were discussed. During the fire hazards. In order to make a safe Government of Bangladesh and seminar, a number of actions were workplace the norm throughout the engaged the Bangladeshi University proposed, including introducing sector, we think that it is essential to involve all stakeholders such as of Engineering and Technology as stricter legislation and inspections. workers and middle the government, industry organiIn order to set a good example, we managers in sations, trade unions and other brands. This is why we developed We teamed up with have stipulated that all our supplier factories conduct electrical assessH&M supplier factories two training films to increase fire 18 other brands and ments in their factories, and have alone have received safety awareness amongst employees at all levels in garment factolocal stakeholders aiming offered to share the costs with them. additional fire safety ries. We teamed up with 18 other brands and employer associations to reach some 3 million Together with the Fire Defence and Civil Department, we have also contraining in the sector, BGMEA and BKMEA, workers in Bangladesh ducted five factory assessments on ” to spread this training not only in fire safety, involving the factories’ our some 200 supplier factories, but across the entire industry. with additional fire safety worker representatives. training. The assessments have shown that So far, the training material has, a continued increase in awareaccording to BGMEA, been distribness about fire safety is needed H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 45 of 93 commitment two Choose and reward responsible partners Conscious Action 2.14 Continue to promote an end to Sumangali Conscious Action 2.15 schemes in the Indian textile industry Request ban on Uzbek cotton started more to do on track influence. We are therefore working started more to do Achieved Since the beginning of 2013, we hard to address this issue through contractually request all our supcollaborative actions and public pliers to not source any cotton policy, while continuing to work from Uzbekistan neither directly time scale 2012-2014 time scale 2013 Status we joined forces in a multi-stakeholder towards increasing our influence Status all suppliers are now contractually nor through their suppliers. This project run by the Ethical Trading Initiative over this stage. requested not to source cotton from Uzbekistan now also includes a commitment to monitor compliance along their In 2012, we decided to join a threevalue chain, allowing us to perform Sumangali schemes are a form of year, multi-stakeholder project Using underage anywhere is comrandom verification checks. forced labour that involves young run by the Ethical Trading Initiative pletely unacceptable. The global women being sent from their home (ETI). The project aims to tackle cotton supply chain is often complex In parallel, we are mapping all fabric villages to work, usually, in spinthis issue in joint efforts with all and we do not have direct business mills used by our suppliers and ning mills. In Tamil, ‘sumangali’ concerned stakeholders on a comrelationships with cotton producers. working on setting up the required refers to an unmarried girl becommunity as well as industry level. Nevertheless, we address the issue data systems to track the origin ing a respectable woman through This includes awareness-raising of forced child labour in the Uzbek of fabrics used to make our clothes. marriage. In return for their work amongst the general public and cotton industry regularly. the women and their families are active engagement with suppliers While our tracing systems continue to promised a dowry at the end of a and spinning mills as well as the In 2011, together with about 60 evolve, we aim for all cotton to come three-year contract. relevant local governments and other brands and NGOs, we signed from more sustainable, fully traceable regulators. a pledge facilitated by the Responsisources by 2020 at the latest. We view Sumangali schemes as absoble Sourcing Network committing us lutely unacceptable and not compliant > hm.com/beyondmonitoring not knowingly source Uzbek cotton. > hm.com/cotton with the minimum requirements of > ethicaltrade.org > sourcingnetwork.org our Code of Conduct. We address the Additionally, we have worked to influissue with our suppliers and monitor ence relevant policy-makers. In 2011, the existence of any kinds of forced the European Parliament rejected labour through our audit programme. a trade deal that would have made it easier for Uzbekistan to export textiles Sumangali schemes occur mainly in to Europe. We continue to welcome spinning mills, over which we norpolitical efforts that can help to end mally do not have direct contractual the use of child labour in Uzbekistan. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 46 of 93 Commitment three Be ethical B eing ethical is about doing the right thing. It means to not only treat our partners and colleagues fairly, but to try to go beyond the legal minimum. Words like transparency, integrity, respect, honesty, values and responsibility capture our essence of our commitment to being ethical. We rely on thousands of people and relationships in delivering our business objectives. Whether they are customers, colleagues or business partners, we believe that showing respect towards everyone who contributes to H&M’s success is fundamental to our business. Our ethical approach is based on our commitment to respect human rights, taking a clear stand against corruption and is firmly rooted in our corporate values. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 47 of 93 commitment three Be ethical Performance overview highlights from 2012 progress report – To underline our strong commitH&M has shown commitment three ment to human rights, we launched a specific Group-wide human rights awareness of their Be ethical status on track/ policy based on the UN Guiding Princompany’s exposure CONSCIOUS ACTION Started More to do achieved ciple on Business and Human Rights. 3.1 Ensure awareness and understanding of our Code of Ethics – 60% of our colleagues are covered to corruption chal3.2 Launch new Group-wide Human Rights Policy by collective bargaining agreements. lenges in its supply 3.3 Promote diversity and ensure equality amongst our colleagues – We launched a new global learning chain and has put 3.4 Ensure good workplace relations and dialogue with our colleagues in all markets management system to streamline our employee training across our great efforts into 3.5 Attract and retain talent global operations. transparency and 3.6 Develop and implement a new global training system ” 3.7 Introduce updated global leadership programme – 100% of our commercial goods reporting on their 3.8 Reach over 90 percent compliance with our safety standards in our stores and offices suppliers and 47% of all concerned colleagues received dedicated trainactivities. 3.9 Communicate our business idea through responsible advertising ing in our Code of Ethics and we aim Birgitta Nygren, Transparency to reach 100% for both by the end International Sweden of 2013. 5 years is the average 7,402 additional 74% of our managers We became Corporate Supporter Member of Transparency length of employment jobs created and 50% of our board members International Sweden of our full-time colleagues (net, full-time equivalent) are women in January 2013 H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 48 of 93 commitment three Be ethical Stakeholder Voice Birgitta Nygren, Member of effort into transparency and reportthe Board, Transparency ing on their activities in the developing countries in which they operate. International Sweden What are the biggest challenges What actions would you like to for the fashion industry in see from H&M in the future? fighting corruption? I would like to see H&M keep up As it is common for fashion compatheir good work fighting corruption nies like H&M to locate their producby identifying innovative ways to tion in developing countries, they ensure compliance. automatically expose themselves to the risk of corruption as bribery is a very common practice in these countries. Facilitation payments and bribes to ensure shipment are common requirements. Therefore, it is the utmost importance that these companies make sure that their anti-corruption policies are applied by all employees, all subcontractors I would like to see H&M and every agent and intermediary keep up their good work throughout the supply chain. fighting corruption by ” Where do you see H&M’s strengths in tackling these challenges? identifying innovative ways H&M has shown awareness of their company’s exposure to such chalto ensure compliance. lenges at an early stage, and the Birgitta Nygren, Member of the Board, company leadership has put great Transparency International Sweden H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 49 of 93 commitment three Be ethical We became Corporate Supporter Member of Transparency Conscious Action 3.1 International Sweden in January 2013 Ensure awareness and understanding of our Code of Ethics started more to do on track By 2012, an estimated 47 percent systemic change and value building of all our concerned colleagues in countries of concern. received dedicated training and participated in related workshops. We audit the effectiveness of our time scale 2013 Status 47 percent of concerned colleagues Our target is to reach 100 percent by compliance-monitoring processes trained, 100% targeted by 2013 the end of 2013. But we also want all in all our business units. We also other colleagues to be aware of our have a global whistleblowing system. policy. That’s why we have made this In 2012, we handled 34 incidents We take a clear stand against cora part of our mandatory induction of non-compliance, 12 of which led ruption, as emphasised in our Code training for all employees. to terminations and eight to formal of Ethics. Mutual trust and transparwritten warnings. Most of these conency are important in all our relaBeyond our internal operations, corcerned theft of company property tionships, including our colleagues ruption continues to be a challenge and accepting gifts. and business partners. As a result, in some of the countries where we we apply a zero tolerance policy. operate and particularly where many > hm.com/anticorruption But much more than that, we take suppliers are located. We have made a proactive approach, aiming to preit mandatory for all our suppliers and vent any non-compliance through business partners to sign a tailortraining and creating a strong awaremade version of our Code of Ethics ness amongst both our colleagues as a minimum requirement of any and suppliers. business relationship with H&M. 100 percent of our commercial goods supRisk assessments across our entire pliers have received related training. business found that the risk for non-compliance is highest with In 2012, we updated our supplier colleagues who are in contact with code to amongst others now clearly external business partners. For some state that any kind of bribery or time now it has been mandatory for facilitation money as part of the those colleagues to sign and comply price of goods or services goes with our Code of Ethics, supported against H&M’s principles. In this by dedicated training. way we hope to contribute to further H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 50 of 93 commitment three Be ethical Conscious Action 3.2 Launch new Group-wide Human Rights Policy started more to do Achieved operations, supply chain and in the We developed human rights impact communities in which we operate. assessments and due diligence tools during 2012 and started to use these One example is our comprehensive for any new production markets time scale 2012 efforts to improve working condifrom late 2012 and onwards. Status updated policy launched tions in our supply chain. Wherever possible, we also want to use our We seek to apply a similar method influence to promote the fulfilment to all new sales markets identified Respecting human rights has always of human rights in the countries we as risk markets for entry from 2014 been vital to us both as an employer, operate in, for example through pubonwards. We are also looking at business partner and corporate lic advocacy. As outlined in our new developing tools and methods for citizen. This is reflected for example policy, an important part of managconducting human rights impact in our values, our business principles ing human rights issues is to conduct assessments on existing high-risk our Global Framework Agreement due diligence processes, such as risk sales and production markets in the with UNI Global Union and our Code assessments, that focus on human future. We will monitor the impleof Conduct. rights impacts affected by our busimentation through our internal ness activities. Particular attention audit process. To underline our strong commitis paid to some of the key issues in ment to human rights, we launched our industry: > hm.com/policies a Group-wide human rights policy – Labour rights based on the UN Guiding Principles – Women’s rights on Business and Human Rights in – The right to water 2012. The policy has been reviewed by a broad range of stakeholders such The substance of H&M’s human rights policy statement ” as UNICEF, UNI Global Union and human rights specialists, including Professor John Ruggie who has served closely tracks the relevant provisions of the UN Guiding as the United Nations SecretaryGeneral’s Special Representative for Principles on Business and Human Rights. Business and Human Rights. We are Professor John Ruggie, UN Special Representative on the issue of human rights and committed to human rights in our transnational corporations and other business enterprises H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 51 o f 9 3 commitment three Be ethical Conscious Action 3.3 Promote diversity and ensure equality amongst our colleagues started more to do on track den, companies such as Ericsson, R atio women/ men R atio women/ men R atio women/ men Sandvik and Volvo, we will implein our Boar d of in ma nagement a mongst all ment programs dedicated to increasDir ectors positions colleagues ing the number of female leaders. time scale ongoing Status we joined the “Battle of the Numbers” project > hm.com/fairpartner m en > hm.com/policies m en 26% 22% > battleofthenumbers.se m en wom en 50% 50% We see team diversity as an asset to wom en 74% the company at all levels, something wom en 78% reflected clearly in our corporate values. We welcome the opportunity to put this into action as often as possible. From promoting our Based on a total of ten board members Starting with store managers. colleagues all the way to appointing (eight ordinary members elected by the the Annual General Meeting and two members to our board regardless employee representatives. Two female depof gender, age, sexual orientation, uty employee representatives not included). religious beliefs and more, we are dedicated to ensuring equal opporR atio full time/ R atio per m a nent/ 29.4 tunity throughout the company and part time tempor ary employ ment we have related policies in place. colleagues contr acts 78 percent of our colleagues are women, so it is integral to our operatem por a ry 19% tions that leadership reflects that. 74 percent of our managers and 50 fu ll t i m e pa rt ti m e percent of our board members are 44% 56% years is the women, too. In addition, we are now taking part in an initiative called the per m a n en t 81% average age “Battle of the Numbers.” Together of our colleagues with nine top multinationals in SweH & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 52 of 93 commitment three Be ethical Conscious Action 3.4 Ensure good workplace relations and dialogue with our colleagues in all markets Stakeholder Voice started more to do on track Besides various engagements on the local level, our global Employee RelaAlke Boessinger, Head OF UNI Commerce tions Manager holds regular meetings with representatives of the European What is the essence of H&M and What actions you would like to time scale ongoing Status 60 percent of our colleagues are Works Council (EWC). UNI Global Union’s framework see H&M take in the future? covered by collective bargaining agreements agreement? I would like to see an even stronger This forum was set up as part of our The agreement commits H&M emphasis on implementing neucollaboration with UNI Global Union and UNI (and its affiliates) to work trality at all operations regarding We strive to have good relations with and comprises of employee repretogether in a spirit of construcunion organisation. all our colleagues, employee assosentatives from some of our most tive social dialogue and to jointly ciations and the trade unions that important sales countries including resolve issues that may arise represent them. Since 2004, we have Germany, UK, France and Sweden. throughout H&M’s operations. had a Global Framework Agreement with UNI Global Union in place. We also have an open-door policy, What do you see as the most This declares that both H&M and which means every colleague is welimportant success factors of our employees regard the Internacome to approach managers regardthe implementation of a global tional Labour Organization’s (ILO) ing work-related issues at any time. agreement? Declaration on Fundamental PrinUNI and H&M cooperate well so ciples and Rights at Work to be the cornerstone of our cooperation. > hm.com/fairpartner > uniglobalunion.org that problems can be addressed openly even if we do not always UNI and H&M cooperate 60% This includes our commitment to reach agreement on all issues. well so that problems workplace representation and across Where do you see H&M’s can be addressed openly all of our operations, 60 percent of strengths in ensuring good workeven if we do not always ” our colleagues are covered by collecing conditions for its employees tive bargaining agreements. Employof our colleagues covered around the world? reach agreement on all ees are also represented at the board level and two of the ten board memby collective A good cooperation and social dialogue with local employee repreissues. bers are employee representatives (additionally there are two deputy bargaining sentatives is the key to the success of any company. Alke Boessinger, Head of Uni Commerce employee representatives). agreements H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 53 of 93 commitment three Be ethical Conscious Action 3.6 Conscious Action 3.5 Develop and implement a Attract and retain talent new global training system started more to do on track 5 started More to do on track time scale ongoing Status new career website launched years is the average time scale 2014 Status system implementation started time our full time Our continued growth requires that colleagues have We want our colleagues to feel we constantly attract new talent. been with H&M valued and give them the opportuAnd retain the talent we already nity to grow within the company. have. Talent management is integral The training we give needs to be to our strength as a company and consistently excellent throughout to ensure that everyone is able to our operations worldwide while also develop to their full potential. We taking into account local needs. are also working on ensuring the Therefore, we have strengthened quality and thoroughness of our our global training organisation and recruitment processes and that our developed a learning management recruiters have all the best tools and system called ‘GROW.’ Amongst training they need. We are developother benefits, the system allows all ing new screening tools to ensure our colleagues to access e-learning fairness in the recruitment process courses and relevant information as well as maintaining a continued about training within the H&M We use various training techniques, high calibre of applicants. We are Group. It also serves as a courseincluding self-study with e-learning also working on internal assessment booking facility for classroom traintools that are carried out either at tools based on our identified areas of ing sessions and a library for mandathe workplace or from home. The expertise and values. This is in order tory and optional training courses, system started in 2012 and the to create transparency and ensure including modules on sustainability. global implementation will continue we have the right person in the right into 2014. place while preparing them for the All of the courses are made up of next steps in their career. > hm.com/career modules suited to different needs. > hm.com/training H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 54 of 93 commitment three Be ethical Conscious Action 3.7 Conscious Action 3.8 Introduce updated global Reach over 90 percent compliance with our leadership programme safety standards in our stores and offices started more to do on track and connected to our corporate started more to do on track to reach our standards for a safe values. We have also introduced and working and shopping environwill continue to develop leadership ment. We had set a target to reach training for different levels to meet a compliance level of 90 percent by time scale 2012 the requirements for our leadership. time scale 2015 the end of 2012. We have not fully Status implementation started globally Status 83 percent compliance The implementation of this updated achieved this target and reached global leadership programme started a level of 83 percent. That’s why in all countries in 2012. we have set a new target to reach We are expanding and need to We want to create a pleasant and over 90 percent compliance by 2015 attract outstanding talent. Many of > hm.com/career safe environment for our customthe latest. 8,320 our managers are recruited interers and colleagues throughout our nally and we need to retain and operations. Wherever accidents build the talent we have to accomand occupational illness are a risk, safety modate our further growth. We have measures must be taken to prevent training developed a new global training and them. During 2012, we registered sessions Complia nce lev el with education concept to equip new and zero workplace fatalities and 5,899 conducted safety sta ndar ds potential managers with the skills workplace accidents in H&M stores in H&M they need to be good leaders and globally. stores fair partners to their team. m i n. We need to ensure that all our col90% As part of this, we have developed leagues are trained from the begin83% an updated leadership philosophy: ning of their employment. This is “Leadership is about inspiration, why we have started to integrate delegation, feedback and motivation. our security and safety training into We lead by example, always driven our digital Learning Management by our values and our ambition to System ‘Grow.’ make our people and business grow.” To minimise the risk of accidents, 2012 2015 In connection to that philosophy, we conduct yearly audits in all our ta rget we have also developed a leadership stores. As part of this, the auditor pipeline, consisting of five levels helps stores to make action plans H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 55 of 93 commitment three Be ethical Conscious Action 3.9 Communicate our business idea through responsible advertising started more to do on track paigns, but it is no easy task. This year we received feedback from the Swedish advertising ethics organisation that one of our campaigns time scale ongoing featured a swimwear model that Status dedicated advertising policy in place showed a too tanned look. As we do not wish to promote any particular ideal or lifestyle, we will take this We communicate our business idea matter into consideration in future through the various advertising camcampaign planning. paigns that we produce each year throughout the world. Our advertisFor many years, to ensure ethical ing has a broad impact in all 48 marstandards, we have had an adverkets. We aim to inspire a wide and tising policy in place, committing diverse target group and we work us, amongst others, to consider the with some of the world’s best photogimpact of our advertising around raphers, models and style icons. the world and to choose models and images that convey a positive image. The challenge we face is to balance between individual and cultural We regularly conduct customer surperceptions, customer demands, the veys to measure the feedback from diversity of models, looks and attiour campaigns and are happy to see tudes and at the same time produce that they are generally well apprehigh-fashion images and messages ciated. We strive to consider any that support the current trends and feedback that we receive to create our customer offering in an inspiring inspiring campaigns. way – without conveying any specific ideal or encouraging a choice > hm.com/responsiblemarketing of lifestyle. We try to take all these aspects into consideration right from the start when planning our camH & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 56 of 93 Commitment four Be climate smart C limate change is one of the major challenges of our time. Like many other organisations, we have a keen interest in tackling this – and a responsibility to do so. And as for many businesses, energy use and transport are unavoidable. We do, however, work hard to be as energy efficient as possible. And for the energy use we cannot avoid, we ultimately strive to use renewable energy only. Our goal is to reduce our operations’ total emissions by 2015 – despite our continued growth of 10 to 15 percent new stores each year. Still, the biggest climate impact along our value chain happens outside of our operations. That’s why we also want to use our influence to encourage action on climate. This includes working with suppliers, fabric mills and transport providers in a range of voluntary programmes and collaborative initiatives to improve their energy efficiency and overall environmental performance. It also includes inspiring conscious garment care amongst customers. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 57 of 93 commitment four Be climate smart Performance overview Climate impact highlights from 2012 progress report – We reduced CO2 emissions by 5% across the value chain commitment four relative to sales by offsetting and Be climate smart status through improved energy efficiency Raw materials 15% on track/ in our stores. CONSCIOUS ACTION started more to do achieved 4.1 Reduce our operations’ total greenhouse gas emissions* – We set a new target, committing us Fabric processing to reduce our operations’ total emis39% 4.2 Reduce electricity use in stores by 20 percent per square metre* sions by 2015 the latest – despite our 4.3 Source 100 percent of our electricity from renewable sources continued growth. Production 4% 4.4 Choose and promote environmentally-conscious transport – We raised our target to ultimately 4.5 Promote energy efficiency amongst our suppliers source 100% of our electricity from Transport * Please find independent assurance statement related to GRI 3.1 indicator EN16 and EN3 here (page 91-92). 3% renewables. – We have engaged 154 supplier Sales factories in energy efficiency programmes. 3% – Around 90% of transports from Use production countries to our distribu36% tion centres are made via sea or rail. 15% reductions in electricity 784,200 kWh of solar energy generated through our own solar use per square metre in our stores achieved photovoltaic panels – enough to supply about 145 average since 2007 European households with energy for one year H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 58 of 93 commitment four Be climate smart Stakeholder Voice Mohamed Zahidullah, As such we are committed to work General Manager, DBL Group, together in all the efforts taken by H&M in reducing emissions. Bangladesh One such example is the Cleaner How can fashion brands contribProduction Programme which DBL ute to combating climate change? has joined. We are happy that our Fashion brands can contribute factories are amongst the best perto combating climate change by forming in the programme. designing products that have minimum impact on climate. This may What are H&M’s strengths today? be in the form of colour intensity, Its people, knowledgeable in-house requirement of dyes, chemicals, think tanks, big capacity, largepigments, etc. on fabric. The scale expansion plan, transparency, designers and product developers pro-activeness in sustainability, need to be aware of the impact of trust from business partners the products they create. and its collaborative partnership approach, even in economically What role do you think H&M difficult times. takes in this regard? With its Conscious product range, What actions you would like to H&M lifts climate smarter material see H&M take in the future? choices to a larger scale. With the We would like to see H&M continue size of the company this scale has to combat climate change and crea significant impact. ate even more products with less climate impact. What’s your stand on H&M’s work to contribute to greenhouse gas reductions in its value chain? We are a strategic supplier of H&M. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 59 of 93 commitment four Be climate smart Conscious Action 4.1 Reduce our operations’ total greenhouse gas emissions started more to do on track Still, our direct operations repreCO 2 e emissions by scope (in ton nes/%) sent just about three percent of the climate impact in the life cycle of Scope 1 15,282t 3% (direct emissions; i.e. fuel use) our products. That is why we keep time scale 2015 Status 5 percent reduction relative to sales achieworking all along our value chain Scope 2 329,630t 59% (indirect emissions from consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam) ved, new goal set to achieve absolute reductions to contribute to emission reductions. We can reduce the impact (other indirect emissions, such as resulting Scope 3 229,699t 38% by, for example, making conscious from outsourced transport and business travel) For the last three years, our target material and transport choices and Total 574,611t 100% has been to reduce our emissions by influencing and inspiring others by five percent relative to sales each to take action, too. year. We achieved this goal in 2012 by offsetting and through increased > hm.com/climate CO 2 e emissions in ton nes CO 2 e emissions by source energy efficiency r elates to million SEK sales 3.5t 3.33t People Now we are taking our ambitions 3.16t tr a nsport 3t 5% another step further. We want to achieve reductions in our operations’ St or e s G o od s total emissions by 2015 – despite our continued growth of 10 to 15 perWe would love to see H&M electr icit y 50% tr a nsport 35% cent new stores each year. This year, total emissions from our operations shift their targets from O th er were 574,611 tonnes, with electricity reducing carbon emissions faci liti e s 10% use in our stores having the largest impact (50 percent). We want to relative to sales to redu” achieve these reductions without offsetting any emissions. Accordcing their absolute annual 2009 2010 2011 2012 In order to report the progress against our 2012 target to reduce carbon emission relative to sales independently from currency fluctuations, we ingly, achieving this ambitious target requires us to further improve our carbon emissions. Methodology aligned with Greenhouse Gas Protocol. > ghgprotocol.org report CO2e in tonnes per million SEK converted from local currencies using consistent exchange rates from the baseline year of 2009. energy efficiency and increase our Niels Oskam, Founder, Rank a Brand use of renewable energy. Please find an independent assurance statement related to GRI 3.1 indicator EN16 here (page 91-92). H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 60 of 93 commitment four Be climate smart Conscious Action 4.2 Reduce electricity use in stores by 20 percent per square metre started more to do on track Energy use r eduction per stor e sqm ta rget 2010 2011 2012 2020 time scale 2020 Status 15 percent reduction achieved -8 Energy efficiency means minimising environmental impact. It naturally -11 also plays a role in cost competitiveness so there are clear advantages -15 to good energy efficiency. Baseline year: 2007. A key target for our energy effi-20 ciency is to reduce electricity use Dir ect energy consumption per square metre in our stores by in GJ (scope 1+2) 20 percent, as compared to a 2007 baseline, by 2020. With 15 percent reduction achieved by 2012, we are 3,447,404 3,320,556 on track in achieving this target. 2,982,662 Total energy use has been reduced in newly-built and rebuilt stores by implementing our environmental guidelines for new stores. Reductions in existing stores are the result which offers us a greater ability to of constant management focus on use energy in the stores in the best energy efficiency. way. Energy monitoring in all stores is planned throughout 2013. 2010 2011 2012 We have been installing energy Please find an independent assurance statement related monitoring devices in all our stores, > hm.com/climate to GRI 3.1 indicator EN3 and here (page 91-92). H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 61 o f 9 3 commitment four Be climate smart Conscious Action 4.3 Source 100 percent of our electricity from renewable sources started more to do on track demand for renewable energy. With the guidelines in place we will be The GHG Protocol applauds H&M’s comable to follow up on our performance time scale ongoing in sourcing renewable energy. mitment to renewable energy purchases Status helped to develop global renewable energy accounting guidance In the meantime, we have taken and related GHG emissions reductions. this opportunity to increase our ambition to work towards sourcWith the complementary commitment to Using more electricity from renewing all our electricity from renewuse the GHG Protocol’s Scope 2 Accounable sources is a key target, but it has able sources. We have already been been difficult to monitor progress. making investments to help us move ting Guidance, progress towards their This is due to the lack of a robust towards this target. In 2012, our own framework for defining what qualifies photovoltaic solar panels generated ambitious renewable energy goals can as renewable energy, as well as how approximately 784,200 kWh of elecbe tracked and evaluated using rigorous, ” to account for and report CO2 emistricity – enough to supply about 145 sion reductions associated with its average European households with transparent, internationally-consistent use. So, we took action with a range energy for one year. of stakeholders. Together with the reporting practices. World Resources Institute (WRI) and > hm.com/climate Mary Sotos, World Resources Institute (WRI) the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) amongst others, we collaborated in 784,200 a dedicated working group to find a consensus on how to define, measure and report on renewable energy use. We are pleased to see that these kWh of solar energy generated through our own joint efforts are resulting in a set of new global guidelines that are to be published in 2013. This is a critical step in ultimately helping us reduce solar photovoltaic panels our scope 2 emissions as well as spur H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 62 of 93 commitment four Be climate smart 90% Around of our goods were Conscious Action 4.4 transported via Choose and promote environmentally-conscious transport sea or rail started more to do on track service providers in place. Through collaborative action we are promoting uptake of fuel-efficient technologies and increasing the environmental time scale ongoing Status around 90 percent sea and rail performance of transport providers transport through SmartWay, WayAhead and the Clean Shipping Project. The size and geographical spread of In 2012, around 90 percent of the our business requires different means shipped volumes were transported of transport in various parts of the from the production country to our world. Our challenge is that our transdistribution centres via sea or rail. portation needs will increase further Since 2010, emissions resulting from as our business grows. Transportation transport have increased by 4 percent, of goods stands for about 3 percent while sales increased by 11 percent. of the climate impact in our products’ lifecycle. Even though this is quite > hm.com/climate a small percentage, we have the posEmissions resulting from sibility to make a difference here. Our tr ansport 2010–2012 (tonnes CO 2 e) ambition is to meet these needs with limited use of natural resources and with as few emissions as possible. As we don not own any transport facilities, choosing sea or rail transport 203,294 195,948 wherever possible and influencing 169,609 our transport partners to improve their environmental performance are important aspects of our work. For many years now, we have had minimum requirements for transport 2010 2011 2012 H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 63 of 93 154 commitment four Be climate smart factories engaged in energy efficiency Conscious Action 4.5 programmes Promote energy efficiency amongst our suppliers started more to do on track another 110 undergoing planning or implementation. Based on this, we have developed data baselines and we will evaluate the factories’ perfortime scale ongoing Status 154 factories engaged in Supplier mance against these through 2013. Energy Efficiency Programmes (SEEP) > hm.com/climate At H&M, we recognise that our climate responsibility extends not only to our direct emissions and those of our energy providers, but also to those emissions that are created in the manufacturing of our goods. These represent about 4 percent of the climate impact from a product’s lifecycle. In 2010, we started working with business partners to set up Supplier Energy Efficiency Programmes (SEEP) in a number of our production countries. The programmes Just the way H&M educated factories to be include workshops and tools, or connect supplier factories to energy sermore systematic and transparent in producvice companies to identify potential tion processes, it is now making factories ” efficiency gains and provide support for developing action plans to take advantage of these. more aware of their environmental impact and how to reduce it. By the end of 2012, 44 factories had completed a programme with Ravi Kumar, CEO, Indian Designs Exports Pvt. Ltd. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 64 of 93 Commitment five Reduce, reuse, recycle M aking the most of the resources we use and avoiding waste is central to our business idea. Avoiding unnecessary material use and applying smart methods to reuse and recycle helps reduce waste. But it also helps to decrease the need for virgin resources. Both mean fewer environmental impacts – and it can save money, too. Manufacturing waste, transport and product packaging, shopping bags, shop fittings and waste from building new stores are all sources of waste generated across our value chain. Our vision is to send zero waste from our operations to landfill. But we do not want to stop there. We want to inspire and help our customers and business partners to reduce the waste that they generate. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 65 of 93 commitment Five Reduce, reuse, recycle Performance overview highlights from 2012 progress report We want to make – We now offer our customers in it easy for our commitment five all our markets the opportunity to Reduce, reuse, recycle status leave old clothes, from any brand, customers not to on track/ at selected H&M stores – a first for CONSCIOUS ACTION Started more to do achieved a fashion company. With the help let fashion go to 5.1 Close the loop on textile fibres of our partner I:Collect, these will be reused and recycled. Nothing waste. That is why 5.2 Encourage customers to reuse or recycle bags goes to the landfill. In the long run we want to close the loop on textile we are now offe5.3 Further promote the innovation and use of recycled fabrics fibres and upcycle these into new ring the possibility 5.4 Recycle at least 95 percent of waste handled in our distribution centres ” clothes. to leave unwanted – 92% of the waste handled in our distributions centres was recycled. clothes at H&M. Karl-Johan Persson, CEO, H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB Our use of recycled polyester is 95% of the waste handled in our distribution centres equivalent to 7.9 million PET bottles targeted to be recycled by the end of 2013 H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 66 of 93 commitment five Reduce, reuse, recycle Stakeholder Voice Allanna MacAspurn, which gives it the leverage needed CEO, Made-By to motivate suppliers to improve their practices. What are the biggest challenges for sustainable fashion from your What actions you would like to perspective? see H&M take in the future? One of the biggest challenges cerI would like to see more solutions tainly is how to credibly tackle the for the end of life of clothes – from environmental impact of fashion, the design process to the customer. including the textile waste going to landfills. Fast fashion is not going away, so we need to look at creating it in a more responsible way with minimal components, sustainable fabrics and processes. These products also need to be designed and produced in such a way that they can be easily pulled apart and recycled into new yarns and components. All of this is difficult to achieve right now within a timeframe and budget that is acceptable I would like to see more ” to conventional fashion businesses. solutions to the end of life Where do you see H&M’s strengths? of clothes. I see two key strengths: SustainAllanna MacAspurn, CEO, MADE-BY ability is embedded into the business and naturally the size of H&M, H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 67 o f 9 3 commitment five Reduce, reuse, recycle Conscious Action 5.2 Conscious Action 5.1 Encourage customers to Close the loop on textile fibres reuse or recycle bags started more to do on track recycled, at the moment for example started more to do on track We encourage reusing and recycling as second hand clothes or recycled our bags by printing ‘Please re-use into your next cleaning cloth or the or recycle’ messages on them. insulation material for your car or time scale ongoing time scale ongoing Status first global garment collecting system house. Nothing goes to the landfill. Status plastic bags are made of recycled Additionally, with the introduction launched in all markets This saves natural resources and material of H&M’s new garment collecting reduces waste. But we are aiming system, we ask customers to bring for more: In the long run, we want their old clothes in bags, which will Too many textiles end up in landfill. to create new clothes out of the colThe most commonly used standard then be recycled too. According to the Environmental lected garments and close the loop bag in our stores is made of recycled 100% Protection Agency (EPA), 5 percent on textile fibres. plastic. As our studies showed, this of the waste in US landfills is textiles is the best choice from a lifecycle and 95 percent could be recycled. Today, one of the challenges is that perspective. Recycled plastic bags often the yarn made of recycled require much less energy and water Extracting virgin resources at one textiles is not strong enough to in production, and they also use less end and wasting them on the other make new quality garments. But space in transport than for example of H&M standard one does not make business sense and doubles the stress on our enviwe believe that by creating demand for technical innovation, even this paper bags. We do, however, also use paper bags in some markets where plastic bags are ronment. This is why after a succhallenge can be tackled. Additionit is required. The paper originates made of recycled cessful pilot in Switzerland, we are ally, we invest all surplus generated from well-managed forests certified now the first fashion company in by selling collected textiles to their by FSC. All our bags are recyclable. material the world to offer our customers new users into this kind of textile the opportunity to bring unwanted recyling innovation, as well as social clothes – from any brand and in any projects, through our Conscious condition to H&M stores in all our Foundation. 48 markets in order to give them a new life. This way we want to provide > hm.com/longlivefashion our customers with an easy solution > ico-spirit.com not to let fashion go to waste, reward> hm.charitystar.com ing them with discounts as thanks. All collected clothes are reused or H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 68 of 93 commitment five Reduce, reuse, recycle Conscious Action 5.3 Conscious Action 5.4 Further promote the innovation Recycle at least 95 percent of waste and use of recycled fabrics handled in our distribution centres In 2012, 92 percent of the waste 7.9 started more to do on track started more to do on track handled in our distribution centres was recycled. Our target for 2013 is a recycling rate of 95 percent. time scale ongoing time scale 2013 Status recycled polyester equivalent to Status 92 percent of waste handled in 7.9 million PET bottles used our distribution centres recycled We are also working to find good waste management solutions for all million PET bottles of our stores and offices. A challenge We use a range of recycled materials, The majority of our own waste is is the variety of different standards such as recycled wool and polyester, are equivalent to our use of generated either by or sent to our and practices on recycling, dependto make clothes. The recycled polyrecycled polyester distribution centres, where it is ing on the location. However, we will ester is often made of PET plastic handled in accordance with our have particular focus on store waste bottles. In 2012, the equivalent of long-term goal of sending zero waste in 2013. This includes continuing about 7.9 million bottles was used. to landfill. This is also in line with to find the best possible waste manWhile further innovations will be our ambition to close the loop on all agement routines for our construcneeded to help recycled materials our waste. tion waste. play a bigger commercial role, we 92% believe that we can support this > hm.com/recycling process by driving demand and showing that great design and recycled fabrics are a perfect match. of the waste handled > hm.com/recycling in our distribution centres was recycled H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 69 of 93 Commitment six Use natural resources responsibly T o operate as a sustainable business, we are committed to conserving water, soil, air and species. We also try to inspire our customers, business partners and other stakeholders to help them use natural resources responsibly. From the water needed to grow cotton, to the electricity used to light our stores we depend on natural resources throughout our value chain to do business. Competition for increasingly scarce resources tends to mean rising costs. Using resources efficiently only makes business sense and will increasingly be seen as a source of competitive advantage in our industry and beyond. But more than that, we need to ensure to share these resources fairly with all users and consider the needs of both present and future generations. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 70 of 93 commitment six Use natural resources responsibly Performance overview highlights from 2012 progress report – We signed a unique three-year – All the paper we use to print the commitment six water stewardship partnership H&M catalogue bears the EU flower Use natural resources responsibly status with WWF that aims to be a gameeco-label. Additionally, we have now on track/ changer for our industry and beyond. set a target to use only paper that is CONSCIOUS ACTION started More to do achieved made from FSC-certified forests. 6.1 Join forces with WWF for game-changing water stewardship strategy – We banned perfluorinated compounds (PFCs) from all our products 6.2 Reduce water use in our stores, offices and distribution centres from 2013. 6.3 Reduce impacts on natural resources by making conscious material choices Promote water savings in garment production – We continued our work towards 6.4 zero discharge of hazardous chemi6.5 Ensure compliance with BSR wastewater standards in supplier factories cals and are happy to see that now 6.6 Join forces for better water management in Bangladesh several other fashion brands have joined the Roadmap to Zero. 6.7 Help to lead our industry towards zero discharge of hazardous chemicals 6.8 Ban PFCs from all products – Our use of organic cotton and Better Cotton means over 140,000 6.9 Continue to constantly review and update our chemical restrictions kg fewer pesticides being used in 6.10 Replace solvent-based polyurethane (PU) with water-based alternatives 2012 alone. 6.11 Make the H&M catalogue out of sustainable paper 100% of the paper used 450 million litres 100% of cosmetic More than 3 million in the H&M catalogue is EU of water saved in products made without litres of rainwater flower certified production of denim and other animal testing harvested in our water-intense products distribution centres and stores H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 71 of 93 commitment six Use natural resources responsibly Stakeholder Voice Janet Mensink, International How does H&M compare in program coordinator sustaitackling these? H&M was one of the first brands nable Fashion, Solidaridad to recognise this issue and develop Network pilot projects with its key suppliers. What are the biggest environmenThese projects cover training and tal challenges in supplier factories support in factories to save water from your perspective? and energy and find alternatives The negative environmental aspects for hazardous chemicals. The posiof wet processing (washing, dyeing, tive results of these projects made finishing) are relatively new on the H&M decide to invest in scaling up sustainability agenda. Nevertheless, in countries like Bangladesh and they have serious impact as can be China and this way further clean seen very clearly in countries like up its supply chain. Bangladesh and China. The impact includes overuse of water and energy and applications of hazardous chemicals which are sometimes discharged to surface water without treatments. H&M was one of the first brands to ” recognise the environmental impacts of wet processes. Janet Mensink, International Program Coordinator Sustainable Fashion, Solidaridad Network H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 72 of 93 commitment six Use natural resources responsibly Conscious Action 6.1 Join forces with WWF for game-changing water stewardship strategy started more to do on track During 2011 and 2012, we perpolicy makers, NGOs, water instituformed a comprehensive evaluation tions and companies to support the of H&M’s existing efforts and chalbetter management of particular lenges in connection to water with river basins in China and Banglatime scale 2015 the WWF, identifying opportunities desh, improve our internal water Status game-changing partnership launched where we can have the biggest posiefficiency, minimise our suppliers’ tive impact. This formed the base impact on water, train all our colof our new water strategy, which leagues on water issues and inspire According to UNEP, by 2025, twoincludes over 30 water-connected customers to use water responsibly. thirds of the world’s population will activities along the entire textile We will also support the WWF conlive in water-stressed areas. At the value chain. servation projects for water in the same time, water is an important Yangtze river basin in China. resource in clothing production. Starting already at the drawingAbout one-third of the factories that table stage, our designers and buyThis is the first global water partapply wet processes in the manufacers will receive training on water nership of its kind. We hope that turing of our clothes are locatead in impact of raw material production, it will inspire others to follow. areas that are forecast to be affected as well as wet processes for different by extreme water scarcity by 2025. styles, to promote more sustain> hm.com/water That’s why for more than 10 years, able choices. WWF and H&M will > wwf.org we have worked actively to reduce work in collaboration with public negative water impact in different parts of the value chain. This partnership marks an evolution Now, together with WWF, we are taking this to a whole different level. in the corporate approach to water. We ” In a three-year partnership, we will work towards implementing a holishope other companies will be inspired tic water stewardship strategy that aims to be a game-changer for our to take the same approach. industry and beyond. Jim Leape, Director General, WWF International H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 73 of 93 commitment six Use natural resources responsibly Conscious Action 6.2 Conscious Action 6.3 Reduce water use in our stores, Reduce impact on natural resources by offices and distribution centres making conscious material choices 78 started more to do on track started more to do on track Almost time scale ongoing Status more than 3 million litres of rainwater harvested 16,694 bathtubs of time scale ongoing Status about 140,000 kg fewer pesticides used due to our use of more sustainable cotton million bathtubs of water saved through Our direct operations have only rainwater have Conventional cotton and other natuour use of Better been harvested and minimal impact on water from a ral fibres draw nutrients from the soil Cotton in 2012 alone value chain perspective. This small impact notwithstanding, we want reused and may require a great deal of water, chemical pesticides and fertilisers. to set standards on best practice and Conventional synthetic fibres are reduce water use as much as posusually derived from fossil fuel that sible. We apply water-saving techhas limited availability. niques wherever we can and have guidelines and requirements in place Water use Investing in more sustainable alternafor example, low-flow taps. Our distives over conventional fibres reduces tribution centres in Hamburg, Ghlin multiple impacts on the environment and Madrid as well as a first store St or e s and may help reduce or secure costs 1,701,176 m3 in the UK have rainwater-harvesting in the midand long-term. It also facilities in place. All together, we helps us secure the availability of the Office s have harvested about 3 million litres 69,720 m3 raw materials needed for our future of rainwater. growth in a sustainable way. 140,000 kg Distr i bu tion cen tr e s 240,751 m3 > hm.com/water > hm.com/consciousmaterials About > hm.com/climate of pesticides fewer used Extrapolations based on water use due to our use of more sustainable cotton measured in 167 stores (6%), 3 of our biggest distribution centres and our Head Office. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 74 o f 9 3 commitment six Use natural resources responsibly 450 million litres of water saved in production of denim and other water-intense products Conscious Action 6.4 Promote water savings in garment production started more to do on track As part of this, we looked into how Supplier water efficiency Litr es of water sav ed in production these water-management improvelitr es used per kg of clothing of water-intense styles ments could also help our suppliLe ss ers save water when making other th a n 10 0 450 litr e s m i llion time scale ongoing per kg litr e s Status estimated 450 million litres water-intense products. Today, about 73.2% of water saved 50 percent of all our denim is made using these techniques and we are 300 m i llion working hard to apply these to more litr e s We monitor water efficiency at supand more suppliers and product plier factories, focusing on those types. In 2012 alone, this reduced located in water-scarce areas as water usage by estimated 450 mildefined by the WWF Water Risk lion litres compared to conventional 10 0 –20 0 litr e s per kg Filter tool. We measure the use of production processes. mor e 50 17.8% th a n 20 0 m i llion water per kg of products made. While litr e s litr e s it can at times be a challenge to > hm.com/water 9.0% motivate suppliers to save in coun2010 2011 2012 tries where water is very inexpensive Based on data submitted by 577 out of 618 appliExtrapolation based on average savings (e.g. Bangladesh), we complement cable factories with in-house wastewater treatment. and order volumes. the monitoring with dedicated projects to drive water savings in denim production and through our Cleaner Production programme. Producing denim can be particularly water-intense to achieve the desired looks. We found that better processes Better production processes can save about 30 percent of the water used. So in 2009, to reduce can save up to 30% of the this impact, we set up a project with suppliers in Bangladesh, China and water used. later also Pakistan. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 75 of 93 commitment six Use natural resources responsibly Conscious Action 6.5 Ensure compliance with BSR wastewater standards in supplier factories started more to do on track % of suppliers in best thr eshold on wastewater quality against BSR sta ndar ds time scale ongoing cod bod TSS Status compliance improved on all indicators 100% 96.6% 97.5% 95.7% 93.3% Since 2006, factories with wet pro90.6% cesses such as dyeing or washing, 83.2% 82.8% have been required to treat their 78.8% 78.6% wastewater. Wastewater quality in our 73.4% 73.3% supply chain has to meet quality levels 76.3% 77.8% 67.9% defined by Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) Water Group, or relevant 58.5% local laws, depending on which are stricter. These requirements form part of our supplier audit programme. 50% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Water quality measures include Based on data submitted by 343 supplier factories. organic and chemical pollution levels and suspended solids within the The data show an increased proporour new water strategy, in 2013 wastewater such as total suspended tion of factories in the best threshwe plan to focus on strategic supplisolids (TSS), biological oxygen old for all three measures, whilst ers in high-risk regions (identified demand (BOD) and chemical oxygen the number of reporting factories through WWF Water Risk Filter) demand (COD). The graph shows the has decreased. We will continue to further increase compliance and ratio of supplier factories in the lowest to monitor this development with develop best practice examples threshold for each of these indicators relevant suppliers and, wherever and related tools to achieve full measured against the BSR standard. needed, request dedicated action compliance. The more factories there are in the plans to improve performance. As lowest threshold, the better the result. part of the process to implement > hm.com/water H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 76 o f 9 3 commitment six Use natural resources responsibly Conscious Action 6.6 Join forces for better water management in Bangladesh started more to do on track targets through the Bangladeshi textile sector. At the same time, the scope has been broadened in terms of its ambition and has now taken time scale from 2012 onwards Status new program launched targeting the challenge of zero discharge of 500 factories hazardous chemicals into account. The overarching objective is to Water efficiency and the quality of reduce environmental and related discharged wastewater are key chalsocial impact that results from lenges for the long-term viability prevailing practices in textile wet and growth of the textile sector in processing, particularly excessive general. This is especially relevant ground water extraction and surface for Bangladesh, a country frequently water pollution, whilst including threatened by floods while facing a energy and chemical use. Progrowing scarcity of drinking water. gramme results will improve the environmental impact of the textile As part of our holistic water stewardsector in Bangladesh and strengthen ship strategy, we have now broadits long-term competitiveness. ened the scope of the work previously part of our Cleaner Production Working in partnership with buyers, Programme in Bangladesh. Once solution providers, financial instituagain, we are joining forces with our tions, donors, the government and previous project partner, Solidariother key stakeholders, the program dad, in addition to a number of other will support textile factories and brands and IFC (World Bank Group) concentrated selected geographic in a programME called Bangladesh clusters in order to reduce their Water PaCT (Partnership for Clean water footprints. Textiles). This programme will have a broader reach targeting 500 > hm.com/water factories with aligned methods and > ifc.org H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 77 of 93 commitment six Use natural resources responsibly Conscious Action 6.7 Help to lead our industry towards zero discharge of hazardous chemicals Accordingly, we can already report all our strategic suppliers in China, started more to do on track on progress against several of these India, Bangladesh and Cambodia. Our first suppliers actions points. Several more brands started to disclose ” have joined the group since the We have continued to strengthen our time scale 2020 Status first strategic suppliers to disclose launch with currently 10 brands existing chemical auditing as well as their discharge discharge data on board. our work together with the group to develop a joint chemical audit tool, data. Detailed benchmark studies will conworking to set a standard and achieve Since 1995, we have been worktinue and results will be published alignment within the industry. ing to reduce the use of hazardous on a dedicated website together with chemicals. As a leading actor with quarterly progress reports. Parallel to further advancing our a well-reputed chemicals manageleading chemical management, we ment approach, we have the scale In line with our action plan, we are integrating the concerned chemand ability to go beyond just ensurhave added further transparency ical groups in our supplier training ing that our own products are safe. to our publicly-available chemical and dialogue. restriction list. We are currently We try to encourage change within working with the Institute of Public And as already announced indepenour entire industry – a huge chaland Environmental Affairs (IPE), an dently from our commitment to zero lenge, but one that we take very independent organisation in China, discharge, we have issued a full ban seriously. That is why in 2011 we together with other brands and on PFCs for all our products and have teamed up with five other leadsuppliers on the matter of discharge made further progress in the replaceing brands to develop a joint roaddata disclosure. Acknowledging ment of solvent-based polyurethane map. We have also initiated a set of the ‘Right To Know’ principle, we with water-based alternatives. complementary individual actions. encouraged and supported 11 straWe have made good progress with tegic factories in China to publicly > hm.com/zerodischarge both the joint roadmap as well as disclose discharge data through > roadmaptozero.com our H&M-specific action plan. The dedicated tools on IPE’s website. > ipe.org.cn defined actions are well in line with > greenpeace.org/detox our existing sustainability program Additionally, we have conducted and build on an extensive record extensive benchmark studies includof experiences and achievements. ing in-depth chemical audits with H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 78 of 93 commitment six Use natural resources responsibly Conscious Action 6.9 Conscious Action 6.8 Continue to constantly review and Ban PFCs from all products update our chemical restrictions started more to do Achieved tives helping us to bring PFC-free started more to do on track We made the restrictions list public innovations to scale. many years ago. From 1 January 2013, PFCs were In 2012, we published an updated time scale 2013 banned from all our products globtime scale ongoing restriction list now also disclosing Status ban valid from 2013 onwards Status updated restriction list published ally. This means that all orders restriction levels for all non-textile placed from 1 January or later have products, for example, cosmetics. been produced without PFCs. Perfluorinated compounds (PFCs) We restrict hazardous chemicals > hm.com/chemicals are commonly used to make The current alternatives fulfil our through our restrictions list, which water-repellent products such as demands for water repellent prodall suppliers are contractually raincoats. Unfortunately, they are ucts and have satisfactory environbound to comply with. Our Chemipersistent and bio-accumulative, mental and health properties. They cal Restrictions list has been conmeaning that if discharged into the can be used on all present fabric tinually updated since 1995, most environment they remain for a long qualities in our range. recently in 2012. It now contains time. Once released into the envimore than 360 restricted subronment, they can harm the repro> hm.com stances. Our restrictions are some duction of organisms. of the most stringent in the industry and and often go well beyond legislaFor many years we have been worktive demands. ing to replace PFCs with better alternatives. As stated in our Sustainability Policy, 29,813 we apply the Precautionary Principle. In 2010, after five years of hard work This means that we are proactive in sourcing and testing alternatives, we restricting chemicals, even if there introduced our first products made is still scientific uncertainty about with a treatment called ‘Bionic finwhether they are harmful. To ensure third-party product chemical tests ish’ which proved to be a good PFCthis, we always keep ourselves up to free alternative. Since then, we have date on the latest developments and continued to work closely with our consider information from authoriperformed by H&M alone suppliers to find additional alternaties, NGOs and scientific reports. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 79 of 93 commitment six Use natural resources responsibly Conscious Action 6.10 Conscious Action 6.11 Replace solvent-based polyurethane (PU) Make the H&M catalogue out with water-based alternatives of sustainable paper started more to do on track started more to do on track We sell clothes and accessories through mail order catalogues and online sales in eight different markets. For several years, our catatime scale 2014 time scale 2013 logues have been printed on paper Status first products launched Status new target set that bears the EU flower eco-label, which stands for environmentally conscious production processes and Handling solvent-based chemicals limited water impact. In the comcan be harmful to workers, so we ing year, we want to ensure that aim to phase out their use in the the paper we use is made from FSC production of our products wherever certified forests. technically feasible. In cooperation with the chemical company Bayer, we conducted trials to convert traditional solvent-based polyurethane (PU) material into water-based PU. We tested a range of alternatives that could be used for different product types and styles. The first results were very promising, but ensuring quality and scalability remains a challenge. In 2012, we launched the first products made with water-based PU and we will continue to work to find solutions that can meet our requirements to scale this up. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 80 of 93 Commitment seven We want to invest in long-term collaborations that deliver lasting results. We contribute to these proStrengthen communities jects financially, with our time and in-kind donations. In addition, we engage our customers in some of our community projects through causerelated products and additional in-store donations. We also provide support in cases of major disasters and regularly donate clothes to those in need. Our community investment projects support improvements along our value chain, with special focus on employment, education and health, particularly for women and youth, as well as water. All in all, we want to give back and create shared value. With our size, we have the opportunity and the responsibility to drive positive change for people and the environment across our entire operations. W Through strategic investments we e are a part of many comcan create win-win situations for us munities around the world. as a company and for our society The way we do business, as a whole. our values and our growth have an impact on their development and That is why in 2012, together with affect more than one million jobs globthe H&M Conscious Foundation, ally. As such, we have both an interwe provided a total of SEK 42 milest and a responsibility to strengthen lion (appr. USD 6.3/EUR 5 million) these communities. That is why we for our community projects and invest in projects that benefit comemergency relief. Our customers munities and at the same time address provided additional SEK 5.3 million social and environmental issues that (appr. USD 800,000/EUR 600,000) are important to our business. through in-store giving. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 81 of 93 commitment seven Strengthen communities Performance overview highlights from 2012 progress report – Our continued growth created – Additionally, more than SEK 5.3 commitment seven 7,402 additional jobs around the million (approx. USD 800,000/EUR Strengthen communities status world (net, full-time equivalent). 600,000) was raised amongst our cuson track/ CONSCIOUS ACTION started more to do Additionally, our business contribtomers through in-store donations. achieved utes to job opportunities for more 7.1 Continue to create and contribute to employment opportunities than 1.3 million people employed 7.2 Engage our customers in our work to strengthen communities by our suppliers. 7.3 Empower through education – We extended our existing All for 7.4 Extend our All for Children project in collaboration with UNICEF to Bangladesh Children program with UNICEF to now also include Bangladesh. With More than 6 million 7.5 Improve health conditions of people along our value chain a volume of almost USD 8 million, this marks our biggest single compeople along our value 7.6 Invest in better livelihood for cotton farmers munity investment to date. chain have been helped 7.7 Donate garments to support people in need to better health 7.8 Provide emergency relief for Syrian refugees – About SEK 42 million (approx. USD 6.3 million/EUR 5 million) conditions invested in communities and their support by H&M and the H&M Conscious Foundation. More than 430,000 people Around 150,000 cotton farmers More than 3.2 million along our value chain have been trained in better farming techniques garments donated empowered by education through the Better Cotton Initiative to charitable causes H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 82 of 93 commitment seven Strengthen communities Stakeholder Voice Pascale Villeneuve, RepresenUNICEF’s partnership with H&M tative, UNICEF Bangladesh will help to strengthen the quality of early learning, pre-primary, Why is education so important? basic primary education, basic life Quality education is a basic human skills and social protection serright. Besides, education benefits vices. In the years to come, this both the individual who receives it will contribute to overall poverty and the society as a whole. But for reduction and help improve the many children in Bangladesh this livelihood of vulnerable families. right has not yet become a reality. Children living in urban slums are amongst the worst off. In slums there is three times more child labour, only one in five children is enrolled in secondary school and the rates of school dropout and repetition are very high In the years to come, even compared to rural areas. UNICEF’s partnership What difference does your collaboration with H&M make in with H&M will contribute countries like Bangladesh? to overall poverty reducBangladesh has achieved commendable progress in early childtion and help improve the ” hood care and development by introducing day care centres, early livelihood of vulnerable learning centres and preschools. However, there are children who families. are either out of school or in Pascale Villeneuve, Representative, school, but at risk of dropping out. UNICEF Bangladesh H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 83 of 93 commitment seven Strengthen communities 1,349,955 people employed Conscious Action 7.1 by our suppliers Continue to create and contribute to employment opportunities 25,247 started more to do on track time scale ongoing Total Status 7,402 additional jobs created (full-time equivalent) job creation (net) 2008–2012 7,402 We are a growing company. Our aim is to increase our number of stores by 10 to 15 percent each year. In 2012 alone, we created more than 7,402 new full-time equivalent jobs net. full-time equivalent jobs created (net) Over the last five years, our growth in 2012 has entailed a net creation of more than 25,000 full-time equivalent jobs globally. Additionally, our business Job cr eation (net) 2008 –2012 contributes to job opportunities (Full -Time Equivalent) 7,402 for more than 1.3 million people employed by our suppliers. While 6,401 5,964 the economic climate is challenging 5,434 in many countries, we are confident that we will create further employment both in our own operations and throughout our value chain. 46 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 84 of 93 commitment seven Strengthen communities 800,000 About USD in direct donations generated amongst our Conscious Action 7.2 Engage our customers in our work to strengthen communities customers in stores started more to do on track Thank you so much to H&M and their custotime scale ongoing mers for being part of ” Status approx. USD 800,000 in direct donations generated from our customers in stores the solution to help poor As part of our commitment to procommunities. vide fashion for conscious customMarcus Missen, ers, we offer our customers products Director of Fundraising, WaterAid with added sustainability value. One way we do this is to offer causerelated products and collections. It is important for us to enable our 25 percent of the net sales from customers to engage in our comthese collections are invested in munity projects and offer them the related projects. In 2012, these opportunity to be a part of the soluprojects helped us raise over SEK tion. It is also important for us to be 24 million (USD 3.6 million/EUR transparent and make our customers 2.8 million). We also encourage our aware of the issues that are imporcustomers to get involved through tant to us. We engage our customers direct donations made in our stores, in supporting community projects for example during the holiday and help raise awareness of the period or in the case of major issues they address. catastrophes. In 2012, our customIn recent years, we have developed ers donated about SEK 5.3 million (approximately USD 800,000/EUR More than 1 million people have been a set of recurring collections called 600,000). reached through our All for Children programme ‘Fashion Against Aids’, ‘H&M for Water’ and ‘All for Children.’ > hm.com/communities together with UNICEF since 2009 H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 85 of 93 commitment seven Strengthen communities Conscious Action 7.4 Conscious Action 7.3 Extend our All for Children project in Empower through education collaboration with UNICEF to Bangladesh started more to do on track started more to do On track 430,000 More than time scale ongoing time scale 2017 Status more than 430,000 people reached Status new project launched people along our The right to education is a univervalue chain have been Bangladesh is one of our major empowered by sally recognised human right and sourcing markets. It is also one of a prerequisite for sustainable develthe poorest countries in the world, opment and prosperity. Our community investments are largely in aid education with 60 million children living below the international poverty line. Our of education and employment with presence in the country contributes a particular focus on women and to economic growth and we have 42 million youth along our value chain. a number of initiatives to further SEK improve the development and the Access to education allows us to lives of people such as our Banglaextend our efforts to improve workdesh Development Plan. ing conditions and the lives of people along our value chain as well as (approx. USD 6.3 million) Taking this another step further, support their personal development and their communities. Our curinvested in we have now extended our existing All for Children collaboration with rent initiatives include our All for Children projects in Bangladesh and communities and UNICEF to include Bangladesh. The programme will run from 2012 to in proceeding to a higher education. India and our Bangladesh Developtheir support by H&M and 2017 to support children and their With an investment of almost USD ment Plan. During 2012, these prothe H&M Conscious families in poor areas around the 8 million, this move also marks our jects empowered more than 430,000 capital, Dhaka. The projects are biggest single community investpeople with better education. Foundation reaching out to more than 1 million ment to date. people with a focus on about 40,000 > hm.com/communities children in order to support them > hm.com/allforchildren H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 86 of 93 commitment seven Strengthen communities About 6 million people along our value chain have been helped to better Conscious Action 7.5 health conditions Improve health conditions of people along our value chain started more to do on track H&M has continued to be a very strong supporter time scale ongoing Status about 6 million people reached of WaterAid and continues to generously donate to Health is a human right and crucial our projects in Bangladesh, for the sustainable development of communities all over the world. India and Pakistan. Without We want to contribute and supthis essential funding we port health projects allowing us to extend our efforts to benefit people’s would not be able to help lives and their working conditions. poor communities to begin ” Initiatives such as our Bangladesh Development Plan, H&M for Water, their journey to poverty Fashion Against Aids, All for Chilalleviation. dren and a number of projects supported by the H&M Conscious FounMarcus Missen, dation reached more than 6 million Director of Fundraising, WaterAid people during 2012 to improve their health conditions. > hm.com/communities H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 87 of 93 commitment seven Strengthen communities 150,000 Around cotton farmers were trained Conscious Action 7.6 in better farming techniques through the Better Cotton Initiative Invest in better livelihood for cotton farmers started more to do on track We have directly invested EUR 600,000 in these training projects each year in 2010 and 2011. A further EUR 850,000 is committed time scale ongoing Status about 150,000 farmers trained in better for 2013. This helps us increase the farming techniques production of Better Cotton in line with our demands for the 2012 and 2013 production seasons. We are a leading member of the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI). Better > hm.com/communities Cotton is an essential part of our > bettercotton.org efforts to use only more sustainable cotton by 2020. Besides the environmental benefits of a shift from conventional cotton A mou nt in v ested to Better Cotton, this change can dir ectly by H&M into BCI also improve the lives of hundreds far mer tr aining of thousands of farmers. Through BCI’s implementation partEUR 850,000 ners, WWF and Solidaridad, farmers Growing Better Cotton, I now enjoy higher (pl a n n ed) receive the know-how and tools to produce more with less input, reducing their impact on the environment EUR 600,000 EUR 600,000 profits and better health in a better environwhile also increasing their profitment. It’s now time that all farmers, from ability and the welfare of the local communities. my village, my state and my country enjoy About 150,000 farmers received the same benefits. dedicated training during 2012. 2011 2012 2013 Kare Yadhareddy, cotton farmer from Andra Pradesh, India H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 88 of 93 commitment seven Strengthen communities Conscious Action 7.7 Conscious Action 7.8 Donate garments to support Provide emergency relief for people in need Syrian refugees 100,000 started more to do on track started more to do Achieved USD time scale ongoing time scale 2012 Status more than 3.2 million garments Status USD 100,000 donated donated to UNICEF to support refugees from Syria donated to charitable causes 3.2 More than Each year, H&M donates large quantiHundreds of thousands of refugees ties of clothes to aid organisations in from Syria are currently living in the countries in which we operate. We refugee camps, including an estiintroduced an updated garment donamated 68,000 children in Turkey tion policy and implementation guidance in 2010. Our policy states that million garments alone. Most of them live in provisional tents. With temperatures all unsold, safe-to-use products should donated to dropping close to zero degrees Celbe donated to charity or, if possible, recycled into something useful. charitable causes sius in many of their locations, our partner UNICEF alerted us about the urgent need for items such as In 2012, we donated more than blankets, insulation material and 3.2 million garments globally to warm clothing. Emergency situaaid organisations. tions like this require quick action and we decided to immediately > hm.com/communities donate USD 100,000 to UNICEF Turkey. With this amount, UNICEF can provide about 2,700 children with warm winter clothing. > hm.com/communities > unicef.org H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 89 of 93 information How we report We are committed to transfinancial and corporate governance Please note that currency identified as most material to our parent reporting on sustainreporting. Our most recent previous conversions from SEK to other broad range of stakeholders. ability and the progress we report was published in April 2012. currencies are approximate figures based on the conversion rate on 30 In preparing this report we aimed make towards meeting our We are signatories to the UN November 2012. Exact figures are to balance carefully between their seven commitments. Global Compact, and our annual provided in SEK only. different needs. This includes Sustainability Report also serves detailed performance data and H&M’s Conscious Actions as our Communication on Progress Process for defining strategy descriptions, while we aim Sustainability Report, which is (COP). sustainability report content to make information accessible produced annually, covers material The materiality of this report has for a wider audience including sustainability strategies, activities All data is collected by our been defined by a yearly process interested customers and colleagues. and performance for the global sustainability team from the relevant where we collect information Group operations of H & M Hennes & functions within our organisation and from a multitude of sources, A variety of stakeholder comments has Mauritz AB, including all its brands from external parties. It is reviewed covering a broad range of our been included in this report. These (H&M, COS, Weekday, Monki, Cheap by our controllers and relevant diverse stakeholders. For example, were collected during autumn 2012. Monday, & Other Stories) as well experts in our sustainability team. we conduct regular systematic as its wholly or partially-owned stakeholder dialogues and engage Global Reporting Initiative subsidiaries globally during our Unless otherwise specified, all data with stakeholders on a day-to-day (GRI) financial year from 1 December 2011 concerning suppliers and supplier basis. We perform regular media We use the GRI G3.1 Sustainability to 30 November 2012, unless stated factories includes all suppliers and analysis as well as customer and Reporting Guidelines. We have otherwise. Unless stated, franchise factories that were approved for employee surveys. Our dedicated included the indicators from the operations are not included. Due production during the reporting Business Intelligence Group gathers pilot of the Apparel and Footwear to significant interest from many period. Factories included in our related information and together Sector Supplement but have of our stakeholders, we also include scope are first-tier manufacturing with our sustainability experts and not included them in our selfmaterial data on our first-tier and or processing (i.e. washing or concerned key functions identifies assessment rating as they have second-tier suppliers (generated by dyeing), factories that are owned and sets the priorities for our not yet been finalised. H&M’s H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB through or subcontracted by our suppliers sustainability work. This process disclosure level against the GRI audits or submitted by third parties). as well as (where stated) selected translates into our Conscious G3.1 framework is B (self-declared). second-tier suppliers and suppliers Actions. Included in this report You can find the detailed GRI index Additional information is provided at for non-commercial goods (such as are those Conscious Actions that, at hm.com/gri. hm.com/conscious as well as in our store interior suppliers). based on above processes, have been H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 90 of 93 information Auditor’s Review Report on specified information in H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB’s Sustainability Report To the Management of Management’S responsibility Engagements Other than Audits sented information in the SustainH & M Hennes & Mauritz AB The Management of H&M is responor Reviews of Historical Finanability Report is to be considered We have been engaged by the mansible for ongoing activities and for cial Information.’ The ISAE 3000 in connection with the explanatory agement of H & M Hennes & Mauritz preparing and presenting the Susstandard requires that we comply information on data collection, conAB (H & M) to perform a limited tainability Report in accordance with ethical requirements and plan solidation and assessments provided review on the information in H&M’s with the reporting criteria as set and perform the assurance engageby H&M. This independent review Sustainability Report 2012 with out in the company’s own reportment to obtain limited assurance report should not be used on its own regard to the following indicators ing guidelines as well as the Global on whether any matters have come as a basis for interpreting H&M’s referred to in the GRI index that Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Guideto our attention that would cause performance in relation to its princan be found in the GRI index 2012: lines 3.1 (G3). us to believe that the above speciciples of corporate responsibility. fied information in the Sustainabil– Supply Chain: Incidents of nonAuditor’s responsibility ity Report has not been prepared, Our review procedures are designed compliance with Code of Conduct, Our responsibility is to carry out in all material respects, in accordto obtain limited assurance on p. 32-33 (AF14) a limited review engagement and, ance with the reporting criteria. whether the above specified indica– Materials: Materials used by weight based on our work performed, tors are presented in accordance or volume, p. 19, (EN1, limited to to express an independent concluA limited review is provided only with the Sustainability Reporting use of cotton) sion on the above specified indicaon the information disclosed in Guidelines of the Global Reporting – Energy: Direct energy consumptors in the Sustainability Report. the Conscious Actions SustainInitiative 3.1 (G3) in all material tion by primary source, p. 61 (EN3) The selection of indicators to be ability Report 2012, not on inforrespects. A limited review engage– Energy: Total direct and indirect reviewed has been made by the mation linked to and disclosed on ment consists of making inquiries, greenhouse gas emissions by weight management of H & M Hennes & other web pages. We have not been primary of persons responsible for p. 60 (EN16) Mauritz AB. We do not accept, engaged to provide assurance on the preparation of the Sustainabilnor assume responsibility to anyone amounts or other disclosures relatity Report, and applying analytical H & M’s Sustainability Report 2012 else, except to H & M for our work, ing to the prior reporting periods and other evidence gathering procecovers the period 1 December 2011 for the limited assurance report, presented in the Sustainability dures, as appropriate. The evidence to 30 November 2012. or for the conclusion that we have Report. The information in the gathering procedures mentioned reached. We have conducted the Sustainability Report is subject to above are more limited than for limited assurance engagement in inherent limitations applying to data a reasonable assurance engagement, accordance with the International accuracy and completeness, which and therefore less assurance is Standard on Assurance Engageare to be taken into account when obtained than in a reasonable assurments (ISAE) 3000 ‘Assurance reading our review report. The preance engagement. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 91 of 93 information Auditor’s Review Report on specified information in H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB’s Sustainability Report We have performed, amongst other Conclusion things, the following procedures: Based on our work described in this report, nothing has come to our – interviews with the responsible attention that causes us to believe management, at Group level in order that the information regarding the to assess if the qualitative and quanabove specified indicators in the titative information stated in the Sustainability Report has not, in all Sustainability Report regarding the material respects, been prepared in above specified indicators is comaccordance with the reporting criteplete, accurate and sufficient, ria stated above. – shared internal and external Stockholm, 13 March 2013 documents in order to assess if the Ernst & Young AB information shared in the Sustainability Report is complete, accurate and sufficient, – an evaluation of the design of Erik Åström the systems and processes used to Authorized Public Accountant obtain, manage and validate sustainability information, – an evaluation of the model used to calculate CO2 emissions, Charlotte Söderlund Authorized Public Accountant – analytical procedures regarding the above-specified indicators. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 92 of 93 information Get in touch More information To find out more about H&M Conscious and our policies and strategies, read case studies, watch videos and much more, please visit: hm.com/conscious. Contact We appreciate your feedback. Please send your questions or comments regarding this report to hendrik.alpen@hm.com. Thank you for taking time to learn about H&M Conscious. H & M C o n s c i o u s ac t i o n s s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 0 1 2 93 of 93
