Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 INDEX 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Contact details: Compañía Logística de Hidrocarburos CLH, S.A. Communication and Institutional Relations Management C/ Titán nº 13. 28045 Madrid E-mail: infoclh@clh.es Telephone: (+ 34) 91 7746000 Fax: (+ 34) 91 7746001 INDEX 1/2 3 Index Letter from the Chairman 5 3. Creation of value for the company and our stakeholders 28 Corporate Social Responsibility Economic value created 29 Scorecard 7 Economic value distributed 30 Important milestones in 2012 8 Value brought to society 31 Petroleum and future energy 1. The CLH Group 15 scenarios 32 Profile 15 Shareholding structure 16 4. Integrity in CLH and its value chain 34 Areas of activity 17 Corporate governance model 37 Corporate culture and integrity 42 2. Corporate Responsibility in CLH 21 Preventive approach to risk Corporate Responsibility management 43 management in CLH 22 Responsible purchasing model New Corporate Responsibility Master in the CLH Group 46 Plan 2012-2016 23 Architecture of the Master Plan 25 Next INDEX Página 2 de 2 4 Index 5. Quality and innovation for our customers 50 8. Commitment and closeness to local communities 96 Improved commercial portfolio 53 Dialogue with our Stakeholders 98 Quality and continuous improvement 57 Contribution to the wellbeing and Innovation for diversification 61 development of our communities 101 Relations with our customers 63 9. Efficiency in activities and 6. Safety in our operations 68 environmental protection 106 Facility safety and integrity Commitment to the environment 111 management 71 Environmental Management Policy 112 Pipeline integrity plan 73 Environmental Management in CLH 113 Occupational health and safety 74 Energy efficiency and climate change 118 Zero is possible 77 Protection of biodiversity 120 7. An attractive work environment External verification report 124 for our employees 79 Process for preparing the report 126 Responsible management of our people 83 Satisfactory working conditions 85 Index of GRI contents 132 Commitment to a flexible work Glossary of terms 161 environment 89 Training and career development 92 Internal communication 95 Previous Informe de Responsabilidad Social Corporativa INDEX Letter from the Chairman 1/2 5 Letter from the Chairman Another year, I am both pleased and proud Similarly important areas are the policies we to present to you the CLH Corporate have implemented to ensure that our activity is Responsibility Report, which is the channel carried out in a safe, environmentally friendly through which we offer our stakeholders way that is conducive to the development and detailed information about the company’s wellbeing of the communities in which we activities and our level of progress and operate. performance on the aspects that are of most The contents of the report follow the Global importance for them. Reporting Initiative Guidelines version 3.1. The report focuses particularly on the desire As a new item, in 2012 we have included of the company to act with integrity and specific new indicators and sections for transparency, offering its employees an providing an answer to the requirements attractive work environment and seeking established in the GRI Sector Supplement satisfaction for its customers, by conducting its for companies in the oil sector and the new activities according to the highest standards of GRI Guidelines version G4, which is still in its quality and efficiency. development stage. As regards Corporate Responsibility, one of the In this connection, increasing the level of most important milestones of the year was the efficiency in operations and passing these launching of the new CLH Group Master improvements on to the market will continue Plan for the 2012-2016 period. We have being one of the main objectives. Despite the established in this plan the main guidelines and complexity of the economic arena, in 2012 the objectives to be achieved in this sphere, as well CLH Group has made a major effort to improve as the socially responsible actions necessary management, and not only has this contributed for providing an answer to the challenges that to the results achieved by the Group but it has the company has set itself. The Master Plan also made it possible to continue reducing 2012-2016 also aims at being an additional service prices, which is something that benefits element to help the CLH Group meet its our customers as well as the competitiveness strategic business goals. of this country. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Letter from the Chairman 2/2 6 The commissioning of new facilities and the and family life by the “Másfamilia” Foundation way of channelling the vocation for solidarity ongoing commitment to quality and continuous for yet another year. that people in the CLH Group have been improvement in the CLH Group have been demonstrating during these last few years. Regarding environmental matters, the contributing factors in the improved efficiency CLH Group has moved forward in its goal In 2012, the company again endorsed its achieved. This effort was rewarded for yet of certifying some of its main facilities in commitment to principles of conduct and another year in the EFQM assessment, in which accordance with the demanding Community action in relation to rights of a human, labour, the company was able to renew the European Eco-management and Audit Scheme (EMAS). environmental and anti-corruption nature as laid Seal of Excellence 500+. Our facilities in Huelva and Tarragona were down in the United Nations World Compact. In 2012 the CLH Group achieved important awarded this certification in 2012, and we are This time it has been with the effort to continue improvements in the area of safety, one of also expecting to obtain the corresponding improving and conducting our activity in the most striking being a 42% reduction in certification for our facility in Santurce. accordance with the most stringent standards our main accident rate index compared with in the area of sustainability. As for our commitment to local communities, in the previous year. There can be no doubt that 2012 the CLH Group approved its new Social I would therefore invite you to discover more the sustained effort made throughout the last Action Policy, which is the vehicle through about our commitment to Corporate Social few years regarding training, analysis and the which we aim to boost our contribution to their Responsibility in the pages that follow. It implementation of a new health and safety wellbeing and development by collaborating in is a commitment based on dialogue with management system according to the highest projects that help to improve their quality of life. our stakeholders, an understanding of their standards has made an effective contribution to expectations and our desire to continue playing this improvement. In this connection, we have continued our part in the development of an energy collaborating with different organisations on Together with safety, the CLH Group has system that is safe, efficient and sustainable. projects related to education, social welfare continued to develop other initiatives for and integration and environmental protection, offering its employees a satisfactory work in addition to other areas that are of interest environment. Guaranteeing equality for for society as a whole, such as the promotion everyone, and an attractive work atmosphere of art and culture, development of new energy that fosters career development and sources, research for the prevention of disease provides greater flexibility in the performance and collaboration with academic institutions to of their duties, were among the main courses foster job opportunities for young people. of action that received attention. It is precisely because of the CLH Group’s good performance Besides this, the CLH Group launched its José Luis López de Silanes in this area that we were awarded “efr” new corporate volunteer work plan known as Executive Chairman certification for the reconciliation of working “Voluntarily”, which will provide us with a better Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Corporate Social Responsibility Scorecard 7 Corporate Social Responsibility Scorecard 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Creation of wealth Human dimension Operating profit (millions of euros) 226.0 231.9 222.0 Number of employees 1,673 1,635 1,461 Net profit (millions of euros) 151.2 162.8 147.9 Average employee age (years) 45.6 44.9 44.0 Operating revenues (millions of euros) 586.0 615.7 589.6 Average employee length of service (years) 20 18 18 Economic value distributed (millions of euros) 510.4 511.7 488.7 Staff turnover (undesired staff losses) (%) 0.4 0.7 0.4 Operating expenses (millions of euros) 360.0 383.9 367.5 Investment in training (thousands of euros) 1,011.0 1,025.7 1,050.2 Investments (millions of euros) 120.3 108.9 79.2 Average training hours 33 36 (men) and 33 (men) and Dividend (millions of euros) 155.2 152.5 147.7 50 (women) 50 (women) Total Assets (millions of euros) 1,953.0 1,952.0 1,887.7 % of employees receiving a formal assessment 35% (men) 33% (men) 37% (men) of performance and 32% and 34% and 36% Activity Data (women) (women) (women) Deliveries from Facilities (thousands of tons) 36,797 35,397 33,972 % of employees covered by collective 87 % 87% 85% Withdrawals by land sector operators 30,931 29,041 27,633 bargaining agreements (thousands of tons) Total accident frequency rate (TFR in 12.3 7.65 (men) and 4.47 (men) and Withdrawals by aviation sector operators 4,296 4,468 4,195 CLH Group) 5.04 (women) 2.57 (women) (thousands of tons) Safety training (Hours) 12,945 14,129 13,095 Withdrawals by marine sector operators 1,570 1,818 1,947 Employee satisfaction survey 2.65 (2007) 2.87 (2010) 2.96 (2012) (thousands of tons) Environmental dimension Activity in transport systems Environmental investments (millions of euros) 13.9 10.6 10.4 Oil tankers (thousands of tons) 2,183 2,581 2,296 Direct energy consumption (Gigajoules/year) 484,079 503,218 480,869 Oil pipelines (thousands of tons) 22,368 21,365 20,791 Indirect energy consumption (Gigajoules/year) 932,269 967,708 1,012,507 Material resources Water consumption (m3) 165,590 139,940 173,846 SOx emissions (tons) 351 263 301 Number of storage facilities 38 38 39 Volatile organic compound emissions (tons) 720 377 495 Number of airport facilities 29 28 28 Particle emissions (tons) 21.9 23 23.6 Pipeline Network (km) 4,007 4,006 4,027 NOx emissions (tons) 339 407 418 Number of chartered oil tankers 2 2 2 Generation of waste (tons) 3,551 5,023 4,866 Customers and quality CO2 emissions (tons) 34,443 34,711 33,957 Number of CLH customers 33 43 40 CO2 emissions in road transport (tons) 951 1,343 1,230 Number of CLH Aviación customers 10 12 10 Spills that affect the environment 1 1 3 Average assessment by CLH S.A. customers Survey not 3.1 Survey not carried out carried out Average assessment by CLH Aviación Survey not 3.23 3.43 customers carried out Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Important milestones in 2012 1/7 8 Important milestones in 2012 The CLH Group values are reflected every year in the milestones of its different areas of management: Commitment to integrity, transparency and corporate responsibility New Corporate Responsibility Master Plan Adoption of the Code of Best Tax Practices The General Meeting adopts a resolution 2012-2016 to establish the website www.clh.es as the In 2012, the CLH Group subscribed to company’s electronic headquarters The CLH Group approved the new Corporate the Code of Best Tax Practices which was Responsibility Master Plan for the 2012-2016 developed by the Spanish Tax Administration The Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders period, which includes the guidelines and and the Large Businesses Forum. By signing has approved the creation of the corporate strategic objectives of the company in this field up for this code, CLH ratifies the company’s website as the company’s electronic of activity. commitment to the best corporate governance headquarters, for the purposes provided for in practices, to cooperation in tax practice and article 11 bis of the Capital Company Law. Approval of the annual report on remuneration also cooperation with the Administration in of the company’s directors detecting fraudulent practices. The 2011 annual report on remuneration CLH, a trusted operator for the customs of the directors was put to the vote at the authorities Ordinary General Meeting held in April, and was unanimously approved. In 2012, CLH obtained this certification which will give it, as the owner of tax and customs warehouses, the status of trusted operator for the customs authorities in the provision of logistics services. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Important milestones in 2012 2/7 9 Commitment to improving our facilities, to quality and to our customers Expansion of the Algeciras storage facility and Completion of construction work at the new inauguration of the new facility in Burgos CLH facility in Almodóvar del Campo (Ciudad Real) CLH put into service the storage capacity expansion carried out at the facility in Algeciras. The CLH Group completed construction work With completion of this work, the plant has at the new facility in Almodóvar del Campo become the most important in Spain in terms (Ciudad Real). This new infrastructure has CLH moves ahead with the review of its of storage and movement of marine diesel 8 tanks with a total storage capacity of responsible purchasing model and IFO, and is one of the most outstanding 187,835 m3. It also has a poly pipeline in Europe. Also in 2012, CLH inaugurated the consisting of five lines for interconnection with The company has progressed throughout new storage facility in Burgos. Building this the pipeline network managed by the company. 2012 with reviewing its responsible purchasing plant has made it possible to replace the plant model. Among other courses of action, it has formerly operated by the company in this city New CLH Aviación facility at Altet (Alicante) worked on defining a supplier self-assessment and for the land it occupied to be put to other airport questionnaire on the requirements included urban development uses. in the Code of Conduct; on improving the CLH Aviación has built a new plant at Altet procedure for handling non-compliances; and airport, in the same place where the previous on internal control of the practices engaged in one stood, which has made it possible to renew by the main suppliers in this respect. The Group the existing infrastructures and connect them is also defining a methodology for identifying up to the new airport hydrant network. risks of ethics and integrity, which will include purchasing processes. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Important milestones in 2012 3/7 10 Into-plane fuel supply contract with Air Europa Top marks awarded by the JIG to the airport Recognition of quality and customer trust facilities in Barcelona and Palma (Majorca) CLH Aviación and the airline company Air The CLH Group was awarded the 6th “Madrid Europa signed a contract for the provision of The CLH Aviación facilities at El Prat Excelente” Prize for Customer Trust, in the into-plane fuel supply services at ten Spanish (Barcelona) and Son Sant Joan (Palma, category of “Large Company” certified with this airports. The agreement makes it possible Majorca) airports were rated as “Excellent” by quality mark. The Autonomous Community of for Air Europa to enjoy other services, such the Joint Inspection Group (JIG), in recognition Madrid awards these acknowledgements to as direct access to all information relating to of the work carried out for meeting the highest companies that are outstanding for excellence supplies. standards for operation at international level. in their management and the satisfaction and The JIG also inspected the plants at Barajas, loyalty of their customers. Malaga and Alicante airports, which were also given a high rating. Certificates awarded for service quality The CLH Group was the first company to be recognised with quality certification from the Port Authority of Palma (Majorca), after successfully passing an independent audit prepared by AENOR. This award confirms that the CLH services provided at this city’s port meet the highest possible quality requirements. Besides this new award, in 2012 the Barcelona facility renewed its quality certificate with the Port Authority in this city after undergoing a new assessment. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Important milestones in 2012 4/7 11 Commitment to safety Progressive reduction of the Total Accident Frequency Rate in the CLH Group Recognition regarding safety matters Protocol of assistance signed with the refineries The efforts made in the last few years in the CLH participated in one of the awards given area of occupational prevention have made during the safety gala held in Cartagena by The CLH Group signed a protocol of assistance it possible to achieve a progressive reduction Commain to celebrate more than 1,000 days with Spanish refineries to strengthen in the Total Accident Frequency Rate in the without any occupational accidents at all. The available resources and cooperation in cases CLH Group. In 2012, a reduction of 42.2% was Valle de Escombreras Business Association of emergency. The agreement establishes achieved compared with 2011. (AEVE), to which the company belongs, protocols on the action to be taken in risk received one of the three prizes awarded to situations and provides for a communication Renewal of the OHSAS 18001:2007 the companies that are most committed to risk procedure to minimise damage to facilities, Occupational Health and Safety certificate prevention. people and the environment. Throughout 2012, AENOR conducted its “Working together for risk prevention” safety first review audit on the Health and Safety campaign System according to the OHSAS 18001:2007 standard in CLH and CLH Aviación. Both The CLH Group signed up for the European companies successfully passed the audit and campaign known as “Working together for the corresponding certificate was obtained. risk prevention”, launched by the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (EUOSHA) under the slogan “Better together”, to encourage top management, middle management and workers to cooperate in managing occupational risks together. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Important milestones in 2012 5/7 12 Commitment to our people Renewal of the “efr” certificate awarded by Among the best companies to work for Welcome Plan for new technical staff the “Másfamilia” Foundation The CLH Group achieved second place among At the end of the year the CLH Group In 2012, the CLH Group underwent an external the best companies to work for in Spain, in the organised the traditional Welcome Plan for the audit for continuing to hold the “efr” (Family oil companies sector, in the 2012 Merco People 17 new technical staff members who started Responsible Company) certificate in recognition report. The company achieved 42nd place in working in the company during 2012. The aim of its human resources policy. The certificate the general ranking. CLH also appears for the of this programme is to give new recruits an was obtained with the “B-Proactive Company” sixth year running in the ranking of “The best overall view of the company, encourage them rating. companies to work for”, which is drawn up by to identify with the aims of the Group, and ‘Actualidad Económica’ magazine. The company foster free-flowing communication between the Deployment of the Equality Plan holds 130th place out of the 200 organisations different areas. During 2012, the CLH Group continued to included in this classification, just as it did last deploy the plans for gender equality and year, but with a better general score. support to the career advancement of women in the company. Among other actions carried 3rd Opinion Survey carried out on CLH Group out, specific training was provided for staff in employees sensitive jobs; a boost has been given to the The company carried out the 3rd Opinion signing of the plans between all trade union Survey on CLH Group employees in 2012. sections in the Group, and gender equality The rate of participation in the study was technical committees have been set up in the 70%, and it highlighted the average general company to discuss these aspects. level of satisfaction of the workforce with a score of 3.44 out of 4. In fact, 90.7% of those interviewed say they are satisfied or very satisfied with the company as a place to work. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Important milestones in 2012 6/7 13 Commitment Commitment to the local community to the environment Approval of a Social Action Policy in the Collaboration with Alfonso X el Sabio EMAS environmental certification for the Group University Huelva and Tarragona facilities The CLH Group has approved a new Social The CLH Group and Alfonso X el Sabio The storage facilities in Huelva and Tarragona Action Policy that will promote development University signed a collaboration agreement obtained EMAS environmental certification of one of the main aims of the company’s for promoting joint research, development and in recognition of the effort made to increase Corporate Responsibility model, which is technological innovation in the field of science. the sustainability of their activities and their to contribute towards the wellbeing and The agreement also provides for grant awards commitment to continuous improvement. development of the communities where it to be made for gaining practical experience at operates, by collaborating in projects that help the company’s facilities. The former storage facility in Burgos is to improve their quality of life. dismantled CLH presence at career and training fairs CLH completed work on dismantling the tanks CLH launches its corporate volunteer plan at the old storage facility in Burgos, which was CLH took part in the 7th Career and Vocational known as “Voluntarily” located in the Hospital del Rey district. A total Training Fair, organised by the Board of CLH has launched its corporate volunteer plan Education and Employment of the Autonomous of around 11,000 cubic metres of rubble and known as “Voluntarily”, which is designed to Community of Madrid, and also in Induforum almost 2,700 tons of metal in addition to other promote and channel activities carried out on 2012, an event promoted by the Polytechnic materials were removed, all of them having a volunteer basis by CLH Group employees University of Madrid. The company had a stand been classified and sent to authorised dumps and whose primary aim is to help people at both these fairs, where it gave information or recycling plants. with disabilities and those who are socially about its activity and collected CVs from newly disadvantaged, use education for fostering qualified young people. social harmony, and to care for and protect the environment. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Important milestones in 2012 7/7 14 Environmental collaboration agreement Recognition of environmental conduct in CLH Tree planting in Burgos between CLH and the Port Authority of Aviación The company signed a collaboration agreement Barcelona CLH Aviación was given a special mention in with Burgos city council for extending this CLH and the Port Authority of Barcelona the “4th Environmental Conduct in Companies city’s green belt area. In accordance with this signed an agreement on good environmental Contest” organised by Madrid-Barajas airport, in commitment, CLH sponsored a tree planting practices through which the company recognition of the sustainability of its activities event in which more than 50 schoolchildren and undertakes to certify, by means of regular and its commitment to the environment. The environmental specialists took part, which made checks accredited by independent specialist company is the only organisation to have it possible to reforest an area of three hectares staff, that it complies with the strict controls laid received diplomas and special mentions in the on the outskirts. The company was also one down by law. four editions of this contest, after obtaining first of the honorary sponsors of the tree planting prize in 2009. event organised by the “Asociación de Vecinos Siglo XXI”, a residents’ association, and the New techniques for soil recovery “Fuentes Blancas” School to celebrate Arbor Day. The CLH Group was one of the organising companies behind the “Trends in microbiological treatment of soils and polluted water” seminar, which made it possible for an analysis to be made of the best practices in environmental recovery of land. Participating in the event were the assistant manager for Prevention, Environment and Safety, Santiago Fernández Murciano, and the manager for Environment and Safety, Fernando García. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX The CLH Group 1/6 15 1. The CLH Group Profile The CLH Group, which is formed by Compañía Quality, efficiency and continuous improvement Logística de Hidrocarburos and its subsidiary form part of the CLH Group commitment in CLH Aviación, is the leading company in the performance of its activities. Throughout the Spanish market for the transportation its history the company has adapted to the and storage of oil products and has worked circumstances of the market in order to for more than 85 years to bring this energy guarantee fuel supply to society, offer its closer to society, guaranteeing supply that is employees a satisfactory work environment, continuous, safe and sustainable. the right kind of return on investment for its shareholders and excellent service for its To carry out its activities, it has one of the customers. largest and most efficient integrated oil product transportation and storage networks in the world, which is made up of more than 4,000 kilometres of pipeline, 39 storage facilities and 28 airport facilities. These infrastructures are available to all oil product operators doing business in Spain, airline companies and national and international agencies that are responsible for the management of strategic reserves, such as CORES, the Spanish Corporation of Strategic Reserves of Petroleum Products. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX The CLH Group 2/6 16 Shareholding structure What the shareholding structure of the In accordance with these limitations, the CLH Group seeks is for its management to CLH Group shareholding structure is currently be undertaken in accordance with two basic the one shown in the accompanying chart(1). principles: • To achieve service quality at competitive prices. 0.85% 5% 14.15% 14.15% Cepsa 5% • To maximise profitability and efficiency. 10.00% Repsol 5% In order to achieve both of these goals it 5% 10% 10.00% Oman Oil is essential to guarantee independence in 5% 10.00% AMP Capital Investors (CLH No.2) BV decision-making. The shareholding structure is 5% 10.00% Marthilor 10% therefore limited in accordance with the general 5.00% BP Oil 5% regulations for the hydrocarbons sector and 5.00% Galp 5% 10% also by Royal Decree-Law 6/2000. 5% 10% 5.00% NCG Corporación Industrial 5.00% Deutsche Bank 5.00% Her Majesty The Queen in Right of Alberta 5.00% Public Sector Pension Investment Board 5.00% Stichting Pensioenfonds Zorg en Welzijn 5.00% Global Salamina 5.00% Kutxabank 0.85% Others (1) Only 24.15% of the shareholder body corresponds to operators with refining capacity in Spain (Cepsa, Repsol and BP Oil). A further 5% belongs to an operator without any refining capacity in our country (Galp). The remainder is distributed between various financial investors. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX The CLH Group 3/6 17 Areas of activity Basic logistics activities The CLH Group also has 39 storage facilities distributed across the Spanish territory of the The CLH Group is formed by Compañía The basic logistics activity mainly consists of Iberian Peninsula and the Balearic Islands, with Logística de Hidrocarburos CLH, S.A. and its receiving oil products essentially gasolines, a fuel capacity of 7.9 million cubic metres. Most subsidiary CLH Aviación, S.A., each of which diesel fuels, fuel oils and aviation fuels at the of them operate around the clock for 365 days carries out business in different fields: CLH facilities, and transporting and storing of the year. them. Basic logistics also includes final delivery • Compañía Logística de Hidrocarburos to the company’s customers through its tank In the context of its basic logistics activities, the CLH, S.A: engages in basic logistic activities truck loading facilities. company offers instant product accreditation. (transportation, storage and distribution) This allows its customers to be able to make involving oil products, mainly gasolines, diesel In order to carry out these activities the use of their products at different destinations fuels, kerosenes, fuel oils and biofuels. CLH Group has a network of more than immediately after they have delivered them at a 4,000 km of pipelines that connect the eight source facility that is a long way away from the • CLH Aviación: offers services for the storage, refineries in peninsular Spain, where the fuels destination facility. distribution and into-plane supply of aviation are produced, and the main receiving ports, with fuels and lubricants. It also manages and most of the storage facilities. Another of the company’s activities is the provides advisory and technical assistance incorporation of the additives and markers services for the installation and maintenance The plants that are not linked up with this required by the legislation in force, and also of distribution networks for different types of pipeline network and those located in the those developed by the various operators for aviation fuel. Balearic Islands are supplied by means of oil improving or differentiating the quality of their tankers on charter from reputable shipowners oil products. These activities are described in greater detail that offer full guarantee, while mediumand in the paragraphs that follow. small-sized airport facilities are supplied by During 2012, deliveries of products from the means of tank truck. company’s facilities totalled 34 million tons of oil products, most of them gasolines, diesel fuels, fuel oils and aviation kerosene. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX The CLH Group 4/6 18 Logistics network infrastructures Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX The CLH Group 5/6 19 New business areas Strategic and security storage It should be mentioned that more than 0.8 million cubic metres of the biodiesel was Strategic storage and biofuel logistics services, The CLH Group places part of its storage hydrobiodiesel (HVO), a second generation and various activities in order to expand the capacity as the disposal of the oil product biofuel whose use became much more activity of the CLH Group in the international strategic reserve management bodies and the widespread during last year. context are new business areas for the operators themselves, in order for them to be company: able to maintain the security stocks required by law. Other activities carried out by the Group International expansion The company holds storage contracts with Supplies to aircraft The CLH Group is developing its international CORES, the Spanish Corporation of Strategic CLH Aviación has 28 airport facilities that are expansion model through the analysis of Reserves of Petroleum Products, as well as situated at most Spanish airports and offer business opportunities in other countries. This with various operators and with NORA, the services for the storage, distribution and intomodel takes in activities such as investment agency that manages Irish strategic reserves, plane supply of aviation fuels and lubricants. in logistics assets in other countries, the for storing part of its strategic and security During 2012, the company performed more operation of logistics assets belonging to other reserves at CLH facilities, which totalled 3.5 than 330,000 aircraft supply operations and companies or state agencies, storage and million cubic metres in 2012. provided direct into-plane supply of more than into-plane supply of fuels at airports, advisory 2.4 million cubic metres of aviation fuel. and consultancy services in processes for Biofuels transforming or optimising logistics operations CLH Aviación also provides advisory The company’s logistics system has been and strategic reserve storage services for and technical assistance services for the adapted for storing, transporting and operators and central agencies in different installation and maintenance of distribution dispatching diesel with biodiesel and gasoline countries. networks for different types of aviation fuel. with bioethanol, with the aim of meeting the The CLH Aviación facilities are fitted out new market requirements and contributing to with technologically advanced resources that the development of renewable energies in the guarantee product quality and safety in supply fuel sector. operations. During 2012, CLH distributed more than 2.4 million cubic metres of biofuel, of which 2.1 million cubic metres were biodiesel and 0.3 million cubic metres were bioethanol. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX The CLH Group 6/6 20 Service station maintenance This work is carried out at the Metrological This laboratory is fitted out with fuel Verification laboratory in Loeches (Madrid), characterisation equipment that is practically CLH provides technical assistance and which is accredited in the area of calibration unique in the sector. It also has a sophisticated undertakes comprehensive maintenance by ENAC, the Spanish accreditation body, and samples and results management system that work at service stations. It also carries out is one of the most complete and complex in is integrated into the CLH systems, which remodelling and refurbishment work to bring Europe. This metrology laboratory, which is an permits control and instant exchange of them into line with current legislation. During international benchmark in its sector, designs information regarding the characteristics of all 2012, the company continued providing its and manufactures most of the systems it the products stored and distributed through the services to a large number of service stations uses for carrying out these controls. During CLH network. that includes filling stations, yachting harbours 2012, this Unit performed more than 3,300 and railway stations. The CLH Central Laboratory is the only calibrations. Spanish laboratory to be included by the IAF Metrology (International Automobile Federation) in its Laboratory list of recognised laboratories for analysing The CLH Metrology Unit provides services for The CLH Group has a network of laboratories the quality of fuels used in national and the calibration, verification and adjustment of that enjoys great prestige in the sector and international motor racing competitions. oil product volume, temperature, pressure and consists of seven centres that are coordinated density meters, so as to guarantee reliability of Throughout 2012, more than 32,000 samples from the modern Central Laboratory in San the quantities supplied to the end customer. were received and over 133,000 tests were Fernando de Henares (Madrid). carried out. The main activities carried out there focus on the quality control analyses established in fuel and biofuel specifications, and on researching into incidents occurring in logistics and in the market. It also carries out environmental tests, and testing of the characteristics and behaviour of materials and additives using instrumentbased analytical techniques. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Corporate Responsibility in CLH 1/7 21 2. Corporate Responsibility in CLH Our approach What progress have we achieved in 2012 in our challenges for moving forward in Corporate Responsibility? With its history of more than 85 years, the CLH Group wishes to be Programme Degree of compliance recognised not only as the leading company in the Spanish market 1. Approval of the new Corporate The programme has been approved by the Management Committee for oil product transportation and Responsibility Master Plan 2012-2016 and has been launched. storage, but also to be known for 2. Publication and verification of the fifth CSR The report was published and verified, and was awarded an A+ rating excellence in its processes and report by Global Reporting Initiative. services and for its contribution 3. To renew our commitment to the United The commitment has been renewed. The information this corporate to the wellbeing of the societies it responsibility report contains provides an answer to the contents Nations Global Compact serves. required in the progress reports that the signatories of this pact must send. Note: Although these three programmes do not correspond to the Corporate Responsibility Master Plan, they have been included as they are challenges that the Group set itself last year for the area of integrity. What do we want to achieve in 2013? Publish and verify our sixth Corporate Responsibility report. Provide the senior and middle management of the company with training in the area of Corporate Social Responsibility. Accomplished Foster relations and establish alliances with the company’s stakeholders. In progress Move ahead in executing the programmes provided for in our Corporate Responsibility Master Plan. Not yet started Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Corporate Responsibility in CLH 2/7 22 Corporate Responsibility management in CLH The CLH Corporate Responsibility policy is These principles form the basis of the CLH Corporate Responsibility Committee fully integrated into its business strategy and Corporate Responsibility strategy, which is is based on the guidelines laid down in its developed on a practical level through the Mission, Vision and Values, and also in the new Master Plan that has been approved by Supervise approach and action ten principles of the United Nations Global the company for the 2012-2016 period and programmes. Compact, which CLH became a signatory of establishes the main programmes and initiatives Promote action plans and report to the in 2007. The commitments established in this to be carried out. administrative and management bodies of policy have been defined by taking into account the company. The Communication and Institutional the opinion of the different stakeholders Monitor the fulfilment of external Relations Management is the unit responsible commitments in this area. of the company (customers, shareholders, for ensuring that this strategy is properly employees, supplies, society), and provide for Support the Communication and implemented. It is supported in this task by the the following as priority aspects: environmental Institutional Relations Management in Management Committee and the Corporate managing relations with stakeholders. management and protection; control and Responsibility Committee that is formed safety of the facilities, occupational health and Collaborate in drafting the Corporate by representatives of all the CLH Group Responsibility report. safety, relations with the community and the managements. stakeholders themselves, ethics and integrity, and attracting and retaining talent. As the organisation’s highest governing body, the Board of Directors approves the CLH Group Corporate Responsibility strategy. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Corporate Responsibility in CLH 3/7 23 Also, in the framework of internal auditing This monitoring work enables the Board to New Corporate Responsibility processes and the identification and integrate environmental and social criteria management of the main risks and into its decision-making processes. It also Master Plan 2012-2016 opportunities that exist for the company, the pays attention to the expectations that the The CLH Group approved a new Corporate Board monitors the organisation’s performance company’s main stakeholders have regarding Responsibility Master Plan, for the 2012in the area of Corporate Responsibility. its operation. Therefore, in 2012 the company 2016 period, which includes the guidelines carried out a reputation monitoring study based and strategic objectives of the company in this on interviewing these stakeholders, which has sphere of activity. served to assess their satisfaction with the company and find out about the main aspects The Corporate Responsibility Master Plan that interest them. 2012-2016 aims at: Collaboration with key initiatives regarding • Establishing the strategic lines and main Corporate Responsibility is another of the goals in the area of Corporate Responsibility company’s priorities in this field. In this in the CLH Group for this period. connection, the CLH Group is a signatory of • Identifying the socially responsible actions the United Nations Global Compact, and so it that provide an answer to the company’s is committed to supporting and developing the strategic challenges. ten principles of this pact in relation to respect for human and labour rights, the environment • Consolidating the organisational structure and anti-corruption practices. It is for this already established in the previous Master reason, and as part of its commitment, that the Plan, from which both the CLH Group CLH Group prepares a Progress Report each strategy and its socially responsible actions year in which it reports on the progress made take their structure and are fostered. by the company in this field. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Corporate Responsibility in CLH 4/7 24 Logical framework in development of the CLH Corporate Responsibility Master Plan In order to draw up this new plan, a specialist Challenges and opportunities New Business Challenges and rating agency (Sustainable Asset Management) markets diversification New markets was requested, in the initial diagnosis phase, to Business diversification opportunities make an analysis of the CLH Group Corporate Climate Change Climate Change Responsibility practices, using that to identify Our way of seeing things. Values the risks and opportunities in this sphere so Safety as to incorporate these items into the new Safety Excellence Our way of seeing things. 2012-2016 Plan. In addition, as a result of Excellence Efficiency the analysis the company obtained the highest Commitment Efficiency world score for sustainability in the pipelines Trust Commitment Integrity sector. Values Trust Responsibility Development of the Corporate Responsibility Integrity CLH Group Strategic Plan Master Plan also rests on the values of the Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Master Plan company and its vision in this area: to be an 2012-2016 international benchmark company in energy CLH Group strategic plan distribution through our business model, which is complete, efficient, environmentally friendly Corporate Responsibility and safe and which, in turn, contributes to the Master Plan 2012-2016 economic, environmental and social progress of the societies served by the company. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Corporate Responsibility in CLH 5/7 25 Architecture of the Master Plan The architecture of the Master Plan 2012• To ensure that the framework for integrity in Architecture of the Corporate 2016 is structured around three strategic the CLH Group responds to the requirements Responsibility Master Plan 2012-2016 areas, three support programmes and three of the reform of the Spanish Criminal Code booster tools. and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines. Strategic areas While the strategic areas address improvement • To reinforce Corporate Governance practices. Integrity and transparency in management of the CLH Group in key Efficiency and environmental protection • To review the responsible purchasing model. Safety spheres regarding Corporate Responsibility, the support programmes emerge to equip • To strengthen the risk management system. Support programmes the company with systems that strengthen its On the other hand, the “Efficiency and People relationship with some of the key stakeholders Customers Environmental Protection” area seeks to such as, for example, our own people, Relations with the community improve the management of resources and customers and the communities in which we minimise the impact of operations. Therefore, Booster tools operate. the following specific objectives are provided Information and data collection The booster tools, on the other hand, refer to for in this area: Leadership and visibility cross-cutting mechanisms that make it possible Training and awareness-raising • To improve the environmental reporting to achieve the goals established in the abovesystem. mentioned areas and programmes. • To promote energy efficiency in operations The three strategic areas that form the and offices. structure of the Master Plan are Integrity and Transparency; Efficiency and Environmental • To improve efficiency in water consumption. Protection; and Safety, each of which provides • To promote efficiency in waste management. for a series of specific objectives. • To formalise and implement the CLH Group’s The “Integrity and Transparency” area, for position on biodiversity. example, focuses on equipping the CLH Group with a framework for exemplary action • To carry out monitoring of environmental regarding integrity and corporate governance. risks and opportunities. The following have been established as special • To link sustainability with the business model. goals: Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Corporate Responsibility in CLH 6/7 26 Lastly, the programmes included in the “Safety” Regarding the support programmes provided • To improve current customer area are directed at ensuring that the company for in the plan, the first one, “People”, aims relations processes with a view to the continues to be an international benchmark at providing the company with management internationalisation and diversification of the in the sector because of its practices where systems that offer its employees satisfactory company. occupational and industrial health and safety working conditions and an attractive, stimulating • To encourage innovation. are concerned. That is reflected in the following professional career that contributes towards special goals: achievement of the company ‘s objectives. Lastly, the third of the programmes, “Relations with the community”, focuses on making • To improve the integrity of the facilities. A series of special goals has therefore been the CLH Group valued as a company that is established in the programme: • To reinforce the role played by the close to society and committed to the needs CLH Group as an international benchmark • To strengthen diversity in the CLH Group. and concerns of the communities in which it where pipeline integrity is concerned. operates. The following goals have therefore • To promote integration and inclusion. been established in this programme: • To strengthen Occupational Health and • To improve the tools for developing human Safety. • To formalise the position of the Group where capital. social action is concerned. • To continue develop the CLH Group “Zero is • To progressively integrate CSR into the possible” commitment to safety. • To involve our employees in the social management through objectives systems. initiatives undertaken by the company For each of these strategic priorities, the • To promote good working practices. through a corporate voluntary work Master Plan establishes different projects and programme. programmes in which all of the company’s On the other hand, the second of the Master managements participate. Plan programmes, “Customers”, has been • To collaborate with the social action projects designed to equip the CLH Group with the in which other of the company’s stakeholders The various chapters of the Corporate Social systems necessary for adapting itself to are working. Responsibility Report contain a specific their requirements and to changes in the indication of which these programmes are as environment. The following have therefore well as the level of progress the company has been established as the main objectives of the achieved in each case. programme: Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Corporate Responsibility in CLH 7/7 27 Finally, in order to reinforce compliance with the CSRMP 2012-16 Programmes Initiatives to be developed within the programme strategic areas and support programmes, the Master Plan also includes three booster tools: Identification of the programmes included in Progress level code. CLH activities designed for advancing the Corporate Social Responsibility Master the programmes defined in the • “Information and data collection”, with which Plan 2012-16 that are related to the area Corporate Social Responsibility Master CLH seeks to strengthen the present discussed in each chapter. Plan 2012-16. system of corporate responsibility indicators by improving the automation of data Progress level code: Accomplished In progress Not yet started collection and increasing the reliability of the The progress level code presented therefore shows, in graphic format, the present situation that CLH understands information. the Corporate Social Responsibility Master Plan 2012-16 programmes to have reached. • “Leadership and visibility”, designed to bring value to the business based on the company’s participation in key initiatives in A notable case corporate responsibility. • “Training and awareness-raising”, for Approval of the CLH Group Social Action Policy spreading the Corporate Responsibility culture among CLH senior and middle One of the main objectives of the CLH Corporate Social Responsibility model is to contribute management. to the wellbeing and development of the communities in which it operates, by cooperating in projects that help to improve their quality of life. The following chapters of this report show To achieve this, in 2012 the company approved a new Social Action Policy whose aim is to the progress made by CLH in executing the support the development of social interest initiatives in the field of education, social welfare initiatives that form the strategic areas and and integration and environmental protection in its sphere of influence, as well as to maintain support programmes of this Plan. continuous, flexible dialogue with its stakeholders. Each of the following chapters includes a table The CLH Group seeks to maintain a long-term involvement with these activities. It therefore showing the level of progress achieved in carries its policy into effect through projects that create a positive, long-lasting impact on the the plan’s programmes through the initiatives community and offer the opportunity of collaborating in the transformation and improvement of defined in those programmes, as shown below: the environments in which it operates. To achieve this, the company has also developed a plan in which it uses a system of specific indicators to constantly monitor the activities in which it participates, so that their progress, the opinion of the other parties involved and the true impact of their contribution to society can be known at any given moment. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Creation of value for the company and our stakeholders 1/6 28 3. Creation of value for the company and our stakeholders Our approach What progress have we achieved in 2012 in the CSR Master Plan 2012-2016 programmes related to this area? The creation of value for its shareholders and the satisfaction Programme Degree of compliance of its stakeholders are key 1. Optimisation of processes for the Implementation of new software for process automation. elements in the management of management and processing of invoices. the CLH Group, and for that reason 2. Implementation of a new management Functional design of the system in collaboration with Information we are committed to a transparent system for customer debt recovery and Systems. management based on relations of monitoring. trust and cooperation. 3. Approval of a new Strategic Plan for the It is expected to be approved in the first quarter of 2013. 2012-2016 period. 4. Provision of new logistics services. • Bioethanol storage service with receipt by tank truck and dispatch in tanker. • Blending services for different product qualities. • Expansion of differentiated additivation services. Note: Although these five programmes • Tanker loading services for the dispatch of products to customers or do not correspond to the Corporate other logistics. Responsibility Master Plan, they have been included as they are challenges 5. Development of internationalisation through Agreements with international companies to analyse the possibilities of that the Group set itself last year for the the provision of services to companies in joint development of logistics infrastructures. area of integrity. other countries. What do we want to achieve in 2013? Finish approving a new Strategic Plan. Continue with the process for internationalisation of the company. Implement an integrated risk management software to provide better cover for Risk Map maintenance and Accomplished updating. Complete the implementation of a new management system for customer debt recovery and monitoring. In progress Implement a new corporate management control system, that makes it possible to have the use of greater Not yet started capacity for analysing information and to reduce the time devoted to its processing. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Creation of value for the company and our stakeholders 2/6 29 Economic value created The results for 2012 are a reflection of the The main key economic figures for the CLH Group’s commitment to keeping up return CLH Group in 2012 were as follows: on investment and the creation of value despite • Operating income totalled €589.6 million. the difficult economic circumstances our country has been experiencing during the year. • Investments for expanding and improving the The company has faced the decline in demand storage facilities, new pipelines and other for oil products that has resulted from the operational improvements accounted for a present economic situation through reinforcing total of €79.2 million. the efficiency of its activities and diversifying its • Operating profit amounted to €222.0 million. services. • The company record a net profit of €147.9 million. • The share list price at year-end was €22.50. Source of earnings for the Group Evolution of CLH Group operating income (%) (Millions of euros) 586 616 590 0.2 600 2.4 72.4% Land sector 11.6 13.4% Aviation sector: 13.4 Supply to airports 400 72.4 11.6% Aviation sector: Supply to aircraft 2.4% Marine Sector 200 0.2% Ship chartering 0 2010 2011 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Creation of value for the company and our stakeholders 3/6 30 Economic value distributed Through its activities, the CLH Group creates Thousands of euros direct economic value for its main stakeholders, Creation of wealth by CLH Group in other agents 2010 2011 2012 the most important of whom are: its employees, through payment of salaries; the shareholders, Staff costs 119,653 116,711 120,288 through remuneration of their capital with Supplies 168,191 173,129 156,483 dividends; the suppliers, through money spent Returns on capital (dividends) 155,257 152,517 147,676 on supplies; and the Public Administrations, Payments to Governments (Indicate breakdown) 67,307 69,380 64,233 with the payment of its taxes. Taxes on profit(2) 63,542 65,330 59,653 Others 3,766 4,050 4,580 Added Value 510,408 511,737 488,683 Results for the year 151,185 162,763 147,875 (2) Basically, this includes items devoted to the payment of charges and taxes other than Corporation Tax. 200,000 168,191 173,129 155,257 156,483 152,517 147,676 Supplies 150,000 Returns on capital 119,653 120,288 (Dividends) 116,711 Staff costs 100,000 Payments to Governments (Taxes) 67,307 69,380 64,233 50,000 0 2010 2011 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Creation of value for the company and our stakeholders 4/6 31 Value brought to society In addition to creating direct economic value, — The high level of efficiency attained by the Weight of logistics on end prices of automotive the CLH Group creates indirect economic value CLH Group, as a result of using advanced diesel and 95 octane gasoline in Spain (%) in the social context in which its operations are technology and optimising resources, allows 1 carried out: the average cost of the company’s logistics services to be less than one eurocent per 0.7 0.7 — The CLH Group’s oil product logistics system litre, which represents only 0.6% of the price 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 stands out for its integrated nature and for paid by the end consumer for each litre of 0.5 the excellent optimisation of available assets fuel. and resources, which makes it possible to guarantee a continuous, safe, efficient and This constant search for efficiency also sustainable supply that results in benefiting means that since 2005, the price of 0 society as a whole. CLH Group services has been reduced in 2010 2011 2012 constant terms, which also has an impact on Weight of logistics in automotive diesel prices In this respect, the actions carried out by the the fuel prices paid by the end users. Weight of logistics in 95 octane gasoline prices company within the 2007-2012 investment plan have made it possible to extend the An analysis carried out by the National pipeline network by 523 kilometres and Energy Commission (CNE) in 2012, which Index of CLH service prices for its customers. incorporate 1.2 million m3 of storage compares oil product logistics in Spain with Index for 2005=100 capacity. This investment effort exceeded those of France, evidences the lower price of 150 750 million euros and made it possible the CLH services compared with its French to prepare the company’s infrastructures counterpart, thereby illustrating the efficiency 15 18 for meeting oil product transportation and achieved by the company in its activities. 100 100 97 97 storage requirements in Spain in the next 10 years. 50 0 2005 2011 2012 Current terms Constant terms Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Creation of value for the company and our stakeholders 5/6 32 — The CLH Group uses pipelines as the main — The CLH Group works in association with the Petroleum and future energy method for transporting oil products. An Public Administration in collecting the Tax on important amount of tank truck and tanker Hydrocarbons. The company is the principal scenarios transiting is eliminated in this way, giving rise taxpayer of this tax, which is accrued when According to the “World Energy Outlook to a reduction in pollutant emissions. The oil products leave the storage facilities, which 2012” published by the International Energy company estimates that the use of these dictates that up to 80% of the State’s tax Agency (IEA), in the next few decades there pipelines avoided the emission of 356,000 revenues for this item are collected through will be more demand for all energy sources, tons of CO2 into the atmosphere in 2012. CLH. from petroleum down to renewables. In Also, the adaptation process carried out by With a view to reaffirming the company’s this connection, world demand for energy, the CLH Group to enable it to receive, store commitment to the best corporate particularly for petroleum and gas, will continue and dispatch biofuels is stepping up the use governance practices and working more increasing in both the short and the long term of these products on a national scale. In closely with the Administration in the and, together with that, so will oil product prices. 2012, the company distributed more than 2.4 detection of fraudulent practices, in 2012 Besides this, the world energy map is changing million m3 of biofuel. the CLH Group subscribed to the Code of as a result of several trends, the most important Best Tax Practices which was developed among which are the revival of oil and gas Besides this, the adaptation of infrastructures by the Spanish Tax Administration and the production in the United States, the probable for controlling sulphur content has facilitated Large Businesses Forum. withdrawal of nuclear energy in various the introduction of low sulphur content products that are more environmentally Moreover, the recent change in the countries, the rapid growth of renewables friendly. regulations governing the Tax on and the propagation of non-conventional gas Hydrocarbons has led the company to make production. a major effort to modify programming of the systems and to adapt its processes to the new regulation. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Creation of value for the company and our stakeholders 6/6 33 According to the conclusions reached by the According to the conclusions reached in this IEA, oil will continue to be the dominant fuel, analysis, the CLH Group logistics system is one at least until 2035, although its weight will of the largest and most efficient integrated oil decrease as other energy sources gradually product transportation and storage networks in gain prominence and new methods for energy the world, and represents a great contribution saving and efficiency are introduced in all to assuring supply in the places where it countries. operates, as it is open to all oil operators in Spain. In any case, it is estimated that oil will continue to be key and its price will continue to increase. World demand for crude will increase in 2013 until it reaches 90.5 million barrels of crude per day. This rise will continue in the next few decades until 99 million barrels per day will be Evolution of global primary energy demand exceeded by 2035, this representing a 14% (Billion tonnes oil equivalent) increase compared with 2011. China, India and the Middle East will concentrate more than 20 60% of this increase, in a scenario in which the 18 OECD countries, including Spain, will hardly Other renewables increase their consumption at all. 16 Bioenergy 14 In this energy context, it is important to point Hydro out the positive assessment made by the 12 Nuclear International Energy Agency itself in 2011 10 Natural gas regarding the emergency system existing in 8 Oil Spain for dealing with possible situations of interruption in supply. 6 4 Coal 2 0 1990 2010 2020 2030 2035 Source: World Energy Outlook 2012. Data corresponding to the New Energy Policies scenario Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Integrity in CLH and its value chain 1/16 34 4. Integrity in CLH and its value chain Our approach What progress have we achieved in 2012 in the CSR Master Plan 2012-2016 programmes in relation to integrity? With its history of more than 85 years, the CLH Group wishes to Programme Degree of compliance be recognised not only as the 1. To review the CLH Group framework for After approval by the Management Committee, work has started on the leading company in the Spanish implementation of a criminal liability prevention programme. integrity to ensure that it complies with the market for oil product transportation requirements of the reform of the Spanish and storage, but also for its Criminal Code. comprehensive and transparent 2. To design a CLH Group anti-corruption and Analysis of the best practices is in progress. business model. bribery policy. 3. To define a methodology for identifying Analysis of the best practices is in progress. risks in ethics and integrity (internal and in purchasing processes). 4. To define indicators for deployment of the Analysis of the best practices is in progress. integrity framework. 5. To promote adherence to the Spanish Tax CLH has subscribed to the Code and has become a member of the Agency’s Code of Best Tax Practices. Working Group on Excise Taxes in the Large Companies Forum. 6. To require all important suppliers to accept The main suppliers have been requested to accept the Code of the CLH Group Code of Conduct. Conduct. Accomplished In progress Not yet started Continued on next page Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Integrity in CLH and its value chain 2/16 35 4. Integrity in CLH and its value chain (continuation) Continued from previous page Programme Degree of compliance 7. To review the CLH Group responsible Definition of the questionnaire is in progress. purchasing model: After making an assessment, the affected suppliers have been • Define a self-assessment questionnaire contacted and the reasons for “non-compliance” have been analysed for suppliers regarding monitoring of the jointly, with proposals being made to enable them to correct this. principles and requirements established in A calendar has been established for systematically making visits to the the code. facilities of the main suppliers and being able to review and monitor • Improve the procedure for management of their practices. “non-compliance” by suppliers. • Carry out internal review and control of the practices used by the main suppliers. 8. To broaden public information about the A reference to the CLH Group’s responsible purchasing model has company regarding the way the CLH Group been included in the conditions set out on the order sheet made out to responsible purchasing model operates. suppliers. 9. To perform systematic monitoring of the The annual review of the risk map was carried out in the period CLH Group risk map and the established established for that purpose. Work is also carried out for identifying and prevention and contingency plans. monitoring risks that may arise outside the map review period with a view to assessing their inclusion in it. An audit was conducted on the main risks that affect the CLH Group and its operations. 10. To submit the annual report on directors’ The Ordinary General Meeting held in April 2012 unanimously remuneration for 2011 for voting on at approved it. the 2012 Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders(3). Accomplished In progress (3) Although these programmes do not correspond to the Corporate Responsibility Master Plan, they have been included as they are challenges that the Group set itself last year for the area of integrity. Not yet started Continued on next page Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Integrity in CLH and its value chain 3/16 36 4. Integrity in CLH and its value chain (continuation) Continued from previous page Programme Degree of compliance 11. To establish, through resolution of the The Ordinary General Meeting held in April 2012 approved the creation General Meeting, the website www.clh.es as of the corporate website www.clh.es as the company’s electronic the company’s electronic headquarters(3). headquarters, for the purposes provided for in article 11 bis of the Capital Company Law. 12. To make a bi-annual analysis of the best Analysis of the best practices is in progress. Corporate Governance practices as understood by the Global Principles of the International Corporate Governance Network. 13. To design a formal Corporate Governance Analysis of the best practices is in progress. policy for the CLH Group. 14. To design a system for the corporate Analysis of the best practices is in progress. governance initiatives that are identified as priorities. What do we want to achieve in 2013? Implement the criminal liability prevention programme and establish internal controls for cataloguing identified risks. Review the degree to which the recommendations for good corporate governance are followed in order to adopt measures that make it possible to comply with the best practices in this area. Implement Integrated Risk Management software (ERM: “Enterprise Risk Management”) so as to be able to Accomplished provide the best cover for Risk Map maintenance and updating. In progress (3) Although these programmes do not correspond to the Corporate Responsibility Master Plan, they have been included as they are Not yet started challenges that the Group set itself last year for the area of integrity. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Integrity in CLH and its value chain 4/16 37 Corporate governance model Implementation of good governance During 2012, the CLH Group has followed provisions of the new Capital Company Law policies the recommendations for good governance and bringing regulation of the Audit Committee included in the Unified Code of Good into line with the reform of the Securities The corporate governance practices of the Governance, which was approved in 2006 Market Law, the recommendations of good CLH Group are geared towards achieving the by the Spanish Securities and Investments corporate governance and the functioning, in strategic objectives of the company through Board, without prejudice to the special features practice, of this Committee. the adoption of the best practices in listed that stem from the company’s ownership and companies. The dissemination of contents related to administrative structure. corporate governance is another priority for In this respect, the high level of participation CLH in this area. The company has therefore that the shareholders have in management of encouraged the use of its website the company is to be noted since the Articles (www.clh.es) as a platform for accessing of Association establish that every shareholder these contents which ratify the company’s with a shareholding stake of 5% or more commitment to transparency. In fact, the is guaranteed a presence on the Board of Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders that Directors. This means that practically all the was held in April 2012 approved the creation of Internal regulations for good governance shareholders, which is currently 99.15% of the website as the electronic headquarters of in the CLH Group the share capital, is directly represented on the company. this body. Therefore, actions for consultation Articles of Association. with the shareholders promote a free-flowing Regulations of the General Meeting of dialogue that has a direct effect on the Shareholders. decision-making processes of the supreme Board of Directors’ Regulations. administrative body of CLH. Internal Regulations for Conduct in the The company’s administrative structure is Securities Market. regulated in the Articles of Association of the For further information see www.clh.es Group which, together with the Regulations of the General Meeting and the Board of Directors’ Regulations, were amended in 2011 with the aim of adapting these texts to the Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Integrity in CLH and its value chain 5/16 38 A specific section called “Information for Lastly, in the sphere of corporate governance, Board of Directors Shareholders and Investors” has been made it should be noted that the Ordinary General available on this website, and is where detailed Meeting of Shareholders held in 2012 The Board of Directors holds powers on information can be consulted regarding the unanimously approved the annual report on matters relating to management of the following areas: directors’ remuneration for 2011. company and acts as its representative. It is also the supreme decision-making body of CLH • Share capital structure and company The above report contains details of the except in matters that are set aside for decision shareholders. remuneration policies that exist in the company by the General Meeting. It is established in the for directors and executive staff, these policies Articles of Association that the term of office of • Functioning of the General Meeting of not having undergone any change at all in the its members is 5 years. Shareholders. past year, as the report itself establishes. • Composition and functions of the The criterion applied in the actions it administrative bodies. undertakes is maximisation of the company’s General Meeting of Shareholders value, both in the long and the short term, by • Corporate governance regulations. administering the company, supervising the The General Meeting of Shareholders is the supreme governing body of the company and development of business activity and assuring holds powers for deciding on the matters that its future viability. affect the company and which are not attributed by law or by the Articles of Association to the authority of another company body. This body is required to meet within the first six months of each calendar year in order to assess the performance of the company, approve the annual accounts and decide on allocation of the results. The organizing and running of the General Meeting and the shareholders’ exercise of their rights at the time it is convened and held, are regulated in the Regulations of the General Meeting of Shareholders, which complete the provisions of the law and the Articles of Association. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Integrity in CLH and its value chain 6/16 39 The composition, powers and functioning of The Board of Directors’ Regulations follow the In connection with the composition of the the Board is regulated through the Articles recommendations of the Unified Code of Good Board, it should be noted that the Ordinary of Association and the Board of Directors’ Governance as regards the need for the Board General Meeting held on 27 April 2012 Regulations. Within its structure, the Board has to devote at least one meeting per year to agreed on the re-election and appointment of set up complementary administrative bodies in assessing its functioning and the quality of the the seventeen directors whose term of office, order to optimise governance of the company, work it has done. established in the Articles of Association at five as shown in the following table: years, was coming to an end. At the meeting In order to make this assessment, in 2013 held afterwards, the Board of Directors agreed the Board issued and approved a report that the Chairman-Chief Executive Officer, regarding the functioning of the Board itself the Secretary of the Board of Directors and and that of the Audit and Appointments and the members of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committees during financial Appointments and Remuneration Committee year 2012. The contents of this report have should continue to hold office as such. Audit Committee been made available to the shareholders and other stakeholders through the Annual Report According to this, the composition of the To establish relations with the external auditors and supervise: for 2012 which can be accessed through the Board which is formed by 20 members, its website www.clh.es. Chairman and 19 proprietary members, as at Internal control and risk management 31 December 2012, was as shown below: systems in the company. The conclusions reached in the report were Internal auditing. that the functioning and performance of Regulated financial information. duties both by the Board of Directors and its Committees and by the Executive Chairman, Appointments and Remuneration were satisfactory. Aspects of the Board and Committee its Committees, particularly their composition, To report on or make proposals regarding organization and functioning and duties, were appointments and remuneration of: assessed. Board Members. Members of the Board Committees. Company executives. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Integrity in CLH and its value chain 7/16 40 Composition of the Board of Directors Audit Committee Appointments and Remuneration as at 31 December 2012 Committee Chairman: The Audit Committee is composed of five The Appointments and Remuneration Mr. José Luis López de Silanes Busto directors, all of them non-executive external Committee is composed of four directors, all directors. of them non-executive external directors. Members: Mr. Daniel Micheal Agostino Chairman: Chairman: Mr. Hamed Sloom Mubarak Al Athobi Mr. Mathias Burghardt, as representative Mr. Pedro Miró Roig Mr. Ahmed Hassan Al-Dheeb of the director Marthilores, S.L. Members: Mr. José Eulogio Aranguren Escobar Members: Mr. Hamed Sloom Mubarak Al Athobi Mr. Mario Armero Montes Mr. José Eulogio Aranguren Escobar Mr. Mario Armero Montes Mr. Pedro Fernández Frial Mr. Daniel Micheal Agostino Mr. Pedro Fernández Frial Global Noray, S.L. (represented by Mr. Miguel Iraburu Elizondo) Mr. Carlos María Olazábal Estecha, Global Ramayana, S.L. (represented by Ms. Tanya Covassin) Secretary: as representative of the director Global Winche, S.L. Mr. Luis Valero Quirós Kartera 1, S.L. (represented by Mr. Guillermo Briones Godino) Mr. Jorge Lanza Perea Kartera 1, S.L. (represented by Mr. Carlos María Olazábal Estecha) Secretary: Mr. Jorge Lanza Perea Mr. Luis Valero Quirós Mr. Stanislav Michael Kolenc Marthilor, S.à.r.l. (represented by Mr. Andrew Liau) Marthilores, S.L. (represented by Mr. Mathias Burghardt) Mr. Pedro Miró Roig Mr. Carlos Morán Moya NCG Banco, S.A. (represented by Mr. Fernando Vázquez de Lapuerta) Mr. Rui Nuno Tavares de Almeida Moreira da Cruz Mr. Robert Edward Verrion Secretary: Mr. Luis Valero Quirós Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Integrity in CLH and its value chain 8/16 41 Management Committee CLH participation in the development of The CLH Group also holds membership public policies of CEOE, the Spanish Confederation of The Management Committee is an internal Employers’ Organizations, and is a member steering and control body that is made up of The CLH Group participates in various of various committees in this body, such as other lower-ranking committees that are vested important organisations in the oil sector, the Committee for Social Responsibility in with certain powers and functions. through which it organises its position on the Business, the Environment Committee and the different issues of public concern that affect it. Energy Committee. One of these organisations is the Hydrocarbons Through its membership of the Spanish Energy Advisory Board which operates under the Club and the Spanish Committee of the World National Energy Commission (CNE) the Energy Council, the CLH Group also makes public body that regulates energy systems and its voice heard on relevant issues in the sector, Management Committee is attached to the Ministry of Industry, Tourism some of which are mentioned below: and Trade of which the General Secretary of CLH is a member. Through this participation, • Projects for regulations relating to the legal Human Resources and Safety Committee. he represents the interests of liquid specifications of products. Operations Committee. hydrocarbon storage and logistics companies. • Biofuels. Strategy Committee. These companies also defend their common Ethics Committee. interests through ASTERQUIGAS, the Spanish • Minimum security reserves. Corporate Responsibility Committee. Association of Bulk Receiver Terminals for Also, in 2012 the CLH Group subscribed to the Quality Committee. Chemicals, Liquids and Gases, to which CLH Code of Best Tax Practices and also became a also belongs. member of the Working Group on Excise Taxes that operates under the Large Companies Forum(4). (4) For further information, see chapter 3. Creation of Value. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Integrity in CLH and its value chain 9/16 42 The CLH Group participates in the Joint Corporate culture and integrity The Ethics Committee was set up in Inspection Group (JIG) through CLH Aviación. accordance with the provisions of the Code of This organisation was created by the majority The CLH Group Code of Conduct was Conduct, and held its first meeting in October of the oil companies in order to promote and approved on 27 July 2010 by the company’s 2010. This committee has undertaken a guarantee quality control and efficiency in Board of Directors and notified to the Securities number of actions since 2011 to make the aviation fuel facilities, by developing a global and Investments Board. contents of the Code widely known, and to standardisation for good practices in aviation that end it created a specific space on the Since then, the Code has been displayed equipment. website and on the corporate portal. The Code on the www.clh.es website and also on the of Conduct was also distributed among all of Lastly, CLH Aviación is also a member of IATA, corporate portal of the Group. It has been in the company’s employees through the personal an association created in 1945 to promote and force since the moment it was approved and is delivery of a pack containing not only the Code, control services linked to airline companies. Its applicable to the members of the administrative but also the CLH Group Mission, Vision and mission consists of representing the industry and management bodies of the company, and Values Policies. in order to benefit from the advantages that to all the employees of the companies that today’s global economy brings with it, providing form the CLH Group. CLH also promotes the In addition, the Code of Conduct Mailbox its members with professional support. Code among all its suppliers, contractors and has been made available to all company partners, in order to create a link and provide stakeholders through a specific area of the guidelines for conduct that conform to the website and on the corporate portal. This principles and values it contains. channel is the platform established for sending in consultations and for any doubts about The Code of Conduct basically has a two-fold this regulation to be explained, and also for purpose: reporting directly and safely on any alleged • To ensure the professional, ethical and breach of the principles it contains including, responsible behaviour of the company’s where appropriate, conduct involving workplace employees in the performance of their harassment or any other irregularity that is activities and discharge of their duties. noticed. These communications are received by the company’s Ethics Committee, which will • To create a business culture based on be responsible for assessing each case and the integrity of their conduct that is in deciding on the required action depending on keeping with the corporate reputation of the the nature of the facts that have been notified. CLH Group. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Integrity in CLH and its value chain 10/16 43 Functions and composition of the During 2012, the Ethics Committee held three Preventive approach to risk meetings at which the notifications received CLH Group Ethics Committee through the Code of Conduct Mailbox were management analysed, with a view to deciding on the most The Risk Control and Management System Functions appropriate course of action to pursue in each established by the CLH Group is based on the To establish channels of communication case. The Committee also participated in the methodology of the Committee of Sponsoring with employees for collecting information preparation of the corporate policy on the use Organizations of the Treadway Commission and incidents of social networks. Monitoring of implementation and (COSO II), which covers all relevant areas and compliance with the Code of Conduct The four notifications received in the Mailbox processes within each of the Organisational Dissemination and awareness of the Code throughout 2012 reported possible cases of Units. of Conduct workplace harassment of the type included The company pursues the following objectives Composition in the scope of application of the CLH Group through this methodology: Director of Communication and Action Protocol for Preventing and Dealing with Institutional Relations (Chairman of the Harassment at Work and so, in accordance with • To identify and assess the key risks in each Committee) that they were transferred to Human Resources business. Director of Human Recourses Management for commencement of the • To know which risks must be assumed and Assistant Audit Manager corresponding process. which risks must be avoided for developing Assistant Director of the Legal In compliance with section 7.3 of the protocol, the business. Department the Ethics Committee has received the • To draw up the plans of action necessary for statistical information relating to these incidents reducing the main risks. of harassment, all of them having been closed, in one case because the person making the report no longer wished to pursue it, and in the other cases, they were closed after the issue of the mandatory report once the investigation had been carried out, the conclusion reached being that there was no evidence of any situation of harassment. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Integrity in CLH and its value chain 11/16 44 In accordance with this methodology, the • Residual risks (risk that remains even CLH Group has structured the risks into four after the Management has implemented a groups as shown in the following chart: response to that risk). The most important of these latter risks are related to safety In this way, the company assesses: in product storage and transportation, • Inherent risks (risk that is present for CLH the safety of staff and the environment, in the absence of any action taken by the solvency and liquidity, the response to crisis Management for changing the probability of situations (e.g. pandemic illnesses) and also the risk occurring or its impact). risks related to compliance with the targets established in the Group’s Strategic Plan. The company has a risk management procedure that is suited to its activity and its associated risk profile. It has also established continuous monitoring of the risks in each process and Organisational Unit. Their status and management are notified to the Risks in the CLH Group Management Committee through the channels established in the current procedure. Strategic risks: key risks for the company that must be managed proactively and as a priority (e.g. deciding on investments, entering new segments, generational takeover, etc.). The Management Committee is responsible for proposing to the Board of Directors, Operational risks: risks that affect operating management, and may come to have a significant impact through the Audit Committee, the risk profile on Group operations (e.g. system failures, occupational and environmental accidents, shortcomings in the processes, etc.). assumed by the Group, and also for carrying out monitoring of the risks, establishing the Reporting risks: risks that directly affect aspects of information reported to the company and/or third appropriate measures for guaranteeing their parties (false information given to investors and the shareholders, etc.). This category also includes proper control and management. financial risks (e.g. credit, market, liquidity, etc. risk). Compliance risk: risks that affect compliance with internal or external regulations in respect of third parties (compliance with safety and environmental rules, tax returns and their payment, compliance with the law on protection of personal data, etc.). Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Integrity in CLH and its value chain 12/16 45 In this context, the Risk Map Technical Secretary’s Office plays an important role by supporting the Most relevant control systems in the CLH Group: Organisational Units in their work for monitoring and controlling corporate risks, by ensuring Combined Prevention System. Formed by its own prevention service that operates jointly for CLH the rules are duly complied with, besides also and CLH Aviación, it assumes as its own the specialities of Safety in the Workplace, Industrial Hygiene monitoring, in conjunction with Corporate Auditing, and Industrial Ergonomics and Psychology. the plans of action established regarding risks until There are “designated workers” for the occasional case of assistance on prevention matters. they have been placed at a tolerable level. An arrangement with an outside prevention service (Sociedad de Prevención de Fraternidad Muprespa) for technical activities and health monitoring, with a medical coordinator provided by CLH (Head of the This Secretary’s Office is also responsible for: Medical Service). • Integrating risks by taking their Occupational Health and Safety Management System. Integrates both the prevention of interrelationships into account. occupational risks and industrial safety, with the aim of “zero accidents”. This system holds OHSAS 18001:2007 certification from AENOR. • Regular updating of the Risk map. Environmental Management System. It has environmental sustainability criteria and energy • Ensuring that information about risks flows efficiency at the forefront in all its activities and during their entire life cycle according to the ISO in the direction of the bodies responsible for 14001 standard, granted by AENOR. controlling them (Management Committee, Two EMAS declarations have been certified for the facilities in Tarragona and Huelva. Audit Committee and Board of Directors), Infrastructure Management and Integrity Plan. The Pipeline Integrity Plan has been prepared and from there, to the units responsible for by following the API 1160 standard that focuses on oil pipelines. Compliance with this plan and its managing the corresponding processes or monitoring help us operate more efficiently and safely. projects. The Facility Integrity Plan is being prepared in accordance with the API (American Petroleum Institute) The most relevant control systems implemented regulations that focus on storage facilities, for carrying out operational work more efficiently and safely, and includes annual monitoring of goals and objectives. in the organisation with a view to reducing risks and achieving the objectives of the Group are Succession and Training Plan. The company continues preparing its future managers through summarised in the following table. different training programmes, to enable them to acquire the competencies and skills required for taking on the new responsibilities assigned to them when they take over from those who are to retire. Lastly, it should be noted that the Technical Secretary’s Office assumes responsibility for integration of the risks that shape the Map by taking their interrelationships into consideration, carrying out a sensitivity analysis for certain risks of a financial nature. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Integrity in CLH and its value chain 13/16 46 Responsible purchasing model in The supply chain in the CLH Group the CLH Group The company’s supply chain is formed by more than 1,600 supplier companies(5) that provide The value chain in CLH in 2012 Through the Corporate Responsibility Master the CLH Group with the products and services Plan, the company has set itself the target of necessary for it to operate. Formed by more than 1,600 companies. implementing a responsible purchasing model that extends its commitments and code of The companies that are most prominent, More than 87% of the expenditure is undertaken with suppliers that have a conduct in the value chain. because of the importance of their supplies long-term contract with the company. or services, are those that are responsible To achieve this, the CLH Group has developed In 2012, 11% of the expenditure was with for carrying out civil works for the company’s a series of initiatives that complement the suppliers that the company was working projects, the electricity suppliers and the system for management and approval of with for the first time. companies that provide CLH with essential suppliers and which aims to guarantee that The average period for effecting payment materials for its activity, such as instrumentation, its suppliers comply with a set of minimum to suppliers is 50 days. tanks, pipes, valves, and also additives for the standards of performance. 68% of the expenditure is undertaken with oil products. contractors that hold an environmental During 2012, the CLH Group purchased certificate. 97% of its supplies in Spain. 100% of the company’s activities are carried out in Spanish territory, meaning that most supply contracts are arranged in the areas where it operates, thereby contributing to the development of the communities in which it is present. (5) In 2012, CLH made purchases in excess of €3,000 from 1,443 companies. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Integrity in CLH and its value chain 14/16 47 Supply chain management The CLH Group uses management procedures The CLH Group has a list of “Approved that make it possible for purchases to be Suppliers of Materials” which are verified in made in a rational, efficient, economic way accordance with the requirements provided that integrates with the general budgets and for by law. Besides this, regular monitoring corporate purchasing policies. The aims of is carried out on their reliability through the these policies are: following parameters: • To unify purchasing criteria. • Compliance with delivery deadlines. • To hire services and make purchases in a • Compliance with the required quality standard. way that is transparent and economically • Compliance with the required quantity control. efficient. The Purchasing and Warehouse Unit is Centralised purchases: Characteristics responsible for centralised management of purchases at corporate level. Besides this unit, Technical specification and standard use any other unit in the company may hold powers for the whole of the company. in this area, particularly those which, because They are intended for use in investments their purchases are so specific, have always for fixed assets. handled this themselves. They present some type of corporate In addition to centralised purchases, other identification and image. decentralised or local purchases are also made for the purpose of acquiring goods or consumables for a lower value and which are charged against the expense budget. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Integrity in CLH and its value chain 15/16 48 Management and approval of suppliers: the Repro system Both generic information regarding suppliers that enables them to register their suppliers All suppliers and contractors must adhere to and the initial requirements for approval are and contractors in a way that is efficient, the CLH Group safety policy. Safety criteria are included in the RePro system. This system permanently updated, objective and nontherefore used for assessing and selecting the belongs to the Achilles Group, which specializes discriminatory. contractors that work for the company, and they in supplier information management. The are required to comply with the same safety With RePro, suppliers register just once for RePro system was agreed by some of the regulations as the company’s employees. all the user companies in the system. The major Spanish and Portuguese companies information provided by the supplier is therefore The company is also working on other initiatives that operate in sectors such as electricity, gas, structured and up to date and is the same for aimed at improving the assessment of its petroleum and water, besides the naval sector, them all. In this way, the regulations relating suppliers and guaranteeing that their conduct in order to be able to have the use of a tool to classification systems that are established conforms to its principles. Important among in Law 48/98 on contract arrangement these measures are the requirement to accept procedures for the water, energy, transport and the company’s Code of Conduct, the defining The most important CLH contractors telecommunications sectors are complied with. of a questionnaire to make it possible to were assessed on aspects related to monitor compliance with the principles of this Social Responsibility during 2012 In addition to registering in RePro, a supplier code, analysis of whatever non-conformities must first be assessed in order to be approved are detected and the proposed measures for by the CLH Group. As a general rule, suppliers Adherence to some kind of international improvement in cases where they are detected. standard in the sphere of Corporate Social of critical basic logistics materials (those that Responsibility. concern equipment considered by the company In addition, CLH is working on a new Prevention of forced, child or compulsory to be critical for its operations) undergo methodology for identifying ethics and integrity labour. assessment before the first purchase is made risks associated with the way suppliers operate. and are subjected to continuous assessment Prevention of discrimination. after that, with the dual aim of guaranteeing Freedom of association and collective their ability to supply in accordance with bargaining. the specified requirements and verifying Workplace harassment and abuse. compliance with these requirements over time. Disciplinary practices. Working hours and remuneration. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Integrity in CLH and its value chain 16/16 49 Communication with suppliers for Also important in the heading of processes streamlining processes related to suppliers is the project that was implemented in 2012 in the economic A system for streamlining communications and financial area of CLH, which has been with the supplier and users was implemented successful in optimising invoice processing and during last year and has improved the circuit for making it possible, among other advantages authorising orders in the company. gained, to guarantee that payments are made to As a result of this system, the orders are sent suppliers within the time limit established by law. simultaneously to the supplier and also, for their information and for monitoring purposes, to the centres requesting materials and equipment A notable case through electronic mails and in PDF format, meaning that they remain accessible for subsequent consultations. Implementation of computer software to achieve optimisation of invoice management and processing procedures through automating In order for this communication framework to these operate, the suppliers are requested to send technical information, reports, etc. in electronic One of the major projects that CLH dealt with throughout 2012 in the Economic and format always and avoid sending catalogues in Financial Area has been to introduce a Workflow system for the expense invoices physical format whenever possible. received from suppliers. It consists of digitalising them centrally, capturing a series of data from them in order to automate authorisation processes and the resulting accounting and payment. This has meant that: There is improved monitoring of the invoice processing times, making it possible to conform to the payment periods established by law. Invoice details are available to the managers at all times, making it easier for them to be consulted. Administrative management involving filing is reduced with the resulting savings in time and consumption of paper. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Quality and innovation for our customers 1/18 50 5. Quality and innovation for our customers Our approach What progress have we achieved in 2012 in the CSR Master Plan 2012-2016 programmes relating to customers? For the CLH Group, excellence in the service it provides to its Programme Degree of compliance customers is paramount. The 1. To develop a systematic model for relations An analysis has been made for defining the requirements of the management customer stands at the centre of with customers that makes it possible to model. The results of this analysis will be used to develop a computer the very definition of its corporate document and suitably monitor all interactions application that will be integrated into the organisation’s systems. vision. One of the main objectives we have with them. In CLH Aviación, all interactions with customers are already being recorded with a view to being able to channel their ideas for improvement and ensure of the company is therefore to that an answer is provided for their needs. guarantee to society a safe fuel 2. To review and update the customer satisfaction No customer satisfaction survey was carried out in 2012 as this is only done supply that focuses on efficiency surveys. every two years. In the previous edition (2011) changes were made to its structure and contents according to the defined customer segmentation. CLH and service quality. Aviación, on the other hand, carries out specially adapted surveys every year. 3. To involve the airline companies in improving The airline companies have been consulted about their operating, invoicing, operating processes. etc., requirements. An analysis is being made of system compatibilities for integrating operating processes. 4. To formalise processes for identifying new It is the Legal Department that identifies the applicable regulations. These developments in tax regulations as a source of and their application to CLH are subsequently analysed, with an assessment customer loyalty. of the changes to be made in the CLH Group and the resulting business opportunities. The CLH Group has made a detailed review of the proposed amendment of the Excise Tax Regulations, and has proposed a large number of modifications based on suggestions received from its customers and users of its services. 5. To establish quantitative objectives for longWork has begun on editing a “Ten Commandments” list for sustainable term sustainable innovation strategy. innovation. Accomplished In progress Not yet started Continued on next page Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Quality and innovation for our customers 2/18 51 5. Quality and innovation for our customers (continuation) Continued from previous page Programme Degree of compliance 6. To increase collaboration with the most The company participates in various initiatives: Patronage of the IREC and prominent players in the sector on developing the CLH Chair at the School of Mining Engineering that operates at the innovation projects applicable to customers. Polytechnic University of Madrid (UPM); Participation in projects forming part of the 7th Framework Programme (ITAKA); Collaboration with the Energy Institute on the FAME in JET A1 programme; Agreements with the UPM on pipeline integrity projects and membership of European fuel standardisation groups. 7. To define and implement a certification system Definition of the new system has almost been completed. It is a more flexible for biofuel sustainability(6). system that is adapted to the needs of the operators and the market. 8. To renew the external evaluation of the It has been renewed, with a score of 550-600. Excellence system with the gold seal (500+) in the EFQM model(6). 9. To make a more in-depth study of the CLH participates in a number of groups and projects related to this item possibility of using biofuels in the aviation (Inter-ministerial agreement for promoting biofuels in aviation, ITAKA sector(6). European Consortium for promoting biokerosene, member of the European Biofuels Flightpath in Aviation group, etc.). 10. Commissioning of the hydrant networks at The hydrant network at Alicante airport is now operating and the expansion Alicante airport and expansion of the hydrant of the hydrant network at Malaga airport is at a very advanced stage. It is network at Malaga airport(6). expected to be brought into service early in 2013. 11. Commissioning of the new CLH Aviación Work has been completed at all the facilities. Two of them (Seville and facilities in Mahón, Seville and Murcia and of Barcelona) are operational. In Murcia, opening of the new airport is awaited. the loading area in Barcelona(6). The facility in Mahón is at the testing stage. 12. Completion and commissioning of service Alicante: finished, pending authorisation from the Ministry of Industry. stations at Alicante, Bilbao and Seville Bilbao: finished, pending authorisation from the Ministry of Industry. airports(6). Seville: Building work is expected to start in 2013. 13. Completion of hydrant expansion, pumping The hydrant expansion and filtration work has finished. Also, the remodelling and filtration work at Son San Joan(6). of 85% of the hydrant fuel supply points to be modified has been completed. Work has also been completed on the construction of a new loading point on Accomplished the airport’s general aviation platform. In progress (6) Although these programmes do not correspond to the Corporate Responsibility Master Plan, they have been included as they are challenges that the CLH Group set itself last year in the area of customers and service quality. Not yet started Continued on next page Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Quality and innovation for our customers 3/18 52 5. Quality and innovation for our customers (continuation) Continued from previous page What do we want to achieve in 2013? Continue working on the R&D&i line defined in the fuel technology area. Introduce a new quality control and assurance system for the fuels handled by the company. Make a new assessment of the technology for additives that improve fuel behaviour under cold conditions. Implement new methods for fuel testing and characterisation. Finish design of the new fuel sustainability management system in CLH. Continue developing environmental analysis methods. Implement the project for technological evolution in the into-plane supply service, evolution, pilot project and deployment throughout 2013. Implement the PROA (Planning of Operating Resources in Aviation) system at all the airport facilities. Expansion and commissioning at various facilities (Hydrant network at Malaga airport; service stations at Alicante, Bilbao and Seville airports; Facility at Murcia Region International Airport; Hydrant network at Son San Joan (Palma, Majorca) airport). Finish building the pipeline for supplying aviation fuel to Madrid-Barajas Airport from the CLH facility in Torrejón de Ardoz. Start-up for the improvements made to the invoicing system. Continue analysing and developing a customer relations model that makes it possible to document and suitably monitor their interactions with CLH. Conduct a new customer satisfaction survey having reviewed its contents and methodology. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Quality and innovation for our customers 4/18 53 Improved commercial portfolio The CLH Group offers a wide range of services Biofuel services The volume of these fuels that was handled related to fuel storage and transportation, as during 2012 experienced a remarkable well as the supply of fuels for aviation. The With the aim of meeting its customers’ needs, increase, particularly where second generation company also provides a series of additional the CLH Group has loading-arm biodiesel biofuels (hydrobiodiesel or HVO) were services that are adapted to its customers’ and bioethanol blending logistics services at concerned. A new storage and biofuel blending requirements. several facilities. The biodiesel services that are service started to be offered, this allowing the offered are blends of fatty acid methyl esters customers a greater degree of flexibility in the (FAME) with diesel prior to tank truck loading use of different raw materials. Additivation in proportions of up to 7%, and loading-arm blending in different proportions from 7% up Besides this, in the field of biofuels and in The company offers its customers the to 30%, which the customer can request for close cooperation with the National Energy possibility of adding the additives of their choice dispatch in each cargo loaded. Commission (CNE) and the operators, to the products dispatched from its facilities. the company has designed a new biofuel These additives are automatically added in the Services are also offered at nine storage management system in the logistics system loading arm, CLH continuously assessing and facilities for bioethanol storage and blending of that includes dealing with sustainability. In selecting additives and anti-cold for improving gasoline with this biofuel at the time when tank addition to meeting the requirements of the product quality. In this way it is guaranteed that trucks are loaded, thereby helping to make it new regulations laid down by the CNE in this the products offered incorporate the latest easier for the operators to fulfil their obligation connection, this new design is more closely technologies available in each of the cases. in respect of biofuel consumption. adapted to the needs of the operators. In 2012, CLH selected a new quality additive Also in 2012, CLH successfully passed the for automotive gasolines that incorporates the inspection conducted by the CNE for verifying latest developments in these products. the level of compliance with obligations that the company, as the owner of storage facilities from which these types of biofuel are dispatched, has to provide information on biofuels. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Quality and innovation for our customers 5/18 54 Delivery supervision Besides this, accuracy in the measurement Besides this, in 2012 CLH joined other groups: of the quantities received and delivered is The oil companies deliver products to CLH • WG 38 New Fuels Coordination and backed up by an assurance system that is also through the national refineries or through Planning supported by a metrology laboratory accredited imports by tanker from foreign refineries. in accordance with the ISO/IEC 17025 • Technical group for the study of the There is a CLH team working at each of the standard. This accreditation was renewed in characteristics of FAME (fatty acid methyl eight refineries that are distributed throughout 2012. esters) in order to establish the national Spanish peninsular territory (La Coruña, annex to the EN 14214 standard Tarragona, Cartagena, Puertollano, Huelva, Analysis laboratory services • Energy Institute working group for Algeciras, Bilbao and Castellón), that is in permanent contact with the refinery staff and determining the limits of FAME in aviation The management of fuel technology and quality has first-hand control of the quality and quantity fuel is one of the activities that sets the CLH Group of the products. Besides this, all products that apart. The company has achieved this with a • CEN (European Committee for are imported by tanker are analysed before network of laboratories for carrying out product Standardisation) working group for studying being unloaded. analysis and characterisation, this network problems in the diesel injectors of latest CLH performs analysis on 100% of the being formed by seven laboratories that are generation vehicles. products that enter its system, which ensures coordinated from the Central Laboratory in The aim of this line of action is, on the one that all of them comply with the quality Madrid. Besides this, it holds accreditation hand, to be on the cutting edge of technology standards established by contract. In 2012, the according to the ISO/IEC 17025 standard and and, on the other, to offer the company’s company continued restructuring the product has one of the most complete analysis services infrastructures and know-how to help in the quality area which will increase the efficiency portfolios in the sector. development and resolution of challenges in of its traceability, assurance and control During 2012, the company intensified its the sector. system and will make it possible to continue participation in European fuel technology improving the levels of reliability that it offers its Also in 2012, work continued on the process and standardisation groups (CEN WG 21 customers and the sector. The new protocols for improving the analysis service offer through Specification for unleaded petrol; WG 24 and procedures that have been designed will the incorporation of cutting-edge technology Specification for diesel fuel), and also in finish being implemented during 2013. equipment, the implementation of new standard different specific groups created for dealing test methods and the development of the with concrete topics. company’s own methods that are able to meet the demand for analyses that are not covered by standard methods. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Quality and innovation for our customers 6/18 55 Fuel specifications Metrology and calibration services CLH Aviación services The CLH Group has made all the necessary Another of the skills that set CLH apart is CLH Aviación is the only independent company changes in the infrastructures, operating its technical ability in the field of metrology. in the Spanish market for fuel services at protocols, quality assurance and control It operates a Metrology Unit that provides airports that offers a wide range of services systems so as to be able to introduce the services for the calibration, verification and related to aviation fuel. The main services it new fuel qualities (new ISO 8217 and adjustment of equipment used in measuring offers are for the storage, distribution and intoMARPOL requirements for marine fuels, new volume, temperature, pressure, density, and plane supply of aviation fuels and lubricants. specifications for off-road diesel fuel), and has length and transmission of electrical signals, in It also offers advisory and technical assistance continued working in this field in European order to guarantee the reliability necessary in all services for the design, construction, and national committees for establishing fuel product receipt, delivery and internal movement maintenance and operation of hydrant networks specifications. processes. and storage facilities, in addition to the design In 2012, the company renewed its ENAC of specific vehicles for fuel supply to aircraft. accreditation for these services in accordance Lastly and through its training centres, it with the ISO/IEC 17025 standard and offers specific training relating to aviation fuel continued contributing towards what is known handling operations. in this area through the research projects carried out at the CLH Chair in Metrology that operates at the Polytechnic University of Madrid’s School of Mining Engineering, and through dissemination activities in specific technical forums. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Quality and innovation for our customers 7/18 56 During 2012, a number of improvements In 2012, CLH Aviación achieved the rating of • Restructuring of invoicing processes: and expansions were carried out at facilities “Excellent” that was awarded in the inspections invoices that are simpler and configurable, operated by CLH Aviación, and work has carried out by the JIG on Barcelona and Palma adaptation of formats, breakdown of items progressed on other projects that will be airports. This recognition, which joins the ranks and possibility of invoice issue in other completed in 2013. These improvements will of others obtained in 2011, is only granted to a languages. CLH also offers to send them in make it possible to carry out the company’s very small number of facilities worldwide. electronic format, thereby speeding up their activities in accordance with the latest receipt and management. CLH Aviación makes a continuing effort to international standards and adapt the facilities improve and adapt its services, seeking to • A new tax system has been obtained at the to the evolution experienced at the airports create value jointly with its customers. This has Algeciras facility, as a customs warehouse, where the company operates. made it possible to broaden the company’s which will make it possible for our customers customer base, reaching new agreements, such to streamline their operations and improve as the one signed with Air Europe, for providing their competitive position in the Straits of into-plane supply services. Gibraltar. • Design of a new Excise Tax on Hydrocarbons Other operating improvements management system in order to adapt the settlements made with the operators to the In 2012, CLH introduced further operating changes made in the regulations. improvements into its logistics services, that aimed at meeting its customers’ requirements: • The Authorised Economic Operator certificate has been obtained, and this will • Three different qualities of diesel fuels were make CLH a trusted operator in respect of made available to the customers, in order the customs authorities, all of which will give to meet the specifications of Royal Decree our customers different advantages. 1361/2011. • Improvement in the customer information systems to enable them to perform their operations more efficiently and independently. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Quality and innovation for our customers 8/18 57 Quality and continuous improvement Quality policy and management systems Thirdly, and as a tool for managing excellence, in 2006 the CLH Group introduced the EFQM EFQM model for Excellence in The aim of the CLH Group quality policy is Management model that has made it possible to develop continuous improvement in all the company’s various projects and initiatives for gaining activities and processes, both strategic and Commitment to the environment, safety in effectiveness, in efficiency and in giving operational or those that serve as support, in and prevention and contribution to satisfaction to external and internal customers. improving the social environment. order to satisfy its stakeholders. In 2012, the company renewed its European Clear focus on results at an internal and The CLH quality system is based on three Seal of Excellence 500+ recognition awarded external level. pillars: product quality, management systems by AENOR and the Club for Excellence in Interest and commitment from all the and implementation of the EFQM (European Management. employees. Foundation for Quality Management) model. Also in 2012, the company renewed its use Continuous comparison in order to be a In the product quality aspect, the company of the “Madrid Excelente” quality mark for benchmark company. continues to move forward for reducing the its facilities and activities in the Autonomous Focus on continuous improvement and number of non-conformities that it detects. Community of Madrid. innovation. During 2012, this percentage was below 0.6% Well designed approaches that are and all cases were resolved before the product Through these Excellence models, the company firmly implemented for all aspects of was placed in service. commits itself to its economic, financial and management. customer satisfaction objectives, while also Management systems represent the second taking on a commitment to competitiveness and pillar of the quality system. CLH has four long-term viability, based on meeting the needs management systems accredited in accordance and expectations of all its stakeholders and with ISO/IEC 17025, four systems accredited on the commitment to the natural and social according to ISO 9001 and two accredited environment. according to UNE 166002. All the certificates and accreditations it holds were maintained during 2012. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Quality and innovation for our customers 9/18 58 In order to meet the objective of continuous Working in association with other players improvement and reengineering of all its tasks, on quality matters functions and processes, CLH continued throughout 2012 to develop a series of With a view to incorporating the best initiatives in which members of different management practices and making the managements in the company participated, as company’s way of operating known, this year shown in the table below: the CLH Group continued participating in quality, excellence and innovation working groups. The CLH Group is currently a member Management of quality and continuous improvement of five groups: Suggestion system • Club for Excellence in Management. APORTA initiative. Recognitions and prizes. • Benchmarking Club section of the Club for Excellence in Management (CEG). Improvement action systems “Kaizen” initiative. • The Energy Industry Committee of the Improvement groups Spanish Association for Quality (AEC). Stable and ad hoc. • The Innovation Committee of the Spanish Innovation project system Association for Quality (AEC). Makes it possible for management of the Group to be guided towards • The 6 Sigma Committee of the Spanish improvement and innovation. Association for Quality (AEC). Management through processes Focuses on continuous improvement with an effectiveness, efficiency approach. RESET project. Lines of management Guarantees of excellence Product quality Competence in environmental analyses Process and service quality Metrological control Biofuels Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Quality and innovation for our customers 10/18 59 Another CLH concern is to guarantee the The CLH Group works to improve efficiency in During 2012 the company participated perfect condition of the oil products it handles its processes and services, so that they offer in European (the WG24 Tax Force) and and distributes. The company achieves this customers and society maximum value with the Spanish (CTN51/SC3) groups to establish aim with a stringent Quality Management minimum consumption of resources. In 2012, specifications for FAME (diesel biofuels System that is competed with ISO/IEC the company introduced its own methodology specification for the CLH system). CLH has 17025 accreditation, awarded by ENAC, for to promote and invigorate the improvement joined the international group led by the Energy fuel analysis at its central laboratory, which and reengineering of the company’s processes. Institute for evaluating the maximum limit of was renewed in 2012. The company also CLH also established collaboration with the FAME in aviation fuel, the results of which maintained the same accreditation for the Club-BPM (Business Process Management) for may simplify the logistics of this fuel, with performance of environmental tests and for sharing the best practices in this discipline. improvements in efficiency that may prove carrying out calibrations and tests on its oil significant for customers. During 2012, CLH continued working in product volume metering systems, this being association with the university in the area of a recognition that guarantees precision in the the CLH Chair of Hydrocarbon Metrology. quantities of oil products received and delivered The company participated in projects for by the company. improvement to systems, procedures and metering equipment. In the biofuel field, the company is an active member of the Spanish initiative for promoting aviation biokerosene and also participates in European and national projects to evaluate these fuels for the aviation sector (e.g. ITAKA project in the 7th EU framework programme). Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Quality and innovation for our customers 11/18 60 Quality management in CLH Aviación CLH Aviación manages quality in its operations on the basis of a series of improvement groups, Quality management in CLH Aviación each of which has specific aims. “Hydrant management” improvement group The work carried out by the “JET A-1 Filtrability Equipment” improvement group has made it — To analyse incidents with repercussions on operations, design, equipment purchase, coordination with third parties, safety, maintenance, environment, work organisation, training. possible to place two pieces of equipment in service at the Barcelona airport facility, for — To channel the lessons learned as a result of analysing incidents towards resolving or implementing them. detection of water and particles in suspension. This system controls the purity of the fuel, — To communicate and assess practices and lessons learned in outside forums. and allows it to be linked to other operating — To identify improvements in operation and design, passing them on to the affected areas. parameters. In this case, CLH Aviación is going — To identify critical elements. to use these pieces of equipment to motorise — To review, disseminate and ensure implementation of the internal regulations and their amendments. the passage of fuel through the fixed facility at CLH Aviación knowledge base that airport. The data obtained will be analysed by the CLH Group Sub-department for Quality — It integrates the knowledge obtained through participating in fairs, congresses and working group and Innovation, through its Central Laboratory. meetings or outside associations, visits to third-party facilities and publications. The installation of this equipment, which is “JET A-1 Filtrability Equipment” improvement group not yet widely used on a world scale, seeks to — To organise the filtration process, guaranteeing product quality with zero risk. continue with analysing its possible uses and — To apply know-how and draw up standard work procedures for immediate application to all the developing its potential. facilities. Besides this, in 2012 a knowledge base was “Into-plane supply service provision process” improvement group: created and distributed among the company’s — Formed by CLH Aviación, Information Systems Management and the Sub-department for Quality staff. This aims at encouraging the acquisition and Innovation. and broadening of technical knowledge at all Single database levels, and opening a new channel for sharing — It includes the information necessary for management from both the airports and from CLH Aviación information and experiences that will make it management. possible to increase the technical standard of CLH Aviación and consolidate its position as an international benchmark company. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Quality and innovation for our customers 12/18 61 Regarding the “Into-plane supply service Innovation for diversification provision process” improvement group, considerable progress has been made on the Innovation in the company’s services is a This system, which has its own specific policy in project, agreements having been reached with basic tool for continuing to make an in-depth addition to concrete processes and objectives, technology partners and making it possible examination of their diversification. is certified in accordance with the UNE for the first pilot projects to begin operating at 166002 standard, the certificate having been The CLH Group has an Innovation Management some airports in 2013. renewed in 2012. System that includes the requirements of the The evolution of this process will give most demanding standards, the conduct of Although the system that has been designed momentum to operational improvement of benchmark companies and a bibliography with is adapted to a global innovation approach –it the into-plane supply service by incorporating the best practices. affects all possible areas of innovation– it has technological innovations. The process will be a notable technological innovation component. enhanced both as regards the guarantee of The main technological lines in which CLH service quality and as regards the efficiency operates are the following: achieved. The design was carried out by keeping improved satisfaction of our customers’ Investment in innovation requirements as the target, and includes the (thousands of euros) Technological lines in the CLH innovation ideas and suggestions they had put forward for system this. 4,000 3,647 3,904 Transportation by pipeline. A general review of processes in CLH Aviación Liquid bulk storage and dispatch. also started throughout 2012, with each 3,000 of them being identified and examined. A Information and communication technologies. large number of process improvements were 2,000 inventoried during the year, and new indicators Quality of products and additives. that will guarantee monitoring of their evolution Measurement of liquid bulk. have been incorporated. 1,000 Environmental Technologies. 435 Safety Technologies. 0 2010 2011 2012 Energy efficiency. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Quality and innovation for our customers 13/18 62 This system aspires to become a benchmark for both the sector and the industry in general. The particular characteristics of CLH, including its strategy and its Mission, Vision and Values, as well as the characteristics of the sector, were taken into account in its design and implementation. Moreover, this system is flexible Main innovation projects in which CLH participates and can be adapted to the requirements of the environment and to new practices or theoretical developments as they emerge. Area Project Collaboration This system takes concrete form in the formal Development of new Development of biofuels for aviation ITAKA Project, coordinated by commitment of the company to innovation, services SENASA as a factor for customer satisfaction and for Operations Characterisation and assessment of laminations Agreement held with the maintaining results in the short term, as well as in pipelines Complutense University of Madrid a factor for competitive success in the medium Analysis of dynamic stresses in pipelines Agreement held with the Complutense University of Madrid and long term, by overcoming the restrictions and competitive difficulties in the market and Fuels International group for evaluating the increased International group coordinated by the content of FAME in aviation fuel Energy Institute (UK) the environment. The system provides for Metrology Variation in the Meter Factor of positive In collaboration with the Polytechnic projects in each of the different technology displacement volume meters University of Madrid or innovation areas, whenever possible, Environment Study for establishing the ETBE limit in Agreement held with the University of in collaboration with other companies or groundwater Malaga organisations, as can be seen in the examples Other innovation projects Review of the Airport Platform Safety In collaboration with AENA shown below: carried out by CLH Aviación Regulations that ensure the safe and efficient performance of the operations carried out on the airport platform. Performance of the simulation study on supply In collaboration with AENA for Airbus 380-type aircraft at different aircraft parking spaces in Barcelona Airport. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Quality and innovation for our customers 14/18 63 Relations with our customers One of the CLH Group objectives is to attain Customer satisfaction is also top priority for Number of CLH customers maximum satisfaction of all its customers. CLH Aviación, whose customers are not always 50 Because of the special characteristics of its the end users (mainly airline companies) 43 40 operations, the company has a small number because the commercial relationship is basically 40 of customers with whom it keeps in very direct established with the oil operators which are, in 33 contact, which allows it to have a detailed turn, the owners of the product. The company 30 knowledge of their needs and expectations for offers services for the storage, distribution 20 designing the range of services. and into-plane supply of aviation fuels and lubricants. It also provides advice and technical 10 assistance for the installation and maintenance of distribution networks for various types of 0 2010 2011 2012 aviation fuel, in addition to specific training on the handling of aviation fuels. CLH Aviación therefore keeps up a close Number of CLH Aviación customers CLH Group customers relationship with the end users (airline 20 Oil operators. companies) so as to be able to analyse their level of satisfaction and also their new Large consumers (Electricity and airline companies). requirements. It is also planned that in 2013 a 12 system will be established for monitoring the 10 10 Special customers (Public Administration 10 results of the contacts made as this will allow and other related bodies). a better assessment of the way they are being conducted. 0 2010 2011 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Quality and innovation for our customers 15/18 64 CLH customer satisfaction survey Conclusions of the satisfaction survey in CLH Where customer relations are concerned, a key aspect is assessment of their level of The following are the most important general • The implementation of new services must be satisfaction with the service provided by the conclusions reached concerning the survey carried out quickly because of the fast rate at company. In this respect, CLH conducts a conducted in 2011: which market circumstances change. specific survey once every two years. • In 2011, an improved score for assessment In the last edition, which was conducted in of the biofuel service was recorded as a Average assessment of CLH 2011, the average rating obtained by the result of the improvement actions undertaken company was 3.1 out of a maximum of 4 points. during the year. An assessment of the new 4 bioethanol service was also included. 3.24 3.20 3.10 A slight decrease was observed at that time, caused mainly by increased demand by • Consolidated services did not undergo any customers in the services and by the economic changes in their assessment score since situation, which had given rise to a significant they are sufficiently mature (delivery planning 2 reduction in consumption that had accumulated and programming, management of inventory over the previous 4 years. It also coincided with and product dispatch). the time when CLH had recently introduced • The differentiated additivation service 0 new services, which could have significantly continued to obtain a high assessment score, 2008 2009 2011 affected the overall assessment. On the other as from the commercial viewpoint it provides hand, it is to be noted that the perception of a differentiating element for customers in the CLH held by our customers when comparing it Assessment of CLH compared with competitors market. with other competitor companies had improved 4 in many aspects since the previous survey held • Flexibility continued to be a leading aspect in 2009. to continue fostering, and not without reason 3.1 since the customers find themselves with 2.6 ever-changing markets that are increasingly more competitive. 2 • The assessment made by CLH customers when comparing it to competitors had increased since the previous survey, being 0 above average for practically all aspects. CLH Competitors Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Quality and innovation for our customers 16/18 65 CLH Aviación customer satisfaction survey Evolution in assessment of processes 4.00 3.67 3.67 3.48 3.56 3.62 3.52 3.50 3.50 3.31 3.36 3.36 3.40 3.40 3.24 3.22 3.30 3.28 3.20 3.17 3.21 3.19 3.06 3.13 3.06 3.09 3.07 3.14 3.12 3.00 250 2.00 1.50 1.00 0.50 0.00 Receipt, storage Into-plane supply Inspections of Information and Communication(*) Business Customer service(*) General aspects and delivery service airport facilities documentation(*) coordination(*) (*) These processes were not assessed in previous years. Evolution in overall assessment by groups 4.00 3.66 3.58 3.50 3.35 3.31 3.43 3.44 3.50 3.23 3.19 3.25 3.31 3.29 3.31 3.23 3.14 3.11 3.11 3.19 3.05 2.95 3.02 3.00 3.00 2.50 2.00 2007 1.50 2008 2009 1.00 2011 0.50 2012 0.00 OVERALL PERCEPTION(**) Aena Service-into-plane Airline companies Suppliers agents (**) Does not include AENA results. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Quality and innovation for our customers 17/18 66 The customer invoicing system has been Average assessment 2009 2011 2012 analysed in particular as an area for CLH Aviación 3.31 3.23 3.43 improvement. The review carried out provides for very varied aspects that include improving Average assessment by segments, CLH Aviación 2009 2011 2012 the formal appearance of the invoice, the details it contains, the possibility of sending Suppliers 3.31 3.23 3.00 an electronic file and the availability of the Airline companies 3.58 3.44 3.50 electronic invoicing system. This permits Service-into-plane agents 2.95 3.05 3.25 Airport directors — 3.19 3.19 improvement in the communication of information and the documentation itself for the services provided to customers. On the Average assessment by services, CLH Aviación 2009 2011 2012 other hand, work continues on the contents Average assessment 3.31 3.23 3.43 of the information exchanged with the airline General aspects 3.21 3.19 3.40 companies that are provided directly with the Receipt, storage and delivery 3.06 3.09 3.24 into-plane supply service. Into-plane supply 3.48 3.20 3.30 Throughout 2012 work also started on an inAirport facility inspection 3.62 3.67 3.52 depth review of the different processes carried out in CLH Aviación, including possible shortand long-term improvement actions for each of The results obtained in the CLH Aviación them. These processes include, among others, satisfaction survey have improved since the last the management, execution and monitoring of one carried out in 2011, particularly in aspects inspections carried out on the facilities, from that focus on the end receiver of the service. the time they are requested until the possible improvement actions resulting from them are dealt with and closed. This was the only survey result that suffered a decrease in comparison with previous years, although it continues to stand at very high values. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Quality and innovation for our customers 18/18 67 Protection of commercial data and communications A notable case The protection of commercial data and communications is another key aspect in the relations the company has with its customers. Innovation for promoting the use of biofuels in Spain In this connection, CLH handles commercial information through the Operator Information CLH has been promoting the use of biofuels since these products were introduced System which makes it possible to guarantee into the market. the privacy and confidentiality of customer One of the critical aspects along the way for guaranteeing the success of these information. products has been to establish quality standards that guarantee optimum behaviour Also in this context, it should be noted that of these products in the market. during 2012 the CLH Group did not identify To achieve that, and since the introduction of fatty acid methyl esters (FAME) into any breach of the regulations or voluntary the diesel market, CLH has established more stringent quality standards than those codes relating to marketing communications, existing in European and Spanish regulations. including advertising, promotion and sponsorship. In developing these standards, CLH has created methods for determining critical properties. In 2012, it developed its own method for determining saturated Similarly, no breach was identified either in monoglyceride content, thereby permitting the contents of these compounds to be respect of regulations or voluntary codes in measured reliably, this being critical from the viewpoint of the final behaviour of the relation to the information that the CLH Group fuel. Validation of the method will be carried out by different national laboratories reports on the services provided, nor was any during 2013. claim received either in relation to respect for the privacy or personal particulars of its customers. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Safety in our operations 1/11 68 6. Safety in our operations Our approach What progress have we achieved in 2012 in the CSR 2012-2016 Master Plan programmes related to safety? The CLH Group works to provide its employees with a safe, Programme Degree of compliance healthy and risk-free working 1. Analysis of the requirements of the API 340 CLH has translated and analysed the API 353 standard and will use it as the environment, with the responsibility (Liquid Release Prevention and Detection base standard in the Facility Integrity Plan. and aim of continuing to be a Measures for Aboveground Storage Facilities) benchmark company in the sector and API 353 (Managing Systems Integrity of Terminal and Tank facilities) standards for its practices in the area of published by the American Petroleum Institute. occupational and industrial health 2. Design of the facility integrity policy. The integrity policy has been unified into a single Organic Unit to take and safety. advantage of synergies from the integration carried out in the Company’s General Operations Management. 3. Adaptation of operating processes to the new Information is being compiled and will be developed in the next few years. policy. 4. Review and design of new action protocols in A review has been made of inspection techniques and prevention plans that the area of facility integrity. provide for measures directly related to integrity. 5. Participation in international congresses for The company has participated in the following congresses: International encouraging exchange of good practices. Pipelines Conference 2012; International Congress and Technical Exhibition organised by CEOCOR (Committee for the study of corrosion and protection of pipes and pipeline systems – Drinking water, waste water, gas and oil); “Pump and Valve Selection for Optimum System Performance” and “B31.3. Process Piping Design”. 6. Assessment of the possibility of joining the The company is also to assess the option of joining the Pipeline Operators International Pipeline Association (IPLOCA). Forum (POF) and/or the Pipeline Research Council International, Inc. (PRCI). 7. To encourage employee participation in the Reminders are sent out to the managers in addition to monitoring of the occupational health examinations. annual programme. The health monitoring protocols have also been improved. Accomplished In progress Not yet started Continued on next page Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Safety in our operations 2/11 69 6. Safety in our operations (continuation) Continued from previous page Programme Degree of compliance 8. Consolidation of the process for evaluating the The cases that have been notified have been studied. The situation of female suitability of employees to their post when their employees who are pregnant and/or breast-feeding is also evaluated. situation is particularly delicate and making the necessary adjustment. 9. To propagate new activities providing A number of actions have been carried out (Health and Safety Manual, information about health. notes about health on the corporate portal and articles on health in Acerca magazine, training activities, etc.). 10. Promotion of activities for monitoring collective Health monitoring data are analysed. Their progress is also monitored. health. 11. To develop initiatives for promoting the general General health campaigns are carried out. health of the employees. 12. Promotion of continuous training as a tool for Various training courses and behavioural workshops have been carried out in sustainable cultural change in safety matters. the framework of the “Zero is Possible” project. 13. To achieve active participation from employees A competition was held to encourage participation. through “Aporta” to continue developing the Group’s “Zero is Possible” commitment to safety. 14. For the specific risks of each facility to be A generic assessment has been made for each of the facilities. assessed by their managers. 15. Review and improvement of the protocol for Work has been carried out in association with the inspection and formalising the CLH Group methodology on maintenance department for adopting a new methodology. analysing risks at the facilities. 16. Review and updating of the Individual The Manual is now available in its electronic version. It will be published in Protection Equipment Manual(7). paper format shortly. Accomplished (7) Although these programmes have not been included in the Corporate Responsibility Master Plan 2012-2016, it was decided to include them In progress here as they are key challenges that the Group set itself in terms of the safety and integrity of its facilities. Not yet started Continued on next page Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Safety in our operations 3/11 70 6. Safety in our operations (continuation) Continued from previous page Programme Degree of compliance 17. Start on analysing a computer tool for The tool is now operational. occupational accident management (370 model)(7). 18. To continue bringing down the number of The number of incidents has been reduced by 27% compared with 2011. industrial incidents(7). 19. To continue with the sustainable reduction of The TFR has continued decreasing and now stands at a value of 4.23 at the Total Accident Frequency Rate (TFR)(7). Group level. (7) Although these programmes have not been included in the Corporate Responsibility Master Plan 2012-2016, it was decided to include them here as they are key challenges that the Group set itself in terms of the safety and integrity of its facilities. What do we want to achieve in 2013? Design and draft the Facility Integrity Management Plan. Continue with sustainable reduction of the Total Accident Frequency Rate (TFR) at CLH Group level. Successfully pass the review audit of the Health and Safety System in respect of the OHSAS 18001:2007 standard in CLH and CLH Aviación. Accomplished Improve and make adjustments to the computer application for occupational accident management in the In progress CLH Group, and progressively eliminate use of the 370 model. Continue with the progressive reduction of industrial incidents in the CLH Group. Not yet started Improve the system for continuous assessment of contractors as regards safety. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Safety in our operations 4/11 71 Facility safety and integrity management The CLH Group has a Safety Management In this aspect, and in accordance with existing legal provisions, the CLH Group also has selfSerious Accident Prevention Policy System that encompasses all aspects of the organisation that have an impact on people, protection plans relating to serious accidents. assets and the environment as regards the Supply. The aim of these plans is to safeguard the risks inherent in its own activities or any that Dispatch of fuels. integrity and health of people, identify potential are directly related to the company. Storage. risk situations that may occur at the facilities In 2012, CLH and CLH Aviación had their and model the possible serious accidents that Receipt. Health and Safety System audited for the might happen. Should any incident occur, these Supply of fuels to ships. first time in accordance with the OHSAS emergency plans make it possible to efficiently Storage, transportation and supply of fuels 18.001:2007 standard. This audit was passed organise the action to be carried out using the and packaged lubricants to aircraft. successfully and the corresponding certificate available human and material resources. Transportation. was issued by AENOR(8). These plans depend on each type of facility. CLH also has a Serious Accident Prevention Therefore, there are plans for storage facilities, Policy. It serves to establish the aim of offering airport facilities and the pipeline network, as the highest possible level of safety and well as a plan for evacuating the company’s reliability, avoiding the occurrence of accidents head office building. Contingency plans have whose consequences may affect the health also been developed regarding the action to and safety of its employees, as well as the take at seaport terminals in the event there employees of outside companies and the should be any spillage into the sea. environment. (8) Spanish Association for Standardisation and Certification. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Safety in our operations 5/11 72 In addition to the self-protection plans, the • Application of action protocols to prevent Lastly, in the context of safety and the CLH Group carries out other actions in the and control environmental impacts in the prevention of serious accidents, it should framework of serious accident prevention and framework of the principles that shape the be noted that in 2012 CLH signed an safety management in its facilities. Among Serious Accident Prevention Policy. assistance protocol with the Spanish them, the following are the most important: refineries to strengthen available resources • Performance of safety drills at the facilities. In and collaboration in cases of emergency. The 2012, the company carried out 160 drills of agreement establishes bases and protocols this type at CLH and CLH Aviación locations for action in a given risk situation and provides which were attended by 878 people. for a communication procedure for minimising • Development of studies on safety and event damage to facilities, and harm to people and modelling at all the facilities affected by the the environment. laws governing serious accidents. These have been submitted to the competent autonomous regional administrations which, on the basis of the information they contain, draw up the Off-Site Emergency Plans. • Maintenance of efficient state-of-the-art fire defence systems, innovating and developing new ideas for providing its facilities with greater reliability and safety, guaranteeing that all systems for reducing risk are in perfect working order at all times. • Approval of external or internal communication procedures that establish suitable channels for reporting on and coordinating the necessary actions with the administrations. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Safety in our operations 6/11 73 Pipeline Integrity Plan The CLH Group carries out continuous The company has also prepared Emergency Among these drills, those that affect water monitoring of all its pipelines so as to guarantee Plans for the pipeline systems, that are courses are of particular importance, as they their safety. For this, it uses a sophisticated consistent with the best international serve as training and verify the preparedness control system that is connected via satellite recommendations and guidelines on safety. An of the staff in the use of specific resources for and makes their safe, efficient management essential aspect included in these emergency stopping and stemming possible pollution in possible. plans are the safety drills, that contribute to rivers, reservoirs, etc. employee training and coaching in addition to The company also has a Pipeline Integrity Plan During 2012, nine training activities were ensuring coordination with other intervention for keeping a regular, thorough watch over carried out in waterway areas across the whole groups from the administration. These activities them. This surveillance is complemented with of Spain. are also taken advantage of to make the regular monitoring of all the infrastructures characteristics of the company’s facilities and using aircraft sweeps, patrols made on foot and resources known to other intervention groups. in vehicles. CLH also maintains good relationships with the local authorities and the owners of land through which the pipelines run in order to offer them a clear picture of the characteristics of these infrastructures and be able to count on their Training activities carried out in 2012 in waterway areas cooperation whenever necessary. Section Area To make this task easier, the CLH Group has Cartagena-Alicante Azarbe la Reina Canal published explanatory leaflets that include Mafumet-Barcelona Llobregat River information about the precautions to be A Coruña-Vigo Umia River adopted in the vicinity of pipelines, particularly Mafumet-Barcelona Llobregat River if any outside activity or work is to be carried Lerida-Monzalbarba Segre River out near them, providing a contact telephone Arahal-Coria Finca el Chamarro reservoir number in case it should be necessary for the Poblete-Loeches Vicario reservoir company to intervene. Poblete-Loeches Jarama River Almodóvar-Loeches Jarama River Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Safety in our operations 7/11 74 Occupational health and safety One of the main targets of the company’s The aim of the CLH Group Occupational Risk Strategic Plan is to reduce the number of Prevention Plan is to guarantee the health Safety and Prevention Principles in CLH occupational accidents. and safety of the people who play a part in the activities of the company, and it is compulsory Integration of safety management at all With this aim in mind, the CLH Group believes levels of the organisation. for all employees to know about it. in promoting a sound and proactive safety Risk management in all phases of the culture that is integrated into all fields of activity The effectiveness of this plan has made it business. of the firm. The company therefore works to possible for a progressive reduction to be Continuous improvement of safety guarantee the safety of everyone who forms maintained in the CLH Group’s Total Accident management. part of the organisation and the activities Frequency Rate (TFR) in the last few years. Communication, information and carried out in it. An example of this is that an important participation. The whole of the CLH Group health and safety reduction was achieved in the TFR in 2012, Continuous training for all employees. system rests on the principles established with results standing at 4.23 at Group level, Employee consultation and participation. through the Occupational Health and Safety 42.4% lower than in 2011. Linking suppliers and contractors with the and Prevention Policy, in addition to the This has been possible thanks to the effort Safety Policy. Serious Accident Prevention Policy mentioned made concerning training, the use of accident Collaboration with society, the earlier. Both of them have been signed by modelling as an additional tool for analysing administrations and public and private the Chairman of the company to show that causes, and the generalised use of the tool organisations. leadership of the CLH Group’s desire for known as “behavioural observations”, that excellence in safety comes from the top. consists of always keeping a constructive watch on the conduct of other people at work in connection with safety aspects. In this way, greater awareness about unsafe attitudes or actions is achieved and safe behaviour is encouraged through interaction with the people who are observed. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Safety in our operations 8/11 75 Besides this, the company has continued forms part of the company’s joint Committee for investigating accidents and near accidents, and Health and Safety. reviewing its evaluations of risk. CLH also gives recognition to the best The employees are the essential leading practices of its contractors in the area of safety, players in prevention activities. They are rewarding those that demonstrate the best therefore represented through the trade union performance. In 2012, the company awarded delegates who are present at all work centres its “Zero Accidents” prize to the construction where there are more than 6 workers. At company “Altec Infraestructuras”. centres with more than 50 workers there is a Similarly, CLH has been rewarded for its good Local Health and Safety Committee with equal performance in occupational risk prevention representation for employees and delegates. matters. In 2012, the company received The Joint Committee for Health and Safety recognition from the Valle de Escombreras is the equal representation body for CLH and Business Association (AEVE) with one of the CLH Aviación. three prizes for safety that it currently awards. The efforts made by the company on safety In addition, the Spanish Chemical Industry matters are not limited to its workers. In the Federation (FEIQUE) awarded its 2011 Safety excellence in prevention framework in which prize to the CLH Group subsidiary Terquimsa, Total Accident Frequency Rate (TFR) Evolution, CLH Group the company seeks to operate, CLH has set for being accident-free throughout the year. itself the target of “Zero Accidents” of any kind 16 Lastly, it should be noted that in 2012 the in its facilities and processes, which not only 14 13.26 CLH Group joined the European campaign considers its employees but also its contractors, known as “Working Together for Risk 12 suppliers, customers and shareholders, in Prevention”, which was launched by the 10 addition to the community in the vicinity of the 7.65 European Agency for Safety and Health 8 facilities. at Work (EU-OSHA) to encourage senior 6 5.13 5.04 4.47 Regarding its contractors, CLH makes management, middle management and 4 2.57 a thorough monitoring of their accident employees to manage occupational risks 2 rate figures, expressly requesting them to together. 0 2010 2011 2012 investigate all the accidents they may have sustained. These are ultimately analysed at a Men Sub-committee for Accident Investigation that Women Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Safety in our operations 9/11 76 2010 2011 2012 Accident rates, CLH Men Women Men Women Men Women Accident frequency rate* (with sick 10.20 2.57 7.65 5.04 3.72 0.00 leave) Serious accident rate** 0.37 0.03 0.11 0.17 0.07 0.00 Accident rates for contractors 2010 2011 2012 Accident frequency rate* (with sick leave) 9.03 3.61 5.45 Serious accident rate** 0.16 0.03 0.18 * Accident frequency rate: Number of accidents involving sick leave for every million hours worked. ** Serious accident rate: Number of calendar days lost through accident involving sick leave for every thousand hours worked. 2009 2010 2011 2012 Absentee rates in CLH Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women CLH Total Common Contingencies 2.96% 5.21% 3.19% 5.05% 3.43% 4.66% 2.47% 4.19% Total Occupational accidents 0.14% 0.26% 0.25% 0.17% 0.26% 0.22% 0.09% 0.01% Total Absenteeism CLH 3.10% 5.47% 3.43% 5.22% 3.69% 4.88% 2.55% 4.19% CLH Aviación Total Common Contingencies 7.26% 1.93% 6.09% 5.10% 5.37% 7.94% 3.16% 10.78% Total Occupational accidents 0.47% 0.00% 0.61% 0.20% 0.33% 0.00% 0.14% 0.00% Total Absenteeism CLH Aviación 7.74% 1.93% 6.70% 5.30% 5.69% 7.94% 3.30% 10.78% CLH Group Total Common Contingencies 4.22% 4.96% 4.01% 5.05% 3.99% 4.89% 2.66% 4.65% Total Occupational accidents 0.24% 0.24% 0.35% 0.18% 0.28% 0.20% 0.10% 0.01% Total Absenteeism CLH Group 4.46% 5.20% 4.35% 5.23% 4.27% 5.10% 2.76% 4.65% Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Safety in our operations 10/11 77 Zero is possible The CLH Group has developed various • A triptych on Road Safety was published to Training in occupational health and safety initiatives for occupational risk prevention in celebrate World Day for Safety and Health at the process for continuous improvement in the Work. The CLH Medical Service plays an active part conditions regarding occupational Health and in training initiatives on occupational health and • Work has continued on monitoring accidents safety. Among other activities, in 2012 it carried Safety. In this respect, the following actions at the facilities, with an award being given out two occupational health campaigns that carried out in the company are noteworthy as to the facilities that have not recorded any were published on the corporate portal. contributions to the creation of a preventive, accidents at all. proactive culture that is always one step ahead • “Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease” (COLD) in order to eliminate or reduce the risks that It should also be noted that the CLH Group campaign, with the aim of launching a can give rise to accidents: continued developing the project known as programme for the prevention and early “Zero is Possible” during 2012. diagnosis of COLD among CLH employees, • Communication and dissemination effort made through the weekly publication of CLH This project is based on a sustainable using the recommendations of GOLD (Global Group Safety Contacts on the corporate cultural change where safety is concerned, Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung portal. and covers a broad range of activities such Disease) and SEPAR, the Spanish Society of as the organisation of courses, both at the Pneumology and Thoracic Surgery. • “Acerca”, the in-house magazine, is facilities and at the head offices, for training • “Stratification of Cardiovascular Risk” consolidated as an information vehicle for on occupational risk prevention through campaign, with the aim of lowering the circulating news about prevention activities, “behavioural workshops”. This year it was prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors in addition to the corporate intranet, the extended to the level of staff that do not hold among CLH Group employees, as this is the training department and the creation of the any leadership responsibilities. primary cause of deaths in Spain. suggestions system called “Aporta” through the corporate portal. • Safety contacts on a variety of topics have been made at the “Internal Communication Meetings” held with all the company’s managers. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Safety in our operations 11/11 78 Other activities are also carried out in the CLH Group safety training 2010 2011 2012 CLH Group to help employees and their Safety training (hours) 12,945 14,129 13,095 families in the prevention of illness. The Attendance level (no. of people) 2,028 2,262 1,987 following stand out among them: Training in Prevention (hours) 9,322 9,156 6,565 • Educating for health: These are sections Attendance level (no. of people) 736 1,122 738 published in the in-house magazine “Acerca”, Investment (thousands of euros) 255.6 293.7 262.6 which is sent to the homes of all employees for them to share with their families. An article on healthy lifestyle habits and the prevention of serious illnesses (“Take Note” section) and another on risk prevention (“It’s A notable case worth your while” section) are published in all issues. Publication of the IT-8864 Technical Safety Instructions for cleaning • Annual medical check-up for employees. the tanks of trucks and refuellers in the CLH Group. When the annual medical check-up is carried out, the Prevention Service’s Occupational Entering confined spaces is one of the significant aspects of safety in the Medicine Service is able to detect any CLH Group. The operations that are carried out in them are subject to potential risks, ailments the employee may have and provide and for that reason it was considered necessary to publish technical instructions or a the advice that is needed according to the specific procedure for cleaning the fuel tanks of trucks and refuellers, differentiating pathology, whatever its origin. these from the 8861 Technical Safety Instructions for cleaning vertical storage tanks. These regulations provide employees with more detailed instructions on how to operate in these spaces as regards taking measurements using the explosimeter and other analysis devices or, in certain cases, the use of self-contained breathing equipment. The instructions have been circulated through specific training sessions, the safety manual and the procedures for taking time off work. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX An attractive work environment for our employees 1/17 79 7. An attractive work environment for our employees Our approach What progress have we achieved in 2012 in the CSR 2012-2016 Master Plan programmes related to our people? The CLH Group business project becomes a reality thanks to the Programme Degree of compliance commitment of its human team. 1. To include the statement of compliance with It is included in the Welcome Pack given to new recruits. A space is also set The company therefore aspires to the Code of Conduct for new recruits and the aside for it in the Ethical Commitment section of the corporate portal and offer its employees a satisfactory rest of the workforce. the website. working environment and an 2. Development of a training plan for Its implementation in forthcoming years will be studied. dissemination of the Code of Conduct. attractive professional career 3. To disseminate the gender equality plans and A large number of activities have been carried out (Training for staff in through its policies for training, sensitive jobs; review of the language used in job offers; signing of plans support the career advancement of women in career development, attracting and the CLH Group. by all the CLH Group trade union sections; set-up of Technical Committees retaining talent and occupational on Gender Equality; specific communication actions; public consultation space for people who are victims of gender violence; maintenance of the health and safety. efr certificate for reconciliation of family and professional life and equality; improvements in data processing by gender in the Human Resources scorecard). 4. To sign the “Diversity Charter”. Its implementation in the next few years will be studied. 5. Identification of prizes, rankings, etc. for Its implementation in the next few years will be studied. developing diversity in the CLH Group. 6. Development of a programme for recruiting Its implementation in the next few years will be studied. foreign employees in line with the company’s internationalisation process. 7. To identify and categorise areas and positions Its implementation in the next few years will be studied. for the potential recruitment of special needs groups, and to define profiles for each job Accomplished category that is identified. In progress Not yet started Continued on next page Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX An attractive work environment for our employees 2/17 80 7. An attractive work environment for our employees (continuation) Continued from previous page Programme Degree of compliance 8. Definition of management policies that focus It will be studied in the next few years. on helping in situations of risk of social exclusion. 9. To establish strategic alliances and a pilot Agreements have been signed with Special Employment Centres for project for cooperating with suppliers that supplies of clothing, catering and stationery materials. specialise in the integration of special needs groups. 10. To carry out new awareness-raising campaigns Its implementation in the next few years will be studied. to promote integration and inclusion. 11. To develop a programme for defining long-term Its implementation in the next few years will be studied. incentives. 12. To extend competency assessment through 181 new participants were trained through the Supera-T (Excel the organisation as a whole. yourself) Project this year, and in 2013 they will be assessed on their performance in the previous year. 13. To extend the competency model to processes As regards the selection process, the staff have been trained and the new covering selection, training and development process has been started up. of potential. Regarding training, training programmes have already been established for most of the skills. 14. To carry out a pilot programme for Two pilot actions have been carried out in the area of Senior Management implementing the 360º assessment model. and Management of the company. It will be carried out on the Management Committee in 2013. 15. To include questions related to internal New questions have been included in the survey. reputation and Corporate Social Responsibility in the work atmosphere survey. 16. Development of a pilot training programme in The programme is at the design stage and will be implemented in 2013. Accomplished CSR for executives and middle management of the company. In progress Not yet started Continued on next page Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX An attractive work environment for our employees 3/17 81 7. An attractive work environment for our employees (continuation) Continued from previous page Programme Degree of compliance 17. To train people with high potential, in The “PDD in company” (Executive Development Programme) project collaboration with top level business schools. has been designed and will begin in 2013 as a complement to the preexisting PDD. 18. Development and implementation of training Different courses have been carried out on external platforms. through e-learning. 19. Development of the third phase of the “Lead in This has been implemented through the Decision-Making Programme. order to Motivate” leadership programme. 20. To identify and define the key extra-financial Its implementation in the next few years will be studied. indicators of the company. 21. To establish targets for performance in Its implementation in the next few years will be studied. Corporate Social Responsibility for the targets that are identified. 22. To define the system for monitoring and Its implementation in the next few years will be studied. assessment of compliance with targets in order to link them to employee performance. 23. To monitor improvement in performance. The Talent Committee has been set up. The corporate curriculum vitae has been launched and the assessment phase has been designed. 24. Development of new initiatives for balancing The offer of health insurance for employees has been extended. Also, professional and family life, and social benefits. triptychs providing information on topics related to reconciling professional and family life have been published. A Christmas event was held at Head Office. 25. Renewal of the “Family Responsible The audit for continuing to hold this certificate was passed successfully in Certificate” (“efr”), improving on the present 2012. rating. Accomplished In progress Not yet started Continued on next page Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX An attractive work environment for our employees 4/17 82 7. An attractive work environment for our employees (continuation) Continued from previous page Programme Degree of compliance 26. To improve the systems for unremunerated Various proposals have been designed. recognition. 27. Implementation of the new system for The Supera-T platform for Executives and Staff Excluded from the Management through targets(9). Collective Bargaining Agreement was implemented in 2012. 28. Negotiation of new employment plans in CLH Put on hold because legislative changes are expected in labour and Social and CLH Aviación(9). Security matters 29. Launching of the new Employee Portal(9). It has now been launched. 30. Deepening of horizontal communication Its implementation in the next few years will be studied. between departments(9). 31. Completion of the “+efficiency, +strength” The company's new organisation charts have been published. project for organisational redesign(9). (9) Although these programmes do not correspond to the Corporate Responsibility Master Plan, they have been included as they are different challenges that the Group set itself last year as regards people. What do we want to achieve in 2013? Launch the new CLH Employee Portal. Implement the “Managing Talent” project. Start up the “PDD in company” programme (Executive Development Programme). Accomplished Design the training for dissemination of the Code of Conduct. In progress Sign the “Diversity Charter”. Extend the Management through Targets programme to Middle Management. Not yet started Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX An attractive work environment for our employees 5/17 83 Responsible management of our people People management is a key aspect in the In parallel with this, there is a specific space The reason for drawing up these employment Corporate Social Responsibility strategy of the on the corporate portal which includes all the plans was the need to renew and rejuvenate CLH Group. The company actively promotes information contained in the pack, together with the workforce and adapt the profiles to the responsible management in this sphere in the the “Action protocol for preventing and dealing company’s new strategy, and the fact that the different business units, under the premises of with harassment at work”, and access to the low staff turnover rates experienced by the ethical conduct contained in the Mission, Vision Code of Conduct Mailbox which employees company during the previous fifteen years and Values. can use for sending in any complaint or report meant the average employee age was over 50 regarding harassment at work. years. The fundamental values of the CLH Group in human resources management are based There has been a high level of acceptance of on the right to non-discrimination for reasons Characteristics of the workforce the plans among the company’s employees (an of race, nationality, ethnic origin, age, religion, acceptance rate of up to 91% in the 2010The total CLH Group workforce recorded at the gender or civil status. All of them form part of 2012 Plan), which has given rise to direct end of 2012 amounted to 1,461 professionals the company’s Code of Conduct which serves results that are quantifiable, as can be seen in (sum of permanent and temporary staff). as a reference for everyone in CLH in the the chart below: performance of their daily tasks. At the end of 2012 there were 223 employees in a situation of partial retirement, in the context Replacement Plan in the CLH Group Since 2011, the company has developed of the application and development of the different initiatives for disseminating the Partial Retirement Plans with replacement contents of this Code among its workforce, the Significant workforce rejuvenation: Average contracts that the company launched in 2007 most important of them being the launching of age stands at 44.0 years. and renewed in 2010 in accordance with the a pack in which the Mission, Vision and Values trade union representatives, and which have Teams that are renewed and aligned with the Policies were also included. new corporate culture. remained in force until 2012. Increased average training and professional level. Reduction of absenteeism. Optimisation of workforces. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX An attractive work environment for our employees 6/17 84 Another noteworthy fact that is attributable to Other workforce diversity indicators 2010 2011 2012 this process in the increased diversity of the % international employees 0.5 0.9 0.9 workforce, mainly due to the increase in recent Average age 45.6 44.9 44.0 years of the number of women who take up % of women in recruitments to technical positions 36% 39% 35% employment. This fact is being noticed more clearly in the latest recruitments made in the company, particularly as regards technical 2010 2011 2012 positions. In 2012, women represented 26% Percentage distribution by workforce groups Men Women Men Women Men Women of the total of new recruits and 35% of those recruited as technical staff. Managers 0.7% 0.0% 0.7% 0.0% 0.8% 0.0% Technical staff 28.9% 6.2% 28.3% 7.1% 28.3% 8.1% The CLH and CLH Aviación Gender Equality Administrative staff 3.5% 4.8% 3.1% 4.4% 2.9% 4.2% Plan includes, among other measures, the Specialists and skilled operators 54.8% 1.2% 55.5% 0.9% 54.7% 1.0% preference for choosing the candidate from the less represented gender over equality of merits and ability, for selection and promotion processes. Evolution of the CLH Group workforce Percentage distribution by contract Percentage distribution of the workforce Women in Management posts type in the CLH Group by gender 2,000 100 100 25% 92% 88% 88% 87% 1,673 85% 86% 1,635 1,461 80 80 20% 18.7% 19.1% 1,500 16.7% 60 60 15% 1,000 10.9% 12.6% 40 40 10% 8.9% 500 20 15% 14% 20 12% 13% 5% 8% 12% 0 0 0 0% 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Permanent Others Men Women Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX An attractive work environment for our employees 7/17 85 Satisfactory working conditions The CLH Group is aware of the importance of In 2012, the company was successful in The starting salary in the CLH Group (the having the best professionals in a sector such getting all the trade union sections present in starting salary that must be offered to a fullas energy, which is so competitive. It therefore the CLH Group to sign these gender equality time employee and in the lowest professional carries out different initiatives for offering its plans. It also put into operation a large number group and level) is €18,838.48 per annum, employees a quality job and encouraging the of measures that were provided for in them, the which represents double the minimum development of their professional career. most important of them being: the setting up of inter-professional salary approved by the technical committees; training through equality Government, which was 8,979.60 euros per In this context, one of the company’s basic workshops for people who hold posts in Human annum in 2012. efforts addresses guaranteeing equal Resources Management and are involved in opportunities among its workforce. To achieve training, selection, development and labour this, in 2011 the company signed the Gender relations processes; specific communication Equality Plans for its two companies, as well as actions for the entire workforce; review of the the “Action protocol for preventing and dealing language used in job offers. with harassment at work” for the whole Group. The progress made by the company in this area Through its policies for selection, training and was given a very high rating by the employees career development, attracting and retaining in the latest edition of the work atmosphere talent, reconciliation of professional and family survey, in which they gave gender equality the life and occupational safety, CLH continues highest marks (3.25 out of 4). strengthening its commitment to offer a professional career and work environment that The commitment to equality also extends to guarantees equality between men and women. the aspect of remuneration. CLH provides the same basic salary for all employees within each professional group and development level. The differences existing in the final salary ratio between men and women are therefore not due to a factor that depends on gender, but on the different average length of service existing in both groups. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX An attractive work environment for our employees 8/17 86 As an “efr”(10) company, CLH also offers its employees a series of social benefits that include the following: Men-women ratio of average salaries in the 2010 2011 2012 Social benefits enjoyed by CLH employees CLH Group (by employee category)* Managers n.c.** n.c.** n.c.** Kindergarten vouchers. Technical staff 95.0% 93.6% 93.3% Financial help towards paying schooling Administrative staff 91.5% 89.8% 88.2% costs for children aged up to 24 years. Specialists and skilled operators 91.4% 98.2% 89.3% Financial help for employees with study * The salaries and fixed allowances of employees on the payroll at year-end were taken into account for making the expenses. calculation. Life and accident insurance. ** not comparable because there are no women on the Management Committee Medical insurance with advantageous conditions. Car park spaces for all employees. Other indicators on pay in CLH* 2012 Complement to public benefits when Ratio between the earnings received by the best paid person and the median earnings received employees are off work because of illness by everyone else 6 or an accident. Ratio between the earnings received by the best paid person and the earnings received by the Maternity and paternity leave on full pay. lowest paid person 11 Ratio between salary increase for the best paid person and the median salary increase for all Continuous working day for three months employees 0.03 in the summer for staff whose working hours include a mid-day break. * The salaries and fixed allowances of employees on the payroll at year-end were taken into account for making the Financial help to encourage employees to calculation. The director receiving the highest salary, excluding members of the Board, has been considered the best play sport. paid person. Pension scheme. Subsidised holidays programme. Meal vouchers. Financial help for handicapped family (10) “efr”: “Family Responsible Company”. This is a certificate awarded by the “Másfamilia” Foundation. See the section on “Commitment to a members. flexible work environment” in this same chapter. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX An attractive work environment for our employees 9/17 87 Stable employment and professional opportunities in the local community Besides equality, having a stable job is another One of the top priority aspects of the key aspect that is valued by those who work in company’s selection processes is the the company. recruitment of people who were either born and bred or who live in the same geographical area During 2012, CLH increased the number of as they are going to work. During 2012, 87% employees holding permanent contracts, which of all recruitment contracts were signed locally. now stands at 92% of the workforce. This CLH achieves the following with this measure: percentage rises to 94% if replacement and trainee contracts that stand a high chance of • It helps in reconciling work and family life. becoming permanent are taken into account. • Time spent travelling between work and home Out of 123 temporary contracts, 25 correspond is reduced. to replacement contracts and 16 to trainee contracts. • Greater employee loyalty and stability. 2010 2011 2012 Staff recruitment CLH Group Total Local % Total Local % Total Local % CLH 101 99 98% 82 75 91% 41 35 85% CLH Aviación 13 13 100% 38 38 100% 6 6 100% Total CLH Group 114 112 98% 120 113 94% 47 41 87% Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX An attractive work environment for our employees 10/17 88 Collective bargaining and participation There are currently two collective bargaining most valuable contributions made by people themselves, represent an important benefit for agreements in the CLH Group which regulate in the CLH Group to improving the company’s the company from the viewpoint of retaining the labour relations that affect everyone in operation. It takes the form of the “Aporta” talent. the workforce, with the exception of those prizes, whose third edition was held by the The success achieved in this area is made who, because of the characteristics or CLH Group in 2012. clear, among other indicators, in the low rates responsibilities of their job, have their working These policies help the company to offer of undesired staff turnover recorded during conditions included in an individual contract quality employment, and are something that the last few years and in the average length of and are therefore excluded from the abovebesides ending up by motivating the employees service among CLH Group employees. mentioned agreements. In accordance with the law and the company’s collective bargaining agreements, the trade union sections and representatives of the Average length of service of the workforce 2010 2011 2012 staff in the CLH Group are guaranteed the Average length of service 20 18 18 exercise of their negotiating, participation and Voluntary staff turnover (undesired resignations) 0.4% 0.7% 0.4% representation functions. A total of 85% of the company’s workforce have their working conditions regulated by CLH Group permanent 2010 2011 2012 staff resignations, broken these collective bargaining agreements. It is Men Women Men Women Men Women down by gender to be noted that new CLH Aviación and CLH Total turnover 59 10 59 9 86 7 collective bargaining agreements were signed Turnover rate 4.8% 5.3% 4.8% 4.7% 7.5% 3.8% in 2011 and will remain in force until 2014 and 2015, respectively. CLH also encourages its employees to CLH Group 2010 2011 2012 permanent staff participate in management of the company. In <30 30-50 >50 <30 30-50 >50 <30 30-50 >50 resignations, broken addition to the usual channels for meetings down by age group years years years years years years years years years and communication between the employees Total turnover 2 4 63 2 4 62 1 6 86 and their managers, CLH has created a Turnover rate 1% 1% 8.7% 0.9% 0.9% 8.6% 0.4% 1.2% 14.5% specific initiative designed to recognise the Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX An attractive work environment for our employees 11/17 89 Commitment to a flexible work environment The reconciliation of working, personal and Maternity protection is also present in the force includes. CLH also offers its employees family life is promoted in the Group through company’s culture. Therefore, if the job entails the possibility of accessing kindergarten various measures that facilitate more flexible working under circumstances that might vouchers, flexibility in their working hours and working environments, diversity and nonhave a negative effect on the health of the in the holiday period, besides the possibility discrimination, all of which are included in its pregnant woman or her unborn child, the of taking leave of absence to care for family human resources policy and in the company’s working conditions are changed or the person members. collective bargaining agreements. concerned can move to another job, without this In recognition of its human resources policy affecting the salary conditions the employee Similarly, and in order to help achieve greater and the company’s commitment to creating is acknowledged to hold. Another conciliatory employee satisfaction, CLH has started up a a flexible work environment, in 2008 CLH measure is the possibility of requesting voluntary transfer plan to enable people posted obtained the Family Responsible Company extended leave of absence of up to three years far away from their places of origin to be able (EFR) certification that is awarded by the because of a birth or child adoption. to move closer and be reunited with their “Másfamilia” Foundation, and which confirms families. The protection of workers who are particularly the company as a firm that is committed to sensitive to work-related risks, because of promoting reconciliation between personal, their own personal characteristics or physical family and working life. condition, including those who are officially The CLH Group has maintained its “efr” recognised as having a physical, mental certificate in 2012 after satisfactorily or sensory disability, is also specifically undergoing an external audit in which it was guaranteed. given the “B-Proactive Company” rating. The In addition, all employees are able to enjoy a company also continues to take an active number of advantages that have been set up by part in the EFR Forums organised by this the company in the area of balancing family and foundation. working life, such as paternity and maternity leave, and also for taking leave if family members are seriously ill or for moving house, or time off for sitting examinations, all of which are an improvement on what the legislation in Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX An attractive work environment for our employees 12/17 90 CLH continues to work on new projects In order to publicise these measures and Thanks to these initiatives, the company has that facilitate support to families and help make them accessible and known to its once more achieved a high position in the employees to find the right balance between employees, the company has enabled a specific business attractiveness indexes in Spain. In their working, personal and family life. The reconciliation space, called the “EFR Space”, 2012, CLH was rated in second place among following steps were taken in 2012 through on the corporate portal, and through this they the best companies to work for in the country, Human Resources Management: can obtain information and benefit from the in the oil company sector, in the 2012 Merco available EFR measures. People report. The company achieved 42nd • The existing offer of health insurance under place in the general ranking. advantageous conditions for its employees CLH also has a “Meetings model” that was extended. serves for moving ahead with the culture of In addition, CLH has appeared for the sixth reconciliation and the efficient management year running in the “Best companies to work • A major dissemination action was undertaken of time. This model seeks to improve the for” ranking that is drawn up by ‘Actualidad for distributing two triptychs: one on the productivity and efficiency of work meetings Económica’ magazine. Out of the 200 company’s reconciliation model, and the since it values, respects and optimises organisations included in this classification, the other on the efficient use of electronic mail. everyone’s time, which brings the company and company holds 130th place, which is the same • The “Days off school” initiative was extended its employees tangible and intangible benefits. as last year but with better general score. with a “Christmas morning” being held at A triptych containing guidelines for an efficient Head Office for employees’ children. use of electronic mail has also been published and distributed among all employees. Lastly, as a guideline to be followed by managers, it is established that they endeavour to support their co-workers in achieving the right kind of balance between personal, family and working life. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX An attractive work environment for our employees 13/17 91 Employee opinion survey Evolution of assessment made by employees in the opinion surveys conducted In 2012, the CLH Group carried out the third 2.56 Salary and social benefits 2.70 2007 work atmosphere survey in order to find 2.86 2010 out from the professionals who work in the 2.45 company how they view different aspects Reward and recognition 2.57 2012 related to the organisation in general and to 2.68 their work in particular, besides assessing their 2.76 level of satisfaction with the company. The Work organisation 2.93 2.98 participation percentage rate was 69.68% of those who were interviewed. 2.83 Immediate boss 2.98 The study polled opinion regarding a total of ten 3.11 dimensions. Most of the questions asked were Gender equality 3.17 given a higher score than in the last edition, 3.25 highlighting the average general satisfaction 2.62 felt by the workforce, which increased from Training and development plan 2.63 3.18 to 3.44 on a scale of 1 to 4 points. In 2.70 fact, 90.7% of those who were interviewed 2.40 stated they were satisfied or very satisfied with Company management 2.93 2.89 CLH as a place to work, which clearly shows the pride that CLH Group employees feel in 2.57 Reconciliation of working and personal life 2.90 belonging to the company. 2.96 2.85 Communication 2.86 3.03 2.82 Quality and improvement 3.07 3.14 2.69 General satisfaction 3.18 3.44 0 1 2 3 4 Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX An attractive work environment for our employees 14/17 92 Training and career development Through its human resources policy, the The trend of the last five years to increase Other training activities that focus on improving CLH Group has drawn up a programme for investment in training per employee was competence skills have also been consolidated, professional career development whose aim consolidated in 2012. The total investment such as planning and organisation, through is to promote the career development of its in training exceeded one million euros, which the course known as “The 7 Habits of Highly employees. The aim of this programme is is an appreciable amount compared with the Effective People”, or negotiation and decisionthreefold: company’s turnover and workforce volume and making, whose aim is to equip them with new one that holds steady over time. techniques that act as a guide for them to • To equip the company with the best trained improve their processes through both these human resources for tackling the complex, Among the training activities aimed at training activities. innovative and ever-changing technological, developing competence skills that the company economic and business reality. offers its employees, one of the most important Competence building has continued to be is the training programme for managers known broadened during 2012, with special emphasis • To develop professional skills for doing an as “Lead in order to Motivate”, whose first placed on key competencies for the company, efficient job. phase was addressed to all technical staff with such as: customer focus, under the slogan • To motivate its employees in personal and leadership responsibilities, and has gradually “Our aim, your satisfaction”; competence in job terms through a real possibility of career been extended to middle management and cooperation, under the slogan “We grow as development and economic promotion, to new recruits in positions of responsibility a team”; and competence that focuses on through the appreciation of their experience since 2009. Its aim is multiple: to strengthen increasing openness and adaptation to change, and ability to fulfil the objectives marked out their ability to manage people, equipping them under the slogan “One change, one opportunity.” by the company. with communication tools, involving them in the message transmission chain and making an in-depth study of the mechanisms of motivation. All of this aims at improving the level of employee satisfaction and optimising team management. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX An attractive work environment for our employees 15/17 93 Other actions to be taken into account in this area were: • Executive development programme for employees with high potential: The company finances 100% of the cost of these programmes at first rate business schools. • Welcome plan for new recruits: in addition to being heavily weighted on the theoretical side, the design of the initial training plan has CLH Group investment in training 2010 2011 2012 practical, personalised scope and introduces Investment per employee (euros) 593 611 672 the concept of the personal tutor and other Total investment (euros) 1,010,945 1,025,663 1,050,213 measures. • Study assistance: the company supports its employees’ initiative and offers financial Average training hours in the 2010* 2011 2012 CLH Group, broken down by assistance to enable them to undertake the Men Women Men Women Men Women gender studies they consider to be of interest and CLH — — 39 51 34 51 applicable for the company. CLH Aviación — — 28 40 31 47 Total CLH Group — — 36 50 33 50 Average training hours in the 2010* 2011 2012 CLH Group, broken down by groups Men Women Men Women Men Women Managers — — 113 0 128 0 Technical staff — — 31 34 45 72 Administrative staff — — 18 32 22 16 Specialists and skilled operators — — 38 242 27 37 (*) This information, broken down by gender, is not available for 2010. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX An attractive work environment for our employees 16/17 94 The career development model In line with the best practices in the sector, the CLH Group makes regular assessments of The CLH Group actively promotes the the performance and career development of development of its employees both within their its employees. In 2012, a formal performance professional group and in promotion to higher assessment was carried out on 32% of the groups through periodically setting promotion CLH Group employees. and development activities which they must complete successfully. This enables the In 2012, the company consolidated the Employees who receive a performance assessment. “Supera-T” (Excel Yourself) platform, starting Breakdown by gender employees to demonstrate the degree of ability achieved, an assessment being made of their with the development of its Talent Management 700 experience and recognition given to the quality module that will be fully implemented in 2013. 600 65 500 71 of their performance. This application is designed for managing 521 485 72 400 428 performance assessment and talent in the 300 The company also takes trade union CLH Group on the basis of its new competence 200 participation into account through a Joint model, which will enable the company to 100 0 Committee for Classification and Career optimise the development of its professionals. 2010 2011 2012 Development for providing information, making Women CLH Group Men CLH Group consultations and monitoring professional Besides this, the new platform makes it promotion and development processes. This possible to design an individualised career Committee comprises six members, three development plan for each employee to help appointed by the company and the other three that person improve the key skills for effective by the trade union sections. performance of their job. During 2012, a total of 79 people were promoted to positions with greater 2010 2011 2012 Performance assessment in the responsibility, while others moved up to a higher CLH Group Men Women Men Women Men Women level of development by complying with the Average Active Workforce (a) 1,498 206 1,470 208 1,363 200 procedures defined in the collective bargaining Number of employees who receive a agreements. formal assessment of performance and review during the period (b) 521 65 485 71 428 72 Percentage of employees who receive a formal assessment of performance and review during the period (b/a) 35% 32% 33% 34% 31% 36% Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX An attractive work environment for our employees 17/17 95 Internal communication opportunity of gaining first-hand news about On the other hand, three “Executive the company’s strategy and targets and of encounters” were held throughout 2012, at In 2012, the CLH Group continued putting forward proposals and suggestions, and which executives from the company had the fostering communication with its employees was attended by 91 people during this last year. opportunity of exchanging views with prominent through different tools, such as the internal Any employee may ask to be included in these representatives of Spanish business society. communication meeting, at which the Chairman meetings. of the Group announced the investment plan forecast by the company and other future goals to those that attended. The contents of this meeting are shared with the other employees A notable case through meetings held with their superiors and through the corporate portal. Cooperation with vocational training and university centres Apart from the applications that are aimed at The CLH Group helps in various initiatives related to younger workers’ access to the labour management of the company, the corporate market. portal contains sections specifically devoted In 2012, the company strengthened its relationship with vocational training and university to internal communication, such as current teaching centres, continuing with the 70 and 32 collaboration agreements, respectively. These news items, bulletins, advice on prevention agreements have made it possible for students to explore the practical side of their training in and a video channel. During 2012, this portal CLH Group facilities and gain valuable professional experience. attracted more than 183,000 visitors, the current news section attracting almost 52,600 The company also participates in the Erasmus Recruiting Project, which has enabled 40 university students from different study areas, who have taken part in some kind of visits and the video channel more than 10,700. international study programme, to obtain a scholarship for training in the company during their “Acerca”, the corporate in-house magazine, is final year. published on a quarterly basis and is a platform In 2012, 26% of all new recruits to the CLH Group had previously held scholarships or been for the regular reporting of new developments trainee students in CLH. in the sector and the company, which actively Another noteworthy initiative is the company’s participation in various career fairs, the aim fosters employee participation and includes being to make its activity known and to attract talented young professionals. Examples of practical advice for the employees in relation to this are: INDUFORUM 2012 (career fair organised by the Polytechnic University of Madrid’s their personal and working lives. School of Mining Engineering) and the 7th Career and Vocational Training Fair, organised by the In addition, the “Breakfasts with the Chairman” Autonomous Community of Madrid (Board of Employment, Women’s Affairs and Immigration). programme gives those attending the Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Commitment and closeness to local communities Página 1 de 10 96 8. Commitment and closeness to local communities Our approach ¿What progress have we achieved in 2012 in the CSR 2012-2016 Master Plan programmes related to our commitment to the community? The CLH Group’s commitment to society becomes a reality Programmes Degree of compliance through solidarity initiatives in 1. Definition of a social action policy in the CLH Group The policy has been approved. which the company’s employees participate, and various projects 2. To design a protocol for social action activities. The protocol has been designed. for collaborating in the sphere of society and the environment in the 3. Definition of a methodology for assessing the impact of A measurement system as well as a specific form for areas where it is present. the company’s social commitment activities. data collection among the organisations with which projects are carried out have been defined. 4. To foster relations with the company’s stakeholders. Contacts with stakeholders have been increased. 5. To establish key indicators for measuring the impact of A reputation monitoring survey has been conducted activities directed at relations with stakeholders and social among the company's main stakeholders. action. 6. To design a CLH Group corporate voluntary work The programme has already been designed. There is programme. also a timetable for its implementation. 7. To determine strategic lines for corporate voluntary work The volunteer work programme is based on these that are aligned with the company’s commitment to strategic lines. society. 8. To integrate and align the present initiatives with the new The design of the volunteer work programme has corporate volunteer work model. provided for including the initiatives that are already being carried out. 9. Development of a pilot project for corporate volunteer It will be developed in 2013. work. 10. To carry out a programme for internal communication and The campaign and materials have been designed and Accomplished awareness-raising regarding corporate volunteer work. will be publicised in 2013. In progress Not yet started Continued on next page Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Commitment and closeness to local communities Página 2 de 10 97 8. Commitment and closeness to local communities (continuation) Continued from previous page Programmes Degree of compliance 11. To analyse the social action projects involving A methodology has been designed and a form has been stakeholders in order to identify the ones that are best created for collecting the necessary information. adapted to the company’s culture. 12. To select social action projects that are priority for the 19 projects were selected in 2012. stakeholders. 13. Creation of alliances with stakeholders in order to carry An agreement has been signed with Alfonso X el Sabio out these projects. University. 14. To develop a project action and monitoring plan. A monitoring indicator system is now ready. 15. To continue with the project known as “Together, we move Collaboration work has been carried out with 19 our most valued energy”. Collaboration with more than 10 associations. associations(11). 16. To conduct the second stakeholder satisfaction study(11). The study was carried out and the analysis of its results have been presented to the Management Committee. What do we want to achieve in 2013? Continue moving ahead with implementation of the Corporate Social Responsibility 2012-2016 Master Plan programmes that are still pending Develop the new corporate volunteer work plan known as “Voluntarily”, establishing its strategic lines, incorporating current initiatives into it and implementing an internal communication and awareness-raising programme among our employees. Analyse the social action projects for stakeholders in order to identify the ones that are best adapted to the company’s culture. Accomplished Select social action projects that are priority for the stakeholders. Launch and perform monitoring on mapping of the social action project impact indicators. In progress (11)Although this programme was not included in the Corporate Responsibility Master Plan 2012-2016, it was decided to include it Not yet started as it was a challenge that the CLH Group had set itself in the area of relations and commitment to the community. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Commitment and closeness to local communities 3/10 98 Dialogue with our Stakeholders Understanding stakeholder expectations is The survey results show an improvement in The survey also detected that the level of a basic element for defining and managing the rating given by these groups in some of demand in the different groups had risen since Corporate Social Responsibility. the primary spheres of management of the the previous edition, which was conducted Group. Performance on safety, caring for the in 2011. This means that the company must The CLH Group engages in various dialogue environment and the professionalism of the continue reinforcing its efforts to provide an processes with these groups to be able company were the aspects given the best answer to existing expectations. to identify which aspects interest them, as rating. The survey also highlighted collaboration well as their assessment of the company’s with society, the aspect that most interested performance. These processes vary in nature communities in the immediate vicinity of CLH, and are conducted through the meetings held and economic efficiency, which was highly rated and contacts made with them regularly in the by the public administrations consulted, as context of their activities. They are consulted areas to be strengthened. directly in relation to certain specific aspects, and the company participates in congresses and associations in the sector, in addition to preparing specific studies or receiving these groups and their representatives at the Importance that stakeholders attach to the company's reputation values and their assessment of them company’s facilities. 8.00 Assessment In 2012, the company conducted a satisfaction Trust 8.96 survey on its stakeholders, enabling it to Importance 8.17 obtain an updated analysis of the assessment Efficiency 9.33 made by these kinds of public regarding the 8.22 company’s performance. Quality 9.25 8.39 Professionalism 9.51 8.41 Care of the environment 9.60 8.49 Safety 9.63 0 2 4 6 8 10 Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Commitment and closeness to local communities 4/10 99 Relations with the community Participation in congresses and meetings The CLH Group combines the performance For example, before any building or The CLH Group was a regular participant in of its storage and transportation activities with improvement project is executed the company various forums and congresses during 2012. having smooth and comfortable communication opens a consultation period with the local The chairman of the company, José Luis López with the municipalities in which it operates, with communities that might be affected, in order de Silanes, spoke at a number of national and a view to learning more about their needs and to learn more about their opinion and any international meetings, among which we can expectations and fostering a better knowledge suggestions they may have for improvement. mention the Conference on Infrastructures of the company. In this connection, the company pays particular that ICON Infrastructure organised in London For handling these communication processes, attention to the possible impact that its and the Multilingualism in Europe Conference, CLH has developed a specific manual that operations may have on the environment, as organised by the European Commission and offers the company’s local managers advice this is a very sensitive subject for the local held in Cyprus, in addition to the 20th Annual and practical guidelines. Not only does this community. CLH therefore establishes the Forum of the Spanish Club for Excellence in make it possible to improve the effectiveness corrective and mitigating measures that are Management and the 25 Years of Erasmus of relations with communities, but it also helps necessary for each project. seminar that was organised by the University of towards other key aims such as improving La Rioja. Also under this heading, the CLH Group has management of the company’s risks and addressed the relocation of some of its storage Besides this, CLH representatives participated reputation; learning about the contributions facilities that were situated close to urban in other forums in the sector, such as the made by stakeholders; creating trust areas, so that the land they occupied could 9th International Pipeline Conference, held among these groups and fostering a better be put to other urban uses. Among the latest in Calgary; the 1st Kenya-Spain Universities understanding of the business context, market actions carried out in this respect, the company Meeting; the Corporate Social Responsibility development and the identification of new has dismantled the plants it used to operate seminar, organised by KPMG; the conference strategic opportunities. During 2012, more than in the Hospital del Rey district of Burgos, and entitled “Towards a New Energy Model: The 500 meetings were held with different local in Cala Figuera (Mahón). It has also carried Energy Generation Mix”, organised by Unidad stakeholders. out landscaping of the plot formerly occupied Editorial; the Conference on Safety organised At operational level, the CLH Group by the old facility in Muskiz (Biscay), making it by the Castile and León Civil Protection encourages local players to participate in possible to recover an area of marshland at the Agency; the “Junior Entrepreneurship” Forum the initial processes for developing new mouth of the Barbadún River, next to the beach organised by the Regional Government infrastructures. known as “La Arena”. of Extremadura; and the 1st Campus for Entrepreneurs, held in San Fernando de Henares. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Commitment and closeness to local communities 5/10 100 Participation in associations Contacts with the media and visits to facilities The CLH Group is a member of various bodies and associations in the sector, such as the Among the important personalities to visit CLH also received visits from representatives Spanish Energy Club (Enerclub), the Spanish the CLH Group in 2012 were the Secretary of various companies, such as the general Association for Energy Economics (AEEE) and of State for Research, Development and manager of Air Europa and the chairman of the the Autonomous Community of Madrid’s Energy Innovation and the Director General of construction company San José. A delegation Foundation. Innovation and Competitiveness; the Chief from Repsol also visited the Algeciras storage of Defence Staff; the Regional Minister of facility and representatives from Iberdoex were In the business field, the company is also active Economy and Finance of the Autonomous shown around the plant in Mérida. in a number of different organisations, including Community of Madrid; the Director General the Economy Circle (Círculo de Economía), The company hosted three meetings with for the Interior, Emergencies and Justice of the Association for Progress in Management executives that were attended by the chairman the Balearic Island Regional Government; the (APD), the IE Business School and the Spanish of Microsoft Ibérica, María Garaña; the Mayor of Burgos; and the Vice-Chancellor Businessmen’s Circle, among others. former minister, businessman and author, of the University of La Rioja, who was Manuel Pimentel; and the president of the CLH is also a founder member of the “Pro accompanied by the Dean of the Faculty of Businessmen’s Circle, Claudio Boada. CLH also Rebus Academiae” Foundation, which is Legal and Social Sciences. organised a conference at its head offices for attached to the Spanish Royal Academy of At an international level, the company was visited students from the Spanish Centre for Advanced Engineering, and is on the board of trustees by several shareholders: The chairman and chief National Defence Studies (CESEDEN). of the Catalonia Institute for Energy Research executive officer of Oman Oil had a close look at (IREC), a benchmark centre in research on On the other hand, the new storage plant in the Torrejón de Ardoz-San Fernando de Henares energy efficiency and renewable energies. Burgos received a visit from several of the city facility and the Pipeline Dispatching Centre. council’s fire brigades to familiarise them with Besides this, representatives from AMP Capital its equipment and systems. A group of senior Investors were shown around several of the Civil Guard officers visited the Pipeline Control company’s infrastructures in the Autonomous Centre, and the facility in Son Banya hosted Community of Madrid. a visit from the Palma City Council Firefighter A delegation of senior officials from the Bosnia Training Academy. and Herzegovina Ministry of Communications and Transport, accompanied by representatives from the Spanish Ministry of Public Works, visited the storage facility in Villaverde (Madrid). Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Commitment and closeness to local communities 6/10 101 During 2012, the CLH Group attended to Contribution to the wellbeing and more than one hundred journalists who had contacted the company to ask for information development of our communities about its activities and future projects, while In 2012, the CLH Group approved a new Social During 2012, 42% of the company’s social press conferences and other meetings with Action Policy for developing one of the main action budget was devoted to activities related the media were also organised, such as those areas of its Corporate Social Responsibility to environmental protection and research, 25% held at the time of the General Meeting of Policy: to contribute to the wellbeing and went to cultural sponsorships, 22% to welfare Shareholders, to present the economic results development of the communities in which it is and integration work and 11% to education. for the year, and also when the new facility in present, by collaborating in projects that help to Burgos was inaugurated. improve their quality of life. To achieve this goal, and in addition to Distribution of expenditure on social action Visits to the corporate website in 2012 in the CLH Group engaging in flexible, ongoing dialogue with the The company also has a corporate communities in which it operates, the company website, which is one of the Group’s main supports various initiatives of social interest in communication tools, and according to data its area of influence that are connected with 11% furnished by Google Analytics it attracted more education, social welfare and integration and than 160,000 visits during 2012. environmental protection. 22% 42% CLH also collaborates in other areas that are relevant for society, for example in promoting art and culture, developing new energy sources, 25% research for the prevention of disease and its work in association with academic institutions for promoting job opportunities for young 42% Environmental protection and research people. 25% Cultural sponsorships 22% Welfare and integration work 11% Education Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Commitment and closeness to local communities 7/10 102 The CLH Group monitors the activities in which Among the main activities undertaken in 2012, Besides this, the company helped in sponsoring it participates and has started up a system the company collected close to 8,000 euros the charity padel tennis tournament organised of specific indicators for this, so that at any for projects to alleviate child malnutrition in by Prodis Foundation, a non-profit institution given moment it is able to know how these a campaign involving the donation of meal that works to improve the quality of life of projects are progressing, the opinion of the vouchers, that was promoted jointly with Action people with intellectual disabilities. This NGO other collaborating parties involved, and the Against Hunger. The CLH Group helps this used the money raised to grant scholarships to true impact of their contribution to society. NGO on a regular basis in other initiatives, children and young people with a disability at These indicators also act as a guide for the such as the Inter-Company Tournament. The the Occupational Centre in Madrid, where they development of new projects and for company money raised in this competition through the are trained to develop their autonomy and are communications regarding its performance in registration fees paid by the participating given job training. this area. companies is spent on projects for restoring Another example of CLH Group collaboration standards of nutrition in more than 45 was with the Mano a Mano NGO, to which Together, we move our most valued energy countries. the company made a donation of disused In the area of initiatives related to sport as a work clothes and footwear that was delivered In the sponsorship and social action plan tool for fostering solidarity and training, the to firemen in western Santo Domingo, in the known as “Together, we move our most valued company and the Realmadrid Foundation joined Dominican Republic, to increase the safety of energy”, each year the CLH Group supports forces with San Fernando de Henares town their activities. The company has supported this different projects initiated by associations and council to create a school for social integration organisation on a number of occasions. It was non-government organisations in which its in this municipality. The centre benefits around founded at the initiative of a group of Iberia employees participate as voluntary workers. 100 girls and boys between 6 and 14 years employees with the aim of taking advantage of age, half of whom are immigrants or at of this airline’s commercial flights to get risk of social exclusion, who do not pay any humanitarian aid through to countries affected registration or monthly fees. by natural disasters or war, and make direct delivery of this aid. CLH also works in association with the female junior categories in the Haro Volleyball Club, in La Rioja, with the aim of using sports as a vehicle for conveying essential values such as discipline, self-esteem and personal growth. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Commitment and closeness to local communities 8/10 103 On a similar line, the company promoted The company also collaborated with one of the first food collection campaign organised its main shareholders, Oman Oil, through the Main contributions made by the CLH Group in the context of the “Together, by companies belonging to the Valle de Arab Diplomatic Ladies Association, a nonwe move our most caring energy” plan Escombreras Association, that made it possible profit organisation formed by the wives of Arab for 3 tons of food and essential items to be ambassadors in Madrid, which CLH supported collected and delivered to the Murcia Food when they organised a charity fair at which Action Against Hunger Bank. traditional products from 17 countries were on Arab Diplomatic Ladies Association sale. The profit it made was given to the Josep “Barrio de Cortes” Residents’ Association Besides this, CLH launched a campaign for Carreras Foundation, a leukaemia research NEN Association donating computer equipment that is no longer centre, and the NEN Association for children ASPACE Seville used in the company to non-profit organisations suffering from neuroblastoma, a type of cancer for them to benefit from. The computers “Abriendo Puertas” Association that forms in the nervous system and affects that have been donated have made daily Port Authority of Algeciras Bay children. management easier in NGOs, enabling them Lleida firemen to set up computer classrooms or contribute to In addition to this help, CLH also cooperated “Colegio Teresiano Sanjuanista” school in the education of people with special needs. with the NEN Association in the purchase of Ávila medical equipment for the San Juan de Dios In 2012, CLH also supported the ASPACE Spanish Red Cross Foundation in Barcelona, which will used for the Seville Association, which works to improve the Alumbres Football School advancement of research into children’s cancer. quality of life of people with cerebral palsy, in ALAS Foundation, Moratalaz fitting out a comprehensive care centre in Dos The company also donated to this NGO a ANDE Foundation Hermanas (Seville). The resources provided number of corporate objects that were put NEN Foundation were applied specifically in the areas of in a raffle held during the charity bike rally PRODIS Foundation physiotherapy and multi-sensory stimulation. organised by the Association in Las Rozas (Madrid) under the slogan “Pedales de ilusión” Realmadrid Foundation (Pedals of Hope), which managed to raise more “Serra d’Espadà” Secondary Education than 18,000 euros. Institute “Jovenes y Desarrollo” organisation “Menorca Basquet” basketball team Solidarity International Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Commitment and closeness to local communities 9/10 104 “Voluntarily”, our new corporate volunteer Collaboration with cultural institutions Investing in Education work programme The CLH Group collaborates as a benefactor The CLH Group is one of the companies In 2012, the company designed its new member in various cultural institutions, such participating in the “Erasmus Recruiting” corporate volunteer work programme known as the Teatro Real Foundation, the Friends programme, a project that opens up possibilities as “Voluntarily”, which seeks to spread among of the Prado Museum Foundation, the Royal for university students who have studied the people of the company the spirit of Association of Friends of the Reina Sofia outside Spain, either through an Erasmus responsibility and solidarity that CLH feels for National Museum and Art Centre and the San scholarship or another similar kind of its community. Millán de la Cogolla Foundation. international programme, to enter the world of professional work. Thanks to this initiative, The programme will be launched throughout Another of the company’s most fruitful each year young graduates are able to undergo 2013 and will be driven and channelled collaborations is the one held with the Albéniz supervised practical training in different Group through the activities carried out by CLH Group Foundation for providing support in training centres, which gives them the opportunity employees on a voluntary basis, either through promising young musicians. The terms of the of improving their education and enjoying the company itself or in collaboration with agreement include a scholarship granted by experience in the job market. charitable organisations. The programme will CLH each year for studying at the Reina Sofía give priority to initiatives whose aim is to help School of Music to enable students to perfect In the academic sphere, in 2012 CLH also disabled and disadvantaged people, educate their technique. collaborated with Alfonso X el Sabio University. to encourage social harmony, and care for and This was done through a collaboration True to its commitment to culture, and following protect the environment. agreement signed with this institution for the tradition established in recent years, CLH promoting joint research, technological “Voluntarily” will be the driving force behind the has sponsored publication of a new book on development and innovation in the field of help given by certain people in the company the environment. This year’s volume, entitled science. The agreement also provides for who will work as “solidarity drivers”, their “Semillas. La vida en cápsulas de tiempo” granting scholarships to undergo supervised primary task being to promote the possibilities (Seeds Time Capsules of Life), shows training at the company’s facilities. of collaboration offered by the programme spectacular photographs taken through a and involve those who are already engaged microscope to unveil unusual and hidden In addition, the CLH Group holds agreements in voluntary work, in addition to achieving the aspects of nature. with the Regional Government of La Rioja’s greatest amount of participation for future Board of Education, Culture and Sport and with projects. various vocational training institutes, to enable their students to enjoy scholarships for training at the Group’s facilities. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Commitment and closeness to local communities 10/10 105 Besides this, the company is a regular During 2012, CLH was visited by students by the University of Valladolid; the master’s participant in employment and training fairs, from various university faculties and education degree in Energy Law and the Advanced at which it offers information and collects centres who were told about how the Group’s Course on the Energy Business, both of which curriculum vitaes, for helping vocational training infrastructures operate. These centres included: are delivered by the Spanish Energy Club (Club students and university graduates find their way the School of Mining Engineering, which Español de la Energía); and the secondary into the labour market. operates at the Polytechnic University of education institutes in Sáenz de Buruaga Madrid; the master’s degree course on Safety, (Mérida), Pasqual Calbó i Caldés (Mahón, The company also sponsors the CLH Chair Prevention and the Environment, which is run Minorca) and Pau Casesnoves (Inca, Majorca). in Hydrocarbon Metrology in association with the Polytechnic University of Madrid (UPM). Its classes are delivered at the School of Mining Engineering and include the possibility of A notable case undergoing supervised practical training, as well as receiving scholarships to work on final year projects. In addition to this and with the Collaboration to help alleviate child malnutrition aim of supporting technological research, the company finances final year projects related to The help received from people in the CLH Group made it possible to raise almost microrobotics that are developed by vocational €8,000 euros for projects to combat child malnutrition, in a campaign called “Join the training students. Challenge against Hunger” that the company launched to celebrate World Food Day. The aim of the project was to encourage employees to donate part of their meal vouchers to Action Against Hunger with a view to devoting their value to providing nutritional treatment in the 45+ countries in which this NGO works. The campaign was given a huge response by the workforce, and spurred on by the purpose of the initiative CLH also decided to join in the project, matching the value of the contributions made by the company’s employees. The money raised made it possible for the equivalent of more than 200 treatments to be given to children with malnutrition problems. The NGO itself thanked CLH for its involvement, remarking that it was the highest amount of money raised in a collaboration of this kind. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Efficiency in activities and environmental protection 1/18 106 9. Efficiency in activities and environmental protection Our approach What progress have we achieved in the CSR Master Plan 2012-2016 programmes related to the environment? The CLH Group is a company that is committed to caring for the Programmes Degree of compliance environment, aligning itself in this 1. To review and update the priority The existing indicators have been reviewed and the frequency of reporting way with the concerns of society environmental indicators. has been adapted. and its other stakeholders. It 2. To improve protocols for collecting A computer application has been created for recording the information therefore encourages solutions to information for the priority environmental necessary for obtaining the indicators. reduce the use of natural resources indicators. and minimise its emissions, 3. Review of the greenhouse gas emission The first report on carbon footprint in the CLH Group has been made and strives to use resources, inventory and identification of aspects to be using information from 2011. technologies and processes in a way improved. that is respectful and responsible 4. To assess the advisability of calculating the As already stated, this calculation has been made using information Group's carbon footprint and establish a from 2011 and there is a methodology for its use in forthcoming annual towards the natural and social reports. programme for offsetting emissions. environment, thereby bestowing 5. To extend the inventory of greenhouse gas Calculation of emissions has been extended to scope 3, including sources sustainable value on all its activities. emissions (most relevant emissions in such as: paper and water consumption, water discharges, waste produced, scope 3). work-related travel and journeys made by employees for getting to their place of work. 6. To foster energy efficiency in operations and A comprehensive study has been made to find out the real situation of offices. energy consumption in the CLH Group. This will make it possible to know where the effort must be made in order to optimise the use of natural resources. Environmental contacts and awareness-raising campaigns regarding savings in consumption have been carried out with the employees. Accomplished In progress Not yet started Continued on next page Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Efficiency in activities and environmental protection 2/18 107 9. Efficiency in activities and environmental protection (continuation) Continued from previous page Programmes Degree of compliance 7. To improve efficiency in water consumption. The audit programme has been carried out with the identification of 10 facilities that have the highest water consumption. The data will be analysed and monitored during 2013. Specific actions have also been carried out at several facilities (e.g. the Bilbao Airport Facility that has this environmental objective reflected in the EMAS declaration. Environmental contacts and awareness-raising campaigns regarding savings in consumption have been carried out with the employees. 8. To foster efficiency in waste management. A study of the type of waste that each facility generates has been made in order to analyse which ones can possibly be minimised. The computer application for data related to waste has been adapted and placed in service. The waste management PM 991 procedure has been reviewed. The hydrocarbon-polluted water networks and sources of flows into the system have been analysed and identified at most of the facilities with a view to cancelling and avoiding the flow of concentrations into the network. Measures to avoid small drops reaching the wastewater drainage systems are also implemented continuously. 9. To analyse the risks of the company’s An integrity plan has been designed and work has started on developing processes/operations that have a relevant a computer tool to permit its use. Also, a collaboration agreement has impact on high consequence areas from the been signed with the Grefa NGO to verify the Plan for Identifying High point of view of biodiversity. Consequence Areas that is included in the company’s Pipeline Integrity Plan. 10. To design the biodiversity policy of the Information is being compiled in order to develop the policy in the next CLH Group. few years. 11. Adaptation of building operation processes Information is being compiled in order to make the adaptation in the next to the new policy. few years. Accomplished In progress Not yet started Continued on next page Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Efficiency in activities and environmental protection 3/18 108 9. Efficiency in activities and environmental protection (continuation) Continued from previous page Programmes Degree of compliance 12. To enlarge the Plan for Identifying High An inventory has been made of infrastructures that are either adjacent to Consequence Areas: to obtain information or inside protected natural spaces. relating to the indicators in GRI EN11 and EN15. 13. To establish rules for activity in High Information is being compiled for development in the next few years. Consequence Areas in accordance with the following requirements: • Based on the new biodiversity policy. • More far-reaching than environmental impact statements. • Involvement of local communities. 14. To be one step ahead in meeting the Environmental regulations continue to be reviewed and new requirements of new legal regulations environmental legislation is reported on to the CSR Committee through in order to turn new obligations into the Review Report made by the Environmental Management System advantages through excellence. Management. 15. To study opportunities for tax benefits The programme of deductions for environmental investments as and for securing funds for environmental established by law continues to be followed. investments. 16. To continue developing the EMAS EMAS certification was obtained in 2012 for the Huelva and Tarragona certification programme. facilities, and the Santurce facility has now been reviewed by the administration. Two new facilities will be applying in 2013: Barcelona and the airport facility in Bilbao. 17. To make a study to find out what the The requirements related to biofuels have been met. sustainability requirements are in the target Accomplished markets for CLH. In progress Not yet started Continued on next page Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Efficiency in activities and environmental protection 4/18 109 9. Efficiency in activities and environmental protection (continuation) Continued from previous page Programmes Degree of compliance 18. Integration of social and environmental All new projects have been coordinated with the Sub-department for criteria as part of the processes for Risk Prevention, Environment and Safety to find out its opinion on developing new projects and markets. environmental issues. 19. To identify relevant key indicators associated A series of improvements in sustainability have been established for each with each project in terms of sustainability, new project. so that their evolution over time can be measured, and implement improvement measures if necessary. 20. Completion and assessment of the The project has ended with satisfactory results being obtained. These R&D&i project on “New techniques for results have been put forward at various open conferences held in environmental recovery of soils”(12). Barcelona on the topic of bioremediation. 21. To begin work on soil characterisation and Detailed characterisations have been carried out at both sites. Also, the recovery at the decommissioned facilities in soil recovery plan for the storage facility in Mahón has been submitted Mahón and Burgos(12). to the administration holding authority for this and has been approved. Bids have been called for the recovery work and the pertinent contract awarded; the permit for commencing work has been applied for. (12)Although these two programmes to not correspond to the Corporate Responsibility Master Plan, they have been included as they are both challenges that the Group set itself last year regarding environmental matters. Accomplished In progress Not yet started Continued on next page Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Efficiency in activities and environmental protection 5/18 110 9. Efficiency in activities and environmental protection (continuation) Continued from previous page What do we want to achieve in 2013? Move ahead with execution of the applicable programmes in the Corporate Social Responsibility Master plan that are still being developed. Calculate the 2012 carbon footprint for the Group and identify measures for minimising, reducing and offsetting greenhouse gas emissions. Complete environmental recovery work on the land formerly occupied by the storage facility in Mahón and begin the process for recovery of the land formerly occupied by the storage facility in Burgos. Prepare and publish a report on the inventory of trees on CLH Group property. Begin operation of the new modules for obtaining environmental data that have been created in the Environmental Management application. Obtain EMAS certification for the storage facility in Barcelona and the airport facility in Bilbao. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Efficiency in activities and environmental protection 6/18 111 Commitment to the environment The activities of the CLH Group have little The CLH Group also carries out full Environmental expenditure and investments environmental impact, as the transportation environmental monitoring, through the of oil products is largely carried out through contractors’ internal monitoring procedures, During 2012, the CLH Group invested €10.4 pipelines, which is the safest and most while building works are being executed. This million in different projects of an environmental environmentally friendly method of transport. makes it possible to identify and implement nature. The main initiatives carried out include: corrective measures for minimising their impact. • Improvements to integrity in the pipelines. The CLH Group has an environmental policy In the case of pipeline building, the company that is part of its sustainable development • New casing and renewal of pipes in various restores the land to its original state when work strategy and has an extensive sphere of sections of the pipeline. has been completed and local species are application. This policy is applied from the planted in the area. • Environmental protection of the storage and outset of any project through the Environmental Impact Studies that influence the entire Lastly, controls are carried out subsequently in airport facilities. development and decision-making process. The order to verify and guarantee that the measures • Adjustment of water networks and treatment company studies different alternatives before adopted are working properly. systems. starting on any new project and selects the one The company combines these activities with • Environmental quality control of effluent from that is best adapted to the environment, in order measures designed to improve the efficiency of the facilities. to avoid any present or future environmental its infrastructures after they have been placed impact. • Soil contamination prevention at the storage in service, as explained in the following section of this report (See section 9.2 Environmental facilities. Management Policy). • Improvements to dike integrity. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Efficiency in activities and environmental protection 7/18 112 The CLH Group current expenditure on Environmental Management groundwater and soil remediation activities amounted to €2.36 million, and was mainly Policy spent on completing soil recovery work on The CLH Group has an Environmental This commitment is reflected in the 11 the land formerly occupied by the facility in Management System whose aim is to principles that are included in the company’s Santurce. guarantee the sustainable performance of all its environmental policy and also forms part of The company also devoted €699,810 to other activities. its Environmental Management System. This expenses associated with environmental issues system establishes the rules and procedures The company applies environmental criteria and the prevention of soil contamination and that implement the CLH environmental throughout the entire life cycle of its activities. groundwater pollution. management policy, in accordance with the It therefore takes into account strict measures legislation in force and the company’s corporate that try to minimise any impact on the objectives. environment. In 2012, the CLH Group successfully passed the follow-up audit for UNE-EN ISO 14001(13) certification, thereby reaffirming its commitment to the best environmental practices. The Evolution of environmental investments in the Evolution of environmental expenditure in the company’s Environmental Management System CLH Group (millions of euros) CLH Group (millions of euros)* has been certified in accordance with this standard since 2008, and with this it aims to 15.0 13.9 5.0 reinforce the efficiency and sustainability of its activities. 10.6 10.4 10.0 2.4 2.5 2.36 1.9 5.0 0.0 0.0 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 (13) UNE-EN ISO 14001: Environmental management systems. * Includes expenditure for groundwater and soil remediation Requirements with guidance for their use with corporate areas Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Efficiency in activities and environmental protection 8/18 113 This year, CLH has also certified the storage • The conclusions reached in the independent facilities in Huelva and Tarragona in accordance eco-audit conducted by the Mediterranean with the demanding EMAS regulations Institute for Sustainable Development (Community Eco-management and Audit (IMEDES), which is attached to the University Scheme), and is awaiting receipt of this of Valencia, highlights the environmental certification for the plant in Santurce. Its goal commitment of the CLH Group. is to obtain this recognition for the centres in Barcelona and Bilbao airport in 2013. Environmental Management The CLH Group was awarded the following in CLH accreditations in recognition of the environmental management carried out in In accordance with its commitment to 2012: Activities included in the Environmental transparency with its stakeholders, the Management System • Renewal of the “Madrid Excelente” CLH Group holds an historical record of certification, in which the CLH Group’s environmental parameters that it publishes on the relevant platforms. One of them is this Organisation for storage and transportation environmental management in its facilities Corporate Social Responsibility Report, in which through the pipeline network. located in Madrid was highlighted. the most important indicators are published. Tanker discharge operations in ports. • A special mention was obtained in the Dispatch of fuels. “4th Environmental Conduct in Companies These indicators were reviewed in 2012 and those that are not relevant in the company’s Fuel supply to ships in ports. Contest” held by Madrid-Barajas airport. The operations have been eliminated. In addition, a Storage, transportation and supply of company is the only organisation to have computer tool that facilitates and guarantees aviation fuels and packaged lubricants to received diplomas and special mentions in aircraft. the four editions of this contest, after winning receipt of the main environmental data in the first prize in 2009. Group has been placed in service. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Efficiency in activities and environmental protection 9/18 114 Control of emissions to the atmosphere A notable case The CLH Group generates a very limited amount of emissions to the atmosphere, as the company does not carry out any manufacturing process and does not generate energy. In specific terms, the main origin of emissions of SOx, NOx and particles in suspension lies in EMAS certification is obtained stationary internal combustion engines and in at the facilities in Huelva and Tarragona the vehicle fleet. Account is also taken of the emissions resulting from fuel consumption of the tankers chartered by CLH and the steam The CLH Group has obtained environmental certification from EMAS (Community boilers for heating the fuel oil stored at the Eco-Management and Audit Scheme) for the storage facilities in Huelva and facilities in Barcelona, Cartagena, Huelva, Tarragona, in recognition of the effort made to increase the sustainability of their Algeciras, Tarragona, Porto-Pí, La Coruña and activities, in accordance with a demanding Environmental Management System and Gijón. its commitment to continuous improvement. An increase in emissions of SOx, NOx, COVs Through its adherence to the EMAS regulations, the company also undertakes and particles was recorded in 2012, mainly due to provide information on the environmental conduct of these plants on a regular to increased fuel consumption in the tankers as basis, through a public environmental declaration that has been written clearly and a result of the increase in product movement concisely, with information verified by independent bodies. using this means of transportation. EMAS is a European set of voluntary regulations that enable the companies that sign up for them to manage their environmental policy effectively, reinforce their commitment to sustainability, define their objectives and verify their degree of compliance. Subscribing to EMAS is one of the aims included in the CLH Group Corporate Social Responsibility policy. The company plans to have a further six centres verified between now and 2016. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Efficiency in activities and environmental protection 10/18 115 Regarding the emissions of volatile organic NOx emissions SOx emissions compounds (VOCs) that are basically (tons) (tons) generated in gasoline loading processes, the company follows different courses of action 500 500 418 designed to minimise and control them, like 407 400 400 the use of the vapour recovery units in product 339 351 loading processes, that guarantees a reduction 301 300 300 263 in the emissions of these compounds that is below the 10mg/m3 limit established by the 200 200 regulations in force. 100 100 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Volatile organic compound-VOC emissions Particle emissions (tons) (tons) 800 30 720 700 25 23.6 21.9 23 600 495 20 500 400 377 15 300 10 200 5 100 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Efficiency in activities and environmental protection 11/18 116 Water consumption Waste management The CLH Group uses water in its operations for The CLH Group produces practically no Water consumed sanitary purposes, for generating steam and in hazardous waste as it does not carry out any (m3) testing fire defence systems, this latter activity manufacturing or materials transformation being the one that makes the heaviest use of processes. To be specific, the waste that is 250,000 this resource. generated is mainly the result of periodic cleaning 200,000 of the storage tanks and hydrocarbon-polluted 173,846 Water consumption during 2012 amounted to 165,590 water treatment systems. 173,846 m3, representing a 24.2% increase 150,000 139,940 on the previous year due to the hydraulic tests Each facility and work centre classifies and carried out during the construction of new segregates the waste it generates according to 100,000 facilities and, in particular, the works carried out its nature, storing it in areas specially prepared for 50,000 at the facility in Torrejón de Ardoz. the purpose until it is delivered to an authorised manager. The company also harnesses groundwater, 0 2010 2011 2012 but only at facilities that are not covered by In addition to documenting each type of waste municipal water supply networks. The use of that is delivered to an authorised manager, the this kind of collection is limited exclusively to facilities submit an Annual Hazardous Waste Waste generation (tons) water for sanitary purposes, meaning it is a Producer Statement to the Environment Board of very small amount that does not affect local the autonomous regional government in question. hydrodynamics in any significant way. This statement specifies the amount of hazardous 6,000 5,023 waste produced, its nature, the final destination 4,866 In 2012, CLH completed a study aimed at 5,000 and the name of the authorised manager. identifying the ten facilities that use the most 4,000 3,551 water, with a view to establishing new measures In 2012, the CLH Group managed 4,426 tons of for analysing and controlling their consumption hazardous waste and 440 tons of non-hazardous 3,000 in forthcoming years. waste(14), making a total of 4,866 tons of waste 2,000 which represents a reduction of 3% compared with 2011. 1,000 0 2010 2011 2012 (14) Only non-hazardous waste whose treatment is handled by the CLH facilities through an authorised manager is reported on. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Efficiency in activities and environmental protection 12/18 117 Management of water discharges and protection of soils and groundwater It is CLH Group policy to report all relevant Spills with environmental consequences* 2010 2011 2012 environmental incidents. When an event of this kind occurs, the necessary steps are taken Spills with environmental consequences 1 1 3 immediately to lessen the effects it could have on the environment and the immediate vicinity. * In keeping with the practices that are most common in the sector, the company calculates as spills those that exceed 0.2 tons of product and which affect the environment. In any case, none of the spills that occurred in 2012 caused any significant If a spill occurs, a study is made of the type incident. of terrain and its characteristics and the most suitable system is established for cleaning it up and restoring the area to its original state in the On the other hand, the closed circuit purge When these studies reveal that there are shortest possible time. systems that are installed considerably no risks or that they are acceptable for the minimise the pollutant load that is sent to the ecosystems in the area, the administration Because of the characteristics of the treatment systems. The company guarantees in grants CLH the appropriate discharge permits, company’s operations, any water discharges this way that wastewater is suitably treated in specifying a series of conditions and analyses that are generated are very limited. In this order to comply at all times with the parameters to be performed. CLH takes samples and connection, the main cause of discharge is indicated in the discharge permit held by each carries out the corresponding analyses in the rainwater collected in the various drainage facility. accordance with the discharge permit that has networks of the facilities, depending on zonal been obtained. sensitivity. Most of the water discharges from CLH facilities are made into the sewers of Regarding protection of soils, the company has These networks are suitably segregated the municipal drainage networks. The been carrying out an investigation plan since according to the type of water that circulates administration itself carries out joint studies 2003 in order to obtain detailed knowledge through them (rainwater, sanitary water with the company regarding feasibility and the about the environmental situation of the land and water that is likely to contain traces of consequences that water discharge from these occupied by each of its facilities. hydrocarbons). The facilities also have a control facilities might have. system for taking continuous measurements of dissolved hydrocarbons, which redirects the analysed water back again to the treatment system if it does not comply with the stipulated criteria. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Efficiency in activities and environmental protection 13/18 118 As a result of this plan, the CLH Group has Energy efficiency and climate carried out environmental recovery projects, whenever this proved necessary, on land where change its activities have been carried out or any A clear aim in the CLH Group’s environmental • Electricity consumption that might have been affected by spills. The management is the continuous improvement of following initiatives were implemented in 2012: Electricity consumption in 2012 amounted to energy efficiency in its activities. 1,012,507 gigajoules, which represents 4.6% • Mahón. Environmental recovery work on the An example of this is that the company adds more than in 2011. This increase was due to plot, in the third quarter of 2012. state-of-the-art additives for oil product increased pipeline activity compared with the • Burgos. Environmental recovery work on the transportation via pipeline, thereby reducing previous year. plot, in the third quarter of 2012. friction as far as possible. The effect of this is to increase the pipeline’s transportation Besides this, in 2013 the company will finish capacity and reduce the energy consumed in the dismantling process and recovery work Primary energy consumption (Gj) pumping the product as well as the emissions at new centres, such as the airport facility in related to this. 600,000 503,218 Seville, the storage facility in Salamanca and 484,079 480,869 the Madrid-Barajas airport facility. The information on energy consumption, both 400,000 direct and indirect, in 2012 is shown below. • Primary energy consumption 200,000 In 2012, CLH consumed 480,869 gigajoules of primary energy, which represents 0 2010 2011 2012 a reduction of 4.39% compared with 2011. This consumption is mainly due to Electricity consumption (Gj) transportation activities and to heating the 1,200,000 steam boilers used for operating with fuel 967,708 1,012,507 932,259 oils. 800,000 400,000 0 2010 2011 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Efficiency in activities and environmental protection 14/18 119 The company continues carrying out energy In addition, CLH continues with the process Climate change savings studies for optimising the use of natural for installing higher-performance motors resources and encouraging the use of more and pumps at the pipeline pumping stations The CLH Group assumes the responsibility of environmentally friendly technologies and and in the loading area pumping systems. making a continuous effort to reduce emissions processes. The company has also installed frequency of greenhouse gases (GHGs). As part of this converters in the tank truck loading area feed commitment, the company first calculated its In this connection, in 2012 CLH completed a carbon footprint in 2012. This study will be systems. These devices make it possible for the study for boosting rationalisation in the use of used as the basis for calculating the carbon power of the pumps to be adjusted to product energy, with a view to characterising the use of footprint in future years, with the aim of using flow requirements, rather than pumping at energy and implementing improvement actions improvement actions that make it possible fixed power, which means energy consumption that make efficiency possible. to increase the sustainability of its activity, savings in these pieces of equipment in Another very important project is the addition to which the corresponding emissions measure the effectiveness of the projects construction of a new feed system to meet the are reduced. implemented, and assess the progress made by requirements of Madrid-Barajas airport from the the company. Other measures for energy savings and storage facility in Torrejón de Ardoz (Madrid). The primary emissions of GHGs correspond to efficiency refer to the improvement of lighting This work will make it possible to eliminate the CO2, N2O (nitrous oxide) and CH4 (methane), efficiency in the storage plants. In this respect, storage tanks that stand in the airport precinct whose origin lies in the use of fossil fuels in the the replacement of the present light fittings and reduce the route currently taken by the fuel various internal combustion engines. with others that are more efficient is being until it reaches Barajas. analysed. During 2012, direct emissions of GHGs in the The CLH Group also continues with its effort CLH Group amounted to 33,957 tons, which to renew the vapour generation equipment by represents a reduction of 2.17% compared installing new boilers that are simpler, more with 2011. The variations in CO2 emissions are efficient, consume less and are less pollutant. mainly due to variations in the annual deliveries of product and the different categories of operation, depending on refinery delivery plans and imports. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Efficiency in activities and environmental protection 15/18 120 Direct emissions of greenhouse gases In addition, the CO2 emissions resulting from In the company’s Pipeline Integrity Plan, the (tCO2eq) transportation by road in the CLH Group chapter entitled “Plan for identifying high amounted to 1,230 tons in 2012, representing consequence areas” includes the definition 40,000 34,443 34,711 33,957 a reduction of 8.4% compared with the of environmentally sensitive areas(15) and 30,000 previous year. This reduction is due to less high consequence areas (those in which movement in the activity of the vehicles used in an incident in the pipeline would have the 20,000 CLH Aviación. greatest consequences for people and/or the environment). The CLH Group therefore 10,000 At the same time, it must be pointed out that uses specific geographical analysis software use of the pipeline network for transporting fuel 0 in order to determine the affected area that is 2010 2011 2012 avoids 356,000 tons of CO2 per year being associated with possible spills. released to the atmosphere, as that amount Emissions associated with product transportation* would be equivalent to the emissions caused if The types of high consequence area impact (tCO2eq) other means of transport were used. and the assessments to be performed are as follows: 1,500 1,343 1,230 Protection of biodiversity • Identification of direct impact areas: pipeline 1,000 951 sections that are physically located inside a The CLH Group carries out environmental high consequence area. impact studies in all its projects and 500 construction work, assessing different layout • Identification of indirect impact areas: routes and alternatives so that all building Pipeline sections that are located inside the 0 work has the least possible impact on the safety margin established by CLH(16) (200 2010 2011 2012 metres on either side of the pipeline) and * The emission factor used for the calculation is the one offered by environment and biodiversity. the regional government of Catalonia in its inventory of emissions. do not affect the high consequence area directly. (15) When defining environmentally sensitive areas and priority areas in the conservation of biodiversity, the Group takes into account the provisions of Law 42/2007 on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity (article 9; point 4.2) which include the Spanish inventory areas regarding protected natural spaces, those in Red Natura 2000 and the areas that are protected through international instruments. (16) It is established that the pipeline safety margin is 200 metres on either side of it, in accordance with the American “49 CFR DOT 192.5” regulations. These regulations introduce the term “Location class unit”, defined as “an area that extends 200m on either side of the pipeline and has a length of 1.6 km”. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Efficiency in activities and environmental protection 16/18 121 In addition to protected natural spaces, All this information is managed through latest During 2012 and with the help of geographical highly populated areas (more than 50,000 generation geographical information systems. systems, the CLH Group made a fresh inhabitants or a population density of over 390 These are highly reliable and efficient tools for calculation of the protected natural spaces inhabitants/Km2), other populated areas (such interpreting and visualising the way the pipeline in which the pipeline route is located. The as isolated buildings, schools, stadiums, etc.), layout interacts with the high consequence new cartography provided by the Ministry of infrastructures (motorways, dual carriageways, areas defined. Agriculture, Food and Environment, updated to railway lines, etc.) and water courses or water December 2011, was used. A total of 196.6 in dams (permanent rivers, reservoirs, lakes, kilometres of area affected by the pipeline etc.) are carefully considered to be high route were identified. consequence areas. Protected natural spaces (PNS) in which the pipeline route is located Pipeline Section Diameter Name of the PNS Protection category Km. (m) affected AGROTA Algeciras-Rota 12 Los Alcornocales Natural park 27.9 ALMERA Almodóvar-Mérida 8 Alcudia and Sierra Madrona Valley Natural park 24.4 ARALMO Adamuz-Almodovar 12 Alcudia and Sierra Madrona Valley Natural park 17.1 ARALMO Adamuz-Almodovar 12 Guadálmez River Waterway reserve 0.1 BILVA Muskiz-Miranda 14 Gorbeia Natural park 0.5 BILVA Miranda-Burgos 14 Obrarenes Sierra de Cantabria Designations for Natura 3.4 CARALI Cartagena-Alicante 10 Les Salines de Santa Pola Natural park 10.6 CARALI Cartagena-Alicante 10 Els Carrissars d'Elx Wetlands 0.8 CASVA Castellón-Valencia 10 Millars river mouth Protected landscape 1.4 CASVA Castellón-Valencia 10 Marjal de Rafalell y Vistabella Wetlands 0.8 COVIGO A Coruña-Vigo 10 Tambre River Area with special protection of natural values 0.1 COVIGO A Coruña-Vigo 10 Ulla Deza river system Area with special protection of natural values 0.1 HUCOSE Huelva-Coria 10 Guadiamar River green corridor Protected landscape 0.5 HUCOSE Huelva-Coria 10 Guadiamar River green corridor Protected landscape 1.0 HUCOSE Huelva-Coria 10 Doñana Natural park 4.2 HUCOSE Huelva-Coria 10 Estero de Domingo Rubio Natural beauty spot 0.1 Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Efficiency in activities and environmental protection 17/18 122 Pipeline Section Diameter Name of the PNS Protection category Km. (m) affected LOEBAR Loeches-Barajas 10 Around the hubs of the lower courses of the Manzanares Regional park 0.1 and Jarama rivers LOETOR Loeches-Torrejón 12 Around the hubs of the lower courses of the Manzanares Regional park 0.1 and Jarama rivers LOEVIL Loeches-Villaverde 10 Around the hubs of the lower courses of the Manzanares Regional park 3.9 and Jarama rivers MIPAZA Monzalbarba-San Adrián 12 Bardenas Reales Natural park 3.6 MIPAZA San Adrián-Miranda 12 Obrarenes Sierra de Cantabria Designations for Natura 2.1 PUALLO Almodóvar-Loeches 12 Around the hubs of the lower courses of the Manzanares Regional park 27.9 and Jarama rivers PUALLO Almodóvar-Loeches 12 Salobral de Ocaña Micro-reserve 1.3 ROTAZA Poblete-Loeches 10 Around the hubs of the lower courses of the Manzanares Regional park 27.9 and Jarama rivers ROTAZA Poblete-Loeches 10 Salobral de Ocaña Micro-reserve 1.3 ROTAZA Adamuz-Poblete 10 Valle de Alcudia y Sierra Madrona Natural park 17.0 ROTAZA Adamuz-Poblete 10 Río Guadalmez Waterway reserve 0.1 TABAGE Palleja-Santa Perpetua 12 Serra de Collserola PEIN (Plan for Spaces of Natural Interest) 1.4 TABAGE Santa Perpetua-Gerona 8 Estany de Sils PEIN (Plan for Spaces of Natural Interest) 0.1 TABAGE Santa Perpetua-Gerona 8 Gallecs PEIN (Plan for Spaces of Natural Interest) 1.9 TABAGE Mafumet-Barcelona 10 Riu GaiáAlberreda de Santes Creus PEIN (Plan for Spaces of Natural Interest) 6.2 TALEZA Mafumet-Lerida 10 Mas de Melons Alfés PEIN (Plan for Spaces of Natural Interest) 3.0 TALEZA Mafumet-Lerida 10 Tossals de Torregrossa PEIN (Plan for Spaces of Natural Interest) 0.4 TALEZA Mafumet-Lerida 10 Vall la Vinaixa PEIN (Plan for Spaces of Natural Interest) 4.6 TORLO Torrejon-Loeches 10 Around the hubs of the lower courses of the Manzanares Regional park 0.1 and Jarama rivers ZARATO Ariza-Torrejón 14 Around the hubs of the lower courses of the Manzanares Regional park 0.2 and Jarama rivers Total 196.6 Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Efficiency in activities and environmental protection 18/18 123 Also, and using the same geographical analysis Facility Type of PNS Name Protection category tool, the location of the company’s storage and Torrejón de Ardoz Parks Around the hubs of the lower courses of the Regional park pipeline facilities has been verified with respect Manzanares and Jarama rivers to protected natural spaces, as shown in the Huelva Other Protected Natural Estero de Domingo Rubio Natural beauty spot following table: Spaces Other activities for protecting the environment A notable case The CLH Group carried out other actions of interest in relation to environmental protection in 2012, including the following: Assessment of risks regarding biodiversity in the South-West Regional Park (Madrid) and the area surrounding the hubs of the lower courses • Different native species of trees and shrubs of the Manzanares and Jarama rivers were planted around the perimeter of the storage facility in Burgos to help improve During November and December, a study was made of the impact of the pipeline in a high its integration into the surrounding area. consequence area (HCA) as a project for verifying HCAs according to the Pipeline Integrity Also in the same city, the company was one Management Plan. of the sponsors of the second “Sponsor a The stretches that were analysed corresponded to the Poblete-Loeches and Almodóvartree” planting event, which made it possible Loeches sections over a length of 10 kilometres in the South-West Regional Park in the for 350 trees to be planted thanks to Autonomous Community of Madrid. The cartography held by the Operational Unit for Integrity the voluntary involvement of residents was analysed and the following work was carried out: (“Asociación de Vecinos del Barrio de Cortes Siglo XXI”, a residents’ association) • A sampling of vertebrates was conducted. and primary level schoolchildren (“Colegio • Inventory of flora and fauna. • Identification and assessment of positive impacts of the pipeline network. Fuentes Blancas” school) in the area. • On-the-spot identification of relevant areas for biodiversity. • Activities for circulating information about • Proposals for improvements to habitats located in the areas worked on. biological wealth and protection of biodiversity. The assessment of risks regarding biodiversity that was made in this project covered 28.4% For several years now, CLH has been of the protected natural spaces that the pipeline route was calculated to run through. The publishing a series of books on topics related assessment concluded that it does not have any impact on the biodiversity of the area. to the environment, that help raise awareness regarding the importance and value of nature. INDEX 124 External verification report Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX External verification report 125 2 • Analysing the processes of compiling and internal control over quantitative data reflected in Independent Assurance Report to the the Report, regarding the reliability of the information, by using analytical procedures and Management of Compañía Logística de Hidrocarburos CLH, S.A. review testing based on sampling. (Free translation from the original in Spanish. • Reading the information presented in the Report to determine whether it is in line with our In case of discrepancy, the Spanish language version prevails.) overall knowledge of, and experience with, the sustainability performance of CLH. • Verifying that the financial information reflected in the Report was taken from the annual accounts of CLH, which were audited by independent third parties. We performed a limited assurance review on the non-financial information contained in Compañía Logística de Hidrocarburos CLH, S.A. (hereinafter CLH) Corporate Social Our multidisciplinary team included specialists in social, environmental and economic business Responsibility Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 (hereinafter “the Report”). performance. CLH management is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Report in Based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing has come to our attention that accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines version 3.1 (G3.1) and the Oil and Gas causes us to believe that the data included in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report of Sector Supplement of the Global Reporting Initiative as described in the section entitled Compañía Logística de Hidrocarburos CLH, S.A. for the year ended 31 December 2012 have “Process for preparing the report”. This section details the self-declared application level, which not been reliably obtained, that the information has not been fairly presented, or that significant has been confirmed by Global Reporting Initiative. Management is also responsible for the discrepancies or omissions exist, nor that the Report is not prepared, in all material respects, in information and assertions contained within the Report; for determining its objectives in respect accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1) and the Oil and Gas Sector of the selection and presentation of sustainable development performance; and for establishing Supplement of the Global Reporting Initiative as described in the Report section “Process for and maintaining appropriate performance management and internal control systems from which preparing the report”. the reported performance information is derived. Under separate cover, we will provide CLH management with an internal report outlining our Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance engagement and, based on the work complete findings and areas for improvement. performed, to issue a report. We conducted our engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, “Assurance Engagements other than Audits KPMG Asesores, S.L. or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB) of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) and with the Performance Guide on the revision of Corporate Responsibility Reports of the Instituto (Signed on original in Spanish) de Censores Jurados de Cuentas de España (ICJCE). These standards require that we plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the Report is free from material misstatement and that we comply with ethical requirements, including those of José Luis Blasco Vázquez independence that form part of the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants Code of Ethics. 27 March 2013 The extent of evidence gathering procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement is less than that for a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore also the level of assurance provided. This report should by no means be considered as an audit report. Our limited assurance engagement work has consisted of making inquiries to Management, primarily to the persons responsible for the preparation of information presented in the Report, and applying the following analytical and other evidence gathering procedures: • Interviews with relevant CLH staff concerning the application of sustainability strategy and policies. • Interviews with relevant CLH staff responsible for providing the information contained in the Report. • Visit to Albuixech Storage Facility, Santurce Storage Facility, Valencia Airport Facility and Bilbao Airport Facility selected based on a risk analysis considering quantitative and qualitative criteria. INDEX 126 Process for preparing the report Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Process for preparing the report 1/5 127 Process for preparing the report The sixth CLH Group Corporate Responsibility The CLH Group has also started to report on The CLH Group and GRI have given this Report was coordinated by the Communication the new requirements that will be established Corporate Social Responsibility Report an A+ and Institutional Relations Management, and in the next version of the GRI G4 Guidelines as rating. Besides this, the company decided to the main areas of the company took part in its regards information. To do this, the CLH Group obtain, through the consultancy firm KPMG, an preparation. has included in this report various specific external verification of this self-declaration on indicators and sections for providing an answer the application of the standard and to submit it This report was prepared in accordance with to the main aspects proposed in the latest draft for review by the GRI. the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 that is available for this new guide. Guidelines, giving details of the profile of the organization, the management approach in each chapter and the performance indicators The principles applicable to the preparation of this Report were: that are considered relevant, applying the Timeliness criterion of materiality to the special features GRI principles GRI principles of the CLH Group. In addition, the information for defining contents for defining quality Accuracy Balance of the information it contains provides a response to the requests for information indicated in the GRI Sector Process for preparing the Supplement for companies in the oil and gas Materiality Comparability CLH Group Corporate Social sector. Responsibility Report Sustainability Participation Completeness Clarity Context Materiality study C C+ B B+ A A+ Self-declaration Verification Corporate Social Responsibility Report GRI review 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Process for preparing the report 2/5 128 Principle of materiality “Information is considered material if its • The attention paid to the various aspects of omission or distortion in a Report can Corporate Social Responsibility by sector influence the decisions or actions of the associations that are considered significant. interest groups of the reporting organization. • The Corporate Social Responsibility issues in Materiality refers to the importance or the energy sector that are most valued by the relevance that the various aspects related to media and social organisations. sustainability have for the business” The CLH Group carried out a materiality study in order to identify relevant issues in the sphere of Corporate Social Responsibility. This was done by categorizing them according to their Analysis of materiality age and risk. The following specific aspects were analysed: Benchmark companies in the sector To maintain conduct They require special • The importance that institutional investors at average for the sector attention, review Maturity in information attach to aspects related to Corporate Social and constant adjustment Responsibility. Generalised IV III Necessary Material • The age of the issues, determined by the Emerging I II Urgent issues attention paid by companies in the sector in which the CLH Group operates. This was To look ahead, anticipate changes, They require urgent attention done by comparing the Corporate Social source of competitive advantages and meticulous monitoring Responsibility reports of several companies in the sector that were representative Relevance (exposure) for reasons of their size and presence in sustainability indexes. Socially Sector Social Press responsible prescribers prescribers analysis investors Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Process for preparing the report 3/5 129 The following relevant issues were identified as Grouping of material issues in CLH a result of this study: Management of intangibles Management of our impact on the — CSR management environment and our emissions — Brand management — Environmental management systems Corporate governance, ethics and — Other emissions relations with governments — Climate change — Relations with governments/public — Use of resources/Efficiency policy/Lobby Safety and impact on biodiversity — Ethics and integrity — Safety/Transport and logistics — Corporate governance — Waste/leaks/spills — Risk management — Biodiversity/land occupation Creation of value Caring for people — Financial matters — Attracting and retaining talent — Shareholders — Developing human capital — Suppliers — Working practices Quality and customer service — Safety and health — Innovation Relations with the community — Management of relations with customers — Impact on communities — Operations/Transport and logistics — Relations with stakeholders Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Process for preparing the report 4/5 130 Sustainability context Principle of completeness Principle of comparability “The reporting organisation should present “Coverage of material indicators and aspects “All aspects and information should be its performance in the broadest context of and the definition of coverage of the report selected, compiled and disclosed in a sustainability.” must be sufficient for reflecting significant consistent manner so that the stakeholders social, economic and environmental impact are able to analyse the changes experienced This report includes the performance of and for enabling the stakeholders to assess by the organization over time and also with the CLH Group in the economic, social and the performance of the reporting organisation respect to other organizations.” environmental spheres. Among its aims, the during the period covered by the report.” company has assumed the commitment The information has been included in a way to generate value responsibly with the The coverage and scope of the information that allows the stakeholders to interpret the environment and society, and therefore this included in this report have been clearly changes experienced by the organisation over document includes the main challenges that defined, priority has been given to the facts time. The evolution of data in respect of the affect the company in relation to sustainable that are considered relevant, and all significant previous year has been included for most of the development. events occurring during 2012 have been indicators. included, without omitting any information that is useful for the company’s stakeholders. As for coverage, the relevant information regarding Principle of balance CLH and its subsidiary CLH Aviación is “The report should reflect both positive included. and negative aspects of the organisation’s performance in order to permit a reasonable assessment of its general performance.” In order to enable the stakeholders to make a reasonable assessment, both positive and negative aspects are included, while at the same time presenting an unbiased picture of each of the issues included in the document. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Process for preparing the report 5/5 131 Principle of accuracy and clarity Principle of timeliness “The information contained in the report “The information shall be presented on time should be accurate and sufficiently detailed and following a periodic calendar so that the in order to enable the different stakeholders stakeholders may adopt decisions with the to assess the performance of the reporting correct information.” organisation.” The CLH Group adheres to a formal “The information should be stated in a commitment to report annually to its comprehensible and accessible way for the stakeholders on the company’s economic, stakeholders who are to use the report.” social and environmental performance. Tables, charts and diagrams that help to understand the information contained in Principle of reliability the Report have been included. Similarly, an attempt has been made to refrain from using “The information and procedures followed technical terms that may prove unfamiliar to its in preparing the Report must be gathered, stakeholders. recorded, compiled, analysed and presented so they may be subjected to examination and the quality and materiality of the information established.” The reliability of the information included in this Report has been reviewed by KPMG. INDEX 132 Index of GRI contents Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 1/28 133 Index of GRI contents Standard Disclosures Part I: Profile Disclosures Profile disclosure Description Reported Location of disclosure 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. Fully 5,6 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Fully Opportunities: 19; Key aspects with regard to sustainability: 25-27. Impacts on society and local communities: 31-32, 101-102. Risks: 43-44, 71-72. Environmental impacts: 114-121. 2. Organization Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully 2 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully 17-20 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating Fully 17 companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Fully 2 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries Fully The CLH Group carries out its activity exclusively in Spain. with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully 16 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of Fully 17-20 customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully 7 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or Fully No significant changes have occurred during the period covered by the report. ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully Awards with regard to quality: 10, 57; Safety: 11, 71; CLH as an employer: 12; Environmental management: 112-113. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 2/28 134 Profile disclosure Description Reported Location of disclosure 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Fully The information contained in the report refers to the 2010-2012 period. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully 2011 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully CLH presents Corporate Social Responsibility reports on an annual basis. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Fully 2 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully 127-131 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, Fully The report refers to the activities of the Group in Spain. joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see Fully If there is any limitation on the scope stated in indicator 3.6 it is stated completeness principle for explanation of scope). specifically in the text of the report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced Fully The information stated corresponds to the whole of the Group unless operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from specifically stated otherwise. period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including Fully The techniques and assumptions used have been included together with the assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation indicator to which they refer. of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in Fully No change has been made in this respect. earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or Fully No significant change has been made. measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Fully 132 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the Fully 127 report. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 3/28 135 Profile disclosure Description Reported Location of disclosure 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the Fully 38-39 highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive Fully 39 officer. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and Fully 39 gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or Fully 38 direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, Fully The Remuneration Policies are included in the Annual Report on Directors' senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the Remuneration which can be accessed through the CLH website www.clh.es. organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of Fully Any possible conflicts of interest that might arise in the highest governance interest are avoided. body are regulated in the internal regulations for conduct in matters relating to the securities market and through the Board of Directors' Regulations. 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the Fully Page 13 of the Board of Directors' Regulations can be accessed through members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any www.clh.es. consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and Fully The Corporate Mission, Vision and Values are published on the company's principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the website: www.clh.es. status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's Fully 22-23 identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, Fully 23 particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 4/28 136 Profile disclosure Description Reported Location of disclosure 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is Fully 130-131 addressed by the organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, Fully CSR: 23; Quality and innovation: 54, 57, 61; Safety: 71; Management of or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. labour aspects: 86, 89. Environment: 112-114. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ Fully 41, 58, 100 international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Fully 22 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Fully 98. In addition to its investors, customers, suppliers and employees, the company defines and selects its main stakeholders through tools such as the Plan for Relations with local communities. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement Fully Shareholders: 38; Suppliers: 47-49; Customers: 63-67; Employees: 91, 95; by type and by stakeholder group. Local community: 99; Stakeholders in general: 98. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Fully Customers: 64-67; Employees: 91, 95; Local community: 99; Stakeholders in engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and general: 98. concerns, including through its reporting. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 5/28 137 Standard Disclosure Part II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) Reason for Management approach Reported Location of disclosure Part not reported omission Explanation Economic Economic performance Fully 29-30 Market presence Fully 15, 17-20 Indirect economic impacts Fully 31-32 Reserves Not Not applicable The CLH Group only carries out basic logistics activities and therefore does not have any reserves. Environment Materials Not Not applicable The CLH Group is a service company that engages in the storage, transportation and distribution of oil products. Its activity does not involve any use of raw materials or packaging materials. Energy Fully 118-119 Water Fully 116 Biodiversity Fully 120-123 Emissions, effluents and waste Fully 114-115, 117-118 Products and services Fully 31-32, 53 Compliance Fully 111-112 Transport Fully 120 Overall Fully 111-112 Labour Practices Employment Fully General Approach: 83; Equality: 85. Stability, negotiation and reconciliation: 87-90. Labor/management relations Fully 88 Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 6/28 138 Reason for Management approach Reported Location of disclosure Part not reported omission Explanation Occupational Health and Safety Fully 74 Training and education Fully 92 Diversity and equal opportunity Fully 85 Equal remuneration for women and men Fully 85 Human Rights Investment and procurement practices Fully 46-47 Non-discrimination Fully 85 Freedom of association and collective Fully 88 bargaining Child labor Not Not applicable The CLH Group carries out its activities in Spain where risks of this type are not generally identified. Prevention of forced and compulsory labor Not Not applicable The CLH Group carries out its activities in Spain where risks of this type are not generally identified. Security Practices Not Not applicable The CLH Group does not recruit security staff directly. Indigenous rights Not Not applicable The CLH Group carries out its activities in Spain where risks of this type are not generally identified. Assessment Fully Through its control and auditing processes, the CLH Group assesses compliance with the applicable legislation, Spanish in this case, which provides for respect for Human Rights. Remediation Fully If any infringement of the law is detected, it is Group policy to establish the necessary remedy mechanisms for correcting this situation. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 7/28 139 Reason for Management approach Reported Location of disclosure Part not reported omission Explanation Social Local communities Fully 99 Corruption Fully 42 Public policy Fully 42 Anti-competitive behavior Fully 42 Compliance Fully 42 Emergency preparedness Fully 72-73 Involuntary resettlement Not Not applicable The CLH activities do not involve any involuntary resettlement of populations. Asset integrity and process safety Fully 72-73 Products Customer health and safety Fully 71 Product and service labelling Fully 20 Marketing communications Fully 42 Customer privacy Fully 67 Compliance Fully 42 Fossil fuel substitutes Fully 53 Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 8/28 140 Standard Disclosure Part III: Performance Indicators Part not Reason for To be Indicator Description Reported Location of disclosure reported omission Explanation reported in Economic performance indicators Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and Fully 29-30 distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Partially 118-119 Physical risks Not available The company is redefining these risks 2014 opportunities for the organization's associated with in the framework of its risk activities due to climate change. climate change. management policy. EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined Partially 86 Total amount Not available This information is not available at the 2014 benefit plan obligations. assigned to time of drawing up the report. payment of pensions. EC4 Significant financial assistance received Fully The CLH Group has not from government. received significant financial assistance from the Government. Market presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level Fully 85 wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of Fully 46 spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 9/28 141 Part not Reason for To be Indicator Description Reported Location of disclosure reported omission Explanation reported in EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion Fully 87 of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. Indirect economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure Fully The CLH Group has not investments and services provided primarily developed for public benefit through commercial, infrastructures of this in-kind, or pro bono engagement. nature. EC9 Understanding and describing significant Fully 31-32 indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved Not Not applicable The CLH Group only carries out fuel reserves and production. distribution tasks. Therefore, this indicator is not applicable. Environmental performance indicators Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Not Not material The CLH Group is a service company that engages in the storage, transportation and distribution of oil products. Its activity does not involve any use of raw materials or packaging materials. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are Not Not material See explanation for the above indicator. recycled input materials. Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary Fully 118-119 energy source. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 10/28 142 Part not Reason for To be Indicator Description Reported Location of disclosure reported omission Explanation reported in EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary Fully 118 source. OG2 Total amount invested in renewable energy. Fully The CLH Group has not made any investment for producing renewable energy. OG3 Total amount of renewable energy Not Not applicable The CLH Group does not carry out generated by source. energy production activities. Therefore, this indicator is not applicable. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and Partially 118 Estimated Not available The company has recently developed a 2014 efficiency improvements. saving achieved. plan for energy efficiency in its facilities. However, an estimate has not yet been made of the amount of energy saved. EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or Fully 19 renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Partially 118-119 Estimated Not available The company has recently developed a 2014 consumption and reductions achieved. saving achieved. plan for energy efficiency in its facilities. However, an estimate has not yet been made of the amount of energy saved. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully 116 Breakdown by Not material The company obtains most of the water source. it uses from municipal supply networks. It also extracts groundwater for some facilities that are outside the area covered by these networks. This extraction is minimal in any case, and is not considered material. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 11/28 143 Part not Reason for To be Indicator Description Reported Location of disclosure reported omission Explanation reported in EN9 Water sources significantly affected by Fully 116 withdrawal of water. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water Fully The CLH Group does recycled and reused. not use recycled water at its facilities. Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, Fully 120-123 managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of Fully 120-123 activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Fully 99, 112 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans Fully 120-123 for managing impacts on biodiversity. OG4 Number and percentage of significant Fully 120-123 operating sites in which biodiversity risk has been assessed and monitored. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and Not Not available No specific mechanisms are available 2015 national conservation list species with for measuring this indicator at the time habitats in areas affected by operations, by of preparing the report, although level of extinction risk. factors such as biodiversity are taken into account in the identification of high consequence areas explained on pages 113-116. Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Fully 119-120 emissions by weight. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 12/28 144 Part not Reason for To be Indicator Description Reported Location of disclosure reported omission Explanation reported in EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas Not Not available The CLH Group has recently 2014 emissions by weight. concluded a carbon footprint project that includes all direct and indirect emissions from the company's activities. Information regarding this indicator will be included in forthcoming editions of the sustainability report. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Partially 118-119 Reductions Not available The company has recently developed 2014 emissions and reductions achieved. achieved an energy efficiency plan in its facilities that will bring about a reduction in emissions, among other consequences. However, the amount that could be saved has not yet been estimated. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Not Not material The CLH Group does not have systems by weight. for measuring these substances, although they are not considered to represent any significant amount. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air Partially 114-115 Emissions of Not material The CLH Group only provides the emissions by type and weight. persistent parameters of emissions that are pollutants and relevant for its oil product storage and air pollutants transportation activity. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and Fully 117 destination. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Fully 116 method. OG5 Volume of formation or produced water. No Not applicable CLH does not perform oil extraction activities. EN23 Total number and volume of significant Fully 117 spills. OG6 Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon. No Not applicable The CLH Group does not engage in these types of activity. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 13/28 145 Part not Reason for To be Indicator Description Reported Location of disclosure reported omission Explanation reported in OG7 Amount of drilling waste (drill mud and No Not applicable The CLH Group does not engage in cuttings) and strategies for treatment and these types of activity. disposal. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, Fully The CLH Group does or treated waste deemed hazardous under not transport hazardous the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, waste. Hazardous waste II, III, and VIII, and percentage of generated in its facilities transported waste shipped internationally. is delivered to an authorised manager. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and Fully 117. The CLH Group is a biodiversity value of water bodies and service company that related habitats significantly affected by the engages in the storage, reporting organization's discharges of water transportation and and runoff. distribution of oil products. Its activity does not involve production processes, and therefore it does not discharge significant quantities of water. Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Fully Environmental policy: of products and services, and extent of 112-113; Atmospheric impact mitigation. pollution: 114; Waste and water: 116; Discharges of water: 117-118; Energy consumption and climate change: 118-119; Biodiversity: 120-123. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their Not Not applicable The CLH Group's activity does not packaging materials that are reclaimed by make intensive use of packaging category. materials. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 14/28 146 Part not Reason for To be Indicator Description Reported Location of disclosure reported omission Explanation reported in OG8 Benzene, Lead and Sulfur content in fuels. Not Not applicable The CLH Group does not manufacture fuels. It only performs work for their basic logistics. In any case, the adaptation that the Group has made to some infrastructures for controlling sulphur content has facilitated the introduction of more environmentally friendly products with low content of this element. Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total Fully The CLH Group paid number of non-monetary sanctions for €50,000 in fines in non-compliance with environmental laws 2012, this amount being and regulations. lower than the 300,000 euros that are considered to be the significance threshold. Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of Fully 120 transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures Fully 112-113 and investments by type. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 15/28 147 Part not Reason for To be Indicator Description Reported Location of disclosure reported omission Explanation reported in Performance indicators for labour practices and decent work Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, Fully 83-84 employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee Fully 83, 87 hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees Fully 86 that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after Fully 89-90 The corporate parental leave, by gender. policies guarantee return to work after paternity and maternity leave. Labor/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by Fully 88 collective bargaining agreements. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 16/28 148 Part not Reason for To be Indicator Description Reported Location of disclosure reported omission Explanation reported in LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding Fully 88. According to what is significant operational changes, including stated in the collective whether it is specified in collective agreements that have agreements. been signed, the CLH Group undertakes to inform its employees, or their representatives, of the introduction of any organisational changes that might affect them. The notice periods vary depending on the relevance of the measure. Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented Fully 74-75 in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost Fully 75-76. No work-related days, and absenteeism, and number of fatality occurred in 2012. work-related fatalities by region and by gender. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, Fully 77-78 and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal Fully 75 agreements with trade unions. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 17/28 149 Part not Reason for To be Indicator Description Reported Location of disclosure reported omission Explanation reported in Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per Fully 93 employee by gender, and by employee category. LA11 Programs for skills management and Fully 93-94 lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Fully 94 performance and career development reviews, by gender. Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and Fully 40, 84 breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Equal remuneration for women and men LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Fully 85 women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. Human Rights performance indicators Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant Fully 47-48 investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 18/28 150 Part not Reason for To be Indicator Description Reported Location of disclosure reported omission Explanation reported in HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, Fully 47-48 contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies Fully There is no training and procedures concerning aspects of module at present. human rights that are relevant to However, the CLH Group operations, including the percentage of is currently developing a employees trained. course on Corporate Social Responsibility which could include this issue, among others. On the other hand, CLH conducts its activity in Spain, where the risk of violation of human rights is not significant. Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination Fully 43 and corrective actions taken. Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers Fully 47, 48 identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 19/28 151 Part not Reason for To be Indicator Description Reported Location of disclosure reported omission Explanation reported in Child labor HR6 Operations and significant suppliers Not Not applicable The CLH Group carries out its activities identified as having significant risk for in Spain where risks of this type are incidents of child labor, and measures not generally identified. taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Prevention of forced and compulsory labor HR7 Operations and significant suppliers Not Not applicable The CLH Group carries out its activities identified as having significant risk for in Spain where risks of this type are incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and not generally identified. measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Security practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in Not Not applicable The CLH Group does not recruit the organization's policies or procedures security staff directly. concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations Not Not applicable The CLH Group carries out its activities involving rights of indigenous people and in Spain where risks of this type are actions taken. not generally identified. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 20/28 152 Part not Reason for To be Indicator Description Reported Location of disclosure reported omission Explanation reported in Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations Fully 47, 48. Assessments of that have been subject to human rights human rights are reviews and/or impact assessments. considered to form part of the usual assessment processes. It is not considered that there is any significant risk of human rights violation in the activities currently carried out by the company. OG9 Operations where indigenous communities Not Not applicable The CLH Group only carries out are present or affected by activities and storage, transportation and distribution where specific engagement strategies are activities in Spain. in place. Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human Fully No grievance has been rights filed, addressed and resolved through recorded. formal grievance mechanisms. Performance indicators for Society Local communities SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented Fully 99 local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 21/28 153 Part not Reason for To be Indicator Description Reported Location of disclosure reported omission Explanation reported in SO9 Operations with significant potential or Fully 99. The CLH Group only actual negative impacts on local carries out activities in communities. Spain. Therefore, the main potential negative impacts of its operations refer to effects on the environment. All projects may have an impact in this connection. In any case, the company assesses this beforehand in order to be able to minimise it. SO10 Percentage of operations with implemented Fully 99. Before tackling any local community engagement, impact project, the company assessments, and development programs. identifies the specific measures required for limiting its impact. These are specific for each project. OG10 Operations with significant potential or Fully No significant conflict actual negative impacts on local has occurred. communities. OG11 Prevention and mitigation measures Fully 99 implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 22/28 154 Part not Reason for To be Indicator Description Reported Location of disclosure reported omission Explanation reported in Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business Fully None. The CLH Group units analyzed for risks related to has approved its Code of corruption. Conduct which is applicable to members of the administrative and management bodies of the company, and to all employees in the Group. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in Fully The Code of Conduct organization's anti-corruption policies and has been distributed procedures. among all employees. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of Fully No incident was corruption. recorded during 2012. Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in Fully 41 public policy development and lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind Fully No contributions of a contributions to political parties, politicians, political nature are made. and related institutions by country. Anti-competitive behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for antiFully The CLH Group has not competitive behavior, anti-trust, and been involved in any of monopoly practices and their outcomes. these legal actions during 2012. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 23/28 155 Part not Reason for To be Indicator Description Reported Location of disclosure reported omission Explanation reported in Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total Fully In 2012, CLH paid number of non-monetary sanctions for €50,000 in fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations. environmental offences, this amount being lower than the 300,000 euros that are considered to be the significance threshold. Involuntary resettlement OG12 Operations where involuntary resettlement Fully None took place, the number of households resettled in each and how their livelihoods were affected in the process. Asset Integrity and Process Safety OG13 Number of process safety events, by Not Not available The CLH management systems do not 2015 business activity. allow the collection of information regarding this indicator according to the nomenclature used. Product responsibility performance indicators Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety Fully 54-58 impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 24/28 156 Part not Reason for To be Indicator Description Reported Location of disclosure reported omission Explanation reported in PR2 Total number of incidents of nonFully No incidents of this type compliance with regulations and voluntary were recorded in 2012. codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information Fully 55 required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of nonFully No incidents of this type compliance with regulations and voluntary were recorded in 2012. codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, Fully 63-66 including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, Fully The CLH Group has not and voluntary codes related to marketing signed up for any of communications, including advertising, these programmes. promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of nonFully No incidents of this type compliance with regulations and voluntary were recorded in 2012. codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 25/28 157 Part not Reason for To be Indicator Description Reported Location of disclosure reported omission Explanation reported in Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints Fully No incidents of this type regarding breaches of customer privacy were recorded in 2012. and losses of customer data. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for Fully No fine has been non-compliance with laws and regulations recorded in this respect concerning the provision and use of in 2012. products and services. Biofuels OG14 Volume of biofuels produced and Fully 19 purchased meeting sustainability criteria. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 26/28 158 G4 indicators reported on This year, the CLH Corporate Responsibility Report includes new indicators and contents with which to provide an answer to some of the new indicators included in version G4 of the GRI Guidelines. This version is still in process of development and so the aim of inserting these indicators into the report is to prepare the CLH reporting systems for the new requirements that this standard may demand when it has been approved. Indicator Description Page DI 12 Describe the organisation’s supply chain. 46 DI 32 Describe the role played by the highest governance body of the organisation in the inclusion of 22-23 economic, social and environmental aspects in the organisation’s aim and its mission and values. DI 33 Describe the role played by the highest governance body of the organisation and by its senior 22-23 management in the development, updating and approval of strategies, policies and objectives related to economic, social and environmental aspects. DI 35 Describe the process through which the highest governance body delegates authority in relation to 22-23 the management of environmental, social and economic aspects. DI 37 Specific consultation processes between representatives of the organisation's stakeholders and the The Board of Directors holds authority to represent the company and, highest governance body as regards economic, environmental and social aspects. through its Chairman-Chief Executive Officer, it interacts with all the stakeholders, the Board Meeting being duly and promptly informed of the outcome of these relations. DI 38 Composition of each governing body of the organisation. 40 DI 39 Representation of the organisation's stakeholders within its highest governance body. There is no representation. DI 40 Committees responsible for decision-making on environmental, social and economic matters. 22 DI 46 Processes through which the highest governance body assesses the organisation's performance 22 with regard to governance, codes of conduct and economic, environmental and social aspects. DI 48 Monitoring by the highest governance body of identification and management of environmental, 22-23 social and economic risks and opportunities. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 27/28 159 Indicator Description Page DI 58 Policies followed on remuneration of the organisation's highest governance body. The criteria regarding remuneration of the Board directors are established in article 27 of the Company's Articles of Association. Also, details of these policies are given in the 2012 Annual Report on Directors' Remuneration and in the 2012 Annual Report on Corporate Governance for listed Companies. They can both be accessed through www.clh.es DI 59 Processes for determining the remuneration of members of the Board. These processes are described in article 28 of the Board of Directors' Regulations. Di 61 Composition, degree of independence and selection process of the Remuneration Committee (if the 40 company has one). DI 66 Ratio between the earnings received by the best paid person in the organisation and the median 86 earnings received by the other employees. DI 67 Ratio between the total earnings received by the best paid person in the organisation and the 86 earnings received by the lowest paid person. DI 68 Ratio between the percentage of salary increase for the best paid person in the organisation and the 86 percentage of median salary increase for all employees. EC 6 Expenditure on local suppliers and breakdown of mechanisms followed for their economic inclusion. 46 CORE G4.1 Expenditure on suppliers with whom there is a long-term agreement. 46 CORE G4.2 Percentage of suppliers with whom the company has worked for the first time. 46 CORE G4.3 Average time for paying suppliers. 46 CORE G4.4 Percentage of expenditure on materials, products and services that have been certified with widely 46 recognised environmental, social and economic standards. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Index of GRI contents 28/28 160 Global Compact Principles Page in the CLH CSR 2012 Principles GRI Indicators report Human Rights Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. HR1-HR10, LA4, LA13, 40, 43, 47-48, 84-85, 88, 99 LA14, SO1 Principle 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HR1-HR2, HR8 47-48 Labour Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective HR5, LA4, LA5 47-48, 88 bargaining. Principle 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. HR1-HR3, HR7 47-48 Principle 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. HR1-HR3, HR6 47-48 Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. HR1-HR2, HR4, LA2, LA3, 40, 43, 47-48, 83-87 LA13, LA14, EC5, EC7 Environment Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 4.11, EC2 118-119, 130-131 Principle 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. EN2-EN30, EC2, PR3-PR4 19, 99, 112-123 Principle 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. EN2, EN5-EN7, EN10, EN18, 112-123 EN26-27 Anti-Corruption Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. SO2-SO6 41 INDEX 161 Glossary of terms Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Glossary of terms 1/2 162 AA1000: International standard whose aim is to Biofuel: Fuel made from organic material Dispenser: Mobile unit designed especially guarantee quality in the assessment and or biomass. It includes primary energy for supplying fuel to aircraft at the airports dissemination of social and ethical aspects sources such as wood, and also by-product where there are hydrant networks. of business management as well as fuels such as methanol, ethanol and Diversity Charter: A letter of commitment accountability (http://www.accountability. biogas which come from primary elements signed voluntarily by companies and org/about-us/publications/aa1000-1. after undergoing biological conversion institutions of any size in order to further html). processes, i.e. anaerobic fermentation or their commitment to equality, respect digestion. Additive: A substance that modifies the towards the right to inclusion of all people physical or chemical characteristics of the Bunker: A variable proportion blend of diesel and groups and the implementation of product to which it is added. and fuel oil used as fuel in marine diesel other policies for fostering a prejudice-free engines. work environment. Airport facility: A plant where aviation fuel is stored and from which its distribution Central Dispatching: Centralised control post Double-hulled vessel: A tanker in which the to the aircraft operating at that airport is in CLH from which the company controls bottom and sides of the cargo tanks are carried out. many of its product transportation and separated from the bottom and sides of storage operations. the hull by spaces varying between 1 and Aquifer: A geological formation in which 3 metres wide or deep. These spaces underground water is stored and circulates CO: Carbon monoxide. remain empty when the tanker carries by using the porosity and configuration of CO2: Carbon dioxide. cargo, but are filled up with sea water on the rock containing it. ballast voyages. CO2eq: CO2 equivalent. Unit for measuring Biodiesel: Ester obtained through the reaction the amount of greenhouse gas emissions European Foundation for Quality of an alcohol with the fatty acids resulting made. Because the different existing Management (EFQM): An international from the hydrolysis of triglycerides, greenhouse gases (CO2, NOx, methane, foundation based in Belgium that works vegetable oils or animal fats in the others) have different potentials for towards increasing the effectiveness presence of a catalyst. affecting global warming, it is customary and efficiency of European organisations in specialist literature to translate the through strengthening and improving quantity of each of them into a common quality. At the present time, its membership unit (CO2eq). includes over 600 organisations, from multinationals and important national companies to universities and research institutions. Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX Glossary of terms 2/2 163 Gigajoule: Unit of energy equivalent to 109 ISO 9001: Certification standard for quality SOx: Sulphur oxides. joules. The joule is the unit used in the management. Storage facility: A plant where oil products are International System of Units (IS). Its ISO 14001: Certification standard for stored in tanks designed for this purpose symbol is J and it is equivalent to the environmental management. and where tank trucks collect oil products product of one newton per metre. for distribution to the end consumers. MARPOL (Marine Pollution): Name of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): An the 1973 International Convention for Tracer: A substance with some kind of special international initiative aiming to provide the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, feature (colouring matter, for example) that a standard methodology for drawing modified by the Protocol of 1978. It is makes it easy to detect and which, when up sustainability reports (https://www. an international treaty signed by most added to another, allows the latter to be globalreporting.org/Pages/default.aspx). countries that are related to the sea, Spain identified and monitored. Greenhouse gases (GHGs): These are among them, and its rules are applied to United Nations World Compact: An initiative mainly CO2, N2O and methane. When oil-carrying operations carried out at sea. that was launched in 1999 with the aim of present in the atmosphere in increased NOx: Nitrogen oxides. making commitments of an environmental, concentrations, this raises the temperature labour and anti-corruption nature and the of the earth’s surface because the escape OHSAS: (Occupational Health and Safety protection of human rights widespread in of the infrared radiation emitted by this Advisory Services). Standard for the the private business field. surface is hindered. implementation and certification of occupational health and safety systems. Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs): Each Hydrant: Fuel distribution network situated of the chemical compounds (alcohols and beneath the aircraft parking area at (Oil) pipeline: A pipe for transporting oil or oil light ethers, benzene) that are present in airports. by-products. gasolines and which evaporate on coming Hydrobiodiesel or HVO: Fuel for diesel Refuelling unit: A tank truck designed into contact with the air. engines produced by hydro-treatment of especially for transporting and supplying vegetable or animal oil. fuel to aircraft at airports. Hydrocarbon: Organic compound formed SAM: (Sustainable Asset Management) by carbon and hydrogen atoms that assessment agency responsible for rating comprises the main component of companies wishing to form part of the petroleum. Dow Jones Sustainability Index. ISO: International Organization for SO2: Sulphur dioxide. Standardization. INDEX 164 INDEX Compañía Logística de Hidrocarburos CLH, S.A. Titán, 13 28045 Madrid (Spain) Tel.: 91 774 60 00 Fax: 91 774 60 01 www.clh.es Communication and Institutional Relations Management infoclh@clh.es
