UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATIONS ON PROGRESS REPORT By Generation Alliance Pty LTD For the period 25 July 2012 – 26 July 2013 Contents 1. Introduction and statement of continued commitment 2. Embedding the Ten Principles into our organisation Human Rights Labour Environment Anti-Corruption 3. Supporting our community 1 INTRODUCTION AND STATEMENT OF CONTINUED COMMITMENT Generation Alliance Pty Ltd (Gen.a) is proud to be a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and a member of the Global Compact Network Australia (GCNA). This Communication on Progress Report demonstrates our continued support for the Global Compact and its Ten Principles. Since 2009, Gen.a has been a signatory to the United Nation’s Global Compact, a foundation member of the GCNA Steering Committee and a Board member. We are a small business committed to social development and compliance with the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. Within Australia, our business plays a leadership role in helping to promote the value of the Global Compact to small businesses and within the creative industries sector. As well as our specific achievements listed in this report, I would like to highlight our major initiative during the past 12 months – the development and publication of the globally recognised publication, Whitepaper Magazine. The first copy of the magazine was presented personally to The Secretary General of the United Nations in New York by fellow GCNA Board member, Matthew Tukaki. I have pleasure in presenting to you our 2013 Communication on Progress. David Faulks Managing Director 25 July 2013 2 EMBEDDING THE TEN PRINCIPLES IN OUR ORGANISATION This section details Gen.a’s commitment to the Case study: UNGC’s Ten Principles across areas including human Gen.a magazine – Whitepaper rights, the environment, labour and anti-corruption. In 2012 / 2013, Gen.a has actively furthered its In May 2013, Gen.a launched the first issue of commitment to the Ten Principles through numerous our magazine, White Paper that exemplifies our activities, procedures and systems. Gen.a intends to significant commitment to the UNGC’s Ten Principles. continue and develop this commitment over the next Born out of our belief in the power of creative 12 months. thinking, great design and storytelling to inspire and activate change, White Paper was inspired by In our 2013 / 2014 Business Plan goals, we made the passionate people we’ve met through our work specific commitments to work with clients engaged who, like us, believe in creating positive impact for in CSR and corporate citizenship activities, organisations, communities and the people international development and community causes. within them. As part of this, we developed the Whitepaper Magazine (see case study) to enhance our internal Our first issue, dedicated to the theme of understanding of the notion of ‘citizenship’ and ‘Citizenship’, explores perspectives on business encourage a conversation between our Alliance and brand within the context of corporate social members, business associates and clients. We responsibility. The issue featured interviews and have also worked with international clients and articles from world-renowned business leaders stakeholders including the International Trade including: Executive Director of the United Nations Centre, Zanzibar’s Ministry of Trade, Industry and Global Compact, Georg Kell; Under SecretaryMarketing and the Dhaka Chamber of Commerce General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency & Industry (DCCCI) in Bangladesh. This involved Relief Coordinator, Baroness Valerie Amos; Global the provision of reduced rate services and pro Head of Citizenship at KPMG International, Lord bono consultancy to enhance the social investment Hastings of Scarisbrick and former CEO of Fairtrade outcomes of the stakeholders with whom we were International, Rob Cameron. working. In Australia, we have also delivered pro Gen.a published the magazine from the groundbono consultancy support to the National Centre of up including creative concept and design, naming, Indigenous Excellence (NCIE), Children’s Hospital editorial direction and content development through in Westmead and Foodbank Australia, as well as the to production. The magazine will also be published Global Compact Network Australia itself. online at www.whitepapermagazine.com . The total financial and value-in-kind investment by Generation Alliance in this venture was $90,000. 2 EMBEDDING THE TEN PRINCIPLES IN OUR ORGANISATION Gen.a is committed to embedding the principles of the UNGC in our everyday business. Below is a summary of our progress and development over the past 12 months working towards the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. Principle Gen.a Examples Measurement of outcomes HUMAN RIGHTS – Supports the Universal – Provided – Code of Conduct – Principle 1 Businesses Declaration of Human communications developed to deal with should support and Rights services (pro bono) abuses of human rights, respect the protection of – Acknowledges the to the National no reports registered. internationally proclaimed Traditional Custodians Centre of Indigenous – No investigations, legal human rights; and and the present Excellence (NCIE) in the cases, rulings, fines or Aboriginal and Torres development of a new other relevant events – Principle 2 Businesses Strait Islander people brand and partnership to report. should make sure that who reside in this area. strategy. they are not complicit in human rights abuses. – Is committed to – Worked with Foodbank maintaining and Australia to provide supporting the health connections to Western and safety of all Sydney businesses and employees, contractors PR support. and visitors. – Developed and updated internal company Code of Conduct, ensuring that individual employees are protected against Human Rights abuses. – Involvement in the Sydney Peace Forum held on the United Nations International Peace Day in 2012. LABOUR – Has systems in place – Implementation of – Significant support for – Principle 3 Businesses to monitor and manage an internal Code of gender equality in the should uphold the labour rights issues Conduct ensures workplace 75% of freedom of association within the business. that employees fulltime employees are and the effective – Creates a safe and understand their female. recognition of the right secure workplace for rights, responsibilities, – Introduction of intern to collective bargaining; employees. compensations and policy – ensuring a benefits. good representation – Principle 4 Businesses – Supports the elimination should uphold the of employment – Consultation session of age groups within elimination of all forms discrimination, child with employees about the business. of forced and compulsory labour and forced issues / suggestions – No investigations, legal labour; labour. to improve the cases, rulings, fines or business and support other relevant events – Principle 5 Businesses – Committed to ensuring mechanisms. to report. should uphold the comparable pay for effective abolition comparable work. – Encouraged the of child labour; and implementation of – Is committed to corporate social – Principle 6 Businesses the development of responsibilities should uphold principles to support principles and provoked the elimination of employment conditions discussion around this discrimination in respect in the coming year. through the Whitepaper of employment and Magazine project. occupation. – 10% of profits to lowbono and pro – bono work with clients who encourage businesses to work in ways which support the UNGC’s 10 principles. 2 EMBEDDING THE TEN PRINCIPLES IN OUR ORGANISATION Principle Gen.a Examples Measurement of outcomes ENVIRONMENT – Is committed to – Purchasing of recycled – Quarterly reports on – Principle 7 Businesses reducing the impact paper products recycling of cartridges should support a of its operations (including paper towels, and office products, precautionary approach and services on the printing paper, toilet from Close the Loop. to environmental environment. paper etc.) This year Gen.a saved challenges; – Is committed to the – Recycling and proper over 21kg from landfill ongoing measurement disposal of printer through this program. – Principle 8 Businesses should undertake and monitoring of cartridges, excess – Internal awareness of initiatives to promote environmental initiatives electrical equipment environmental issues greater environmental and protocol within the and e-waste. tested through weekly responsibility; and business. – A preference to work WIP sessions for all – Aims to continue to with Forest Stewardship staff. – Principle 9 Businesses should encourage reduce its impact on Council (FSC) certified – No investigations, legal the development the environment in printers wherever cases, rulings, fines or and diffusion of the coming year. possible. other relevant events environmentally friendly – Development of carto report. technologies. pooling programs and walk to work incentives for employees. – Election to pay the carbon-offset surcharge (i.e. when travelling). – Support to the Indigenous Chamber of Commerce – Carbon Farming Initiative – Conducted a strategy workshop with Sustain Group (through UNGC introduction). – Attendance at the ‘In conversation series’ with Baroness Valerie Amos, UN UnderSecretary, UN UnderSecretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator. – 14 Feb 2013 – Matthew Tukaki briefed the Gen.a team on Sustainable Development Goals (for WhitePaper magazine) ANTI-CORRUPTION – Is committed to high – Attendance at the Anti– No reports of standards of personal, Corruption Leadership corruption, extortion – Principle 10 – Businesses ethical and professional Group event held at or bribery within should work against conduct. Allens. the business all forms of corruption, through internal including extortion and – Supports the UN – Code of Conduct issues management bribery. Convention Against enforced for all mechanism. Corruption. employees, suppliers and contractors to – No investigations, legal – Will continue to develop maintain ethical and cases, rulings, fines or its support against professional standards other relevant events corruption in the within the business. to report. next year. 3 SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITY In 2012 / 13 Gen.a continued its commitment In October 2012, Gen.a was engaged by NCIE to to social development and community support lead the development of a ‘Brand Blueprint’ and locally and internationally. The following examples partnership strategy to support the organisation’s demonstrate Gen.a’s belief in the Ten Principles and aspirations to achieve financial independence and the impact of this within our local community over autonomy in order to positively influence public the past 12 months. policy. Working closely with NCIE’s CEO, senior leadership team and key stakeholder groups United Nations Global Compact including Indigenous organisations, NCIE’s Pathway Network Australia (GCNA) partners, corporate and community partners Gen.a Gen.a holds a position on the Board of the UNGCNA. delivered: On this Board, and as Chair of the Communications Sub Committee, our Managing Director, David Faulks – A new brand strategy as a platform to inform has a specific role in representing small-medium future business, partnership and communications enterprises (SMEs) and further educating other strategies; businesses and partners about the importance of – Recommendations to inform the development of the Millennium Development Goals. In the past 12 NCIE’s partnership strategy; and months, David has attended numerous functions, meetings and appeared as a guest speaker at – A brief to inform the development of a licensing UNGCNA events. model that leverages NCIE’s own IP and relationships. In addition to our commitment to attend meetings and contribute to the development of the UNGC’s As part of our commitment to the development Ten Principles, we have also donated significant and sustainability of Indigenous communities in communications and design services including the Australia and the overall UNGC;s Ten Principles, development and design of Global Compact Network Gen.a provided pro bono support of $27,500 to the Australia 2012 Activity Report. development of this project with NCIE. In addition, we have offered ongoing mentoring services to key National Centre for Indigenous Excellence (NCIE) staff at NCIE. On the introduction of fellow UNGCNA Board Member, we have completed a phase of work for the Children’s Hospital at Westmead National Centre of Indigenous Excellence, in Redfern. In 2012 / 13, Gen.a completed a low bono phase of The National Centre of Indigenous Excellence work to assist the Children’s Hospital at Westmead (NCIE) is in the business of creating life-changing (CHW) with fundraising activities, raising the profile experiences for Australia’s Aboriginal and Torres of the hospital and events such as Bandaged Bear Strait Islander peoples. By providing a platform for Day. As a public hospital, CHW receives significant the creation and delivery of world-leading programs funding from the NSW Government but it is the in arts and culture, learning and innovation, health financial support of the community that allows the and wellness, sport and recreation NCIE inspiring CHW to provide the extra services to sick children and empowering young Indigenous Australians to and their families for which the Hospital is so well realise their full potential and contribute to their known and respected. communities. NCIE is also a leader and advocate for positive change and shared prosperity, not just for Gen.a developed a well considered creative and their own community, but for all Australians. digital solution to raise the profile of CHW, its events and ultimately attract more donors and raise more money for the Westmead community. In developing the website, Gen.a worked closely with the CHW fundraising team and our Alliance partner and digital expert, Shaking Paper. The final solution was one which will hopefully, in the future, enable the Children’s Hospital to continue the important work it does around research and development.
