Trent Limited Communication on Progress 2012 2012-13 CONTENTS Introduction ........................................................................................................................................................................ 4 Upholding and Safeguarding Human Rights ....................................................................................................................... 6 Corporate Citizenship ......................................................................................................................................................... 8 Upholding Labour Standards ............................................................................................................................................ 18 An Ethos of Anti-Corruption & Promoting Ethical Behavior ............................................................................................. 19 Abbreviations AMC Annual Maintenance Contract BSC Balanced Scorecard CFTS Customer Feedback Tracking System CPSC Consumer Product Safety Commission CSS Customer Satisfaction Survey E&I Evaluation and Improvement EC Ethics Counselor EPA Environment Protection Act ESS Employee Satisfaction Survey HO Head Office HOD Head of Department LEC Local Ethics Counselor N.G.O Non Governmental Organization QA Quality Assurance QC Quality Control SC Scheduled Caste ST Scheduled Tribe TCoC Tata Code of Conduct TQMS Total Quality Management Services VMS Vendor Management System VSS Vendor Satisfaction Survey INTRODUCTION Trent Limited is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, a platform for encouraging and promoting good corporate principles and learning experiences in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This Communication on Progress provides an overview of commitments and activities during 2012-13 in support of the Global Compact's objectives. Our commitment to sustainability drives our environmental endeavour, good corporate citizenship in our workplace, communities, the products and services we provide to customers. At Trent Limited, sustainability integrates economic progress, environmental concerns and social responsibility with the objective of “Improving quality of life” and building “Leadership with Trust”. We believe in integration of our business values, cultural pillars and operating principles to meet the expectations of our customers, employees, partners, investors, communities and wider society. Our commitment thus is: • We will uphold the values of integrity, understanding, unity, excellence and responsibility with stakeholders. • We seek to train and recruit a right mix of fresh and experienced people that reflect the diversity of the communities in which we operate, to give equal opportunities to all of our staff, provide decentralized training, and to provide opportunities of learning and development to help them have fulfilling and rewarding careers. • We aspire to create an equal platform of opportunities for the socially and economically disadvantaged sections, specifically for the Scheduled Caste / Scheduled Tribe (SC/ST) communities. • We strive to contribute to safeguarding the environment and improving biodiversity. • In accordance with the National Policy on Child Labour, we intend to take proactive steps towards a childlabour free society. • In accordance with other Labour Laws, we seek to identify possible occupational hazards and promote in totality, the health and safety of our employees. Tata Code of Conduct: Trent Limited has adopted the Tata Code of conduct (Tata CoC) which serves as a guide on the values, ethics and business principles to be followed. It is a set of 25 principles which enshrine the human rights principles, adherence to labour standards, commitment towards environment protection and anti-corruption. Tata CoC has been developed to ensure high standard of corporate and personal behaviour on which the Tata Group’s reputation and respectability has been built over the past years. Trent Limited adheres to Tata CoC strictly in all its transactions with all the stakeholders thereby embedding the values of the group along with the Leadership’s focus on walking the talk. The 25 Tata CoC principles in a brief include: 1. National Interest 14. Use of Tata Brand 2. Financial reporting and records 15. Group policies 3. Competition 16. Shareholders 4. Equalopportunities employer 17. Ethical conduct 5. Gifts and Donations 18. Regulatory compliance 6. Government agencies 19. Concurrent employment 7. Political nonalignment 20. Conflict of Interest 8. Health, safety and environment 21. Security transactions and confidential information 9. Quality of products and services 22. Protecting company asset 10. Corporate citizenship 23. Citizenship 11. Corporation of Tata companies 24. Integrity of data furnished 12-13. Public representation of the company and the 25. Reporting concerns Group Whistle Blower Policy: Trent Limited has adopted the Whistle Blower Policy that is an extension of the Tata Code of Conduct. It provides a formal mechanism for all employees of the Company to approach the Ethics Counselor/ Chairman of the Committee of the Company and make protective disclosure about the unethical behaviour, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the Company’s Code of Conduct. All employees of the Company are eligible to make Protected Disclosures under the Policy. UPHOLDING AND SAFEGUARDING HUMAN RIGHTS OUR COMMITMENT Trent Limited acknowledges that every single human being is entitled to enjoy his or her human rights without any distinction of race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. Trent Limited abides by the Constitution of India and law of the land and levies utmost importance to human rights thereby upholding and safeguarding the same. To translate the above mentioned into actions, the company has adopted a set of standards & codes and adheres to them strictly. Following is an insight into the company’s philosophy on Corporate Governance, and certain other codes that are adhered to with respect to protecting and promoting human rights: Purpose Upholding the Tata group belief, we at Trent are committed to improving the quality of life of the communities we serve. We do this by striving for leadership and global competitiveness in the business sectors in which we operate. Our practice of returning to society what we earn evokes trust among consumers, employees, shareholders and the community. We are committed to protecting this heritage of leadership with trust through the manner in which we conduct our business. Core values The Tata Group has always been values-driven. These values continue to direct the growth and business of Tata companies. The five core Tata values reinforce the way we do business at Trent are Integrity: We must conduct our business fairly, with honesty and transparency. Everything we do must stand the test of public scrutiny. Understanding: We must be caring, show respect, compassion and humanity for our colleagues and customers around the world, and always work for the benefit of the communities we serve. Excellence: We must constantly strive to achieve the highest possible standards in our day-to-day work and in the quality of the goods and services we provide. Unity: We must work cohesively with our colleagues across the group and with our customers and partners around the world, building strong relationships based on tolerance, understanding and mutual cooperation. Responsibility: We must continue to be responsible, sensitive to the countries, communities and environments in which we work, always ensuring that what comes from the people goes back to the people many times over. A brief statement on Company’s philosophy on Corporate Governance: The Company’s philosophy on Corporate Governance is to observe the highest level of ethics in all its dealings, to ensure efficient conduct of the affairs of the Company and help the Company achieve its goal in maximizing value for all its stakeholders. The Company’s philosophy is in line with the Tata Group’s long standing tradition of fair and transparent governance. The Company has adopted the Tata Code of Conduct (Tata CoC) for its employees including the CEO. In addition, the Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for its Non-Executive Directors. The Company’s corporate governance philosophy has been further strengthened through the Tata Business Excellence Model, the Tata Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading and the Whistle Blower Policy. The Company is in compliance with the requirements of the revised guidelines on corporate governance stipulated under Clause 49 of the Listing Agreements with the Stock Exchanges. ACTIVITIES & MEASURES Induction As part of our induction program, all employees undergo a one day training program with intent to acclimatize the personnel with the Philosophy of the Tata Group, Vision, Mission and Values of Trent and the various policies and procedures of the company. The program also includes aspects relating to Human rights and Trent’s commitment to augment Human Capital. Measure Target Set Results Achieved 100% Employees 100% of the employees have been trained in respect to the aspects of Human Rights CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Our Commitment The Tata Code of Conduct states the following: “A A Tata company shall be committed to be a good corporate citizen, not only in compliance with all relevant laws and regulations, but also by actively assisting in the improvement of the quality of life of the people in the communities in which it operates, with the objective of making them self-reliant. self Such social responsibility would comprise initiating and supporting initiatives in the field of community health and family welfare, water management, vocational training, education and literacy, and encouraging encouraging the application of modern scientific and managerial techniques and expertise. This will be reviewed periodically in consonance with national and regional priorities. The company shall also not treat these activities as optional ones, but shall strive strive to incorporate them as integral part of its business plan. The company shall also encourage volunteering among its employees and help them to work in the community. Tata companies are encouraged to develop social accounting systems and to carry out socia social audits of their operations.” Trent Limited through its Corporate Sustainability department strives to address the concerns of its employees, stakeholders and the community (especially the underprivileged sections section of the society). In order to realize the same, it follows a 2 fold process: 1. Selecting the Key Communities To o ensure that the activities carried out by the Company have an impact, the company follows an exercise of selecting communities based on the felt needs, prioritization of these needs and further further outlining action plans for the same. The process of selecting the key communities is as follows: The he process of selecting Key communities is based on the Social Policy of the Company. The Company carries out initiatives to serve the key communities as shown in the above figure SOCIAL POLICY ⇒ India a youthful country with a large percentage of the population being in the younger age brackets. We believe that these young people shall be the backbone of the nation in the coming years. It is therefore our intention to focus on the socially underprivileged children and unemployed youth in order to provide them with a chance to have a better life tomorrow. ⇒ We shall dedicate resource commensurate with our business requirements to community activities that work towards improving the future of socially underprivileged children and unemployed youth. We shall also use our assets and our expertise in the retail business to further the cause of such communities. 2. Deciding the Thrust areas and clearly outlining the Action Plans o For Implementation o For setting up a process to Measure and Review the Results Activities & Measures Our Company, based on the selection of the key communities intends to lay emphasis on the following thrust areas namely Education, Employment, Employability, Health & Safety, Environment and furthering other relevant social endeavours. An overview of the actions taken, its impact and the plans formulated with regards to the same are as follows: Education As part of our education initiative, we support NGOs by selling items like ‘Diyas’ with a theme ‘Help a Child – Bring a Smile’ during Diwali and ‘Angels Tree’ and Stars during Christmas to generate revenue to help poor children, with the proceeds being given to the NGOs that work in the areas of education & nutrition. For the year 2012-13, we have supported 23 NGO projects, benefitting approximately 5000 children across India. Employment From the various locations 1105 individuals from the Affirmative Action communities were employed within our organization, last year. This has been a result of our twin pronged strategy of working with NGOs having roots in the communities and our employability initiative. Employability In our endeavour to champion the cause of employability, Trent for the last 4 years has been executing a self-designed initiative christened Saksham . The objective being to train underprivileged youth from the communities in a vocational course on ‘Retail Operations’ so as to enhance their employability skills and provide opportunities for employment. The course includes a good mix of theory and practical so as to fully equip every aspirant with relevant skills, knowledge and attitude. With the intention of making the above mentioned project sustainable and scalable, Trent has trained 15 trainers so far from the N.G.Os so far and has taken centre stage with regards to updating the trainers on a timely basis, employing audio visual aids as one of the teaching techniques, providing certification, an on the job training provision and support in terms of providing employment opportunities. In addition, commensurate to our requirements, we intend to employ as many of these aspirants within our organization. Relevant processes have been set to ensure smooth functioning of the above mentioned. Initiative Beneficiaries Vocational Training on Retail 496 underprivileged youth from the Operations communities In regards to the above initiative, a process for implementing, monitoring & evaluation has been designed which is as follows:• Trent Limited will collaborate with N.G.Os to train the underprivileged youth. • Instead of trainers from our company training the youth from the communities directly, trainers from our organization would provide training to the Trainers from the N.G.Os • Trent Limited to provide training for the trainers of the partner organizations (N.G.O’s). • Trent Limited will provide necessary clarifications, technical assistance and constant updation to the trainers with respect to the new emerging trends in the field of Retail. • Trent Limited would provide certification to the trainers. • The trainers from the N.G.O’s would train underprivileged youth from nearby communities • Trent Limited will retain the services of a professional from an educational institute to provide an accreditation vis-à-vis certification • Trent Limited will arrange for store visits of the candidates enrolled in the retail course for enhancing the process of learning. • Trent Limited would absorb the underprivileged youth in the organization commensurate to its requirements. • Trent Limited would help the N.G.O’s link with other organizations of the service industry so as to provide job opportunity to more youth. • Trent Limited will establish a network for sharing of best practices and concerns • Trent Limited will develop audio visual aids as a teaching technique for a better learning experience Affirmative Action Tata Group endorses affirmative action, an initiative relating to endeavours falling under the gamut of: Education, Employability, Employment and Entrepreneurship especially for personnel belonging to the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe categories. As part of this initiative, Trent has provided employment to 1105 people from the affirmative action communities. This means that around 17% of Trent’s employee base is from Affirmative Action communities. Volunteering The leadership team regularly takes initiatives in areas of community development. Employees are encouraged to become members of the professional bodies and volunteer their time, talent and expertise. Senior leaders and employees from Trent Limited are constantly involved in educational activities with student groups from various educational institutions. In addition, Trent has initiated an Award Category for Volunteers who partake in the Corporate Sustainability initiatives. Volunteering has been categorized broadly as follows: Volunteering at our Stores (Stores Staff) Aspirants from NGOs are encouraged to visit the stores as part of the vocational training initiative which provides a unique opportunity for visual and tactical learning. Volunteering with NGO's (Guest Lecturers) The staffs from our corporate office/ stores visit NGOs as a guest lecturer to impart knowledge and skills to the aspirants from the organization Aid to the society Trent Limited has collaborated with a charitable organization, Guru Nanak Trust and donates unused medicines that are subsequently used by the doctors from the trust to treat the sick and afflicted. For the same, Trent encourages their employees and customers to donate unused medicines which are collected through special medicine drop-boxes that are placed at the Corporate Office and at the stores Health and Safety HEALTH & SAFETY POLICY ⇒Trent Limited accepts, without reservation, its legal obligation to provide, so far as is reasonably practicable, a safe and healthy working environment for all employees, wherever they may be located. Our commitment to Health & Safety ranks equally with that which we give to operations, retailing, finance etc. and it has the full support of the Managing Director. ⇒As an employee, you are our most important asset. It is therefore our policy to provide and maintain so far as is reasonable practicable, a safe place of work; a safe working environment; safe handling, safe plant, equipment, and systems of work; and to provide such information, instruction, training and supervision as is necessary to ensure health and safety. ⇒ We shall also undertake to ensure so far as is reasonably practicable, that persons not in our employment, who may be affected by our activities, are not exposed to risks in their health and safety; to fully satisfy our legal requirements with regard to Health & Safety Policy, so that we can fulfill our statutory duties and legal obligations to you; and to not intentionally or recklessly interfere with or misuse anything provided in the interest of health, safety and welfare. ⇒ Our policy on health & safety at work can only be effective with your active cooperation. Our Code of Conduct states the following: “A Tata company shall strive to provide a safe and healthy working environment and comply, in the conduct of its business affairs” We at Trent Limited use the learning acquired from visits to international retail stores, customer feedback and learning from experience to ensure greater care and safety of consumers visiting our stores. All the new incumbents undergo medical tests to recruit a healthy work force. A special thrust is given to ergonomics and accordingly projects and operations to ensure that store layout, and design of fixtures is aimed at providing working comfort to employees. Pest control is carried every month as a part of the AMC at all locations for improving work place environment. Inputs are taken from employees through the ESS process and also information on safety, health and security is disseminated to the employees. The fundamental principle driving safety processes in all Trent stores and offices is that people should be able to exit safely from wherever they are in the shortest possible time, in case of any emergency. Safety considerations towards People, Assets and Systems are built into policies and operating principles, and are improved over time. For e.g.: New Store Opening checklists, Safety Manual, Store Operations processes, Safety Audits and Safety training. Safety Considerations manifest in company processes in various forms, and become the basis for senior leaders to make decisions and lead by example: 1 Store and Office Architecture – safety features for Customers, Employees and Assets. 2 Store layouts – Clear aisles with ample space for movement. 3 Store operations – Security, Surveillance, Shift operations with handovers and takeovers, stock handling instructions, safety audits, awareness sessions and fire fighting training. 4 Procurement – Emphasis on registration and certification of suppliers 5 Stock processes – receiving inspection and audits, screening practices for range freshness and scrap practices. In most of their addresses, senior leaders speak about the importance of Safety. This, along with providing adequate resources for a state-of-the-art safety infrastructure, helps the senior leaders promote an organizational environment that promotes safety. Safety Training and Drills: Each store has a bi-annual training schedule with defined subjects to acclimatize employees to safety precautions. Periodic drills reinforce emergency preparedness. Emergency Response Guidelines are published, seeking to spread awareness on response principles, Dos and Don’ts for several types of emergencies such as Pandemic, Security, Rains, Deluge, Civil disturbances, Overcrowding at stores and Infrastructure breakdown. Self assessment reports, audits and surprise inspections by various Government agencies provide inputs to take preventive measures. The company has also identified business risks associated with its operations in consultation with an external agency, and actions have been initiated for the same. All Stores are currently undergoing a Safety Audit by an external consultant. The findings will be analysed and then appropriate preventive and corrective action taken. Additionally the performance measures for the workplace factors for different locations are as follows:Key Work place Factors and Means to address the factors Area / Factor Means to address the factors Health Medical assistance, Leave, Health-checks for Personal health Medical policy, Shift management, Staff rooms for rest, Breaking Family health of work into parts, workforce teaming that help share, create Exhaustion back-ups Safety All stores on the ground floor or first floor. Personal safety Workplace Tools and Tackles, First-Aid facilities, Training, Complaint management Security Fire prevention features in Stores, offices Fire and other threats CC Camera, Surveillance Fire training, preparedness through drills Central security services governed by SLAs Safety Audits and assessments The work place preparedness and emergencies are ensured using the services of the external audits before and after opening a store. Reports given by Govt. agencies and self-assessments provide valuable inputs to take preventive measures. As part of the continuous training provided to all the employees, the following aspects are covered:Training Modules Training Focus on Module includes Induction • Values • Tata Values and Trent Values training for • Safety • Fire fighting training & safety at work new store • Health • First aid training opening • Tata CoC • Inputs on Tata CoC, Shrinkage, theft (Customized) • Behavioral • Functional inputs by practitioners • Environment • Communication skills, building positive attitude and so on. ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment As an organization, we are fully committed towards the environment and intend to take steps in a direction that reduces negative impact on the environment as a result of our business activities. We abide by the Tata CoC which states the following:“A Tata company shall strive to provide a safe and healthy working environment and comply, in the conduct of its business affairs, with all regulations regarding the preservation of the environment of the territory it operates in. A Tata company shall be committed to prevent the wasteful use of natural resources and minimize any hazardous impact of the development, production, use and disposal of any of its products and services on the ecological environment.” Impacts of products & services The product range of Trent Limited consists primarily of apparel and accessories for ladies, men and children, household, bed and table linen and gift articles. The process of manufacture of our articles has some impact on the environment through use of fabric, chemicals used in the manufacturing process and the materials used in packaging. However, every effort is taken to negate the impact of our manufacturing processes on the environment. Feedback from customers, Industry scan, vendor and consultant interaction have led to the formulation of standards for the products of Trent Limited. Over the years Trent Limited has learnt from its customers of their concerns regarding product safety and added programs to provide greater safety features in our offerings. The nature of our business does not contain highly polluting processes. In spite of this, we are committed to environmental management, as a vital responsibility. The Tata group policy, that highlights the need to play a leadership role in Climate change by all group companies, provides the guiding principles for all actions. While the Supply Chain focuses on initiatives at the Suppliers end, the operations teams explore all opportunities to abate climate change drivers such as energy consumption. The company has undergone a Climate Change assessment, and a plan to address opportunities is in place. Trent Limited ensures that it does not disturb the surrounding environment by complying with all local zoning and building regulations. Starting with a focus on the necessity for containing energy costs, employees have begun to express their consciousness towards climate change in the form of ideas being uploaded on Pathfinder, our improvement management portal. The senior leaders seek to demonstrate their preferences to climate change concerns by converting these ideas into programs at the ground level. For E.g.: Use of energy efficient equipment, preference to greener merchandise, and limiting paper printing. A bi-monthly Energy Efficiency Dashboard with details on electricity consumed, paper and paper cup usage at the corporate office is published for sensitizing all employees. Trent has conducted a carbon footprint mapping exercise, which was led by TQMS and assisted by internal Green champions. This has triggered enhanced awareness of green opportunities. The carbon footprint of new stores opened after 2008 are about 40% lesser than the ones that were opened before. A plan to address opportunities has been put in place that includes effort related to energy conservation and green power sourcing. Climate Change: The Tata group policy that highlights the need to play a leadership role in climate change by all group companies provides the guiding principles for all actions. Trent focuses on four areas for championing the cause of a green operation: • Energy Conservation • Logistics Efficiency • E-Waste Management • Product Manufacturing & Packaging • Use of energy efficient means in offices and Stores such as day-light use and auto-shut off valves for water. • Limiting the use of non bio-degradable materials such as plastics by tracking and controlling its consumption. Targets are set for energy consumption at stores and offices and adherence monitored monthly. A bi-monthly Energy Efficiency dashboard is published across the organization. Logistics efficiency with a focus towards reducing carbon footprint helps the organization reap business benefits too. E-Waste is managed through certified suppliers. Reduction in usage of plastic in product packaging and sales also help Trent in making its operations a green one. Westside has been certified for E-waste management for safe disposal of e-waste through Eco-Reco. The processes adopted for mitigating risks associated with products are as follows:Processes to mitigate impact/ risks Impact on Processes Used Product • QC checks upgraded from time to time • Audit by an International Consultant on QC system Target & measures to mitigate impact/ risks Guidelines Impact / risk on Target Operations product / services Consumer / EPA Pollution – use 100% Recall process Society Proactive of hazardous compliance Store layout Measures dyes, use of to law Training of staff CPSC data plastics Product design base Safety policy Zoning Laws QC testing through Textile textile labs Testing Services Health – on Zero consumers complaints Safety – during Zero Shopping accidents Government Income tax Legal non100% Legal Cell Wealth tax compliance compliance Safety policy Excise rules Statutory to law Insurance Environmental Rules requirement Risk Safety rules Assessment Shops and Internal audit Establishment Act External audit During the planning and construction of stores itself, Trent Limited ensures that environmental issues like noise level, vibration level, and light intensity are taken care of. UPHOLDING LABOUR STANDARDS OUR COMMITMENT Trent Limited strictly adheres to the laws of the land with regard to forced and compulsory labour. The operations of the Trent Limited stores are subject to all the statutory regulations, Shops and Establishment Act, the Weights and Measures Act, and the Packaged Commodities Act, etc. All promotional activities are governed by regulations, and the same are strictly adhered to by Trent Limited. The statutory acts related to the management of its employees and their benefits are also adhered to. Trent Limited has a Secretarial and Legal department that ensures the compliance of all legal and regulatory requirements. The internal audit department reports, suggests and facilitates compliance as a proactive measure. Operating under the Tata Code of Conduct emphasizes corporate ethical behavior and the culture of Tata CoC has spread across to other stakeholders thereby ensuring practices that promote fair labour practices, non-discrimination, non-employment of child labour and safeguarding Human Rights at all levels of employment. ACTIVITIES & MEASURES Social Compliance Trent has embarked upon an initiative with vendors on Social Compliance. The objective being, to engage with them in our fight against Child Labor, Forced Labor, Discrimination/ Harassment and to promote Health and Safety thereby aiming at improving the quality of life. The idea was to go beyond the boundary of business and further ‘human values’ along with the vendor fraternity. Social compliance Audits: The company institutes periodic audits on its suppliers, to identify opportunities to enhance the quality of social compliance. The audit is based on the ILO conventions mentioned below• Forced labour Child labour Wages Discrimination • Working hours Health and • Safety • Freedom of • association • Home • workers Equal opportunity employer Trent Limited adheres to the Tata CoC which states the following: “A Tata company shall provide equal opportunities to all its employees and all qualified applicants for employment, without regard to their race, caste, religion, colour, ancestry, marital status, sex, age, nationality and disability. Employees of a Tata company shall be treated with dignity and in accordance with the Tata policy of maintaining a work environment free of sexual harassment, whether physical, verbal or psychological. Employee policies and practices shall be administered in a manner that ensures that in all matters equal opportunity is provided to those eligible and that decisions are based on merit.” Trent Limited believes in social equity and is an equal opportunity employer. It strives to maintain a right mix of the fresh and experienced by continuously recruiting talent from available sources all over the country through its various recruitment schemes. The Company understands that cultural diversity is important to address the regional preferences of the customers. As such, most of the associates and officers are recruited from the city in which the store is located. Employee Welfare Benefits Officers, Associates Managerial ESI, PF, PF, Gratuity, Employee Deposit Linked Health & Accident Insurance, insurance, Conveyance, Medical, Education allowance, Vehicle assistance, Medical reimbursements Conveyance, LTA, AN ETHOS OF ANTI-CORRUPTION & PROMOTING ETHICAL BEHAVIOR Our Commitment As per the Tata Code of Conduct, the company adheres to a strict policy against any corrupt practices. The policy on gifts and donations, as explicitly mentioned in the Tata CoC is reproduced below: “A Tata company and its employees shall neither receive nor offer or make, directly or indirectly, any illegal payments, remuneration, gifts, donations or comparable benefits that are intended to, or perceived to obtain business or uncompetitive favours for the conduct of its business. However, a Tata company and its employees may accept and offer nominal gifts which are customarily given and are of commemorative nature for special events.” As part of our financial accountability, the Managing Director and the Chief Financial Officer of the company certify to the board that the accounts of the company present a true and fair view of the business of the company. This certification is based on the Compliance certificate furnished by each of the HOD’s. The compliance certificate is as provided in a clause of the Internal Customer Satisfaction Agreement. Any complaints regarding corrupt practices (made under the well established Whistle Blower Policy), are processed through the Ethics Counselor. An environment of legal behaviour is ensured by identifying all the applicable legal norms and ensuring their compliance through regular reviews and process audits. The Internal Audit department strengthens the process of legal compliance by carrying out periodic audits, reporting shortcomings and also suggesting means for improvements. Ethical behaviour is reinforced by adoption of the Tata CoC, Values and their deployment through the various approaches related to Communication and Training. The key processes adopted in carrying the message of ethical conduct and desired behavior is as follows:KEY PROCESSES/ INDICATORS OF ETHICAL BEHAVIOUR Stakeholders Key Processes Key Measures Suppliers/Vendors • Vendor Selection VSS feedback • Interactions • Complaints • Communication on Tata CoC Employees • Tata CoC / Values • Complaints implementation • Act of misconduct • Training • ESS feedback • Communication by EC • Shrinkage • Insider Trading Landlords/ Property Dealers Contracts signed Informal feedback Brand Owners • Communication Deviation from clause / contract terms Customers Operations and • CSS services offered • Customer tracking thru’ CFTS • Informal feedback The ethical environment is reinforced by the following practices. • Each employee is explained the TCoC at the time of appointment, and is a signatory to the code. • All suppliers are made to sign an agreement which mandates adherence to the TCoC. • Training programs and leadership briefings are done to increase awareness of the code. • A corporate ethics counselor who, along with local counselors at at offices and stores, act as listening posts and assist in resolution of concerns. Each unit has a lady ethics counselor to make employees comfortable. • A monthly ethics and incidents reports is submitted to the Chief Ethics Counsellor by all stores. He ana analyses the report and takes necessary action, including escalating to SLT and Board wherever required. • The TCoC is prominently displayed in all employee operating areas at Stores and Offices. • Employees are actively encouraged by the leadership to understand understand the code and to contact their Local Ethics Counsellors to report any concerns. • An email account to capture employee concerns. • Employee & Vendor surveys to assess ethical environment. • The Tata Group MBE documents guide the process of concern resolution. resolutio • Annual corporate compliance report to the Group. Trent Limited has nominated Location Ethics Counselor in Stores across the nation. Concerns at stores levels are first raised to the LEC and then escalated to the EC. Actions taken at locations are commu communicated nicated to EC. All property dealings are carried out with the highest ethical standard. The senior leaders stand the test of scrutiny in every situation in which they lead the business transactions of the company, by virtue of an environment of openness and equal participation. Their words, actions and behaviors are visible to other colleagues in the organization, and are subject to evaluation in the periodic employee surveys. The senior leaders have established a mechanism consisting of a Chief Ethics Counselor reporting to the Ethics Committee of the Board that that reviews and addresses breaches in ethical conduct within the organization, organization, to provide recourse to anyone wanting to report breaches of the code. The senior leaders communicate the Tata Code of Conduct and organizational Values during their employee interactions and meetings with stake holders (E.g.: Vendor meets). The implementation of Tata CoC process is as follows: Implementation of ethical process Trent Limited monitors the effectiveness ctiveness of the ethical behavior at different levels using a strong feedback process. As an E&I this year it was decided to get the feedback from Vendors on ethical ethical dealings and transparency transparency.
