Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2013 Aeon Basic Principles Peace The Customer People Community The word ÆON (Aeon) has its origins in a Latin root meaning eternity. Aeon abides by the unchanging principles of “pursuing peace, respecting humanity and contributing to local communities, always with the customer’s point of view as its core.” The Aeon Commitment was established to help us implement these principles and to guide us in our practice of the Customer-First philosophy. [Peace]: Aeon is a corporate group whose operations are dedicated to the pursuit of peace through prosperity. [People]: Aeon is a corporate group that respects human dignity and values personal relationships. [Community]: Aeon is a corporate group rooted in local community life and dedicated to making a continuing contribution to the community. Aeon Commitment We hope to create a future of limitless promise by transforming daily life through our open, dynamic approach. 1 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 Editorial Policy CONTENTS This report reports on characteristic initiatives of Aeon Group Top Message 3 companies, primarily for the General Merchandising Store Aeon Group Overview 5 Business and Supermarket Business. This report presents both environmental and social initiatives of Aeon Aeon Group CSR 7 Group companies, focusing on pure holding company AEON CO.,LTD. and the General Merchandising Store and Supermarket Businesses. Close UP Initiatives included in the report have been selected based on the 1. Aeon’s Tree Planting 10 million trees 9 level of public interest, the level of emphasis by Aeon and other factors. They include environmental conservation activities and social 2. Launch of Smart Aeon 11 contribution activities conducted together with customers as well as initiatives conducted through products and at stores. Highlight 2013 The 2013 edition provides a Special Issue section that offers a close up on how Aeon is slated to reach its 10 millionth tree planted in 2013 Aeon Group CSR and Growth Strategies 13 and on Aeon’s store development initiatives, which are evolving from Part1 China and ASEAN as new store ‘Eco Store’ to ‘Smart Aeon.’ In addition, the Highlights 2013 section openings accelerate in the region 14 introduces three themes about the Aeon Group’s CSR activities and Part2 Aging and Urban Populations 17 growth strategy, which are “accelerate store openings in China and ASEAN,” “cope with the sharp increase in aging and urban populaPart3 TOPVALU brand expanding globally 20 tions,” and “expand the TOPVALU brand globally. As for initiatives undertaken during fiscal 2012, particular attention is given to key Fiscal 2012 Activities 23 issues one through four established as key performance indicators. Results and Target of Key Issues Information is also provided on our ongoing support to those in need Key Issue 1 following the Great East Japan Earthquake. Realization of a Low-carbon Society 27 •Report Period Reduce CO2 Emissions in Stores, Reduce CO2 Emissions in Products FY2012 (March 1, 2012 – February 28, 2013)* and Logistics, Generating Electricity at Stores *For operating companies with different fiscal years, the relevant time Key Issue 2 periods are indicated on each report section. Conservation of Biodiversity 33 •Scope of Report Biodiversity Conservation in Products and Logistics, This report covers the pure holding company AEON CO., LTD. and its Biodiversity Conservation at the Store Level, Actions Taken with Customers consolidated subsidiaries 227 companies, 24 companies equityKey Issue 3 method affiliates (as of February 28, 2013). Better Use of Resources 39 When a section applies to only certain operating companies, it is Effective Utilization in Stores, Together with Customers indicated as such. The Aeon 1% Club, whose activities are funded by donations made Key Issue 4 by major Aeon Group companies totaling 1% of their pre-tax profits, Addressing social issues 43 and the Aeon Environmental Foundation, which takes part in activities Community Involvement, Fair Business Practices, Consumer Issues, to protect the Earth’s environment, also appear in this report. Human Rights/Labor Practices •Target Audience Update Report Our customers, shareholders, students, local residents who live in the neighborhood of the stores of the group, business partners, NPOs, Aeon’s Response to NGOs, government, investors and Aeon people (Aeon employees) the Great East Japan Earthquake 67 •Reference Guidelines Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) CSR Management 69 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3) Corporate Governance Environmental Reporting Guidelines (FY2007 Version), Ministry of the Risk Management Environment of Japan Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005, Ministry of the EnvironCompliance and Corporate Ethics ment of Japan Environmental Management ISO 26000: Guidance on social responsibility Disclaimer Independent Review 79 This report contains plans and strategies for the future of Aeon Group, Group Chief Environmental Officer's Commitment 80 as well as predictions and prospects regarding our performance. Such Primary environmental conservation and information is based on our determinations and convictions made social contribution activities 80 based in accordance with the facts and information currently available GRI Guidelines Indicators 81 to us. AEON 1% Club AEON Environmental Foundation What is a company’s role in society? What do customers expect from Aeon? We aim to foster plentiful life and an earth that has a variety of riches. What should Aeon’s aims be as a company? The AEON Group 1% Club Without the earth’s riches, all living things, including humans, could not (now, the AEON 1% Club) was inaugurated in 1989 in response to such survive. To protect the earth’s environment, it is essential that private questions, and with the philosophy that Aeon should be a company that, enterprises and citizen groups work together with local and national for the future and for the community, makes proper use of the benefits we government agencies. The AEON Environmental Foundation (formerly receive from our customers. AEON Group Environmental Foundation) was founded in 1990 with the Our major group companies contribute 1% of pre-tax profits for a variety intention of supporting and giving assistance to like-minded groups of activities centered around environmental conservation, international actively developing activities to protect the global environment. cultural and ‘people to people’ exchanges and human resources Since the start, AEON Environmental Foundation has been implementing development, and revitalization of local culture and communities. As a tree-planting activities around the world, as well as a variety of joint retailer, we are positioned to carry out programs with our customers and environmental protection initiatives, such as development of human we intend to continue to value joining hands with our customers. resources in the fields of the environment and biodiversity. AEON Sustainability Report 2013 2 Top Message Aeon is promoting the dual objectives of ‘Aeon Group growth’ and ‘Societal development.’ Becoming a Supra-Regional Retailer connecting with Asia through Four Shifts Four programs in a three year ‘Aeon Group Mid-term Management Plan,’ starting from fiscal 2011 through fiscal 2013, support the achievement of sustainable business management. As the weight of the world economy shifts to Asia, creating a billion new members of the middle class, Aeon is propelling an Asia shift that is accelerating business expansion in the region with a unified coalition of partners in retail, developing, finance, services, and other businesses in order to achieve further growth as a distribution and retail sales group rooted in Asia. At the same time, the population continues to rapidly age in Japan and China. To address these growing needs, we are implementing a senior shift, revamping our stores, products, and services to ensure a stress-free and enjoyable shopping Group CEO, experience for everyone. In Japan and abroad, we are also President of AEON CO., LTD. advancing a digital shift that is taking advantage of the growing adoption of the Internet and creating environments where everyone can use their PCs or mobile devices to Motoya Okada conveniently and safely engage in e-commerce. In addition, we are responding to the changing lifestyles and shopping demands of urban consumers in Japan and pushing forward with an urban shift in establishing a high concentration of small stores in urban areas. Finding Business Opportunities in Social In China and the ASEAN region, economic growth and Challenges, Sharing in the Growth urbanization are manifesting environmental problems Aeon’s ‘Customer First’ commitment has been passed down such as increasing CO2 emissions and air pollution, while through over 250 years of history since the company’s promoting the erosion of local communities. To even further inception. Aeon has continually grown by joining forces engage in mitigating these issues, we established the first with like-minded companies aiming for transformation from concrete targets in Japan's retail industry to reduce overall retailers to corporations, modernizing and industrializing. The CO2 emissions. In connection with this, we started the Aeon Aeon Group currently has 350,000 employees and sales of ECO Project in September 2012. Based on our success with over 5 trillion yen. It has become the largest retail distribution the Aeon Manifesto on the Prevention of Global Warming, group of companies in Japan and in Asia. which was achieved one year ahead of schedule in 2011, Although our scale of business is expanding, and along this new policy establishes specific, quantitative targets to with this our position of influence on people’s lives, on achieve by 2020. We have also adopted the Smart Aeon society, and on the environment, Aeon will continue to honor policy in response to a growing focus placed on energy our basic principle of ‘pursuing peace, respecting humanity problems and on retail stores as key social infrastructure in and contributing to local communities, centered on our communities since the Great East Japan Earthquake. As part customers.’ In order to practice the dual objectives of ‘Aeon of the ECO Project, this policy centers on building towns and Group growth’ and ‘Societal development’ we need to give communities with regard for the environment. attention to a variety of challenges endangering a healthy Seeing trends and social needs in the Asian market as and sustainable society. In solving the individual problems, both a ‘growth opportunity’ and as a need for ‘problem we can also discover business opportunities. Together with solving’ allows Aeon to develop as a sustainable corporate our stakeholders, we must promote the growth of ‘sustainable group together with Asian stakeholders. This is what Aeon management.’ seeks as a ‘supra-regional retailer connecting with Asia.’ 3 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 Establishing a Global Base for CSR This initiative brings the universal value of TOPVALU, which to Support Sustainable Business Management are safe, eco-friendly, with high cost performance products, to To become a supra-regional retailer connecting with Asia, a range of product sectors and communities. Fiscal 2013 saw focusing on the four shifts while establishing a global base for the establishment of a special product development system CSR will be critical. for Malaysia on the heels of similar efforts in China. Aeon drew up the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct, In collaboration with Aeon in Japan, efforts are also that is enabling us to work together with the supply chain, underway to follow on from the new headquarters in China including our manufacturing partners, both domestically in building a system for conducting CSR at businesses in and internationally, to pursue environmental conservation Malaysia and throughout ASEAN in order to strengthen the activities and establish appropriate working conditions. In group's base for CSR. Further efforts in China and the ASEAN 2004, Aeon became Japan’s first retailer to sign on to the region are involving local customers while utilizing retail United Nations Global Compact, a set of 10 principles laid industry advantages, while others are focused on conducting out by the UN on human rights, labor, the environment and diverse environmental and social contribution activities anti-corruption. We were also the first to acquire SA8000 through the Aeon 1% Club and the Aeon Environment certification, an international standard on protecting human Foundation with special considerations made for each region. rights in the labor market. Moreover, we formulated the Aeon Sustainability Principle Instilling Aeon DNA in the Group While Utilizing a in March 2011 that defines CSR activities for the entire Diversity of Human Resources To Achieve Group. In this, we have laid out four key issues for achieving Innovation sustainable management that balances Group growth with With the aim of further accelerating “glocal” business growth, the development of society. These are: 1) realization of a lowAeon recruits human resources with diverse character, carbon society; 2) conservation of biodiversity; 3) better use capabilities, and values through such efforts as conducting of resources; and 4) addressing social issues. We have also recruiting orientation sessions in countries around the world, established key performance indicators (KPI) for individual particularly in China and ASEAN. My mission among all this activities. is to instill Aeon DNA and its customer-first orientation in the group while establishing policies and strategies for Answering the Needs of Society and Markets producing new innovation from human resource diversity, with a “Glocal” Perspective that Respects the achievement of which will revitalize the Japanese Unity and Diversity economy, help those in areas devastated by the Great East While remaining unified as a group, we approach projects Japan Earthquake recover, and contribute to sustainable independently. This includes establishing group strategies, development in Asia. building new stores, developing products, recruiting and Through dialogue and cooperation with our stakeholders, training human resources, preserving the environment, and we as Aeon people will continue to strive to be a corporate contributing to society. We draw upon the diversity of our group that garners the understanding and pride of the Aeon people to respond flexibly to local demands and to community. changes in the market. ‘Unity’ and ‘diversity’ go along with ‘global’ and ‘local’ management. Our sights on further advancing glocal business management, in March 2012 we began operations at Aeon Group’s China Headquarters (Aeon (China) Co., Ltd.) to enhance our group's business foundations in China. We also established the Aeon ASEAN Headquarters (Aeon Asia, Inc.) in November to manage and support group businesses in the ASEAN region. The two companies are currently engaged in coordinated efforts while at the same time focusing on activities particular to their individual regions. One of these efforts is the TOPVALU First initiative, which is part of a strategy for growth that is parallel to the four shifts. AEON Sustainability Report 2013 4 Aeon Group Overview The Aeon Group consists of around 250 companies in Japan and abroad, employing over 360,000 people unified in the aim of contributing to a comfortable and convenient lifestyle for our customers. Aeon is mainly a GMS (General Merchandise Store) enterprise, More than 360,000 Aeon employees, in around 250 Aeon Group but is expanding to large mall-type regional commercial area companies in Japan and abroad, are striving to contribute to the shopping centers (SC) as well as a variety of local commercial convenient and comfortable living of our customers and to area specialty shops that supply life’s daily necessities and offer achieve global ‘customer satisfaction.’ 543 specialized services to the local community. In addition, in support of our customers’ healthy and comfortable life, we are AEON CO., LTD. developing a variety of businesses such as small supermarkets, convenience stores, drug stores, and general financial services. Headquarters for Japan Headquarters for China Headquarters for ASEAN Operating Revenue (billion yen) Operating Income (billion yen) FY 2008 52,307 51, FY 2008 1,243 FY 2009 50,543 FY 2009 1,301 FY 2010 51,146 *1 FY 2010 1,723 FY 2011 52,233 *1 FY 2011 1,986 FY 2012 56,853 FY 2012 1,909 Others Others Shopping Center Development Shopping Center Development Business, Others Business, Others Service Financial Services Business, Service Business Operating Operating Revenue Sales Income Sales GMS Business, SM GMS Business, SM by Segment Business, Strategic by Segment Business, Strategic (FY2012) Small Size Store (FY2012) Small Size Store Business, Specialty Service Business, Specialty 1,723 Store Business, Financial Services Business, Store Business, ASEAN Business, Service Business ASEAN Business, 1,956 China Business China Business *1 In addition to revisions to fiscal year 2012, operating revenue for fiscal years 2010 and 2011 has * The graph was created based on values simply totaled without consolidated adjustments. been revised due to changes in accounting policy. *2 The graph was created based on values simply totaled without consolidated adjustments. Major Group Companies by Business Segment Sales Service GMS Business: AEON Retail Co, Ltd., AEON Hokkaido Corporation, SUNDAY Financial Services Business: AEON Financial Service Co., Ltd., AEON CREDIT CO., LTD., AEON KYUSHU CO., LTD., The Daiei, Inc., AEONBIKE CO., LTD., AEON SERVICE (ASIA) CO., LTD., AEON THANA SINSAP (THAILAND) PLC., AEON Bakery Co., Ltd., AEON LOQUOR CO., LTD., AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD., JOY Co., CREDIT SERVICE (M) BERHAD, AEON BANK, LTD., AEON CREDIT SERVICE CO., Ltd., TOPVALU COLLECTION CO., LTD., Bon Belta Co., Ltd. LTD., AEON HOUSING LOAN SERVIVE CO., LTD., AEON INSURANCE SERVICE SM Business: Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd., CO., LTD., AEON Reit Management Co., Ltd. Maxvalu Tohoku Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Hokkaido Co, Service Business: AEON DELIGHT CO., LTD., AEON Fantasy Co., Ltd., ZWEI Ltd., Maxvalu Kyushu Co., Ltd., The Maruetsu, Inc., KASUMI CO., LTD., Belc CO., CO., LTD., AEON Eaheart Co., LTD., AEON COMPASS CO., LTD., AEON LTD., Inageya Co., Ltd., AEON MARKET CO., LTD.*1 KOHYO CO., LTD., SANYO CINEMAS CO., LTD., KAJITAKU Co., Ltd., Reform Studio Co., Ltd., Warner MARUNAKA CO., LTD., MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD., MAXVALU KITA TOHOKU Mycal Corporation CO., LTD., MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD., MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD., Others MAXVALU MINAMI TOHOKU CO., LTD., marunaka CO., LTD., Aeon Every Co., E-commerce Business: AEON Direct Co., Ltd., AEON Link Co., Ltd. Ltd. Shopping Center Development Business: AEON Mall Co., Ltd., AEON Discount Store Business: AEON SUPERCENTER CO., Ltd., AEON BIG CO., LTD. TOWN Co., Ltd Strategic Small Size Store Business: MINISTOP CO., LTD., ORIGIN TOSHU Overseas CO., LTD., My Basket CO., LTD., RECODS. Co., Ltd. ASEAN Business: AEON ASIA SDN. BHD.、 AEON Co., (M) Bhd.、AEON BIG (M) Drugstore & Pharmacy Business*2: CFS Corporation, WELCIA HOLDINGS SDN. BHD.、 AEON (CAMBODIA) Co., Ltd.、 AEON (Thailand) CO.,LTD.、 AEON CO., LTD., Medical Ikkou Co., Ltd., TSURUHA HOLDINGS Inc., KUSURI NO AOKI VIETNAM CO., LTD、PT. AEON INDONESIA CO., LTD., Shimizu Drug Co., Ltd., TAKIYA Co., Ltd., Welpark Co., Ltd., ZAG ZAG China Business: AEON (CHINA) CO., LTD.、 AEON Stores (Hong Kong) Co., Co., Ltd. Ltd.、AEON South China Co., Ltd.、 Beijing AEON Co., Ltd.、 Guangdong AEON Specialty Store Business: GFOOT CO., LTD., COX CO., LTD., Taka: Q Co., Ltd., Teem Co., Ltd.、 Qingdao AEON Dongtai Co., Ltd. Abilities JUSCO CO., Ltd., AEON FOREST CO., LTD., AEON PET CO., LTD., AEON BODY Co., Ltd., Claire’s Nippon Co., Ltd., Cosmeme Co., LTD., Talbots Japan *1 Company name changed from Peacock Store Ltd. as of May 9, 2013. Co., Ltd., Branshes Co., Ltd, MIRAIYA SHOTEN CO., LTD., Mega Sports Co., Ltd., *2 Those are Hapycom member companies which operate drugstore and pharmacies. *3 ◎ Equity-method affiliates ○ Affiliated companies (As of April 1, 2013) MEGA PETRO Co., Ltd., LAURA ASHLEY JAPAN CO., LTD., AT Japan Co., Ltd. 5 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 Aeon Bank is really convenient. I can get cash at the supermarket, even on holidays or during The WAON card is New Year’s. great for managing my day-to-day health. It’s also I never knew Aeon comforting to know my was more than just a retailer. prescriptions won’t They can help you buy a home get mixed up. or organize an important life event. Customer I can get the fresh food I want without having to go to a large supermarket. I always find myself checking out Aeon’s convenient shopping site. I love Aeon because I can play with Molly and Lala-chan. I often buy Aeon’s ready-made meals because Aeon’s liquor stores of convenience and taste. offer a great selection of wines and their staff is really knowledgeable. Procurement Sales Service Logistics Product Store System Development Development and Manufacturing, Development Management Quality Control AEON Sustainability Report 2013 6 Aeon Group CSR KPI (key performance indicator) based on the Aeon Sustainability Principle History of Aeon’s CSR Activities CSR Activity Principles Serving the Local Community through Based on the United Nations Global Commerce Compact Aeon’s predecessor company, JUSCO, Inc., came into being With a view to reinforcing its global perspective on CSR, in 1970, as the result of a merger between three companies Aeon in 2004 became Japan’s first retailer to sign the United – Okadaya, Inc., Futagi, Inc., and Shiro, Inc. JUSCO expanded Nations Global Compact. Based on the 10 principles outlined in business with the mission statement at the time of ‘support the United Nations Global Compact, Aeon formulated its “Aeon the community through commerce.’ In the 40 years since then, Supplier Code of Conduct”(CoC)(p. 48), and acquired SA8000 sales have increased from 500 million yen to 5 trillion yen. The certification (p. 49), an international standard related to human number of stores has expanded from 70 to 10,000 and the rights and labor conditions. number of employees has increased from 4000 to 300,000. In Since 2008, Aeon has participated in view of such continued growth, the JUSCO Company Welfare the Supply Chain Sub-committee of the Fund (the present Aeon Welfare Fund) was established in 1977, Global Compact Japan Network in order demonstrating the company’s contribution to society as a to promote CSR together with our supply corporate entity. chain partners. Dialog with member Against this background, in the second half of the 1980s companies is ongoing. Aeon built a system to promote CSR activities in earnest. In 1989 the AEON Group 1% Club (the present Aeon 1% Club) was Basic CSR Activity Principles and Key Issues established and in 1990 the JUSCO Earth-Friendly Committee was formed, along with the Aeon Group Environment Foundation ‘4 Key Issues’ for (the present AEON Environment Foundation). In 1991, a variety of Sustainable Management activities were begun that are linked to present day CSR activities With the launch in November 2010 of the ISO26000, an the ‘Aeon Hometown Forests Program,’ the experimental international CSR guideline, the idea spread that ‘all kinds of ‘Bring Your Own Shopping Bag’ and the ‘Collecting Recyclable organizations must promote measures in support of a sustainable Resources at Stores’ campaigns. society.’ In the past few years, Aeon’s business activities have History of Environmental and Social Activities as well as Future Aspirations Scope / Level of activities 1990 to 1991 2000 to 2001 2008 to 2010 2011 to 2020 Building a Framework and Expansion of Systemization of Management Focused on Launching Initiatives Individual Initiatives Policy and Publication Society and the Environment ● Established the Aeon 1% Club ● Started the Aeon Happy Yellow ● Response to climate change ●Developed the Aeon and Aeon Environmental Receipt Campaign ● Response to protecting Sustainability Principle Foundation ● Initiated the My Basket & My Bag ecosystems ●Developed KPI System ● Initiated the “Aeon Hometown campaigns ●Developed Aeon China CSR Forests Program” ● Acquired ISO 14001 certification Principles ● Commenced the “Bring Your ● Endorsed the United Nations ● Established the Sustainable Own Shopping Bag” Campaign Global Compact Management Committee on a trial basis as well as ● ******************* launched the experimental Formulated the Aeon “Collecting Recyclable Resources Manifesto on the Prevention of at Stores” Campaign. ● Started Clean & Green activities Global Warming and the Aeon Biodiversity Principle ● 1965 Donated 1,000 cherry trees to the Realize sustainable city of Okazaki at the opening of the Changed company name management Okazaki Okadaya Store Launched the JUSCO Started Aeon Day ● 1977 Established the JUSCO Company Earth-Friendly Welfare Fund (now known as the Aeon Committee Welfare Fund) Year 7 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 become substantially more globalized and as the number of to address 4 key issues, each having its KPI (Key Performance stakeholders has increased, Aeon’s influence on society and Indicator) quantitative indicators to assess achievement. The 4 impact on the environment has also increased dramatically. issues are: 1) realization of a low-carbon society; 2) conservation In March of 2011, Aeon formulated its ‘Aeon Sustainability of biodiversity; 3) better use of resources; and 4) dealing with Principle’ to promote CSR activities throughout the Aeon Group social matters. Aeon will be verifying objectives based on social of companies, and publicly announced its intention to achieve tendencies and on stakeholder feedback, and will annually report sustainable management through balancing ‘Aeon Group on the KPI of the objectives through publications such as the growth’ and ‘societal development.’ In order to make steady ‘Social and Environment Report.’ progress in achieving sustainable management, Aeon decided For fiscal year 2011 targets and results, please see page 23-26. Aeon’s Sustainable Management Societal Development Group Growth Realization of a Sustainable Society Customer Community Shareholders, Government Investors Digital shift Senior shift Sales Service Logistics Procurement Product System Development Store Development Manufacturing Development and Management Quality Control Urban shift Asia shift Aeon Group Mid-term Management Plan Stakeholder Supplier Employee Medium-term Initiatives Realization of a low-carbon society Conservation of Aeon Sustainability Better use of biodiversity Principle 4 Priorities resources Medium and Addressing Long Term Initiatives social issues Aeon Sustainability Principle Aeon Sustainability Principle Aeon aims to realize a sustainable society with stakeholders based on our basic principle of “pursuing peace, respecting humanity and contributing to local communities, always with the customer’s point of view at its core.” Peace With “realization of a low-carbon society,” “conservation of biodiversity,” “better use of resources” and “addressing social issues” Customer as core principles, we will think globally People Community and advance activities locally. Aeon Basic Principles Origin of CSR initiatives ▶P.1 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 8 Following through with the Aeon Sustainability Principle – Unwavering commitment to a changing future Close Up ❶ Aeon’s Tree Planting 10 million trees Aeon launched tree planting activities in 1991. An introduction reviewing the evolution leading to China 10 million trees being planted in 2013, and looking to the 1,163,117trees Japan present and future of Aeon’s tree planting activities. 8,036,078trees Laos 148,250trees Vietnam 35,000trees Total 9,900,178 trees Thailand As of February 28, 2013 225,500trees Combodia 12,844trees Kenya Malaysia 3,450trees 236,539trees Australia Indonesia 200trees 39,200trees Hometown Forests Program The start Hometown in Japan – of Planting Trees Forests Program – the first store at the Great Wall The start of the first store of China tree planting in Malaysia 1991:The first Aeon Hometown 1992:The first Aeon Hometown Forests 1998: Initiated Tree planting project to revitalize 2004: Malaysia ‘Borneo tree planting’ Forests Program store Program Japan store the forests at the Great Wall of China AEON Environmental Foundation Malaysia Jusco Malacca Jusco Shin Hisai AEON Group Environmental Foundation (currently, AEON Malacca SC) (currently, AEON Hisai) (currently, AEON Environmental Foundation) Correction to the figure for number of trees planted (unit: 10,000) 553 375 485 * Combined total for the Aeon Hometown Forests Program 245 and AEON Environmental Foundation 13 83 161 1991 1993 1995 1997 1999 2001 2003 Initiation of Tree Planting Activity Significance of Tree Planting Activity Human relations as the foundation Aeon’s tree planting activities as a means of abundance to crystallizing the Aeon Basic Principle Fifty years ago, in the 1960s, president of Jusco (present day Aeon believes that its tree planting activities are an important Aeon) Takuya Okada (currently, Honorary Chairman and Advisor) means to following through with the Aeon Sustainability noticed that the Nandina Heavenly Bamboo flowers in the Principle of “pursuing peace, respecting humanity and garden of his house in Yokkaichi city stopped blooming. This contributing to local communities, always with the alerted him to changes in the earth’s environment. He felt that customer’s point of view at its core.” To protect the Earth’s pollution accompanying economic growth was creating social environment, people of all types from around the world must problems and an emergency situation connected with the loss of share the spirit of nurturing greenery and genuinely caring for nature’s gifts and concomitantly, the loss of the source of forests and nature. Aeon is helping to foster this spirit through richness. Thinking of what he could do as a retailer to improve its tree planting events that involve people of all ages, from things, he came up with the Aeon Hometown Forests Program children to senior citizens. We are also committed to fostering that has been going on since 1991. Since this time, Aeon, with its interaction and communication between these people as close community relations through retail business, has been well. Moreover, the tree species that we plant are mainly planting trees with our customers at new store sites. native to each locale, which helps to preserve the character and appearance of local forests for future generations. 9 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 From Stakeholder From a family that participated in the first Aeon Hometown Forests Program at the Jusco Shin Hisai (currently, AEON Hisai) store in 1992 Three members of our family took part. At the time, my son was two years old, but I decided to participate because I thought it would be a good memory for him. He now says he has no memory of it, but he feels an affinity for trees we planted and that have grown through the years as he has. I think it is significant that these trees that were planted around 20 years ago have grown so well and provide natural richness to the environment. This experience gave us the opportunity to deepen our appreciation of the environment, and to give something to future generations. I hope Aeon will continue tree planting activities. The start of tree planting Beginning in Jakarta of tree planting in the disaster affected areas 2011: Indonesia ‘Jakarta tree planting’ 2012: Aeon Joing Hands Reforestation Program AEON Environmental Foundation (AEON Shiogama) Carrying out tree planting in the 1000 Great East Japan Earthquake area 2008: Aeon Hometown Forests Program (AEON LakeTown) 967 792 923 663 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 Present and Future Tree Planting Activities Points of the Aeon Hometown For the next generation – caring for nature Forests Program and forests, nurturing greenery Professor Emeritus of Yokohama National University and authority on ecology Akira Native trees are best suited to Miyawaki is advising us on the selection of a mix of trees that can maintain the 1 local natural environments. original natural growth competition and diversity of the locale. Along with tree planting, we invite the local people and people connected with the local government to join in a taking care of the trees that were planted, giving everybody A mixture of 10-20 species of a chance to get together. In 2013, the Aeon Hometown Forests Program and the native trees, allows the planted AEON Environmental Foundation dedicated to the regeneration of forests in Japan 2 trees to compete and grow and abroad, will plant a total of 10 million trees. Aeon is committed to planting and naturally. taking care of trees, caring for forests and nature, in order to nurture greenery for future generations. At each location, local customers 3 plant trees one by one. For details on the AEON Environmental Foundation page 2. AEON Sustainability Report 2013 10 Following through with the Aeon Sustainability Principle – Unwavering commitment to a changing future Close Up ❷ Launch of Smart Aeon Developing next generation energy efficient ‘Eco Stores’ able to use energy efficiently and respond to disasters with local communities. Building for Tomorrow Together March 2013 Smart Aeon store part of the community energy management system Following the Great East Japan Earthquake, Aeon stores in the —Aeon Mall Yahata Higashi affected areas became temporary shelters, and centers for Aeon Mall Yahata Higashi in Kitakyushu City is involved in the supplying food and life necessities. Aeon worked in full force for Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry’s Next-Generation Energy early resumption and continuation of store operations. However, and Social Systems Demonstration Project. As part of its role, the since this was a disaster of unprecedented proportion and store is helping to reduce town-wide energy usage by linking with complexity, many points remain to be studied concerning other community energy management systems (CEMS) to provide whether or not customers were fully served immediately real time data on energy usage. following the occurrence of the disaster. ‘Smart Aeon’ was begun to realize the goals of the ‘Aeon ECO Project’ (p.27) launched in September 2012. In addition to the building environmentally friendly stores, ‘Smart Aeon’ has a focus on ‘towns’ and ‘communities,’ working with local communities for energy efficiency and provision of safe and reliable support in face of emergencies, such as large-scale natural disasters. Following the opening of the first Smart Aeon store at Aeon Mall Yahata Higashi in March 2013, Aeon will open additional Smart Aeon stores at Aeon Town Shin-Funabashi, Aeon Mall April 2013 Osaka Dome City and Aeon Mall Makuhari-Shintoshin before the end of fiscal 2013. Going forward, Aeon plans on developing a Smart Aeon store involved in community building variety of Smart Aeon stores that will make unique contributions to town and community building initiatives based on the needs —Aeon Town Shin-Funabashi and characteristics of each local community. Identifying with the Smart & Share Town Concept that connects people and utilizes the latest, most cutting edge technologies and information, Aeon Mall Funabashi is partnering in this project to help develop a town that continuously generates environmental value. Smart Energy Disaster Integration Prevention of WAON and Regional and Internet ‘Smart Aeon’ Infrastructure the Criteria Traffic Situation Biodiversity (Smart Mobility) and Landscape Winter 2013 Smart Aeon store slated to open at Aeon Mall —Makuhari-Shintoshin 11 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 May 2013 Disaster Resistant ‘Smart Aeon —AEON Mall Osaka Dome City With AEON Mall Osaka Dome City, opened in early summer 2013, positioned as a Disaster Resistant Smart Aeon store, Aeon has begun a new joint effort with Osaka Gas Co., Ltd. based on 4 principles developed as a result of the Great East Japan Earthquake. Osaka Municipal Fire Department Osaka Municipal Transportation Bureau concept 1 Disaster designated Protecting Communities hospitals AEON Mall Osaka Dome City Kyocera Dome Osaka esistant Aiming to be a disaster-r ters con cep t shopping cen Osaka Gas Hub concept 2 District Heating Conserving Energy and Cooling Plant Aiming for ener gy security in the event of a disaster Super Embankments Conserving the 3 Global Environment CommInfo unication concept concept 4 Aiming to reduce CO emiss rmation 2 ions by 40% through a wide range Conveying Eco and Disaster of energy-saving measures From Stakeholder From Aeon e are deepening collaboration with We will continue to contribute to the communities to become a model for community through Smart Aeon post-earthquake town renewal. development nationwide. The core ‘Disaster Resistant Smart Aeon’ next generation store Aeon Mall Osaka Dome City is introducing a variety of technologies being at that location holds special significance for us because the to contribute to the community. Aside from maintaining company had its beginning at Iwasakibashi, Nishiku, Osaka. Aside construction and facility systems to assure that store operations from our Osaka base, Kyocera Dome Osaka, designated disaster continue during emergencies, power outages, tsunamis, and hospitals, government agencies, as well as designated tsunami earthquakes, it is meeting top Group specifications for energy evacuation sites, such as the deck around the Dome, are located efficiency. The most distinctive among these is the gas here as well. It is an important urban disaster resistance area. With co-generation system making use of surplus exhaust heat to the opening of ‘disaster resistant Smart Aeon,’ we can look forward contribute to the energy efficiency of the entire region and to the growth of the region’s disaster resistance capabilities. We achieving the first smart energy network in the industry. We will will continue to work with the local community on this project to continue to use thermal and electric power sources in the future build a model energy system, having learned from the example of and to develop Smart Aeon stores nationwide, making the Great East Japan Earthquake, and contributions to communities. being based on taking advantage of the gas system and the twin elements of ‘Eco’ and ‘disaster resistance.’ Hiroki Yamashita, Koichi Takahashi, Manager Chief, Corporate Energy Sales Department Construction Dept. Commercial & Industrial Energy Business unit Shopping Center Development Division Osaka Gas Co., Ltd. AEON Mall Co., Ltd. AEON Sustainability Report 2013 12 Highlight 2013｜Aeon CSR and Growth Strategies Responsibilities and Activities as a Supra-regional Retailer Connecting Asia Over the next several years the rapidly growing Asia region will see its middle class population swell to one billion. The region’s growing consumer markets represent an amazing business opportunity for the Aeon Group, but there are also concerns about what this rapid economic growth is bringing with it, including serious environmental problems like global warming and widening income gaps. Given this background, Aeon, which is focused on sustainable management that balances Group growth with the development of society, has defined four paradigm shifts that correspond to changes in its global operating environment and is promoting a strategy to expand sales of safe and reliable TopValue brand products, under its Medium-term Management Plan launched in fiscal 2011. Through these measures, Aeon will achieve growth while satisfying the needs of its customers in Asia and will leverage its expertise accumulated in Japan, which has already experienced many of the same challenges, to offer solutions to aging societies, urbanization, environmental issues and food safety. In this manner, Aeon will aim to become a Supra Regional Retailer that connects Japan and the countries of Asia in peace and prosperity. Main Initiatives for FY2012 based on Aeon Group Mid-term Management Plan Group-wide strategy Growth Strategies CSR / Risk Management HighlightⅠ China and ASEAN as new store openings accelerate in the region ▶p. 14 Establish 3 headquarters structure AEON (China) CSR policy development Asia Shift Environment Risk Management Committee China, ASEAN in the rapidly growing, the Acquisition of Carrefour Malaysia installation (headquarters for China) promotion is a group integrated a variety Four sub-committees formed on CSR New stores (GMS 9, SM 4, Small Stores 29) of businesses in the communities. (headquarters for ASEAN) HighlightⅡ Aging and Urban Populations ▶p. 17 Accelerate the opening urban stores business To develop a shopping environment of Urban Shift category urban shopping weak Focus on the needs of people who live in Aeon Every Co., Ltd. started operations big cities, and expand the multi-store and Peacock Store Ltd. subsidiary development of the new type suitable for urban areas. Promoting the development and provision Promotion of universal design of the store Senior Shift stores, products and Hold the exhibition to To correspond to the needs of the senior services to meet the introduce senior market from the point of view of four needs of the ‘Grand citizens products and products and the sales floor tenant Generation’ services, and dialogue organization services. generation with customers ‘Aeon Square’ – Aeon’s shopping portal open AEON Direct, AEON Digital Shift Link. is acquired Expand a wide range of products and Privacy Mark services to enjoy easily more convenient, the Internet shopping. HighlightⅢ TOPVALU brand expanding globally ▶p. 20 Items increase the number Established development company TOPVALU First of TOPVALU specializing in TOPVALU in Malaysia. The Promotion of the lineup and improve Developing TOPVALU implementing measures for the safety and quality ion own planning and products for each region improve the quality of products development of TOPVALU. Launched the CSR Procurement Guidelines Study Group 13 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 HighlightⅠ China and ASEAN as new store openings accelerate in the region Strengthening CSR implementation systems and getting more actively involved in China and ASEAN. Business expansion in China and ASEAN —Establishment of ASEAN headquarters The Asian region is projected to become the world’s No.1 market by the year 2020. In expectation of the Asian region being increasingly peaceful and prosperous, Aeon is accelerating store openings in China and ASEAN and building strong links with local customers and communities. In March 2012, Aeon established Aeon China Co., Ltd. as the headquarters for the Aeon Group in China. This company ensures that Aeon businesses can quickly prepare and implement growth strategies in the country. It formulates Group strategy, engages in new store development and product development, hires and trains employees and is involved in CSR activities in China where Aeon employees a workforce of more than 12,000 people. In this regard, we are promoting a multi-format strategy to our expansion where we combine our capabilities not only in GMS, but also supermarkets, developing, financial services, customer service and specialty shops to deliver customized solutions ideal for each individual community. In November 2012, we established AEON ASIA SDN. BHD. in Malaysia as our ASEAN headquarters. Around this same time, we acquired Carrefour Malaysia, the country’s fourth largest retailer in terms of sales. Our goal going forward is to have a 100-store network under Aeon Big Malaysia by the year 2020. In addition to Malaysia, we also have operations in five other ASEAN member countries, including Thailand, the Philippines, Indonesia, Vietnam and Cambodia. Action❶ In China Continuing activities under the 4 priority themes Formulated Aeon China CSR Policy with key performance indicators set for each. Sub-committees As our presence in China grows, we will need to strengthen our for each priority meet regularly to check results and progress as CSR foundation that includes compliance and risk management. part of our broader effort to become the number one corporate The assistance of our subsidiaries in China is essential to rolling CSR brand in China. out unique initiatives at other group companies. Furthermore, these companies will need to collaborate with one another and Aeon (China) CSR Policy with the Aeon Group in Japan, which has taken the lead in 1. We will put energy and resource conservation into effect in pursuing various activities, to work as ‘All Aeon’. As a result, our order to halt global warming headquarters in China formulated the Aeon China CSR Policy in 2. We will provide our customers with safety and security 2012 and established a joint Japan-China team for managing the 3. We will create a work environment of mutual respect and progress of these activities called the Environment Risk recognition Management Committee. The Committee has identified four 4. We wlll do business in a just and transparent manner priority themes: ‘energy conservation,’ ‘risk management,’ 5. We will support community activities as a corporate citizen. ‘compliance,’ and ‘community contribution and communication,’ Environment Risk Management Committee Organization Chart/Main Agenda of Fiscal 2012 Environment Risk Management Committee Sub-committees Energy Conservation Subcommittee Risk Management Subcommittee Compliance Subcommittee Community Contributions t$SFBUFBOEPWFSTFFBOAFOFSHZDPOTFSWBUJPO t1FSGPSNSJTLBTTFTTNFOUT t$SFBUFUIF$IJOFTFMBOHVBHFWFSTJPOPGUIF Subcommittee checklist’ applicable to all Aeon companies t)PMEXFFLMZNFFUJOHTXJUIUIF$IJOB ‘Compliance Basic Manual’ t4FUBOA FPO%BZ operating in China headquarters t)PMENFFUJOHTXJUIMFHBMBòBJSTNBOBHFSTJO t%FUFSNJOFUIFTUBSUEBUFPGUIFHSPVQXJEF t1MBOBOENBOBHFFOFSHZDPOTFSWBUJPO China biannually ‘Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign’ targets for 2012 t#VJMEOFUXPSLGPSTIBSJOHJOGPSNBUJPO The Committee is headed by the Aeon (China) Chief of Staff and the general managers of the various companies promoting GMS in China. Sub-committees are headed by managers of Aeon Japan’s departments of General Affairs, Environment and Community Contributions, Legal Affairs, and Aeon Delight’s Environment Affairs manager. The persons responsible for environmental affairs from each of the Aeon Group companies in China attend the meetings as members of the Committee. AEON Sustainability Report 2013 14 Action❷ In ASEAN Action❸ In China and ASEAN Implementing a project to build a sustainable Proactively promoting activities that contribute business model to the environment and local communities Four sub-committees formed on CSR Activities launched in advance of new store openings Since May 2012 Aeon has partnered with its ASEAN headquarters All of Aeon’s stores in China and the ASEAN region always and operating companies in the ASEAN region on a project to practice a ‘customer first’ philosophy. The knowledge and establish the ASEAN model for sustainable business expertise gained from store development and operations in the management through sub-committees set up to cover the four Japanese market has helped Aeon to expand aggressively in the themes of compliance, hygiene control/quality management, region and remain closely in tune with the needs of local the environment and disaster preparedness. In March 2013, customers and markets. senior executives from Aeon Group companies in the ASEAN Along with contributing to local communities through our region attended a meeting that reported on the implementation businesses and by instituting, in advance of store openings, tree of the ASEAN model at Aeon Malaysia. planting and educational programs to train the next generation, Aeon’s expansion internationally focuses more on Activities launched in Vietnam, Cambodia and Indonesia Based on initiatives taking place at Aeon Malaysia in setting key performance indicators and managing CSR activities, Aeon’s CSR activities that are carried out in each country and the number of st ASEAN headquarters will host regular reporting sessions so that Group companies in the ASEAN region can promote specific activities based on the unique characteristics and social issues of each locale. The headquarters will also launch projects in each China Number of stores: 227 ASEAN member country in conjunction with future store The major CSR activities: opening plans. Planting Trees at the Great Wall of China In March 2013, a sub-committee was newly established at Aeon Scholarship program Aeon Vietnam. Moving forward, Aeon plans on setting up new Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign projects in Cambodia, Indonesia, Thailand and Myanmar. Purpose and implementation framework of projects for Kazakhstan establishing the ASEAN model Number of stores: 1 Provide peace of mind to customers through products as well as improved private brand product quality and in-store cleanliness management. Prevent in-store accidents, thefts and fires as well as mitigate damages from natural disasters to provide added Laos peace of mind to customers. Number of stores: 1 Raise employee morals and awareness toward compliance, The major CSR activities: foster a culture where employees feel a sense of worth and The Aeon and UNICEF Safe Water Campaign belonging, and become a company trusted by customers. Make contributions to the local community as a good corporate citizen through consideration for the environment and energy conservation. Myanmar Number of stores: 1 The major CSR activities: School Construction Support Project ASEAN model Promotion System India Top management Number of stores: 1 Project Owner: Headquarters for ASEAN CEO Project Sub Owner: AEON Malaysia president Executive office: AEON Asia Co., Ltd Executive office of Japan side Promoting Responsibility: Vietnam, Cambodia, Indonesia, Thailand, Malaysia Management general manager of countries Sub-committees Malaysia Number of stores: 118 CSR Affairs Compliance, Quality control, (Environment, (disaster prevention, The major CSR activities: Legal Sanitary control Customers energy conservation Tree Planting Activities service) and indirect materials) Aeon Malaysia Cheers Club The sub-committee, the person in charge of ASEAN companies and legal representatives of Japan headquarters, quality control, administration, environmental and social contribution, customer service, construction have participated as a member. 15 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 growing as a corporate group with stakeholders in the region VOICE and through business activities that fit the local community. The Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt In 2012, we established headquarters for our operations in Campaign conducted in all Aeon China and the ASEAN region and established a framework for stores in China was a great success. implementing the Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign in China and the Aeon Cheers Club in the ASEAN region. Going forward, Aeon will continue to promote group-wide activities both in Japan and overseas as well as pursue activities that Li Kang (Coco) PR Manager contribute to the environment and community from a glocal Group Administration Dept. perspective where local needs are addressed together with AEON (CHINA) CO., LTD (Aeon Group China Headquarters) larger underlying social issues. The Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign was initiated across all Aeon stores in China on August 11, 2012. Prior to that, when each ore openings around the world store had its own campaign, we recognized that our Chinese customers have a high consciousness for social contributions. This time, however, the coordinated campaign had added significance because each store redoubled its efforts and the designated receipt collection boxes filled to overflow with the yellow South Korea receipts. Customers were really pleased, saying it was the first Number of stores: 1,892 time they could contribute like that to support the organizations of their choice. Number of Submissions: August 2012 – February 2013 Number of Groups: 144 Japan Number of Receipts: Posted 783,535 Number of stores: 13,501 Total value: 89,743,152 yuan The major CSR activities: Amount of Donation: Goods worth 897,431 yuan (1% of total) Tree Planting Activities Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign Aeon Cheers Club Aeon Malaysia Cheers Club was established with 1672 participating children learning Vietnam about the environment and teamwork. Number of stores: 20 The major CSR activities: PET Bottle Cap Collection Campaign Thailand Fansuri Bin Alias Manager CSR Number of stores: 266 Corporate Communication & Branding AEON CO. (M) BHD. (AEON Malaysia) AEON Malaysia has the same Sustainability Principle as AEON Japan. In fiscal 2012, AEON Malaysia established the Aeon Malaysia Cheers Club as a priority issue of the Sustainability Cambodia Principle of ‘awareness and education.’ With the support of our Number of stores: 1 customers, 1672 children participated in the program. AEON The major CSR activities: Malaysia works on the four activity levels of ‘store,’ ‘state,’ ‘nation,’ School Construction Support Project Teenage Ambassadors Program and ‘overseas.’ In 2012, the following were carried out: Biodiversity Training Tour in Tasmania, an overseas program; the three-day overnight camp, a national program, and the Eco Day Tour, a Philippines state program. (page 25) In addition, training programs were Number of stores: 339 carried out to improve the abilities of coordinators responsible for management of store activities. We are aiming for better communication with members in the future through the SNS (social network service), newsletters, and websites. AEON Malaysia Sustainability Principle 1. Conservation of biodiversity Indonesia 2. Better use of resources Number of stores: 6 3. Realization of a low-carbon society The major CSR activities: 4. Stakeholder engagement Aeon Scholarship program 5. Awareness and education * Opening number of countries is the number obtained by summing all of the seed store AEON Sustainability Report 2013 16 Highlight Ⅱ Aging and Urban Populations Providing a comfortable and convenient shopping environment for all consumers amidst sharp increases. Helping solve the social issues associated with aging and urbanization Today, Japan’s population has reached the status of ‘super aged society’ because more than 23% of its population is now over the age of 65. By the year 2020, this percentage is expected to climb as high as 29%. More and more elderly have seen their range of daily activities diminish gradually and are finding it difficult to go shopping for their day to day needs. At the same time, although the number of commercial facilities has increased in urban areas, there are actually fewer retail stores selling daily essentials, which is led to a new population of people that are unable to go shopping, which includes the elderly. Given this, Aeon is more committed than ever to providing all of its customers with an enjoyable, convenient and pleasant shopping experience. We will accomplish this through a ‘Senior Shift’ to meet the needs of senior citizens from the four perspectives of products, sales floor, retail tenant development and services, a ‘Digital Shift’ to ensure consumers are able to shop easily and conveniently on our e-commerce site, and an ‘Urban Shift’ to bolster new store openings of more compact supermarkets for urban areas. The graying of society is also progressing rapidly in China and the ASEAN region. As a result, Aeon will push forward with an ‘Asia Shift’ that builds upon its experience in the Japan market. This will enable it to provide a convenient and pleasant shopping environment for all of its customers in China and ASEAN, which face similar issues. Our ultimate goal is to fulfill our mission as a retailer to provide a lifeline for people’s lives around the world. Action❶ In stores Aspiring to offer stores that are senior-friendly Initiatives at the Aeon Kasai Store Developing stores with universal design elements The Aeon Kasai Store was recently remodeled in May 2013 as the To make the shopping experience safer and more pleasant for first ‘Grand Generation’s Mall’. The entire fourth floor of this not only elderly customers but also those with a disability, revamped floor has been dedicated as a sales floor for products and services targeting the Grand Generation, offering an extensive expectant mothers and mothers with small children, Aeon is selection of senior-friendly products and a concierge service, a first rolling out a variety of universal design elements at its stores, for Aeon, with a staff of eight to assist seniors with their shopping including making signage and POP displays larger, installing needs. universally accessible restrooms and lounges, and eliminating To provide added support to seniors in their daily lives, we also set up a Kurashi-no Support Counter to complement our steps at store entrances. In addition, we have assigned certified conventional same day delivery service (where we deliver products “Care-Fitters” (see page XX) to support the customer shopping bought in stores to the customer’s home on the same day they experience and we are also encouraging more of our employees were purchased). Through this counter, we now offer house to become “Supporters for People with Dementia” (see page XX). cleaning and home remodeling services, in addition to delivery, assembly and installation services for home appliances, furniture and storage solutions purchased from our catalogue. Developing stores for the ‘Grand Generation’ Aeon proactively designs its stores based on customer feedback and demographic surveys on the surrounding communities. We consider active seniors over the age of 55 as the Grand Generation and are working to ensure that our stores are fully senior-friendly, since this demographic accounts for 40% of Japan’s consumer market. The Grand Generation is a phrase advocated by screenwriter Kundo Koyama to describe active senior citizens that are healthy, positive and enjoy their retired life, which is supposed to be the grandest time in a person’s life. 17 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 Focusing new store openings on more compact urban about 2,000 items, including fresh foods, prepared foods, designs processed foods and daily essentials. As of November 2012 we As part of our ‘Urban Shift’, we are focusing new store openings had 300 ‘My Basket’ store locations. on those urban parts of Tokyo and Kanagawa prefectures with In addition, we are accelerating new store openings of little retail coverage. Our format for these openings is ‘My Basket’ RECODS stores, which combine the advantages of a convenience brand, which is a small supermarket featuring a more compact store with the specialized services of a drugstore, to position design ideal for urban spaces. These stores carry on average these outlets as community health care stations. Changes in the number of store openings (Number of stores) 350 330 300 250 246 200 173 150 113 100 50 29 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (The end of February each year) Action❷ Through our products and services Expanding products and services for the Grand Generation Responding to the needs of health conscious consumers Providing services that support the day-to-day comfort and people eating alone of consumers Aeon is responding to the needs of an increasing number of In September 2012, Aeon began offering G.G. WAON e-money single-person households, mainly senior, with products geared prepaid cards and G.G. Aeon credit cards as an exclusive service to health consciousness consumers and people eating alone. For for customers over the age of 55. example, under our TOPVALU brand, we are expanding our At some 100 Aeon stores across Japan we either operate lineup of smaller package sizes and leveraging our expertise in chartered buses or encourage local bus companies to stop near prepared foods from Origin Bento to develop ready-made meals. our stores, in order to ensure that our customers have easy and Aeon is also targeting active seniors with an assortment of convenient access. increased clothing choices that combine functionality with attractive designs. Furthermore, Aeon is strengthening its presence in the healthcare field under the vision of serving as a total healthcare station that plays a key role in the health living of local community residents. Launched services for Body Memory, a health Hosted the Grand Generation’s Collection event management support system in Tokyo Aeon Pharmacies, which are located inside Aeon general The Aeon Group and 46 sponsor companies took part in the Grand merchandise stores, launched services for Body Memory, a health Generation’s Collection in Tokyo event held in May 2013 at the management support system, in November 2012. This system Tokyo International Forum. The event showcased a wide range of serves as an electronic health handbooks that can record data on unique Aeon products and services geared toward seniors, such as blood and weight, allow users to view their prescription history and apparel, cosmetics and health foods. Some 56,000 customers visited manage current the event and their valuable feedback will be used to make prescriptions simply by improvements to future products and services. entering their WAON card number and password on their smartphone or Comments from computer. Users can a participant show these health It was a fun-filled day of information directly to fitness sessions and tasting the onsite pharmacist to new food products. We receive better learned a lot about how to live information on their a fun and enjoyable retired life prescriptions and health now that our children have guidance. grown up (couple in their 60s). AEON Sustainability Report 2013 18 Action❸ Utilizing the Internet Pursuing synergies with our brick-and-mortar stores Established internet portal ‘Aeon Square’ Internet supermarket where it feels like shopping With the rapid spread of smart phones and tablets, and the in store advent of internet TV, many people can now easily enjoy Aeon operates an Internet supermarket that involves seven Aeon net-shopping. Japan is confronting an ageing society at an Group companies and some 220 stores. This particular Internet unprecedented pace. At the same time, the reduction of stores is supermarket has become quite popular because it provides proceeding in rural areas because of depopulation. The number consumers with the feeling of shopping in store. For this reason, of seniors and people raising children for whom shopping is it represents a unique “click and mortal” service (combining the inconvenient is increasing. Internet with actual stores and distribution network) offered only In this situation, Aeon group companies established internet by Aeon. The service coverage of our Internet supermarket will portal ‘Aeon Square’ in August, 2010. At the same time we reach XX prefectures across Japan by XX 2013. standardized and coordinated customer IDs and WAON points for all systems. Aeon Link obtains right to use Japan’s privacy mark Aeon Link Co., Ltd. obtained the right to use Japan’s privacy mark at the same time as Aeon Square opened in August 2012. With VOICE the further expansion of e-commerce, the company is working I am working full time, and have hard to reinforce its protection of personal information because to pick my daughter up from of the growing amount it handles from customers. nursery school, so it is difficult for The company holds training sessions more than once each me to do shopping on weekdays. year to help raise awareness among With Aeon Net Super, I can shop Akiko and Marisa Hotogi its employees about the importance on line in the evening, or during my lunch break to have my order delivered the same day. This is of protecting personal information. It really convenient and I use the service often. What’ s more, I am also performs an internal audit at the really happy to be able to choose ‘eco-packaging.’ end of the fiscal year to check for potential problems and institute remedial actions when necessary. Choose from Gift Site Delivery from more than 120 to say ‘Thank you’ stores near you specialty shops Enjoy 24 hour shopping for at popular shops for brand items and categories from over 120 specialty shops. This is a shopping site on the theme You can buy your favorite products of supporting communication from a large assortment of items, and between children and their parents. choose a time for delivery. Delivering a Aeon Financial Wide Range of Services – one stop Products service for insurance, Across Japan credit, and banking Food, clothing, daily life products, Comprehensive financial portal site shopping is up to, such as that 3 companies finance company electronic appliances and furniture. operated by the Aeon Group. 19 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 Highlight Ⅲ TOPVALU brand expanding globally Promoting locally produced food products and local food culture through focus on the TOPVALU brand. TOPVALU First —Expanding into new fields and developing new products while enhancing safety and reducing environmental impacts Consumers are more aware of product safety than ever before, owing to the spate of product quality incidents that have occurred in various sectors. Food safety is perhaps one of the most important issues consumers are aware of because such incidents can directly impact one’s life. This is why many consumers consider safety to be one of the most important reasons to purchase a product. Given this, Aeon is focused on further enhancing the quality and reducing the environmental impacts of products from its TOPVALU private brand. First developed in 1974 to embody Aeon’s ‘customer first’ commitment, today TOPVALU has grown to become Japan’s largest private brands with some 6,000 products covering mainly daily essentials and annual sales of 680 billion yen. Our lineup of eco-conscious brands also includes the TOPVALUE KYOKAN SENGEN brand as well as Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) (see page XX) and Forest Stewardship Council (see page XX) certified products. In addition, we continue to provide new value to consumers’ lifestyles through our ‘TOPVALU First’ strategy. Through this, we are expanding our lineup of products in in-demand consumer segments, such as home appliances, and which utilize agricultural, fisheries and livestock products that help to revitalize local economies. We are also strengthening our TOPVALU product lineup for Thailand, Vietnam and China, which have a rising middle class and demand for higher quality products. In 2013, we established a dedicated company for developing and manufacturing TOPVALU Products locally in Malaysia and Thailand, following a similar one already set up on China. Action❶ Product expansion Product development that supports local sustainability Developing TOPVALU products for each region TOPVALU Gurinai Lettuce Aeon provides fresh produce and delicatessen products as part of its TOPVALU lineup in order to satisfy consumer demands for ‘TOPVALU Gurinai’ lettuce is grown with safe foods. We are also committed to developing TOPVALU minimal chemical fertilizers and products unique to each region that help revitalize local pesticides, making the most of the power economies by using locally grown produce. of nature. Examples of TOPVALU products developed for individual regions VOICE Producer’s Message TOPVALU Hokkaido Eggs Our production center is located in the western part of Ibaraki Prefecture, a thriving area where vegetables can be grown year Carefully combined feed containing round. In order to maintain the taste, texture and freshness of our 10% Hokkaido produced rice, 5% lettuce that we take pride in, we use partially organic fertilizer and wheat, and 5% food by-products. also as much as possible cut down on Sales from Chitose farms are limited time from harvest to shipment. In to Hokkaido. addition, to meet TOPVALU Gurinai brand criteria, we are implementing TOPVALU Mt. Aso Dairy Milk decrease in pesticides that is 50% lower than local standards, and decrease of Plentiful spring water, rich nature and green chemical fertilizers 30% lower than local pastures throughout the year at the piedmont standards. We intend to use different of Mt. Aso. Raw milk from the healthy dairy Kazunori Tochigi varieties of pesticides and fertilizer, and President cows raised here is sterilized and packaged at a to study different methods of cultivation, Since October 2012, the Aeon Cheers nearby factory. in order to continue to bring delicious, TOCHIGISHOKUSAIICHI. safe and reliable lettuce to your table. CO., LTD AEON Sustainability Report 2013 20 Full-scale development and launch of TOPVALU Example of TOPVALU products being developed in China products in China and ASEAN TOPVALU Mini Custard Bun The value of TOPVALU products can be found in the fact they are safe, eco-friendly and offer great cost performance. For this Chinese ‘baozu’ buns are very popular for snacks and also as a reason, these products are well received by consumers in China staple food. TOPVALU in China responds to the customer tastes and the ASEAN region. and is making and selling mini custard buns. Of course we are In China, we began selling TOPVALU products locally in 2012 very particular about the taste, and we plan on expanding our lineup to around 1,000 items but in consideration of growing before the end of fiscal 2013. In Malaysia, we offer some 120 needs for convenience as well, TOPVALU products that were developed by Aeon in Japan, such we have made the buns as foods, apparel and daily essentials. Going forward, we will possible to prepare in a develop more products locally, with plans calling for the lineup microwave oven. to reach 1,300 items in fiscal 2014 and 4,000 items by fiscal 2016. Example of TOPVALU products being developed in the ASEAN region VOICE Product Developer Message TOPVALU Rice Ketupat Our aim is to develop products for our customers in China, to allow them to easily buy high quality TOPVALU brand products. Ketupat is a glutinous rice dumpling The process of development involves understanding customer wrapped in a palm leaf and steamed. It is expectations, selecting suppliers that meet strict TOPVALU brand served with satay and curry dishes. The standards, and then having quality control inspections by outside TOPVALU rice ketupat uses an edible pouch parties. I believe this experience definitely leads to the Chinese instead of a palm leaf for ease of cooking. As customers being pleased. It also is a learning experience for me. a result, the taste of a traditional food can We will continue with confidence and pride to develop Chinese TOPVALU be easily enjoyed with quality and hygiene products for our customers. assured. TOPVALU Rice Ketupat also has Xiaotao Zhang (Alan) Halal certification and can be eaten by Manager of Food Buying Department people who follow the Islamic religion. Merchandise & Buying Division AEON (CHINA) CO., LTD TOPVALU Gurinai Lettuce (Aeon Group China Headquarters) TOPVALU Product Development and Distribution Planning and Selecting Manufacturing 1 Designing Products 2 Partners 3 Determining Product Specifications Along with listening to the expectations of Aeon selects manufacturers after Customer monitors and Aeon employees our customers, Aeon fully takes into conducting inspections to evaluate product prototypes. Following account the issue of product safety, confirm appropriate product strict standards, products that fail to garner a including inspections of materials and the safety and hygienic factory total of 70 percent of highest and 2nd manufacturing process, in order to conditions, and compliance with highest ratings in a 5 step evaluation are eliminate any safety or health hazards. Aeon’s Supplier CoC. rejected. In these cases, specifications would be reviewed, re-checking raw material ingredients, additives, and conditions of the manufacturing process. Aeon Supplier Code POINT! of Conduct Producing Products POINT! that Reflect Customer Opinion Aeon established the Aeon Supplier 5 Code of Conduct in 2003 in order to The starting point of TOPVALU product development is customer feedback. For carry out its social responsibility to ensure the quality of TOPVALU More than 4 example, hearing that customers products. The Code also guarantees wanted one-person portions, we started packaging spaghetti in 100g units, or hearing that customers wanted to know that business transactions with both Japanese and overseas suppliers of TOPVALU brand 70% 3 the expiration date for individual units products are appropriate and that of the 2 of fermented beans packaged together manufacturers are providing a evaluators rated but with the expiration date only on the proper workplace environment. outer packaging that would be Aeon requires suppliers to comply discarded, we put the expiration with laws, respect for the human information on each unit. rights. ＜5-point scale＞ 1 21 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 Action❷ Pursuing safety Managing products with rigorous standards from planning phase to final sale Ensuring quality across the entire value chain Strengthening CSR procurement Aeon focuses on customer-centric product development that Aeon sources products from locations and producers in every reflects customer feedback. As part of this process, we carefully corner of the globe. As a result, we have compiled a set of CSR select our manufacturing partners from the planning and design procurement guidelines that incorporate the perspectives of stages, carefully finalize product designs, as well as closely human rights, labor, and corporate ethics in order to ensure our manage production and sales, in order to ensure only the safest suppliers are mindful of safety, quality, the environment, human quality TOPVALU products are delivered to customers. rights, and working environment during their production of non-TOPVALU products as well. In fiscal 2011, we gathered Established dedicated development company information on the CSR procurement activities of companies in Malaysia for TOPVALU products participating in the Supply Chain Subcommittee of the Global The rapid expansion of product lines and production volume Compact Japan Network, which Aeon is a member of. In fiscal must never result in negative consequences in terms of product 2012, we started a research group focused on CSR procurement safety or quality. With this in mind, we established Aeon guidelines that consists of managers from related departments, TOPVALU Malaysia SDN. BHD., following a similar company in beginning with the Procurement Division, and examined China, to be responsible for TOPVALU product planning, challenges in CSR procurement. development and manufacturing in Malaysia. The company assesses the production safety and site cleanliness of its 100 Guidelines start manufacturing partners in accordance with the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct, and it also holds training sessions on improving quality and safety. Going forward, the company plans Policies and goals roadmap Proposal on expanding its lineup of local TOPVALU products, including Launched study Halal compliant foods, daily essentials and apparel suited to the local climate. 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 4 Product Product Management Inspecting Products 5 Distribution 6 After Product Introduction Products produced following product specifications are Aeon is eliminating Contracts with manufacturing partners allow checked for whether or not they meet expected quality extra costs through Aeon to conduct and record inspections for levels and safety standards. The Research Institute for taking full advantage every product manufacture lot. We also Quality Living, Co., Ltd. conducts around 7,300 specialized of our own distribution conduct periodic spot checks of items on sale quality check inspections a year. network. at Aeon stores. In order to allow customers to choose POINT! TOPVALU products with confidence Aeon product labels display 18 items related to product POINT! Aeon Co. Ltd., as ‘Seller’ on Product Packaging safety, such as possible allergen ingredients, in addition to the 7 indications required by law. Moreover, as much as TOPVALU packaging displays Aeon as the ‘seller’ rather than naming the possible, we list information important to our customers on manufacturer. In the case of PB (private brand) goods jointly developed by a nutritional values, genetic engineering, salt content, etc. In retailer and a manufacturer, and produced according to the specifications addition, for Aeon’s TOPVALU Gurinai agricultural products, of a manufacturer, the names of the two companies will both usually be on Aeon has introduced a the label. However, Aeon takes the position of bearing full responsibility for traceability system whereby product quality and will manage the entire manufacturing process from customers can easily access material procurement through to product history by distribution. Aeon has also instituted a toll computer or mobile phone. free telephone line for customers to be able to get product information, and this is at the same time contributing to our ability to speedily develop new products based on our customer’s feedback and comments. AEON Sustainability Report 2013 22 Fiscal 2012 Activities –Management Approach– Aeon devised Key Performance Indicators (KPI) as part of its commitment to achieving sustainable management. In conjunction with this, we have assigned divisions and person in charge for each KPI field and established a system for taking stock of and managing the results of activities on a regular basis. Since fiscal 2012, we have been reporting on the state of KPI implementation and sharing that information with all stakeholders. In fiscal 2012, we established a new environmental target called the Aeon Eco Project (see page 27) because the CO2 reduction level target set in the Aeon Manifesto on the Prevention of Global Warming was achieved one year in advance of projections in fiscal 2011. As a result, we devised new KPI and began managing our progress toward achieving the targets set out for fiscal 2020. Also, given that circumstances related to KPI, both within Aeon and externally, are subject to change, we will be reviewing and reconsidering guidelines on a regular basis. Realizing a Low-Carbon Society Key Issue Main Category Subcategory KPI As part of the Aeon Eco Project Reduction Strategy, Key Issue 1 Total Annual CO2 Emissions Aeon has established the target of reducing energy Realization of Reduce Total CO2 Emission Factor (CO2 Emissions / usage 50% compared to fiscal 2010 by fiscal 2020 a Low-carbon Total Floor Area） *1 and are taking various CO2 reduction initiatives Society toward this end, with priority given to stores and Total Energy Use Factor Improve Energy Efficiency (Amount of Heat / [ Reduction Strategy ] to products and distribution. In fiscal 2012, we Total Floor Area)*1 advanced the development of conventional Eco Measures for Ascertaining Replacement Amount Stores and launched a new initiative called Smart and Preventing Leakage Aeon, or the next generation of Eco Stores, that help Reduce CO2 Emissions in Stores Prevent Leakage of of Fluorocarbons used in Fluorocarbons and Refrigerated Display Cases to build sustainable towns and communities. In Promote Use of Natural Number of Stores Installing addition, we also continued to improve our energy Refrigerants Refrigerated Display Cases that management practices as well as install equipment use Natural Refrigerants on a Trial Basis that is energy efficient and that uses natural refrigerants. Under the Aeon Eco Project Generation Strategy, Develop Eco Stores Develop Eco Stores we are installing photovoltaic systems and other renewable energy generating equipment onsite at our stores with the goal of reaching 200,000kW of output by fiscal 2020. Going forward, we will strive to make further Number of Products with Communicate CO2 CO2 Visualization (number of improvements to our energy management Reductions to Customers product SKUs for which CO2 emissions are calculated) domestically as well as encourage a transfer of knowReduce C02 Emissions in how to Aeon subsidiaries in China and the ASEAN Products and Logistics region. See p. 27 for details. Promote Visualization in CO2 Emissions per Case during Shipment from Distribution Logistics Center to Store Biodiversity Conservation Initiatives Generating Electricity at Generating renewable Power generation capacity of Stores energy renewable energy Aeon is promoting tree planting together with *New for FY2012 [ Generation Strategy ] its customers at new stores through the ‘Aeon Key Issue 2 Hometown Forests Program.’ In fiscal 2012, we continued to hold forest management workshops as Conservation Communicate BiodiversityVisibility of Biodiversitywell as built a systematic management framework of Biodiversity friendly Products to Customers friendly Products Biodiversity Conservation in for enhancing the value of forests, while also adding Products and Logistics forest management items to the annual facility Compilation of CSR management plans of stores. Guidelines*2 Procurement Guidelines (sustainable procurement and We worked to provide biodiversity-conscious purchasing guidelines) products and develop stores that help conserve and Formulation and Evaluation Biodiversity Conservation at Develop and Evaluate create ecosystems. In fiscal 2012, we began devising the Store Level Indicators Indicators for Impacts on Ecosystems a set of CSR procurement guidelines with the goal of purchasing more sustainable ingredients and raw Actions Taken with Aeon Hometown Forests Maintenance and Management Customers Program Situation of Forests materials going forward. We will work to increase communication with *1 Quantitative figure indicating CO2 emissions per 1m2 of floor space at stores and energy use. It shows the efficiency of CO2 emissions and energy use. our customers about such activities in the interest K PI targets indicate that despite large changes in the number of future stores, CO2 emissions and energy use efficiency will of letting them understand the significance and improve (emissions and use cut in half by 2020). importance of biodiversity. See p. 33 for details. 23 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 KPI Formulation Concept Realization of a low-carbon society Issues of stakeholder interest ● ISO 26000 When formulating KPI, Aeon had to examine ● GRI (G3) Conservation of ● United Nations biodiversity the twin perspectives of ‘matters of high Global Compact Japan Ministry of interest to stakeholders’ and ‘matters ● Better use of r the Environment esources (Environmental important to Aeon’s growth,’ in light of the Reporting Guidelines) Dealing with dual objectives of ‘community development’ Customer inquiries ● and feedback to Social Matters and ‘growth of the Aeon Group. Aeon all Aeon companies determined approximately 20 items to Issues important to Aeon’s growth quantitatively ascertain progress. ・Medium term management plan ・Management policies of Aeon companies Scope Covered Target FY2012 Results Summary of Actions/Initiatives FY2010: 0.10 t/m2 ▼ (1) Make investments in energy conservation centered on lighting solutions Consolidated Group ・FY2013: 0.08 t/m2 0.09t/m2 (2) Step up measures to operate stores with reduced amounts of energy companies in Japan ・FY2020: 0.05 t/m2 * Emissions coefficient uses the post-adjusted (3) Conduct energy management training courses emissions coefficient from 2010. Consolidated Group FY2010: 2.53 GJ/m2 (1) Make investments in energy conservation centered on lighting solutions companies in Japan ▼ 2.07 GJ/m2 (2) Step up measures to operate stores with reduced amounts of energy and overseas (Japan, ・FY2013: 1.86 GJ/m2 (3) Conduct energy management training courses China and ASEAN) ・FY2020: 1.27 GJ/m2 Consolidated ・D  uring FY2012: Complete consolidation ・E  quipment ledger created and preparation leakage companies in Japan for of CFCs replenishment amount management record group unified start (1) Formulate rules for ascertaining replacement amounts General Merchandising ・Reflect actual conditions of retail sector ・Leakage grasp of fiscal 2011 capture 60 percent of the level (2) Examine and execute leakage prevention measures Store and Supermarket in government regulations on leak ・Conducted opinion as a reflection of Japan Chain Stores businesses management Association Consolidated Plan for installation at new stores ・The introduction to 7 stores in FY2012 companies in Japan for ・FY2012: 10% ・Promotion of good relations with the government making Start to resolve challenges relating to regulations, safety and costs through General Merchandising ・FY2013: 15% ・Solution deployment costs, technical challenges delay partnerships with external stakeholders Storeand Supermarket ・FY2014: 25% ・To promote the sharing of knowledge through the Japan businesses ・FY2015: 100% Chain Stores Association ・FY2013: Formulate concept for nextDetermined the evaluation criteria and the Next Generation Consolidated Group generation Eco Stores and begin store Set up a Smart Aeon Working Group, Build collaboration of relevant Eco-store ‘Smart Aeon’ companies in Japan development with aim of reducing CO2 departments ・Developed as a Smart Aeon FY2013 opening four stores emissions by 50% ・F Y2013: Review standard Eco Store concept Consolidated Group Summarized the concept of discrimination Next Generation and apply revised standards to all new Study to fit in the above-mentioned working group companies in Japan Eco-store ‘Smart Aeon’ of the standard Eco-store stores (1) Ensure transparency and fairness using self-calculation guidelines ・Streamline through system accreditation FY2010: 21 SKUs (2) Step up communication to customers ▼ ・1SKU calculation (TOPVALU Grinai Miyazaki pepper) ・Appeal benefits to customers Private Brand (PB) ・Calculate for 100 SKUs every year ・LCA calculation guideline development already ・Market contributions to a more affordable lifestyle and a low-carbon products ・Every year communicate products that ・Education and training is not conducted society help reduce CO2 emissions externally (3) Eliminate waste through CO2 emission analysis and cost analysis (4) Expand the number of products in the initiative (in particular, TOPVALU KYOKAN SENGEN products) ・Reduction of 2.5% compared to fiscal 2012 (estimated), the (1) Improve fuel efficiency by introducing energy-friendly vehicles CO2 emissions that occur in the store delivery of one case ・Trial use of large, natural gas-powered vehicles Compared to FY2010 per ・Promote greater use of eco-friendly vehicles Aeon Global SCM Co., ▼ ・Established in collaboration with outsourcing partners, the (2) Continue to hold the eco-driving accreditation course Ltd. ・FY2013: 5% reduction vehicle environment Study Group. Introduction beginning (3) Expand the system for recognizing good, eco-friendly drivers ・FY2020: 15% reduction of the experiment of large natural gas vehicles (4) Visualization of emissions occurring during shipment of PB products ・Domestic rail transport handling scale retail industry No.1 from the factory to the store Consolidated companies in Japan for Organized a renewable energy task, local survey and establishment of the 40 stores, 2,135 kW installed solar power generation (Total: General Merchandising FY2020: Generate 200,000kW of electricity scheme in order to plan a full-scale introduction to the existing store from 201 stores, 15,251 kW) Store and Supermarket 2013 businesses ・FY2012: Conduct consumer research (1) Step up communication of biodiversity initiatives ・FY2013: 40% visibility in consumer ・Develop core PB products and market accordingly ・Consumer research non-implementation research ・Market regionally developed products (regional TOPVALU) in each region ・Sales of biodiversity-friendly products developed Private Brand (PB) (PB products) (2) Expand the number of biodiversity-friendly products developed MSC: 1,724,113,984 yen (first half) products * Sales of MSC certified products: 7,120 million yen ・Provision of TOPVALU Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) certifi FSC: 354,313,237 yen (first half) in 2012 ed products: ¥11,000 million (7.3% share of total TOPVALU marine ・Create a skeleton Agricultural Eco-experience project * Sales of FSC products: 2,568 million yen in 2012 produce category sales) Expand initiatives at regional Topvalu (3) Verify visibility and criterion and analyze the results (1) Establish working group internally Consolidated Group FY2013: Guidelines Ready (Publication of Started the procurement guidelines Study Group conducted ・Evaluate impact on business activities companies in Japan the goal) awareness together Ex. Social responsibility in terms of biodiversity and other areas (2) Link with the Supplier Code of Conduct Formulate indicator measuring the Consolidated Group impact commercial facilities have on the Adopted Smart Aeon criteria some of the ideas Continue to developing division, the research and development of companies in Japan surrounding ecosystem and evaluate ・Creating a draft proposal of commercial premises version commercial premises version of biodiversity metrics stores based on relevant standards Progress management store and headquarters in cooperation, conduct Consolidated Group ・2012: Phased implementation ・Deployment of progress management model store setting management workshops, in Aeon Retail each company, AEON Hokkaido, companies in Japan ・2013: 100% implementation Manual Workshops & budget planning AEON TOWN, AEON Mall, Maxvalu Nishinihon *2 G  uidelines” was reported in Fair Business Practices is fiscal 2012, is not only the point of view of supplier procurement, Refer to the next page for focused target areas (3) and (4). because the weight of high biodiversity, from fiscal 2013, we reported in the field of “Biodiversity Conservation in Products and Logistics” in “Conservation of Biodiversity”. AEON Sustainability Report 2013 24 Fiscal 2012 Activities –Management Approach– Key Issue Main Category Subcategory KPI Better Use of Resources Key Issue 3 Amount for Third-Party Processing Required under the Reduce Amount of Better Use of Materials Used in Packaging Act on the Promotion of Sorted Collection and Recycling of Aeon is working together with customers to reduce Resources and Containers Containers and Packaging the use of plastic bags and is making changes to (basic unit per ¥100 million in net sales) packaging specifications and the way products are Effective Utilization in Number of Employees Completing Internal Management System for delivered. We are also working proactively to develop Stores Waste Emissions Training Course to Improve Management of Waste refillable products and change packaging materials Emissions during the development of TOPVALU products. We are also conducting waste management Reduce Waste Food Waste Emissions(amount per ¥100 million in net sales) training sessions designed based on a program created together with a professional waste Percentage of Cuetomers management organization in order to better manage Reduce Number of Plastic Declining Plastic Shopping Together with Customers Shopping Bags Bags waste. (nationwide store average) We are identifying issues related to waste Key Issue 4 management and recycling at stores and are giving focused support to concerned stores and businesses. Dealing with Make Contributions to Yellow Receipt Campaign See p. 39 for details. Social Matters Local Communities Submission Rate Community Involvement Contributions to the Community Develop the Human Number of Aeon Cheers Clubs Resources of the Future*3 Aeon is participating in communities with activities centered on the ‘Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign’ and the ‘Aeon Cheers Club,’ and is also Establishment of Audit System Linked to TOPVALU First promoting themes such as “fair operating practices” Fair Business Practices Promote the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct through the ‘Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct,’ Confirmation status of Fair Trade Manufacturers for the “resolving consumer issues” by making products and TOPVALU Brand stores safer, and “human rights and labor practices” for its employees. Number of TOPVALU Products Safe Food and Reliable In fiscal 2012, we added the target of setting Products Removed due to Serious Incident up 100 disaster-prevention facilities in our stores nationwide by 2020 under the Aeon Eco Project Protection Strategy to our KPI. We also established district alternative disaster response headquarters Safety and Security Store Safety and Security that will coordinate with disaster-prevention Infrastructure Development facilities at stores and determined which stores will be designated disaster-prevention facilities in fiscal Consumer Issues Serving as a form of 2013. life style infrastructure The number of local temporary that protects the local Going forward, we will expand our scope of shelters community [ Protection Strategy ] activities further and roll out various initiatives at our companies in China and the ASEAN region. See p. 43 for details. Number of Complaints and Compliments Received System of Dialog with Customers Number of Products Developed / Improved based on Customer Feedback Ratio of Female Executive Officers*4 Promote Diversity Ratio of Employees of Foreign Human Rights/ Nationality Labor Practices Creating Pleasant, Comfortable Labor Practices Workplaces *3 We will from 2013, changed to the number of ion activity Cheers Club rather than club number of ions Cheers Club the KPI. Currently, we have formed a ion Cheers Club in all stores almost domestic GMS, reason for this is expected in future fiscal 2020, the number of stores increases significantly less. 25 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 Scope Covered Target FY2012 Results Summary of Actions/Initiatives Consolidated companies subject to FY2010: 55 tons (1) Reduce materials used in stores, such as plastic shopping bags third-party processing ▼ 41 tons ・Change packaging material specifications requirements ・FY2013: 47 tons (*15% reduction *25.4% reduction (compared to FY2010) ・Re-examine provision methods (38 companies as of compared to FY2010) (2) Properly follow legal requirements for calculating usage amounts 2011) ・FY2012: 100 employees Seminar participants: 128 (1) Partner with external specialist organizations to compile training Consolidated Group ・FY2013: 100 employees Examinees: 74 curriculum companies in Japan Cumulative total: More than 250 Successful candidates: 63 (2) Continue to conduct rank-based waste management training employees Consolidated ・FY2012: Perform trials and take companies in Japan for ・Measurement system is not progress (1) Establish a system to measure actual emissions and accurately grasp the measurements at model stores General Merchandising ・Emissions of Food Recycling Law is made aware of their amount of emissions ・FY2013: A  scertain volume and set Store and Supermarket respective owners (2) Set reduction target factor and implement / manage reduction targets businesses Consolidated Group 2010: 61.5% Percentage of customers declining plastic bags: 63.4% (1) Based on agreements with local governments, increase the number of companies in Japan for ▼ ・Free plastic shopping bags shop is not expanded stores no longer offering free plastic shopping bags General Merchandising ・2013: 70.0% Number 55 stores in FY2012 increased stores (773 stores → (2) Approach local governments in areas that still offers free plastic Store and Supermarket ・2020: 80.0% 828 stores) shopping bags businesses FY2010: 45% of GMS stores had submission Consolidated Group rate of greater than 20% companies in Japan ▼ and overseas for (1) Enhance communication in the shop ・FY2013: S ubmission rate of greater than 37.4% of stores had submission rate of greater than 20% General Merchandising (2) Enhance communication in the media 20% at all stores taking part in (GMS: 66.9% / SM: 16.6% / DS: 8.3%) Store, Supermarket, (3) Proper management the campaign. and Discount Store ・FY2020: G  reater than 30% submission businesses rate at all stores FY2010: 191 clubs Consolidated Group ▼ companies in Japan and ・FY2020: 600 clubs 398 clubs, 6,500 persons (1) Holding training coordinator overseas for the General Implement activities * Japan only (2) The reform clearly more operational manual Merchandising Store undertaken by 60,000 persons business annually Development of Aeon second-party audit Aeon Second(1) Building management system of local-driven in ASEAN and China certified auditors 7 in Japan, 19 overseas party Audit Certified (2) Completion of the audit tool manuals and auditor training materials for ▼ * Including 6 local auditors Auditors overseas newly ・FY2013: 8 in Japan, 20 overseas TOPVALU 1) C larification of support when problems occur ・Confirm manufacturers at least once in 3 (1) Conjunction with external organizations Manufacturing 2) C offee bean production visitors (3 countries). Check based years (2) Visited Tanzania, Guatemala, and Colombia. Check the good operation Partners on the guideline ・FY2013: 55（apparel: 22; food: 14; living / (1) Identify problems from customer suggestions HBC: 19) 92 (2) Step up collaboration with the Products Department and Quality ・FY2020: 30（apparel: 12; food: 8; living / Consolidated Group ・Apparel: 32 TOPVALU products (Up 114.3%) Control Department of AEON TOPVALU Co., Ltd. aimed at finding the HSC: 10) companies in Japan * Need to compare with a new indicator due to ・Food: 37 TOPVALU products (Up 231.3%) cause and implementing preventative measures and overseas the increase in the number of TOPVALU products ・Living / HBC: 23 TOPVALU products (Up 100.0%) (3) Review product specification sheet content (4) Tighten pre-shipment product inspections and provide instructions to Example) Impact on sales from removal of manufacturing partners TOPVALU products ÷ TOPVALU sales Number of stores reinforced against Consolidated Group 45 stores in Tohoku, Northern Kanto, South Kanto and Tokai earthquakes companies in Japan for area (1) Non-combustible sheet of the implementation of the smoke vertical ・FY2012: Complete improvement work General Merchandising ・Smoke vertical non-flammable wall sheet of 25 wall of the store of their expected seismic intensity 6 lower than the at 45 stores in the Tohoku, North Kanto, Store, Supermarket, ・Cinema ceiling fall measures 10 Other Areas Tohoku, Northern Kanto, South Kanto and Tokai area South Kanto and Tokai areas and Discount Store ・Cinema ceiling falling measures 8 (2) Fall countermeasure work of cinema ceiling of 300 seats, 330m2 ・After FY2013: Steadily complete work at businesses 270 applicable stores Consolidated Group Set of alternative district headquarters as a pillar of disaster (1) Work in the private power generation and power deployment task BCP companies in Japan 2020: Local temporary shelters at 100 of prevention bases, and implementation of disaster prevention task and overseas for the its stores across Japan base support of the decision, new stores of disaster (2) Implementation on the category you have (level) divided about the role General Merchandising prevention establishing stores in 2013 and function of the disaster prevention center Store business Number of service complaints (1) Enhance initiatives aimed at the 7 challenges ・FY2013: 3,900 (2) Inspect and improve basic customer service items using mystery Consolidated Group ・FY2020: 2,420 shoppers Service complaints 4,807 companies in Japan (3) Establish education system led by each company Compliments 1,919 and overseas Number of compliments (4) Continue to implement the HAPPY Letter Campaign and share cases ・FY2013: 1,900 across the entire organization ・FY2020: 2,900 (5) Introduce more examples of when compliments were received Consolidated Group (1) Quality for each line, MT product design and MT continuation and ・FY2013: 120 companies in Japan 107 improvement recommendations based on customer suggestions ・FY2020: 180 and overseas (2) Step up collection of customer suggestions Consolidated Group ・2020: 30% 4.2%(33 persons) Actively develop female managers under the management training companies in Japan *Ratio of Female Executive Officers = Female *Number of female executive officers out of 789 total executive officers program and overseas Executive Officers ÷ Total Executive Officers including consolidated Group companies. 2.9%(11 persons) ・In 2020: Make ratio of non-Japanese (1) Actively hire human resources around the world AEON CO., LTD. *Number of non-Japanese employees out of 375 employees that employed by AEON employees to Japanese employees 1:1 (2) Centrally manage human resource information CO., LTD. Promote initiatives under the General Business Action Plan for Japan's Act for (1) Confirm importance of initiative at Group companies Consolidated Group Measures to Support the Development of 9 companies certified to use the Kurumin logo (2) Formulate guidelines for certification to use the Kurumin logo companies in Japan the Next Generation (expand number of (3) Manage initiative progress companies certified to use the Kurumin logo) *4 We will from 2013, changed to female managers ratio instead of woman officer ratio the KPI. For managers as well as executives also play an important role in management decisions, reason, has expanded its target. AEON Sustainability Report 2013 26 Key Issue 1 Realization of a Low-carbon Society FY2012 Results and Target of KPI Reducing CO2 in Stores Total Annual CO2 Emissions Factor (CO2 Emissions / Total Floor Area) 0.10t/m2 0.09t/m2 0.05t/m2 Decreasing CO2 emissions / Enhancing Energy Efficiency [ Aeon ECO Project: Reduction Strategy ] Target FY 2010 2011 2012 2012 2013 2020 For Aeon, which has a store network spanning Japan as well as other countries in Asia, reducing CO2 emissions from stores* plays a key role in reducing emissions for the entire company. That makes it all the more important for us to focus on reducing 0.09t/m2 0.08t/m2 CO2 in our stores. In fiscal 2012, we continued to actively replace conventional Total Energy Use Factor (Amount of Heat / Total Floor Area) store lighting with LED fixtures as in fiscal 2011 under the Aeon ECO Project Reduction Strategy initiated in September 2012. We 2.53GJ/m2 2.07GJ/m2 1.27GJ/m2 also implemented other energy reduction measures, including the use of energy conservation check lists and a summer Target electricity reduction campaign. As a result, our electricity usage FY for fiscal 2012 was 15% lower than in fiscal 2010. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 For fiscal 2013, we have set a target to reduce electricity Target usage by between 5 and 10% compared to fiscal 2012 and by 20% compared to fiscal 2010. To that end, we will continue to 2.23GJ/m2 1.86GJ/m2 implement energy conservation measures across the company. * All CO2 emitted from stores can be attributed to energy consumption. Specifically, around 10% comes from direct emissions through city gas, LP gas and combustion of heavy oil (Scope 1) and around 90% comes from indirect emissions through power consumption (Scope 2). The calculation of CO2 emissions from power consumption uses calculation standards and an emissions factor pursuant to the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. TOPICS New Environmental Targets for 2020 Aeon ECO Project Aeon Aeon’s Manifesto on the Prevention of Global Warming declared a CO2 emission Aeon reduction target for 2012 as 1.85 million tons less in comparison with fiscal year 2006 levels. That goal was met in 2011, one year in advance. With that, Aeon set new targets in Project the Aeon ECO Project plan that started in September 2012. Project With current increasing needs for energy use efficiency and power conservation, and Quantitative targets for fiscal 2020 with the experience of the Great East Japan Earthquake, Aeon has added perspectives Reduction Generation Protection of reducing energy use and developing renewable energy to environmental protection Strategy Reduction Strategy Generation Strategy Protection and has additionally taken on a clear role as a lifeline center protecting the community in Strategy Strategy Strategy disasters and emergencies. Newly established targets have been set in KPI and we are currently moving forward 50% reduction in 200,000 kW from 100 disaster-prevention 50% reduction in 200,000 kW from 100 disaster-prevention energy energy consumption renewable consumption renewable energy energy sources facilities sources facilities JapanJapan across across with initiatives aimed at achieving the targets for fiscal 2020. A progress report for each of these targets during fiscal 2012 can be found in the Examples of Initiatives: following items. •Reduction Strategy: Decreasing CO2 emissions / Enhancing Energy Efficiency (page 27) •Generation Strategy: Generating renewable energy (page 32) •Protection Strategy: Functioning effectively as a lifeline protecting the local community Transition to LED lighting Solar panel installation Private power generation (page 59) equipment installation 27 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 FY2012 Results and Target of KPI Improving Energy Management Practices Measures for Ascertaining Replacement Amount and Preventing Leakage of Fluorocarbons used In February 2012, Aeon established a new Energy Advisor in Refrigerated Display Cases Program to train and certify Energy Advisors that will promote energy conservation at our stores. t&RVJQNFOUMFEHFSDSFBUFEBOEQSFQBSBUJPOMFBLBHFNBOBHFNFOU SFDPSEHSPVQVOJöFETUBSU An Energy Advisor closely monitors how much energy a store t-FBLBHFHSBTQPGöTDBMDBQUVSFQFSDFOUPGUIFMFWFM is using and plans how to use this energy more efficiently. As of t$POEVDUFEPQJOJPOBTBSFøFDUJPOPG+BQBO$IBJO4UPSFT TTPDJBUJPO t&RVJQNFOUMFEHFSDSFBUFEBOEQSFQBSBUJPOMFBLBHFNBOBHFNFOU the end of July 2013, a total of 237 employees had been certified SFDPSEHSPVQVOJöFETUBSU Target t-FBLBHFHSBTQPGöTDBMDBQUVSFQFSDFOUPGUIFMFWFM Target as an Energy Advisor. Going forward, we plan on developing t$POEVDUFEPQJOJPOBTBSFøFDUJPOPG+BQBO$IBJO4UPSFT TTPDJBUJPO FY more Energy Advisors with the hope of having at least two at 2011 2012 2013 2015 Target Target each of our stores. FY We have also compiled the Energy Conservation Manual, 2011 2012 2013 2015 TDFSUBJOFE$'$ t3FøFDUBDUVBMDPOEJUJPOTPG which summarizes our energy conservation efforts that were SFQMFOJTINFOUBNPVOU SFUBJMTFDUPSJOHPWFSONFOU BOEJNQMFNFOUFEMFBL SFHVMBUJPOTPOMFBL created based on the individual QSFWFOUJPONFBTVSFT TDFSUBJOFE$'$ t3FøFDUBDUVBMDPOEJUJPOTPG needs of each Aeon store. This SFQMFOJTINFOUBNPVOU 0QFSBUJPOPGUIFNBOBHFNFOU SFUBJMTFDUPSJOHPWFSONFOU BOEJNQMFNFOUFEMFBL SFHVMBUJPOTPOMFBLTZTUFNUIBUTVQQPSUTUIFSFWJTFE manual has been given out to our QSFWFOUJPONFBTVSFT $'$3FDPWFSZBOE%FTUSVDUJPO-BX GMS stores to be used to check 0QFSBUJPOPGUIFNBOBHFNFOU the current situation and promote Number of Stores Installing TZTUFNUIBUTVQQPSUTUIFSFWJTFE t5IFJOUSPEVDUJPOUPTUPSFTJO': Refrigerated Display $'$3FDPWFSZBOE%FTUSVDUJPO-BX efforts to make improvements Cases that use Natural Refrigerants on a Trial Basis t1SPNPUJPOPGHPPESFMBUJPOTXJUIUIFHPWFSONFOUNBLJOH t4PMVUJPOEFQMPZNFOUDPTUT UFDIOJDBMDIBMMFOHFTEFMBZ where needed. The Energy Advisor Training Course t5PQSPNPUFUIFTIBSJOHPGLOPXMFEHFUISPVHIUIF+BQBO t5IFJOUSPEVDUJPOUPTUPSFTJO': $IBJO4UPSFT TTPDJBUJPO t1SPNPUJPOPGHPPESFMBUJPOTXJUIUIFHPWFSONFOUNBLJOH t4PMVUJPOEFQMPZNFOUDPTUT UFDIOJDBMDIBMMFOHFTEFMBZ Preventing Leakage of Fluorocarbons and Promoting t5PQSPNPUFUIFTIBSJOHPGLOPXMFEHFUISPVHIUIF+BQBO Target Use of Natural Refrigerants $IBJO4UPSFT TTPDJBUJPO FY 2011 2012 2013 2020 Target More and more freezing and refrigeration units started using FY 2011 2013 2020 1VCMJTIFE FPO/BUVSBM2012 non-ozone depleting alternatives to chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) 1MBOGPSJOTUBMMBUJPOBUOFXTUPSFT as refrigerant following the abolition of the production and use 3FGSJHFSBOUT%FDMBSBUJPO t':t': BOEDVSSFOUMZQSFQBSJOH t': of ozone-depleting CFCs under the Montreal Protocol adopted QSPKFDUUFBN 1VCMJTIFE FPO/BUVSBM 1MBOGPSJOTUBMMBUJPOBUOFXTUPSFT in 1987. However, these alternatives have extremely high global 3FGSJHFSBOUT%FDMBSBUJPO t':t': BOEDVSSFOUMZQSFQBSJOH t': warming potential (GWP)*1 and the problem of leaking into QSPKFDUUFBN the atmosphere, which prompted calls to switch to natural refrigerants with low GWP. Against this backdrop, Aeon announced the Aeon Natural Refrigerants Declaration in November 2011. The declaration TOPICS states that Aeon will progressively switch to natural refrigerants Aeon is the only company in the (CO2)*2 for freezing and refrigeration cases throughout our Group Japanese retail business sector to be stores, and that from 2015 on, all new stores will feature natural awarded for excellence in climate refrigerant systems. This is a first for the Japanese retail industry. In fiscal 2012, a total of seven stores, including five MaxValu, change information disclosure one Ministop and one Acolle, began using natural refrigerant. Aeon was named in the NPO Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP*) The use of natural refrigerant is confirmed to be safer, more study for excellence in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index energy efficient and effective toward reducing CO2 emissions. (CDL I). In the 2012 study, 22 out of 500 Japanese companies Aeon faces certain issues ahead of the introduction of natural were named for CDL I, but Aeon was the only company from the refrigerants, including the lack of manufacturers and high retail industry. Aeon released CO2 emissions data for Malaysia and usage costs. We will do our utmost to overcome these issues China as well as for Japan, and was commended for the detailed and promote the industry-wide use of natural refrigerant by analysis of risk and opportunity related to CO2 management. * CDP: the single global system measuring, managing, disclosing and sharing leveraging performance data since the start of use in fiscal 2012 important urban and industrial environment related information. CDP’s to raise awareness and build ties with companies within the worldwide survey covers around 5000 companies, including Japan’s 500 largest companies. same industry and other industries. *1 Global warming potential (GWP): Value expressing the amount of greenhouse gas contained in a substance as a factor of carbon dioxide. *2 Natural refrigerants: Naturally occurring refrigerants such as ammonia, hydrocarbon and CO2. AEON Sustainability Report 2013 28 Development of Eco Stores FY2012 Results and Target of KPI −Next Generation Eco-store Smart Aeon CO2 Emissions per Case during Shipment from development Distribution Center to Store t%FUFSNJOFEUIFFWBMVBUJPODSJUFSJBBOEUIF/FYU(FOFSBUJPO&DPTUPSF Aeon’s Eco Stores generally aim to acquire greater than a A4NBSU FPO%FWFMPQFEBTB4NBSU FPO':PQFOJOHGPVSTUPSFT CASBEE* A assessment in which they achieve 20% lower CO2 t4VNNBSJ[FEUIFDPODFQUPGEJTDSJNJOBUJPO/FYU(FOFSBUJPO&DPTUPSF A4NBSU FPOPGUIFTUBOEBSE&DPTUPSF emissions in comparison with conventional stores. Since the opening of our first Eco Store Aeon Town Chikusa in May 2005, Target 12 such stores had been opened by February 2013. FY 2011 2012 2013 2020 In fiscal 2012, Aeon sees a need to progress further in our efforts in “Eco stores development” with improved low environment impact, and have formulated five criteria Formulate concept for next-generation Eco Review standard Eco Store incorporating the ideas of “community development” through Stores and begin store development with concept and apply revised aim of reducing CO2 emissions by 50% standards to all new stores collaboration with communities in regional disaster prevention and efficient energy use. To put the Aeon ECO Project into practice, Smart Aeon, the next generation of eco stores, has Evolving from Eco Stores to Smart Aeon begun. In March 2013, we opened our very first Smart Aeon store at Eco Stores the Aeon Mall Yahatahigashi. Since then, we have opened new 《The Concepts》 Smart Aeon stores at Aeon Town Shin-Funabashi, Aeon Mall tChange and technical innovation, Learning and collaboration, Disseminated information Osaka Dome City, and Aeon Mall Makuhari Shintoshin thus far in 《Tangible Aspects》 fiscal 2013. tEnergy saving/generation, Environmental e¬ciency, *1 CASBEE: Environmental performance evaluation system architecture that was Natural environment, Landscape and biodiversity developed in 2001. It is used as an index to evaluate and display objectively the performance whether you are conscious how the global environment and surrounding 《Intangible Aspects》 environment, that there is no waste in running costs, such as, or comfortable for the tSafety, security and environmental consideration, user. Recycling within the region, Disclosure, 21st century community Building f or Tomorrow Toge ther Smart Aeon Further evolution of the conventional Eco Store format. tProvides storefront, products and services that is considerate of the environment. tTakes part in environmental activities together with customers. Contributes to the sustainable development of towns and communities. ‘Smart Aeon’ has been added to the criteria Disaster Biodiversity Traffic Smart Integration Situation of WAON Prevention and Energy and Regional Landscape (Smart and internet Mobility) Infrastructure The Progress of Eco Stores and Smart Aeon 2005 2008 2012 2013 First Eco First Smart Store Aeon store Aeon Town Chikusa Aeon Laketown AEON Mall Funabashi AEON Mall Yahata Higashi Introducing a solar power and wind Our 8th Eco Store, installed solar panels Our 12th Eco Store, turned into an Of energy by visualization , thereby power to be domestic commercial facility's LED 97.6% of the lighting of the entire contributing to energy reduction. largest. facility. * For details on Smart AEON page 11-12. 29 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 Aeon has participated in the CFP seminar hosted by the Recharging Stations for Electric Vehicles Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) since 2008 and has been implementing related initiatives in collaboration with Aeon first set up a high-speed recharging station for electric METI. In 2009, we launched an internal project and have been vehicles at the Aeon Lake Town store located in Koshigaya City, promoting a series of initiatives such as formulating independent Saitama Prefecture in 2008 in order to respond to the increasing guidelines for calculation of CFP and introducing rules for use of electric vehicles and plug-in hybrid vehicles. Since then, labeling. we have set up recharging stations at most of our new stores In fiscal 2012, we calculated the total CO2 emissions opened in shopping centers as well as certain existing stores throughout the entire lifecycle of TopValu GreenEye green based on demand. peppers grown in Miyazaki In fiscal 2012, we aggressively moved forward with the Prefecture. installation of recharging stations at existing stores, with the In fiscal 2013, we plan on grand total now standing at 95 stations at 43 locations as of July calculating same data for TopValu 2013. Going forward, we will continue our proactive approach to GreenEye cucumbers also grown in installation and plan to build up an EV recharging station network Miyazaki Prefecture. of 1,150 stations at 490 locations around the country before the * Stock Keeping Unit (SKU): Smallest unit to identify products used when managing actual end of fiscal 2014, which would make it the largest such network sales volume or inventory of a product at final TOPVALU Grinai Miyazaki pepper in Japan. retail points in distribution operations. Currently, many of the recharging stations have been made available to the general public free of charge in order to FY2012 Results and Target of KPI raise awareness and popularize the idea. In the next phase of Number of Products with CO2 Visualization expansion, however, we will need to start charging usage fees (number of product SKUs * for which CO2 emissions are calculated) because of the costs required to provide stable and ongoing t4,6DBMDVMBUJPO 5017 -6(SJOBJ.JZB[BLJQFQQFS services as part of Japan’s broader social infrastructure. Going t-$ DBMDVMBUJPOHVJEFMJOFEFWFMPQNFOUBMSFBEZ t&EVDBUJPOBOEUSBJOJOHJTOPUDPOEVDUFE forward, Aeon will develop a payment system using its WAON 21SKU electric money that it plans to launch around fiscal 2014 with the Target start of fee-based services at recharging stations in a format that FY 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 will ensure maximum customer convenience. Stores installing recharging #VJMUBNBOBHFNFOUTZTUFNGPSUIF t$BMDVMBUFGPS4,6TFWFSZZFBS stations for electric vehicles DBMDVMBUJPOPG$02FNJTTJPOT  t&WFSZZFBSDPNNVOJDBUFQSPEVDUT QBSUJDJQBUFEJOBQSPHSBNTQPOTPSFECZ UIBUIFMQSFEVDF$02FNJTTJPOT Total number of stores UIF.JOJTUSZPG&DPOPNZ 合計店舗数（2013年7月現在） 5SBEFBOE FYUFSOBMMZ 43カ所・95基 (As of July, 2013) *OEVTUSZ BOEQBTTFEBTDSFFOJOH DPOEVDUFECZBUIJSEQBSUZPSHBOJ[BUJPO 95 stations covering Developing and Selling Products that Help Reduce 43 stores CO2 Emissions Aeon is proactively developing and selling products that help reduce CO2 emissions, such as LED bulbs. We are also working to develop and sell products that indirectly reduce CO2 emissions when they are used by Reducing CO2 in Products and Logistics our customers. For example, we are marketing Heatfact high performance thermal under garments and wearable blankets, which reduce the need for nforming Customers of CO2 Emission Reductions heating use and curb CO2 emissions in the process. Aeon is committed to showing the carbon footprint (CFP) of a product in order to make it easier to visualize the CO2 emissions it Heatfact generates through its lifecycle, from raw materials to processing, distribution, consumption, disposal and 16 億 recycling. This helps to 6,155 increase customers’ interest in the environment 万枚 and spur further レジ袋削減枚数 17 corporate initiatives to reduce CO 13億 2 emissions and perform cost 億 analyses. 922万枚 3,890 万枚 7億 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 30 6,714万枚 レジ袋辞退率 Increasing Visibility of Distribution Operations •AEON Retail Co., Ltd. • Target products and services: All products sold in SELF+SERVICE stores across Japan One of Aeon’s KPI is “CO2 Emissions per Case during Shipment • Period: From May 21, 2012 through February 20, 2013 from Distribution Center to Store”. We are striving to reduce • Quantity of emissions credits purchased: 57 tons-CO2 emissions by better grasping the amount of CO2 used during • AEON Mall Co., Ltd. distribution through visualization. • Target products and services: Products from shareholder In fiscal 2012, we reduced the number of shipments by benefits program promoting a modal shift and improved loading ratio. As a result, • Period: From April 1, 2012 through July 20, 2012 we were also able to reduce our CO2 per case generated during • Quantity of emissions credits purchased: 30 tons-CO2 transport from distribution center to store by 2.5% compared to • AEON CREDIT SERVICE CO., LTD. fiscal 2010. • Target products and services: CSR report production Furthermore, we are undertaking research into the expansion • Period: May, 2012 of our modal shift as well as testing the use of large natural gas • Quantity of emissions credits purchased: Less than 1 ton-CO2 powered vehicles that have yet to spread in Japan by participating in various research groups launched by distribution providers, gas suppliers, automakers and universities. In addition to continuing these initiatives, going forward we Generating Electricity at Stores will implement initiatives from both physical and operational perspectives such as converting our fleet of trucks to everGenerating renewable energy more fuel-efficient models that place lower burdens on the [ Aeon ECO Project: Generation Strategy ] environment as well as conducting an eco-driving accreditation course* and enhancing the system for recognizing good, Aeon has established a target to generate 200,000kW of ecofriendly drivers. electricity by fiscal 2020 as part of the Aeon Eco Project initiated * Eco Drive: Driving technique that enables drivers to reduce fuel consumption by starting in September 2012. the vehicle and moving forward gently and eliminating wasteful idling to ultimately reduce CO2 emissions. As of March 2013, 201 stores across the Aeon Group had equipment installed and were producing a total of 15,251kW of FY2012 Results and Target of KPI electricity. CO2 Emissions per Case during Shipment from In fiscal 2013, we plan on installing equipment to raise this total to Distribution Center to Store 850 stores, including Ministop, and t3FEVDUJPOPGDPNQBSFEUPöTDBM FTUJNBUFE UIF 41,478kW of electricity. COFNJTTJPOTUIBUPDDVSJOUIFTUPSFEFMJWFSZPGPOFDBTFQFS * 200 000 kW is equivalent to the ability to cover the t&TUBCMJTIFEJODPMMBCPSBUJPOXJUIPVUTPVSDJOHQBSUOFST UIF WFIJDMFFOWJSPONFOU4UVEZ(SPVQ*OUSPEVDUJPOCFHJOOJOHPG annual power of approximately 45,000 households in the common household. Solar panel installation UIFFYQFSJNFOUPGMBSHFOBUVSBMHBTWFIJDMFT t%PNFTUJDSBJMUSBOTQPSUIBOEMJOHTDBMFSFUBJMJOEVTUSZ/P Target Target FY2012 Results and Target of KPI FY Power generation capacity of renewable 2011 2012 2013 2020 energy 太陽光発電設備を40店舗、2,135kW設置 Began calculating CO2 emissions (累計：201店舗、15,251kW） 5% reduction 15% reduction amount per case for shipment from distribution center to store Target FY 2011 2012 2013 2020 Carbon Offset Initiatives 200,000kW Carbon offsetting refers to the process of purchasing credits generated by CO2 reduction activities at a separate location to offset part or the entire amount of greenhouse gas emissions that for some reason cannot be completely reduced to zero. In fiscal 2012, Aeon Group companies implemented the following carbon offsetting programs. In fiscal 2013, these companies plan on continuing their carbon offsetting programs. 31 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 TOPICS Scope 3 Emissions Launched tabulation of CO2 emissions Category Scope 3 Emissions Categories Emissions (t-CO2) across the entire supply chain 1 Purchased products and services 53,583 2 Capital goods 1,036,588 In addition to managing greenhouse gas emissions they generate Fuel and energy related activities not included in directly (Scope 1) and indirect emissions from the use of electricity 3 Scope 1 and Scope 2 4,540,237 (Scope 2), companies must now manage emissions across their 4 Transport and shipments (upstream) 210,000 entire supply chain (Scope 3). 5 Waste from businesses 25,842 To accommodate this trend, Aeon began measuring Scope 3 emissions in fiscal 2012. These measurements reference the 6 Business travel 112,127 Emissions Unit Database for Calculating an Organization’s GHG 7 Employee commutes 64,514 Emissions Throughout the Supply Chain (Ver. 2.0) and were made 8 Leased assets (upstream) ― for 10 of the 15 categories from Scope 3 that are directly related to 9 Investments ― Aeon. 10 Transport and shipments (downstream) ― Going forward, we will strive to ensure the accuracy of data 11 Processing of products sold ― collection efforts and expand the scope of our calculations. 12 Use of products sold 3,078 13 Disposal of products sold 3112 14 Leased assets (downstream) 807,556 15 Franchise ― Initiatives Undertaken by Group Companies MaxValu Tohoku Co., Ltd. MINISTOP Co., Ltd. Planting Green Curtains honored at the Plans to install photovoltaic systems at 900 stores by Environmental Awards in Akita Prefecture fiscal 2014 Since fiscal 2011, MaxValu Tohoku Co., Ltd. has planted Since the end of fiscal 2012, MINISTOP has been gradually approximately 360 plants by the southand west-facing installing photovoltaic systems at each of its stores. By glass windows at 20 of its stores, including bitter gourd, introducing these systems at 900 compatible stores sponge cucumber, and Japanese morning glory, as part by the end of fiscal 2014, MINISTOP hopes to generate of an initiative to create green curtains for store windows. approximately 10,000 kw of renewable energy. Green curtains can lower the surrounding temperature by Each store currently equipped with a photovoltaic system as much as nine degrees Celsius, effectively contributing to is expected to use about 1,900 kwh of the energy generated greening, energy conservation, as well as the prevention of per year, and the installation of solar panels is expected to global warming. Seedlings were planted by members of the improve air conditioner efficiency (thermal barrier effect), neighborhood association, children of nearby daycare and thereby reducing an additional 1,000 kwh in energy usage, cheerleading clubs, which made the occasion an educational bringing the total reduction to 2,900 kwh per store per year. opportunity for the children. Moreover, some of the stores also share their diary, which records the growth of the bitter gourd, to facilitate interaction with customers. In fiscal 2012, this initiative was further expanded to include 39 stores and the company headquarters, and received an award in the Global Warming Prevention Category at Akita’s Environmental Awards in September 2012. The green curtain planting imitative will continue Solar panels to be implemented in fiscal 2013. Green curtain of bitter gourd AEON Sustainability Report 2013 32 Key Issue 2 Conservation of Biodiversity • Selling MSC-Certified Products Conservation through Products and Distribution The Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) certification assures consumers marine products harvested through properly managed fishing practices. The MSC certification aims to help protect limited marine resources. The Marine Eco-Label is placed Communicate Biodiversity-friendly Products to on marine products caught by certified fisheries. Customers Aeon started selling Alaskan red salmon, salmon roe and Aeon aims to gain the understanding and support of customers other MSC-certified seafood in 2006, a first for the Japanese retail regarding the significance and importance of protecting industry, and recently added salted mackerel and seasoned biodiversity. Based on this philosophy, we implement a variety cod roe to the list of products available. In total, as of the end of of activities such as providing products that help preserve February 2012, we offer customers 12 MSC-certified products biodiversity. across 26 species—more than other retailers in Japan. In March 2012, we ran a marketing campaign aimed at FY2012 Results and Target of KPI informing as many customers as possible of marine products Visibility of Biodiversity-friendly Products certified as sustainable by MSC. As part of the campaign, which was conducted in collaboration with graphic design students of t$POTVNFSSFTFBSDIOPOJNQMFNFOUBUJPO Kyoritsu Women’s University and MSC, posters of MSC designed t4BMFTPGCJPEJWFSTJUZGSJFOEMZQSPEVDUTEFWFMPQFE .4$   ZFO öSTUIBMG by the students were put '4$  ZFO öSTUIBMG up and lectures were held t$SFBUFBTLFMFUPO HSJDVMUVSBM&DPFYQFSJFODFQSPKFDU by members of the fisheries Target industry that practice MSCFY certified fishing. MSC2011 2012 2013 2020 certified seafood was also made available to sample. Began preparation for 40% visibility in consumer MSC marketing posters designed by students consumer research research (PB products) Aeon Biodiversity Principle Basic Principle Grasping the impact our overall corporate activities have on the ecosystem, we actively focus on reducing the impact on the ecosystem and conservation activities, working in collaboration MSC-certified TOPVALU salted wild salmon with our stakeholders, including our customers, local authorities and non-profit organizations. We focus on the following points related to the ecosystem in our corporate activities: • Selling FSC® certified products The Forest Stewardship Council certifies wood products and Through our corporate activities, we paper manufactured with timber from properly managed 1. Remain conscious of blessings and burdens. 2. Engage in initiatives that protect and nurture. sustainable forests. 3. Disclose information on our activities. Aeon has been selling notebooks and other FSC-certified paper products since 2008. Action Guidelines (Excerpt) From fiscal 2011, we have been using FSC certified materials 1. P roducts: We will set sustainability targets for resourcefor frequently used price tags and care labels. managed fresh seafood and processed by products, engage in their purchase and sale while sharing those targets with our business partners, and communicate related information to customers. 2. Stores: We will continue to promote treeplanting campaigns with customers at new store sites and continue to develop Eco Stores with less environmental impact than conventional facilities. 3. With Customers: Through tree-planting campaigns and other FSC certification on a TOPVALU programs, we will share environmental awareness and learn KYOKAN SENGEN notebooks together with everyone. 33 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 • Rice Paddy Activities for Elementary School Students Aeon began the Rice Paddy Activities for Elementary School Students project in 2008. This is an effort undertaken with local agricultural cooperatives and NPOs to teach children about food and sustenance by letting them experience the production process from planting through harvest, and, ultimately, the sale of rice at a retail store. In fiscal 2012, the 5th year of the project, Aeon expanded to include Akita, Iwate, Shiga, and Saga prefectures. The activity will be continued in fiscal 2013. The rice that is being cultivated by children in Shiga, Iwate and Akita is labeled ‘TOPVALU Gurinai Specially Cultivated Rice’ and the children of Saga prefecture produce “TOPVALU Kyushu Hinohikari’ rice. Nagahama City Hayami Elementary Daisen City Kyowa Elementary School, TOPVALU Gurinai Five Criteria School, Shiga Prefecture Akita Prefecture 1. No artificial coloring, preservatives or sweeteners are used in Gurinai products. 2. Use of chemical fertilizers, agrichemicals, antibiotics and other chemical items is minimized in the production process. 3. Gurinai products are made using the power of nature in the location, timing, crop varieties and feeding in order to make foods as delicious as possible. Morioka City Shibutami Elementary Saga City Akamatsu Elementary School, 4. Gurinai products support environmentally-friendly farming School, Iwate Prefecture Saga Prefecture practices. 5. Gurinai products are controlled from production to sale in accordance with our own strict self-imposed strict standards. TOPICS KIZUNA MESSAGE for Biodiversity at Rio +20 Aeon presented its ‘KUZUNA MESSAGE for Biodiversity’* at the Japan Pavilion of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in Rio de Janeiro under the theme of biodiversity and recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake. In May 2012, the Aeon Cheers Club (p. 25) along with children from five Asia-Pacific countries (India, Thailand, Fiji, Philippines, and Indonesia), participated in a pre-program at Natori, Miyagi Prefecture). In all, 30 children inspected the disaster areas in Tohoku. They planted trees, and exchanged views on natural environments differences among their countries. The children made a joint ‘Promise of the Future’ declaration, transcending borders to build a sustainable society, and two of the children acted as representatives to deliver the message at the Rio conference. * Co-sponsored with The Japan Committee for the United Nations Decade on Biodiversity, the Committee on Nature Conservation, and OISCA. Yukari Ikeda (Aeon Cheers Club, Natori Store) and Agrawal Rajat (OISCA Children’s Forest Program) announce the KIZUNA Message as the two representatives of 30 participating children AEON Sustainability Report 2013 34 CSR Procurement Guidelines Biodiversity Conservation at the Store Level Our natural resources face many threats today, from ecosystem destruction from overexploitation to poor agricultural harvests from abnormal weather caused by climate change. Whereas, with Developing and Evaluating Indicators the supply chain now stretched across the entire world, Aeon must be conscious of human rights and working environments at Aeon pays great attention to conservation and creation of suppliers as well as work to prevent corruption, including bribery ecosystems in developing its stores through initiatives such and extortion. as planning and implementing biodiversity evaluation and The products manufactured and sold by Aeon are made environmental burden reduction measures when opening possible by the bounty of nature and contain raw materials stores. The aim is to minimize the impact of our stores on the procured from producers and locations around the globe. We surrounding environment and ecosystem. Examples of these have been following a green procurement strategy for some time initiatives include the Aeon Hometown Forests Program and now where we prioritize the procurement of products that are installing biotopes at some of our shopping centers. environmentally friendly, but to achieve even more sustainable Although we have taken part in a wide range of initiatives procurement, we have created CSR Procurement Guidelines that to date, we did not quantify or evaluate the specific effects. incorporate the perspectives of human rights, labor practices and Accordingly, we set a target of formulating indicators to measure corporate ethics. the impact our commercial facilities have on the ecosystem by In fiscal 2012, we launched a research group focused on fiscal 2013 under our list of KPI devised in 2011. sustainable CSR procurement guidelines that consists of In fiscal 2012, we added biodiversity and scenery as new managers from related departments, beginning with the standards during our planning for the launch of Smart Aeon, or Procurement Division. This research group helped to broaden the next generation of Eco Stores (see page 29). Based on this, we understanding and provide a platform for discussions mainly decided to pursue a store development strategy where land use on the relationship between biodiversity conservation and our is considerate of ecosystem protection and one where biological business activities. resources are used more effectively. In fiscal 2013, we plan on finalizing the policy, goals, target In fiscal 2013, we will establish specific initiatives for items and schedule for enacting these CSR Procurement considering biodiversity in terms of both the site environment Guidelines based on a risk assessment of our primary raw and the store building and plan on completing work on an materials. indicator for measuring the impact store facilities have on an ecosystem that we started in 2011. FY2012 Results and Target of KPI Compilation of CSR Procurement Guidelines FY2012 Results and Target of KPI (sustainable procurement and purchasing guidelines) Formulation and Evaluation Indicators for Started the procurement guidelines Study Impacts on Ecosystems Group conducted awareness together t EPQUFE4NBSU FPODSJUFSJBTPNFPGUIFJEFBT Target t$SFBUJOHBESBGUQSPQPTBMPGDPNNFSDJBMQSFNJTFTWFSTJPO FY 2011 2012 2013 2020 Target FY 2011 2012 2013 2020 Gathered information Guidelines Ready (Publication of the goal) Conducted self-assessment on Formulate indicator measuring the Aeon Mall ItamiKoya and Aeon impact commercial facilities have on the Town Chikusa based on the surrounding ecosystem and evaluate assessment rules of the JBIB* stores based on relevant standards * Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB): General incorporated association established on April 1, 2008 that conducts joint research related to preservation of biodiversity from an international perspective as well as activities to preserve biodiversity together with various companies. 35 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 important, particularly managing their condition following Actions Taken with Customers planting and maintaining the forest where these trees grow. In fiscal 2012, we expanded the target audience for seminars on the planted zone management manual first started in fiscal 2011 to include store managers and facility management companies. Aeon Hometown Forests Program We also added planted zone management work to annual store and facility management plans to ensure that all of our stores are Aeon, since the launch of our Hometown Forests Program in systematically managing tree planting activities. 1991, has been integrating new stores and encouraging local In fiscal 2013, under this new management system, we will residents in the greening of their communities. Under this continue to maintain and administer the Aeon Hometown program, we join with our customers to plant trees on new store Forests Program at all of our stores. Additionally, we will reach our sites. In fiscal 2012 we planted a total of 129,977 young trees in 10 millionth tree planted in fiscal 2013. Aeon stands committed 36 locations. to continuing its tree planting and management activities. It has been 20 years since the start of this initiative. Accordingly, nurturing the trees has become increasingly FY2012 Results and Target of KPI Maintenance and Management Situation of Forests Deployment of progress management model store setting Manual Workshops & budget planning AEON Mall Tsukuba AEON Mall Kasukabe Target FY 2011 2012 2013 2020 Phased implementation 100% implementation Initiatives of AEON Environmental Foundation Aeon Tree-Planting Activities AEON Environmental Foundation, with the cooperation at the national and local government level, conducts tree-planting activities that aim to regenerate forests devastated by natural disasters. These activities are also part of Aeon’s tree-planting initiatives. Tree-planting activities being undertaken by AEON Environmental Foundation have their origins in a similar forest development project implemented in Thailand by Japan International Volunteer Center in 1991. The Foundation’s current tree-planting initiatives are being carried out in different parts of the Planting trees in Mukawacho, Hokkaido world, particularly in Asia, in addition to Japan. In fiscal 2012, in Japan we completed tree planting in Mukawacho, Hokkaido Prefecture and Kihokucho, Mie Prefecture, during the first year of our three-year plan and tree planting in Nanyo City, Yamagata Prefecture and Minamishimabara City, Nagasaki Prefecture as part of the final year. In addition, we also organized tree planting events in Ishinomaki City, Miyagi Prefecture, and Urayasu City, Chiba Prefecture, which were damaged extensively in the Great East Japan Earthquake, as well as in Chita City, Aichi Prefecture. Outside of Japan, we organized a tree planting event in Jakarta, Indonesia and one in Hue, Vietnam as the final year of a three-year plan. Tree planting events in Ishinomaki City, Miyagi Prefecture AEON Sustainability Report 2013 36 Initiatives Undertaken by Group Companies MINISTOP Co. Ltd. AEON Co. (M) Bhd. Building Biodiversity Responsive Stores Expanding Use Firefly Breeding Project of Eco-friendly. On 29 April 2011, AEON signed a memorandum with the FSC® Japan Certified Wood Materials Selangor State Government to participate in a 3 years tree Aeon has been developing stores with attention to ecoplanting programme for Firefly Breeding. system conservation. MINISTOP Co. Ltd., for example, uses The memorandum outlines AEON’s plan in conserving 100% FSC Japan certified materials. The Koshigaya Lake Town and enhancing the environment to ensure the habitat of East store was the first convenience store in Japan to acquire fireflies will be growing time to time. The programme will FSC certification. take place in few phases, and this event on 11th February As of the end of February 2013, 58 MINISTOP stores are 2012 marks the 1st phase in which 600 saplings were planted. FSC certified, and we are aiming to increase this number. The actual tree planting was conducted by 400 volunteers comprising of members from AEON staff, business partners, staff of Majlis Perbandaran Kuala Selangor, OISCA Members, and School Students and local residents. “The firefly site in Kampung Kuantan is one of the largest firefly colonies in the world and it is also one of Malaysia’s natural treasures, and this should be shared with our future generations,” commented Ms. Nur Qamarina Chew, Managing Direction of AEON CO. (M) Bhd. “This is one of Store under construction the steps being taken to help multiply the numbers of the fireflies.” AEON Co. (M) Bhd hopes to spread the significance and value of helping the firefly population to breed and looks forward to sustaining this project for a long time. MINISTOP store (FSC-JPN-0036 ®FSC, A.C. All rights reserved.) 37 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 Initiatives of AEON Environmental Foundation Excellence in Biodiversity Maintenance Biodiversity Award The AEON Environmental Foundation inaugurated the ‘Japan Awards for Biodiversity’ to promote biodiversity conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity, as well as the MIDORI Prize for Biodiversity, two awards honoring recipients in alternate years. The 2012 MIDORI Prize for Biodiversity was awarded to 3 individuals who contributed to the Aichi Target established in 2010 on the occasion of the 10th meeting of the Conference of Parties to the Convention on Biodiversity (COP 10) and the United Nations Decade of Biodiversity from 2011. A Forum for recipients was held in Japan after the awards ceremony in Hyderabad, India, and the COP 11 meeting in October of 2012. From left: Dr. Juan Carlos Castilla (Chili) The third Japan Awards for Biodiversity will be conducted in fiscal 2013. Professor, Department of Ecology, Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile Dr. Vo Quy (Vietnam) Honorary President, Center for Natural Resources Management and Environmental Studies (CRES), Vietnam National University, Hanoi Dr. Rodrigo Gámez-Lobo (Costa Rica) President, Instituto Nacional de Biodiversidad (INBio) Giving Grants for Environmental Activities Since its establishment, the AEON Environmental Foundation has been awarding grants for activities related to the preservation and sustainable use of biodiversity in Japan and in developing countries. In fiscal 2012, 86.11 million yen was awarded to 73 organizations. Friends of the Kawato Biotope Fukuoka Green Helper Association We will continue in 2013 to call for grant applications. (Shimane Prefecture) (Fukuoka Prefecture) Observes and learns about nature Organizes spring tree planting event for through a biotope creating a acorn forest Izunuma/ Uchinuma Dojyo-Namazu Environmental Education Network for Peat-Greening Association PARCIC Study Group Learning from Agriculture (China) (Malaysia) (Miyagi Prefecture/ Aomori Prefecture) (Kanagawa Prefecture) Takes part in activities to counteract Mangrove reforestation workshop for Exhibiting small-scale fish ways Invites specialists to perform biological desertification using peat neighboring fishermen studies at farms AEON Sustainability Report 2013 38 Key Issue 3 Better Use of Resources Group companies. Effective Utilization in Stores In fiscal 2012, a certification test for waste managers was given to 82 employees that took part in the Waste Management Training Course, with 55 passing. Reducing Amount of Materials Used in Packaging and We plan to have a cumulative total of 250 people pass this Containers test by fiscal 2013 and with this in mind will continue with efforts to educate employees on waste management. Most of the rubbish discharged from the home is made up Each Group company also provides training to relevant of packaging and containers. It is therefore an important persons in charge in order for them to acquire the necessary skills responsibility of the retail industry to sell products used in and knowledge for managing the waste manifest. everyday life that contribute to less rubbish by minimizing them. With this in mind, Aeon is working actively to reduce the amount FY2012 Results and Target of KPI of packaging and containers we use. Number of Employees Completing Internal In addition to focusing on reducing plastic shopping bags, Training Course to Improve Management of we are also promoting the use of thinner as well as more ecoWaste Emissions friendly trays. When developing TOPVALU products, we closely examine Seminar participants: 128 Examinees: 74 Successful candidates: 63 packaging and containers and after careful consideration of the impact on the quality of product contents and safety during Target shipment, we work to make product containers lighter and more FY 2011 2012 2013 2020 thin-walled and switch to recyclable material. Additionally, we are striving to develop refillable products and change packaging material based on customer feedback. Seminar participants: 82 100 employees As a result of these efforts, we reduced the required amount Successful candidates: 55 Cumulative total: More than 250 employees of packaging and containers for recycling by a third party (per ¥100 million in net sales) under the Law for Promotion of Sorted Collection and Recycling of Containers and Packaging by 25.4% in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2010, with a total of 41 tons. Reducing Waste Moving forward, we plan to take further actions in order to achieve our fiscal 2013 target. Aeon has established a key performance indicator for food waste as part of its commitment to reducing this type of waste. FY2012 Results and Target of KPI For example, Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. established a target to keep Amount for Third-Party Processing Required the food waste-to-sales ratio* at 0.55%. Unfortunately, this target was not achieved in fiscal 2012, but the company has stepped up under the Law for the Promotion of Sorted its measures to ensure it will meet this target in fiscal 2013, which Collection and Recycling of Containers and includes expanding food waste-to-sales meetings. Packaging (basic unit per ¥100 million in net sales) Going forward, we will look to ascertain food waste emissions 41 tons by measuring actual amounts during trials conducted at model * 25.4% reduction compared to FY2010 stores, and based on this, we plan to establish a reduction target Target in fiscal 2013. * Food waste-to-sales ratio: Food waste x Retail price / Sales FY 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 2020 FY2012 Results and Target of KPI 55 tons 50 tons 47 tons * 15% reduction compared to FY2010 Food Waste Emissions (amount per ¥100 million in sales) t.FBTVSFNFOUTZTUFNJTOPUQSPHSFTT t&NJTTJPOTPG'PPE3FDZDMJOH-BXJTNBEF BXBSFPGUIFJSSFTQFDUJWFPXOFST Management System for Waste Emissions Target FY Aeon holds internal training courses on a regular basis aimed 2011 2012 2013 2020 at improving its management of waste disposal. Each year the Waste Management Training Course, which was developed together with an external specialist organization, is held for Ascertain volume and set reduction targets environmental managers and waste management leaders of 39 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 Recycling Food Product Wastes Use of Returnable Containers and Reusable Hangers In May 2008 present day Aeon Retail Co.,Ltd., became the first Aeon is reducing the amount of cardboard thrown away at company in Japan’s retail industry to acquire recycling business stores by using returnable containers and agricultural product plan certification* under the Food Waste Recycling Law, which containers that can be used repeatedly when shipping products. was revised in December 2007. The company built a recycling In addition, our apparel departments conduct reused hanger loop that involves collecting food waste generated at stores, delivery in which clothing is brought to the store on hangers and turning the waste into feed, and then selling pork from pigs then displayed on the sales floor using the same hangers. This raised on the feed at Aeon stores. Pork from pigs raised on reduces the amount of cardboard boxes used when transporting recycled feed and agricultural produce grown with recycled the clothing and the amount of hangers used only for transport. fertilizer has been sold at select stores in the Kanto and Chubu In fiscal 2012 we used 78.34 million cases of returnable regions since June 2008. containers, 24.93 million cases of agricultural product containers, * Collection and shipping of recycled food resources in accordance with a certified and 11.05 million reusable hangers, which helped us substantially recycling business plan does not require regular waste collection and transport licensing, which has made it possible to efficiently collect waste over a wide region transcending reduce cardboard waste. municipal boundaries. Returnable Container, Agricultural Product Container Reusable Hanger Building A Local Recycling Loop Provide pork products, Production boxed lunches, etc. NB product manufacturer Site Products AEON Group processing company FY12 Customers Contract manufacturer Returnable Container Use Cardboard 78.34 million cases AEON Portion of store FY12 Agricultural (Stores in Kanto region) leftovers Product Container Use Food manufacturing byproducts 24.93 million cases Excess food products AEON Local recycling Pork loop Feed Group processing company Feed factory Manufacturer FY12 Pork production facility Reusable Hanger Use Cardboard 11.05 million Promoting Green Purchasing AEON We began “green purchasing” efforts in 1996. When purchasing stationery and other office supplies, we adequately consider their necessity and make purchasing decisions while prioritizing Effectively utilizing store fixtures and equipment products with low environmental impacts. This is done as a matter of course for office supplies, but we are also expanding Aeon collects unwanted fixtures and equipment for recycling. the scope of green purchasing to include display cases, shelving The focal points of this initiative are our five management centers and other fixtures used on sales floors as well as construction located across Japan. Each of these centers collects fixtures and materials and the like. equipment from our stores that are no longer needed, and then We commenced green purchasing for construction materials inspects, repairs, sorts and stores them. The revamped fixtures in fiscal 2001. When developing new general merchandise stores, and equipment are then loaned out to stores that require them. we strive to use products procured through green purchasing for This initiative is helping us to utilize our fixtures and equipment construction materials and increase the range of items subject to more effectively as well as to make our stores greener. green purchasing. AEON Sustainability Report 2013 40 Total number of stores (2007 to 2013.02) 828 stations (Total for 24 Aeon Group companies) Stores Stopping Free Plastic Shopping Bags Together with Customers Total number of stores (2007 to 2013.02) Reducing Plastic Bag Use 828 (Total for 24 Aeon stations Group companies) In 1991, Aeon embarked on efforts to conserve petroleum, the raw material of plastic bags, and at the same time cut CO2 emissions from the production of plastic bags by calling Percentage of Customers Declining Reduction in the on customers to use their own shopping bags. This was the Plastic Shopping Bags number of plastic bags beginning of the “Bring Your Own Shopping Bag” campaign that 1,738.9 1,661.55 million reduction was expanded to the “My Basket” campaign in 2000. In 2007, Aeon became the first national retail chain to begin the “Stop million reduction 1,844.4 1,392.2 million reduction Free Plastic Shopping Bags” program. By the end of February million reduction 2013, our efforts covered 828 stores throughout Japan, marking a 63.4% rate of customers declining plastic bags. Percentage of customers declining In addition, we began selling ‘Bio My Baskets’ in June 2012 plastic bags that are partially made from plant derived materials. 767.14 Aeon will conclude agreements with local government and million reduction 63.4% citizen groups aimed at reducing plastic bags and expand the 60.0% 61.5% 60.4% Reduction in the 48.0% number of number of stores implementing the “Stop Free Plastic Shopping plastic bags Bags” program as a means to increase the rate of customers 1,738.9 1,661.55 million reduction declining plastic bags. 2008 2009 2010 million reduction 2011 2012 1,844.4 * Proceeds from pay plastic bags = Value of sales − (consumption taxes + material cost) 1,392.2 million reduction million reduction FY2012 Results and Target of KPI Developing and Selling Products that Contribute to Better Use of Resources Percentage of Percentage of Customers Declining Plastic customers declining plastic bags Shopping Bags (nationwide store average) The TOPVALU 767.14 KYOKAN SENGEN brand Aeon began developing 61.5% 63.4% 80.0% and marketing in 2000 is a line of ecoproducts emphasizing the4% million reduction 63. “4Rs” –reduce, reuse, recycle, 60.0and % 61.5 % 60.4% returnable. 48.0% Target Through this brand, we aim to bring customers products FY that are truly attractive combinations of high 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 quality and reasonable 2008 2009 prices, and 2010 show2011 that 2012 Target environmentally friendly products do not have to 60.4% 70.0% cost more. TOPVALU KYOKAN SENGEN herbal fragrance concentrated laundry detergent TOPICS Utilizing proceeds from plastic bag charges Since 2009, Aeon has donated part of the proceeds from plastic bag charges to environmental conservation projects. We are planning to donate 86.80 million yen from fiscal 2012 profits for Environmental Conservation through local governments. Bio My Basket In June 2011, we started distributing and charging for plastic bags made from plant derived material and since then the use of plastic bags has gone down, while the bags themselves, Plastic bags made mainly because of their composition, contribute to reduction of CO2 emissions. from plantderived material * Plastic bag income = Sales price − (consumption taxes + material cost) 41 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 Reducing Waste by Collecting Resources in Stores Aeon stores encourage customers to recycle by having collection bins for items such as paper packaging, food trays, aluminum cans, and PET bottles. Collected paper packaging and aluminum cans are recycled and some are broken down and used as raw materials for TOPVALU KYOKAN SENGEN Collection bins brand products. Food trays and PET Amount Collected in Stores by Container Type (FY 2012) bottles are also effectively recycled. SELF+SERVICE, a specialty shop for clothing and accessories has been Paper packaging Food trays working to expand used clothes collection and recycling applications approx. 117.73 million approx. 337.59 million since 2003. In fiscal 2012, the company 2012 (tons) 3,532t 2012 (tons) 2,363t collected around 26,100 articles of Aluminum cans PET bottles clothing, with some of it being recycled SELF+SERVICE clothing as bio-ethanol. collection Poster approx. 239.04 million approx. 116.95 million 2012 (tons) 3,825t 2012 (tons) 7,368t Totals for 22 Aeon Group Companies Based on the following weight estimates: Paper packaging (1,000 ml) = 30 g, Food tray = 7 g, Aluminum can (350 ml) = 16 g, PET bottle = 63 g Initiatives Undertaken by Group Companies AEON RETAIL CO., LTD. Participation in the PLA-PLUS Project PLA-PLUS Project is a project that aims to develop an environment for recycling plastic products no longer used by consumers as reusable resources instead of simply burning them. AEON RETAIL agrees with this cause and has become part of the project. Currently, we are building a network beyond the scope of the industry in deliberating future issues and concerns regarding waste collection and recycling. Collection box installed in recycling Poster corner AEON Sustainability Report 2013 42 Key Issue 4 Dealing with Social Matters How Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign works Community Involvement Making Contributions to Local Communities Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign Cumulative total of ¥1,941.39 million in goods donated as of Countless volunteer organizations* throughout local February 2013 communities in Japan are in need of support. At the same time, countless Aeon customers would like to support organizations devoted to their local communities. Aeon, as a local community AEON Volunteer Customers organizations member, launched the Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign to link customers and volunteer organization. Customers participate in the Campaign simply by taking the yellow receipts they Place yellow receipts Stores calculate the Receive goods worth 1% of receive when making purchases on “Aeon Day,” the 11th of every in the box for the total value of receipts the total value of receipts organization they wish for each organization contributed to the cause month, and placing them in a box labeled with the name of an to support of their choice organization or a particular activity. Aeon then contributes goods or items accordingly at a value of 1% of the total amount of the receipts. Clean & Green Activities In Fiscal 2012, the Campaign had expanded to include 22 companies and 1,263 stores, and we contributed goods worth Aeon is actively involved in community landscaping projects approximately 275 million yen to a total of around 21,800 around its stores. Clean & Green Activities, conducted since 1991, organizations. Of participating stores, 37.4% had a submission consist of employees volunteering to rate of at least 20%. clean up parks and rivers around stores Since the Campaign’s inception in 2001, 172,400 organizations and areas surrounding public facilities. have received support totaling around 1.94 billion yen. We These activities have been conducted encourage our customers to participate in the Aeon Happy every month on the 11th, Aeon Day, Yellow Receipt Campaign. since 2001 at all General Merchandise Among other efforts, we offer volunteer organizations a Stores and supermarkets as well as head chance to come into stores to talk about their activities. We plan office and other business offices. Cleaning up around a store to actively encourage as many of our customers as possible to submit their receipts. * Volunteer organizations’ activities should fall under one of the following five categories. Supporting Local Traditional Events AEON 1% Club 1. Activities to promote welfare 2. Activities to promote environmental preservation and environmental education 3. Activities to promote urban development As a member of the local community, We respect regional 4. Activities to advance arts and culture 5. Activities to enhance the health and safety of children cultures and traditions and are involved in promoting local cultural life. We actively participate in local and traditional events, FY2012 Results and Target of KPI support the transmission of that local culture and history to the Yellow Receipt Campaign Submission Rate next generation and actively help in event management. In addition to supporting local cultural events and sports 37.4% of stores had submission rate of greater than 20% Greater than 30% festivals, we are implementing the Hometown Discovery (GMS: 66.9% / Supermarkets: 16.6% / Discount stores: 8.3%) submission rate at all stores Program for Supporting Local Traditional Performing Arts, in which local people can see traditional arts and performing skills Target passed down from long ago in different regions, at Aeon stores. FY In fiscal 2012, Aeon employees took part in the Aomori 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 Nebuta Festival Target and the Yamagata 45% of GMS stores had 38.1% of stores had Submission rate of greater Hanagasa Festival. submission rate of less submission rate of than 20% at all stores taking than 20% greater than 20% part in the campaign We also provided the parking lot from one of our stores to be used as the main event venue for the Kochi Yosakoi Festival. AEON team receiving the Nebuta Grand Prize 43 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 Agreements with Prefectural Governments, as of the end of Issuing Local WAON Cards February 2013 (Administrative divisions: 41 prefectural governments and 8 government ordinance cities) WAON is a system of e-money pre-paid cards used at 150,000 participating stores throughout Japan. In the case of Aeon’s local Prefectural Governments WAON cards, a part of the proceeds from sales goes to local Hokkaido Ibaraki Toyama Mie Shimane Kochi social contributions.* Aomori Tochigi Ishikawa Shiga Okayama Fukuoka Iwate Gunma Yamanashi Kyoto Hiroshima Saga The social contributions that result from local WAON cards Miyagi Saitama Nagano Osaka Yamaguchi Oita use are wide-ranging, and include community environment Akita Chiba Gifu Nara Tokushima Kagoshima conservation efforts, promotion of tourism and sports, Yamagata Kanagawa Shizuoka Hyogo Kagawa Okinawa preservation of cultural assets, and animal welfare. As of Fukushima Niigata Aichi Tottori Ehime February 2013 there were 82 different local WAON cards, and the Government Ordinance Cities contributions for fiscal 2012 topped 120 million yen. Yokohama Hamamatsu Chiba Sendai As of February 2013, a total of over 31 million cards had been Kyoto Fukuoka Hiroshima Sagamihara issued since the start of the WAON system in April 2007, and the use of WAON cards continues to spread. Aeon can offer Case of Kyoto Prefecture customers the convenience of an e-money pre-paid card while at the same time actively contributing to the support of local 【都道府県】 communities. 北海道 茨城県 富山県 三重県 島根県 高知県 * with some exceptions 青森県 栃木県 石川県 滋賀県 岡山県 福岡県 岩手県 群馬県 山梨県 京都府 広島県 佐賀県 宮城県 埼玉県 長野県 大阪府 山口県 大分県 Types of Local WAON Cards As of February 2013 秋田県 千葉県 岐阜県 奈良県 徳島県 鹿児島県 山形県 神奈川県 静岡県 兵庫県 ‘Kyoto Nijo 香川県Castle WAON’ 沖縄県 82 福島県 新潟県 愛知県 鳥取県 A portion of proceeds are used to 愛媛県for World Heritage support repairs different types site Nijo Castle in Kyoto 【政令市】 Agreements with Kyoto Comprehensive of local WAON Prefecture 横浜市 浜松市 千葉市 仙台市 京都市 福岡市 広島市 相模原市 Supporting the revitalization of local industries and preservation of traditional food culture Aeon actively contributes to local economies and the preservation of local traditions. • Direct Business Dealings with Fishery Cooperatives Aeon has done business directly with fishery cooperatives since Concluding Comprehensive Cooperation Agreements 2008 in an effort to raise customer satisfaction by providing even fresher fish while at the same time helping maintain cultural Aeon has entered cooperation agreements with local practices associated with consuming fish through a sustainable governments to effectively combine respective resources fishing industry. As of February 2013, and conducts direct dealing for disaster preparedness, social welfare, and environmental with fishery cooperatives our 5. conservation, and, through Local WAON cards, to stimulate Through dialogue with the National Federation of Fisheries commerce and tourism. The first Agreement was concluded Cooperatives Associations Aeon intends to continue conducting in June 2010 with the Osaka Prefectural government. At the initiatives that benefit our customers, and to help to solve end of February 2013, we had agreements with 41 prefectural problems in marine products also flow. governments and 8 government ordinance cities (as of February * JF Shimane, JF Yamagata, JF Hiroshima, JF Ishikawa, JF katase-enoshima 2013). Through these agreements, we are, providing emergency supplies and emergency shelters for times of disaster, holding local product fairs and promoting local tourism through our stores, and working with local governments to plan and market boxed lunches made with local agricultural products. In this way, we are also helping to stimulate local economies and improve daily life services. Sales floor fresh fish lined All fish caught by this fishing vessel is purchased by Aeon AEON Sustainability Report 2013 44 • Promoting Food Artisan Project Signing Disaster Prevention Agreements Aeon has conducted the Food Artisan Project since 2001 with many producers across the country dedicated to preserving local flavors. The project seeks to preserve local culinary cultures. Aeon strives to ensure that employees working at our stores Everyone involved pools their wisdom and works to publicize the constantly act as members of the community. The same applies ingredients and traditional techniques that during natural disasters. We continue to sign disaster prevention support exceptional local culinary cultures. agreements with local authorities throughout Japan, pledging As of August 2013, food artisan activities cooperation and support in the event of an emergency in an have covered 16 prefectures and 24 dishes, effort to be of use to people in the local community. whose unique local flavors are being As of February 28, 2013, 1,232 Aeon Group stores and business delivered to the dinner tables of people offices have signed disaster prevention agreements with a total across Japan. of 697 local government bodies and assist with local disaster prevention activities, including providing emergency suppliers in the event of a disaster, providing car parks for use as evacuation points and organizing joint emergency drills. Introducing Balloon Shelters Sukuna pumpkin (Gifu Prefecture) Acerola (Okinawa Prefecture) Aeon has promoted installation of “balloon shelters”—large tents for use in emergency evacuations—since 2004 to be ready Aeon Welfare Fund Supporting Disabled Persons in the event of an earthquake or other major natural disaster. The tents have been placed at a total of 28 locations, primarily The Aeon Welfare Fund was established in 1977 to promote shopping centers the welfare of persons with disabilities and to support their around the country independent participation in society. Aeon has carried out various (as of February 28, projects, focusing on donating special vehicles and contributing 2013). The tents are to volunteer activities, through matching of employee 50 yen lightweight and easy monthly contributions. As of the end of February 2013, 53,000 to carry, so those Aeon employees are participating in this program. stored close by In Fiscal 2012, as in fiscal 2011, a total of 6 vehicles was can be brought to donated one vehicle each to the welfare facilities of persons locations affected by A balloon shelter with disabilities in Aomori and Miyagi prefectures, and two disasters. Balloon shelters can be easily inflated with a special blower and be ready for use in around 40 minutes. vehicles to the facilities in Iwate and Fukushima prefectures, all They come two to a set and one set has room for areas severely damaged by the Great East Japan Earthquake. A around 100 people to lay down total of 38 vehicles have been presented so far from the Aeon Welfare Fund. Volunteer activities included roughly 920 visits to welfare facilities, with events such as Christmas parties or Supporting Disaster Recovery AEON 1% Club ‘setsubun” (bean-throwing festival). A total of around 8,700 facilities have been visited so far. Aeon stores are contributing to allowing people who have experienced extensive damage from natural disasters to return to normal life as quickly as possible. In addition, Aeon is matching funds donated by our customers and employees. In fiscal 2012, Aeon donated three million yen in emergency relief Donation of a welfare vehicle Christmas party at a welfare facility assistance to those in need in the Philippines after the country was struck by Typhoon Bopha. Donations being presented at the Philippine Embassy in Tokyo 45 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 Initiatives Undertaken by Group Companies AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD. to promote social independence and self-fulfillment by Promoting the Food Artisan activity in passing down providing agricultural training to each individual based on local food culture through joint efforts of the their ability, from raising produce to distribution. agriculture and business sectors Until now, leaf lettuce grown at Yumeno has been sold at local agriculture cooperative stores and produce stands. AEON RYUKYU has been selling “Frozen Acerola Fruit” grown In addition to supporting the efforts to enable people with in Motobu Town, Japan’s top acerola production region, at physical or mental disabilities to gain social independence some of its stores since December 2012.This is part of the through agricultural training and securing stable income with Food Artisan campaign to support farmers who preserve and produce sales, Maxvalu Tokai has joined forces with Steppass down local food culture. Together with famers, local one in their shared vision to promote a new local specialty for residents of Motobu Town, AEON RETAIL, and AEON RYUKYU Gotenba City and become a partner in expanding business have established the “Motobu Acerola Fruit Sales Association” opportunities in leaf lettuce. and are working through joint efforts involving the agriculture and business sectors to expand production and consumption CFS Corporation of acerola. Going forward, AEON RYUKYU will continue its efforts in Conducting health walk involving visits to scenic spots promoting the food culture of Okinawa to future generations. and places of historical interest with customers CFS Corporation hosts a variety of events to contribute MAXVALU CHUBU CO., LTD. to customers’ continued health for a healthier and more Awareness campaign held in Mie Prefecture to prevent comfortable life. incidents of lifestyle diseases Health Walk is one of such event that is held in the In March 2012, MAXVALU CHUBU conducted the Diabetes prefectures of Kanagawa and Shizuoka. The event involves and Other Life Style Diseases Prevention through Eat customers going on a fun-filled guided walking tour of scenic Habit Awareness Campaign at three of its stores within spots and places of historical interest in the local area, with Mie Prefecture in collaboration with the Mie Prefectural tour guides from local guide associations. Government’s Department of Health and Welfare. Health Walk has been held a total of 21 times since its The campaign promoted food ingredients and eating inception in April 2004 and as of June 2013 it had welcomed a habits that may address issues such as lack of vegetable total of 16,000 participants. intake or over consumption of calories. In addition, it provided a place for free dietary consultation with nationally registered AEON (CHINA) CO., LTD. dieticians and general dieticians. As lifestyle diseases such as Japan-China Goodwill Summer Festival in diabetes are considered to be deeply rooted in one’s dietary commemoration of the 40th anniversary of habits, the campaign provided information regarding eating normalization of Japan-China diplomatic relations habits as well as promoted products and menus for disease AEON (CHINA) hosted a Japan-China Goodwill Summer prevention. Festival at AEON Beijing International Mall on June 9, 2012 in commemoration of the 40th anniversary of Japan-China Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd. diplomatic relations normalization. The event was planned Supporting the social independence of people with and executed by Japanese study-abroad students living in disabilities through sales of locally grown vegetables Beijing and jointly hosted with Wakyokai Beijing. On the day Starting in June 2012, Maxvalu Tokai began selling Gotenba of the event, traditional Japanese cultural activities such as leaf lettuce at 11 MaxValu and MaxValu Express stores located flower arrangement and Taiko drum performances were in Gotenba City, Susono City, Mishima City, and Nagaizumi featured. Customers who attended the event shared a few Town. Gotenba leaf lettuce is locally grown at Yumeno, a remarks, including “It was very interesting as it was my first hydroponic farming facility operated by social welfare society time to experience Japanese culture up close.” Step-one in Gotenba City, Shizuoka Prefecture. Going forward, AEON (CHINA) will launch a number of Step-one is an organization that supports continuous different events in promoting cultural exchange between employment of people with physical or mental disabilities. Japan and China. It established the farming facility, Yumeno, in April 2012, AEON Sustainability Report 2013 46 •Conducted the Junior High-school Students Environmental Community Involvement Essay Contest Aeon conducted the Junior High-school Students Environmental Develop the Human Resources of the Future Essay Contest. In fiscal 2012 the winners participated in ‘Biodiversity Training Aeon Cheers Club AEON 1% Club Tasmania Tour’ held at the Australian island. Such activities are to be continued in fiscal 2013. The Aeon Cheers Club provides hands-on opportunities for first through ninth-grade students to learn about the environment. Young people living near Aeon stores can come together once a month to participate in Aeon Cheers Club environmental activities with the support of store employees. Each year one of six themes in 6 year cycle of annually rotating themes is taken up. The theme for 2012 was ‘Recycling’. Around 400 clubs and around 6500 students from all over Japan participated, learning about recycling by visiting recycling plants ‘Biodiversity Training Tasmania Tour’ and viewing material recovery and recycling operations at stores, such as drink cartons and food trays, to understand recycling. •Agricultural Eco-experience Project for elementary and junior In July 2012 the Aeon Cheers Club National Meetings were high school students held in Okinawa and Hokkaido. A total of 50 clubs and around Since October 2012, the Aeon Cheers Club has been offering 250 awardees gathered, with each club reporting on learning children a chance to visit ‘TOPVALU Gurinai’ production sites outcomes for the year and participating in nature experience throughout Japan under the Agricultural Eco-experience Project. programs. Children learn about environmentally friendly ways to grow For fiscal 2013, activities will center around the theme of delicious, safe and reliable vegetables. Additionally, through ‘Resources’ (energy). Going forward, we will improve the available learning about harvesting, packaging and tasting they can information on our activities and work to increase the number have an enjoyable experience, and deepen their understanding of participating clubs, so that more children can get involved in about local agricultural business and environmental product environmental activities. considerations. This project will be continued in fiscal 2013, with an enlarged number of production visit sites and participants. TOPVALU Gurinai Production Sites for Student Visits: Hokkaido, Aomori Prefecture, Ibaraki Prefecture, Tochigi Prefecture, Chiba Prefecture, Niigata Prefecture, Gifu Prefecture, Aichi Prefecture, Hyogo Prefecture, Tottori Prefecture, Hiroshima Prefecture, Kochi Prefecture, Kumamoto Prefecture Main Products: potatoes, onions, carrots, tomatoes, lettuce, etc. Visiting a recycling plant Aeon Cheers Club National Meetings in Participants: Hokkaido approximately 500 children from 33 Aeon Cheers Clubs throughout Japan FY2012 Results and Target of KPI Number of Aeon Cheers Clubs 191 clubs 398 clubs, 6,500 persons (japan) Target FY 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 Children examining the harvested vegetables 382 clubs, 5730 persons 600 clubs Implement activities undertaken by 60,000 persons annually 47 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 Aeon co-hosted the ‘Gentle to the Earth AEON Environmental AEON Sukusuku Laboratory AEON 1% Club Foundation Essay and Activity Report Contest’ Aeon has been organizing the Aeon Sukusuku Laboratory yearly The AEON Environmental Foundation, desiring to give children at Aeon shopping centers since 2007. This is directed to families a chance to learn about the future of the global environment, raising children and includes seminars on childcare led by experts implemens the ‘Gentle to the Earth Essay and Activity Report in the field, as well as singing of Japanese nursery rhymes and Contest.’ In fiscal 2012, we solicited essays on the theme of ‘What songs, with children and parents enjoying a meaningful chance each individual can do for the environment.’ Entries came to a to sing together. total of 16,032. Among schools that submitted over 10 entries, In fiscal 2012, AEON Sukusuku Laboratory was held in four 5 outstanding schools cities across Japan. A total of 831 attended the four sessions, were awarded the including 508 adults and 323 children. AEON Environmental Foundation Prize (school division). Such activities are to be continued in fiscal 2013. Awards Ceremony Ms. Saori Yuki and Ms. Sachiko Yasuda Child-raising Seminar by Prof. Katsumi singing a nursery rhyme Tokuda, professor of the University of Tsukuba, Graduate School AEON Sustainability Report 2013 48 activities that any high school in Japan can get involved in. This Teenage Ambassadors Program AEON 1% Club new category will complement the existing research category, which focuses on community-based or specialty activities. The Teenage Ambassadors program brings overseas students to Japan for high school classes and workshops on the environment. By the end of 2012, 1,064 high school students from 16 countries had participated. In fiscal 2012, high school students invited to Japan from Cambodia and Laos enjoyed cultural experiences such as visiting temples and wearing kimonos. They visited eco-stores in Hokkaido and participated in nature experience programs. Prime Minister’s Award Education, Culture, Sports, Science and —Biodiversity conservation through Technology Minister’s Award Similarly, Japanese high school students visited Cambodia and duck farming— —Environmental conservation activity Laos and observed high school classes at local schools and visited by Aichi Prefectural Saya High School that takes advantage of our abundant reeds — primary schools built as part of the Aeon’s school construction by Tochigi Prefectural Agricultural High support project. School Exchanges between high school students from Vietnam and Myanmar are planned for fiscal 2013. For the Japan-China High-school Student Exchange Program, launched in fiscal 2009, 285 high school students from Japan and China have so far experienced each other’s countries. As fiscal 2012 marked the 40th anniversary of normalization of diplomatic Environment Minister’s Award —Exchange / local revitalization relations between Japan and China, our program sought to foster enhanced by bees— Eco-one mascot friendship and trust through increasing the program to include by Hiroshima Prefectural Yuki High School 100 participants from each country, and to include home stays and mutual school visits and participation in classes. Aeon Scholarship Program AEON 1% Club The Aeon Scholarship program was established in 2006 to provide financial support to university students, leaders of the next generation, in Asian countries. In fiscal 2012, Indonesia became a recipient for the first time High-school students from Laos and Japan-China High-school Student and two Indonesian schools were awarded grants, in addition Cambodia trying their first yukataand Exchange Program farewell party Japanese fans at a traditional Japanese to schools each in Japan, China, Thailand, Vietnam. For Vietnam, dance class added in 2011, two additional schools were added, for a total of 4 schools. From fiscal 2013, Aeon plans to add universities in Cambodia and Myanmar. Aeon eco-1 Grand Prix AEON 1% Club Grants 2006-2012 With the goal of raising environmental consciousness through Japan 14 239 * providing high school students who have engaged in daily China 8 1,989 environmental activities a forum to report their achievements, Thailand 2 24 and an opportunity to connect Vietnam 4 90 with other schools, Aeon instituted the AEON eco-1 Grand Prix in fiscal Indonesia 2 6 2012. 216 entries were received Scholarship students from Vietnam Total: 2,348 from 193 schools throughout Japan. * Privately funded exchange students from Asian countries Enthusiastic presentations were made on themes such as prevention of global warming, biodiversity preservation, energy conservation. In fiscal 2013, the Aeon eco-1 Grand Prix will be held with the new education category to emphasize Poster mutual awareness and target eco 49 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 The plan is to increase the number of participants each year, Aeon Asia Eco-leaders AEON 1% Club and in 10 years time to have the forum include participants from all of the ASEAN and East Asian countries. Aeon Asia Eco-Leaders (formerly ASEAN University Students Environmental Forum) was initiated in fiscal 2010 to provide an opportunity for university students in the Asia region to gather School Construction Support Project AEON 1% Club and cultivate mutual understanding through discussion and observation of conditions outside their countries. In partnership with the Japan Committee for UNICEF, Aeon In fiscal 2012, for the 3rd year of the program, students from is supporting construction of schools in depressed parts of Japan, Thailand, Vietnam, and for the first time – Indonesia, met Asia. We collect donations for the School Construction Support at Kasumigaura, at Lake Biwa, to discuss ‘water and the economy.’ Project from customers in stores and other facilities operated by They also had the chance to visit the traditional culture of Japan Aeon Group companies across Japan. Through 2009, we helped in Kyoto, and to deepen their understanding of the diversity of construction of a total of 326 schools in Cambodia, Nepal, and value. Laos, giving around 230,000 children a chance to go to school. In fiscal 2013, the event will be held in Jakarta, and Malaysia With a three-year plan, commenced in 2010, in place, support will be added as a 5th participating country. of school construction in Hue Province, Vietnam resulted in the building of 21 schools, allowing 6300 children to attend classes. In 2012 a new program to support school construction in Myanmar began. 30 schools are scheduled to be built in three years time, and in March 2013, the first school support project, the Aeon Gangaw School was completed and the school opened. Every year in the spring time, local children and customers Students from four countries passionately Tree planting plaque participating from Japan deepen their friendship by sharing the discuss the Environmental Future Initiative Declaration in English joy of the first day of school at the school’s opening ceremony. The Asian Students Environment AEON Environmental Platform Foundation The Asian Students Environment Platform was inaugurated in 2012, following the 2011 United Nations Decade on Biodiversity. The purpose Old school building in Myanmar with no Children at the newly opened school at walls Gangaw is to develop human resources in the environmental field. For the 1st Platform, students from Waseda University in Japan, Tsinghua University in China, and Korea University in South Korea, 60 students in all, participated under the theme of ‘Thinking About Culture and the Environment.’ Through various fieldwork programs, such as viewing electric car battery recharging stations, or memorial tree planting, they increased their understanding of biodiversity and environment conservation. The Platform will be held in Korea in 2013, adding Vietnam Hanoi University to the three universities that participated in 2012. Viewing the electric car battery Memorial tree planting at Tanohata recharging station at AEON LakeTown Village, Iwate Prefecture AEON Sustainability Report 2013 50 The Aeon and UNICEF Safe Water Campaign AEON 1% Club PET Bottle Cap Collection Campaign In 2010, Aeon started the Aeon and UNICEF Safe Water Since 2008, Aeon, in collaboration with our partner Fashion Campaign, for setting up facilities in Laos and Cambodia to Service NANIWA, has been collecting PET bottle caps from our provide safe water and free the children from walking long customers. The caps, as recyclable resources, are sold for cash distances to fetch water. that is in turn contributed to three international organizations*1 In fiscal 2012, around 28 million yen were raised from that support children in Asia´s developing countries. customer donations and the same amount, around 28 million In fiscal 2012, cash from 341,160,000*2 bottle caps was yen, from AEON 1% Club contributions. During the campaign donated to these organizations. The funds will provide vaccines, period, one 500 ml bottle of TOPVALU natural mineral water nutritious food, and books to children in Asia. garnered 5 yen for donation, amounting to 1.5 million yen – for a *1 The three international organizations are: Plan Japan total of 57.5 million yen to be donated to the Japan Committee Save the Children Japan for UNICEF. Forty thousand people a year have access to safe Japan Committee Vaccines for the World´s Children (JCV) *2 Caps collected from August 21, 2011 through August 20, 2012. water as a result of the campaign. Fund-raising activities will be held in front of all AEON stores and offices throughout Japan in 2013 from April to June. Nutritious food for A grant for library books Vaccination of children in children in Vietnam and library furnishings Myanmar © Save the Children Japan was made for children of Vietnam Event at an Aeon Shopping Water supply facilities in Center Laos Aeon TOPVALU ©JCV, all rights reserved mineral water 51 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 • Auditing Our Manufacturing Partner Fair Business Practices Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (CoC) audits consist of thirdparty audits performed by professional auditing firms and second-party audits by Aeon auditors. As a general rule, third-party audits are conducted by Promoting the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct(CoC) an outside auditing firm based on internationally accepted practices. We ensure these audits are performed fairly and in full •Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct* compliance with international standards by having an evaluation We formulated the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct for contract organization different from the auditing firm evaluate the results manufacturers in 2003 to fulfill our responsibilities to society of the audit report. such as maintaining proper commercial transactions with If a third-party audit finds improvements must be made, manufacturers and ensuring appropriate workplace conditions at we require the manufacturing partner to report on the manufacturing sites. improvements made and have the evaluation organization The code covers compliance with national and local laws, repeatedly verify the contents of this report. CoC Individual respect for human rights, and safe, healthy working conditions, Support Sessions are held on an ongoing basis to rectify areas among other topics. We require compliance with this code in need of improvement. Once the third-party audit has been for every transaction and ask that our contract manufacturers completed and the CoC certification criteria have been met, gain the understanding and cooperation of their suppliers with Aeon auditors make regular visits to factories and conduct regards to the code’s provisions. second-party audits to check the status of compliance. During Currently, we require all manufacturers of TOPVALU and second-party audits, compliance with local and national laws TOPVALU Collection brand products, both in Japan and overseas, as well as risk management practices is checked face to face. If to comply with the code and audits are conducted on the a problem is found, Aeon works closely with its manufacturing production floor to monitor compliance. As of June 30, 2013, partner’s factory to find a solution. compliance pledges have been received from approximately 850 Manufacturing partners that have received sound evaluations manufacturing partners. during the third-party and second-party audits, these * CoC：Code of Conduct manufacturing partners are asked to perform checks and make improvements under their own initiative using first-party audits. Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct This is because the purpose of the CoC is to improve not only Aeon’s risk management, but also the risk management practices (Business Code of Conduct) Requirements Conform with legally stipulated social responsibility standards in countries where of its manufacturing partners, with the ultimate goal of having manufacturing and procurement takes place them implement their own compliance monitoring measures. It is our hope that improvements will be passed down the supply Conform with national laws and regulations chain from our manufacturing partner to their suppliers, who will 1. Child labor: Illegal child labor is prohibited then in turn pass it down to their suppliers, effectively creating a 2. Forced labor: Forced, prison and bonded labor are prohibited positive chain of success. 3. Safety,hygiene and health: Provide safe, healthy workplaces Cumulative Total Number of Code of Conduct-Certified Factories 4. Freedom of association and right to group negotiations: (the cumulative total of factories obtaining certification as a result of third-party audits) Respect employee rights 5.Discrimination: Discrimination on the basis of place of origin or creed is FY 2008 732 factories prohibited FY 2009 931 factories 6. Disciplinary action: Cruel punishment of employees is prohibited 7. Working hours: Comply with laws related to working hours FY 2010 1,172 factories 8. Wages and benefits: Comply with laws related to wages and benefits FY 2011 1,526 factories 9. Management responsibility: Pledge compliance with the Aeon FY 2012 1,870 factories Supplier Code of Conduct 10. Environment: Work to prevent environmental pollution and damage 11. Business dealings: Comply with local laws on commercial transactions 12. Certification, auditing and monitoring: Accept certification, auditing and monitoring under the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct 13. Ban on gift-giving: Gift-giving between Aeon and suppliers is prohibited AEON Sustainability Report 2013 52 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct-certification procedure Aeon SA8000 Supplier briefing After establishing the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (2003), in Compliance declaration 2004 we acquired SA8000 certification, an international standard, Supplier registered becoming the first Japanese retailer to do so. The standard establishes normative guidelines for protecting Audit requested the human rights of workers on international labor markets. It requires compliance in eight areas that include protecting Second-party audit Third-party audit human rights and nondiscriminatory employment practices (Aeon) (external body) as well as development of a related management system and ･Audit conducted covering 90 items ･Audit conducted by third-party auditing firm ･Audit conducted by Aeon auditor ･Audit conducted covering 370 items ongoing improvement to it. SA8000 certification applies to head Auditor and schedule coordinated Online advance questionnaire office processes and Aeon brand TOPVALU supplier management Advance checklist sent Responses and assessment confirmed performed by AEON CO., LTD., Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. and AEON Aeon approved auditor Schedule confirmed with auditing body TOPVALU CO., LTD. SA8000 certification is renewed after Audit conducted receiving a renewal audit every three years and a maintenance Corrective action report audit every six months. Corrective action report Supplier Code of Aeon will continue to pursue appropriate business processes Sent to assessment body Conduct Office together with suppliers on the twin basis of the Aeon Supplier Need to undergo regular auditing Code of Conduct and SA8000. after certification Certification Objectives of Aeon SA8000 1. We will respect the basic human rights of employees at the workplace and TOPICS establish comfortable working conditions by ensuring safety, security and Aeon respects and honors the human health. rights of people in China and ASEAN 2. Along with our suppliers, who are equal business partners, we will respect laws related to human rights and labor standards and will continue to countries working on site to produce make improvements to help build a society where universal human TOPVALU products, and we maintain rights are protected and efforts are constantly made to improve working an appropriate working environment conditions. Until 2011, we have been mainly applying the Aeon Supplier Policies for Promoting Aeon SA8000 COC to TOPVALU products produced in Japan and overseas for 1. We will respect international norms and laws related to human rights and domestic consumption. From 2012, having set up a structure labor standards and will make improvements on an ongoing basis. of three headquarter locations in Japan, China, and ASEAN a. Child labor: We will prohibit child labor and take remedial measures. b. Forced labor: We will reject forced labor in all its forms. (Malaysia), management of policies and compliance for c. Health and safety: We will ensure the health and safety of employees contracted producers of TOPVALU products are supervised and provide healthy work environments. directly in each area. d. Freedom of assembly and collective bargaining rights: We will ensure Aeon is committed freedom of assembly and the right to collective bargaining. to operating with social e. Discrimination: We will not discriminate on the basis of nationality, race, responsibility, along with sex, academic background, religion, physical disability or age. our TOPALU contracted f. Disciplinary action: We will not engage in corporate punishment, supplier partners in psychological or physical force, or verbal abuse. Japan, China, and ASEAN g. Working hours: We will observe laws and labor agreements related to countries. working hours, breaks and days off. Aeon Certified Auditor Training (overseas) h. Compensation: We will observe laws related to payment of fair wages. 2. We will conduct training programs to fully educate all employees in order to make this policy a reality, conduct regular reviews of this initiative and work to make improvements on an ongoing basis. 3. We will encourage business partners (suppliers) to create and observe a code of conduct related to human rights and labor standards and to work together with Aeon to make improvements on an ongoing basis. 4. We will work to broadly disclose this policy and provide appropriate information and we will practice corporate social accountability. 53 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 Practicing Fair Trade TOPICS Held fair trade event with students Responding to customers’ desire to do something through their purchases for the world’s underprivileged, Aeon began In fiscal year 2012, to promote awareness of Fairtrade, Aeon developing and marketing Fairtrade* coffee, chocolate and other worked with high school and university students on redesigning products in 2004. the packaging of Fairtrade chocolate. ‘TOPVALU Fairtrade Chocolate’ originated in a proposal from students at Chuo In fiscal 2012, we visited three coffee bean producers for our University. A Fairtrade TOPVALU brand in Guatemala, Colombia and Tanzania to test to public relations event see if they were complying with fair trade practices. to solicit packaging In fiscal 2013, we will continue deliberations on the creation ideas, held at AEON of a framework for confirming whether our suppliers represent LakeTown, was an acceptable choice for procuring fair trade raw materials from. organized together * Fair trade means doing business with producers in need of support in developing with high school and countries, etc. and setting product prices at levels appropriate to the labor involved. The initiative helps producers attain economic and social autonomy and also supports university students. environmental conservation. Event organized with students FLO (Fairtrade Labeling Organizations International) TOPVALU Fairtrade Chocolate (new package) certification logo Awarded the first ‘Social Products Award’ and the ‘Monde Selection’ Silver Prize TOPVALU Fairtrade Coffee Initiatives Undertaken by Group Companies AEON Global SCM Co., Ltd. AEON suppliers' CoC management at distribution center AEON Global SCM has been implementing second-party and first-party audits on distribution centers since fiscal 2008 in managing the distribution process of TOPVALU. Moreover, second-party audits have also been started in China and the ASEAN region since fiscal 2012. AEON Sustainability Report 2013 54 criteria to stores. Thereafter, regular product quality evaluations, Consumer Issues plant hygiene inspections and other types of audits are conducted to make sure that the products we offer are both safe Safe Food and Reliable Products and reliable. Quality Management of TOPVALU Brand Products In this way, we are implementing initiatives aimed at ensuring product safety and security from various perspectives. In case a Aeon developed its own TOPVALU brand of products to improve defect or flaw is discovered in a product despite these initiatives, our customers’ daily life. In product planning and design, Aeon informs the public of the fact as quickly as possible and selection of manufacturers, finalization of product specifications, calls back and withdraws the product in question. In fiscal 2011, manufacturing management, and sales, we are creating products Aeon reported 92 serious product accidents. with our customer’s needs in mind. FY2012 Results and Target of KPI TOPVALU Quality Assurance Number of TOPVALU Products Removed due Aeon Product Product to Serious Incident Planning and development based 92 55件 30 Design on direct customer (apparel: 32; food: 37; living / HBC: 23) (apparel: 12; food: 8; living / HBC: 10) input Target FY 2011 2012 2013 2020 Sales through Selection of Manufacturers Target Aeon Group TOPVALU that Meet Aeon’s stores AEON Quality Standards 67 55 Assurance (apparel: 28; food: 16; living / HBC: 23) (apparel: 22; food: 14; living / HBC: 19) Distribution by Aeon Fiscal 2012 TOPVALU Product Accidents TOPVALU customer Manufacturing plants service gathers customer feedback meeting Aeon’s strict facility, labor, •TOPVALU Chocolate Pretzels / Mislabelled for allergies (Occurred March 31, 2012) environmental and Milk ingredients from another product produced at our manufacturing other standards partner’s factory was mixed in with about 130 units Recall announced on the Aeon website Thorough distribution • TOPVALU Chocolate Cake / Mislabelled for allergies (Occurred April 27, 2012) management Peanut ingredients from another product produced at our manufacturing •トップバリュ 5つのこだわり Product planning and design partner’s factory was mixed in with possibly 550,000 units Recall announced at a press conference and in a newspaper ad During product planning and design, our development, quality • TOPVALU Noodles / Container failure 1 お客さまの声を商品にいかします。 control, and customer service people scrutinize potential raw (Occurred November 2, 2012) 2 安全と環境に配慮した安心な商品をおとどけします。 material suppliers, investigate possible safety concerns, examine It was discovered that soup was able to leak from the bottom of TOPVALU cup noodle containers, involving 6 SKU* numbers and some 620,000 units 3 of the use 必要な情報をわかりやすく表示します。 additives, research manufacturing processes, and Recall announced on the Aeon website 4 お買い得価格でご提供します。 * Stock Keeping Unit (SKU): Smallest unit to identify products used when managing actual sales consider other key issues to ensure that the final product is safe volume or inventory of a product at final retail points in distribution operations. and5 お客さまの満足をお約束します。 without any health or safety risks. •TOPVALU Oolong Tea Bags / Detection of residual pesticide (Occurred December 17, 2012) •Selection of manufacturers Residual pesticides exceeding the acceptable standard were detected in 8 certain units. We select manufacturers by first performing Aeon Supplier Code つのトップバリュブランド Recall announced in a newspaper ad of Conduct (CoC) audits, product safety examinations, and plant hygiene inspections. Aeon will strive to prevent product accidents through efforts that include identifying problem areas based on customer feedback •Determination of the product specifications to avoid reoccurrence of an issue, strengthening relationships Customer monitors and Aeon employees evaluate the between related departments and reviewing problem areas at prototypes, considering matters such as raw materials, additives, the production and shipment phases of a product. and manufacturing processes. •Distribution and sales Following that, Aeon finalizes product specifications and then inspects production and sends only products that meet the 55 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 Labelling and Disclosing Product Information • Disclosing Information on Agricultural Product Producers In 2003 we established the Producers Data Search System for AEON’s TOPVALU Gurinai products to give customers online Aeon labels and discloses information related to each TOPVALU access to information on producers. We also added a barcode brand product to make sure they can be used and consumed by function that allows customers to access producer data by customers with peace of mind. reading the QR code. In addition to traceability information, customers are • Labeling of Food Allergens also presented with tasty recipes using Information on food allergens is provided on product labels. The the scanned ingredient. In fiscal 2010 a information covers use of seven officially designated ingredients* cumulative total of approximately 350 and 18 other secondary items as well as whether any allergens agricultural products were labeled with are handled in the manufacturing process. Inspections are also QR codes. conducted every year to confirm labeling accuracy. * Products that differ by prefecture and that have more Products labeled with QR than one type are counted as a single product. codes * The seven ingredients, which are the most common allergens, are wheat, milk, eggs, buckwheat, peanuts, prawns and crab. The Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare also recommends labeling 18 secondary items (soy beans, salmon roe, squid, mackerel, salmon, abalone, chicken, pork, beef, kiwi fruit, bananas, peaches, apples, oranges, gelatin, yams, walnuts, and matsutake mushrooms). • Disclosing Information on Domestic Beef Aeon established the Domestic Beef Safety Confirmation System in 2002, prior to enforcement of the Beef Traceability Act*, in order to provide peace of mind to customers buying beef. The system allows customers to find out information about beef products from cattle raised in Japan, including where the cow was raised, who raised it and what feed it was raised on. The system is available via a website, or, at some stores, information terminals with touch panels have been set up. Labeling of Food Allergens * Enforced in December 2004, the law’s formal name is the Act on Special Measures concerning the Management and Relay of Information for Individual Identification of Cattle. • Labeling of Genetically Modified Ingredients In April 2001 the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare began •Disclosing Information Related to Radioactivity and giving approval to genetically modified foods only if their safety Radioactive Material could be confirmed and made it mandatory to label their use. Following the Great East Japan Earthquake, there were increasing But even before this, in September 2000, Aeon began labeling questions from customers about product place of origin. In TOPVALU products in response to urging from our customers. response, Aeon has been publishing place of origin information Labeling is provided even for items not mandated by law. In online for the most asked about products since April 2011. order to confirm label accuracy, products subject to labeling (separate items) undergo testing for genetically modified DNA TOPICS every year. Launched informative website on fresh • Labeling of Place of Origin of Ingredients for Processed Foods produce We carry out labeling of the place of origin of ingredients as Aeon launched a website called Fresh for You TOPVALU in July much as possible, not just limiting it to the food groups for 2012 that showcases the cultivation and harvest processes of fresh which such labeling is mandated by Japanese Agricultural produce that interest our Standards (JAS) law*. In addition, we have established clear customers and receive the quality standards for ingredients irrespective of their place of most enquiries. This forms origin and sign agreements with part of our commitment to manufacturers, and carry out provide fresh produce using testing for food allergens and DNA a rigorous management not to mention investigations system for taste, freshness, related to ingredient standards and convenience, and safety. residual pesticides. * Act for Standardization and Proper Labeling of Labeling of Place of Origin of Agricultural and Forestry Products Ingredients Informative website on fresh produce Fresh for You TOPVALU AEON Sustainability Report 2013 56 in the Tohoku, North Kanto, South Kanto and Tokai areas that are Food Sanitation Control likely to incur damages in an earthquake with a seismic intensity of more than 6 weak. Under the Aeon Food Sanitation Certification System established In fiscal 2013, we plan on completing construction work in 1995, Aeon engages in a variety of activities to prevent the projects at a total of 109 stores, including those completed in occurrence of food-related incidents such as food poisoning and fiscal 2012. We also plan on implementing measures to guard contamination. against falling ceilings and escalators, which occurred during the At the end of February 2013, 27 companies and1,274 stores Great East Japan Earthquake, in advance of safety standards that from our GMS Business and SM business have implemented the will be legislated soon. Aeon Food Sanitation Certification System, while a total of 7,789 FY2012 Results and Target of KPI workplaces had obtained certification. Safety and Security Infrastructure Development •Quality Keepers 45 stores in Tohoku, Northern Kanto, South Kanto and Tokai area ・Smoke vertical non-flammable wall sheet of 25 Aeon has assigned “Quality Keepers” at stores to verify store ・Cinema ceiling fall measures 10 sanitation levels and product quality. Quality Keepers check store Other Areas ・Cinema ceiling falling measures 8 products and food preparation areas at stores, and if a problem is found, they order improvements. In addition, sales staff inspect Target a list of items related to sanitation and quality management, FY including a temperature management chart that is used to 2011 2012 2013 2020 record temperature management for display cases, refrigerators and freezers, sell by dates that are set for each product, and to check the freshness of fresh produce. t$PNQMFUFESFQBJSXPSLPOTUPSFTEBNBHFEJO Steadily complete work UIF(SFBU&BTU+BQBO&BSUIRVBLF at 270 applicable stores t/BSSPXFEEPXOFBSUIRVBLFTBGFUZNFBTVSFT •Sanitation Training for Employees t$PNQMFUFEFBSUIRVBLFSFJOGPSDFNFOUXPSL at some stores Employees in the food departments of Aeon stores must undergo sanitation training at least once a year. Employees review basic sanitation knowledge and rules for food preparation areas. Practical skills tests are also conducted for each person Fire Prevention and Disaster Preparedness based on a test booklet. Aeon, as a commercial enterprise with large numbers of •Audits of Food Preparation Areas customers, is implementing disaster prevention measures and Food preparation areas are audited at least twice a year. Audits drills to ensure quick action and the safety of our customers and are continued until certain established standards are met. employees in disaster. •Sanitation Contests •Group-wide disaster prevention and safety drills We hold a sanitation contest once a year and honor stores Since 2011, taking lessons from the experience of the Great East recognized as excellent in audits of food preparation areas. Japan Earthquake, Aeon has been twice yearly conducting Group earthquake disaster drills to ensure quick action for the safety of employees and customers in the event of a disaster. Consumer Issues In 2012, the drills were conducted in March and October. The training in October assumed a major magnitude 7 earthquake Store Safety and Security with epicenter off the Tokyo Bay Urayasu coast, affecting Aeon headquarters at Makuhari, Chiba. Based on our BCP (Business Improving the Earthquake-resistance of Stores Continuity Plan), we instituted an Aeon Group Earthquake Task Force at AEON Inage Store. We made the assumption further that With customer safety our number one priority, we recognize the headquarters of each of the group companies in the Tokyo that in order to provide peace of mind we need to formulate a metropolitan area was damaged, and that a Task Force had to be response in terms of not only our products and services, but our set up in each company to take control. store facilities as well. To that end, Aeon is moving forward with Between November 2012 and improving the earthquake resistance of its stores in accordance February 2013, we inaugurated Group with its own set of standards in order to minimize damages and Local Emergency Response offices in 8 loss of life should a major earthquake strike. areas across the nation, from Hokkaido In fiscal 2012, we changed hanging smoke barriers to fireproof to Okinawa, each one responsible for sheets in 25 projects and reinforced large ceiling spaces in move working together with Aeon Group Disaster drill (AEON Inage Store, theaters to prevent falling parts in 18 projects covering 45 stores companies in their area. Chiba Prefecture) 57 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 • Fire Prevention Drills at Stores Raising Safety Levels of Store Facilities and Fixtures Aeon stores check safety and disaster preparedness measures on a daily basis, while security staff and store managers also conduct a final inspection after stores are closed. Aeon works to enhance safety for facilities and fixtures used in its Fire prevention drills have been conducted twice a year and stores to prevent accidents involving customers. earthquake response drills run once a year. Following the Great East Japan Earthquake that struck in March 2011, however, we •Safety Measures for Escalators have decided to increase the number of earthquake response There has been an increase in recent years in accidents involving drills to two per year. We strive to make these drills as realistic as children getting caught in the gap between an escalator and the possible by changing the scenario for each based on a variety wall at shopping malls and department stores. Aeon stores work of possible disasters. Full store employees as well as temporary, to prevent escalatorrelated incidents by setting up barriers or part-time and tenant employees participate in the drills. They are dividers to prevent exposure to such gaps. conducted to help us respond quickly and ensure the safety of In addition, at our new stores we have reduced the speed customers in the event of a fire or earthquake. of down elevators from 30 meters per minute to 20 meters per minute as a means to preventing falls by senior citizens. • Crime Prevention Measures There have been a number of incidents at supermarkets over the •Establishing Parking Lot Guardrails past several years involving food products with needles or other Accidents often occur in the parking lots of retail complexes dangerous objects. Aeon has therefore installed security cameras caused by drivers mixing up the gas and brake pedals. We have in food departments and begun using needle detectors at its therefore established parking lot guardrails in order to prevent stores. If a needle were to be discovered, it would be promptly cars from crashing into stores and ensure the safety of customers. delivered to the police or healthcare center and customers as well as local Group company stores would be informed through an in-store display or announcement in order to prevent additional injury or damage. We are also conducting crime prevention drills to ensure the safety of customers in the event an incident or accident occurs in a store. •Measures to Combat New Flu Viruses Safety Measures for Escalators Aeon formed a project team in 2006 as a measure to address •Installing Automated External Defibrillators (AED) risks from the outbreak of infectious diseases such as the global Automated external defibrillators, or AED, administer an electric spread of highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza in humans. shock to people experiencing sudden cardiac arrest as a way We established Rules for New Flu Viruses in September 2006 and to resuscitate them. As of the end of February 2012, Aeon has have since been readying infection prevention measures in order installed a total of 1,350 AED units at 858 stores and shopping to ensure the safety of customers and employees. centers. In addition, store management, security guards and In fiscal 2012, we utilized our Influenza Infection Reporting other staff members are trained in emergency lifesaving System* to monitor for outbreaks of the new influenza virus and techniques. to enhance reporting accuracy. In fiscal 2013, we plan on expanding this coverage to include In fiscal 2013, we plan on revising our Rules for New Flu small supermarkets. Viruses in accordance with the enactment of Japan’s Act on Special Measures for New Influenza Virus Control and establishing protocol for providing access to the vaccinations. * Influenza Infection Reporting System: An in-house system established in 2010 to identify the status of flu infections at Aeon Group stores and business locations nationwide. Parking Lot Guardrails AEON Sustainability Report 2013 58 Creating a Convenient and Comfortable Store Environment for Everyone Consumer Issues Serving as a form of life style infrastructure that protects the local community Aeon developed its own building standards based on the Heartful Building Law of 1994 (revised December 2006 as the Establishing local temporary shelters Barrier Free Law*). We use these standards when building new [ Aeon ECO Project: Protection Strategy ] stores or remodeling existing locations. As of the end of February 2013, over 680 of our facilities had been certified as compliant Aeon has established a goal to set up local temporary shelters at with the Barrier Free Law. 100 of its stores across Japan by fiscal 2020 as part of the Aeon We are also committed to incorporating universal design ECO Project (see page 27) started in September 2012. elements, to strengthen store function and design. Recognizing In fiscal 2013, we will make modifications to equipment that the number of seniors more disaster resilient in stores where a cogeneration back-up among our customers power system has already been installed. In addition, we plan on is increasing, we aim to establishing local temporary shelters in 20 stores, including in incorporate universal design new stores and buildings designated as tsunami evacuation sites. concepts in all of our stores. * The Act for Buildings Accessible to and Usable by the Elderly and Physically Step-free entrance Disabled Persons, or Heartful Building Remote controlled car parking for the Law, was revised and renamed as physically disabled Barrier Free Law in December 2006. (AEON LakeTown) “Care Fitters” and “Supporters for People with Dementia” We encourage Aeon employees to acquire Care-fitter*1 certification to help ensure that seniors and people in need of assistance can shop at our stores with total confidence. Certified Private power generation equipment installation Care-fitters numbered 9,587 as of February 28, 2013. To allow a proper understanding of dementia, a training FY2012 Results and Target of KPI course is being offered to employees for the Supporters training. The number of local temporary shelters As of February 2013, there are 35,783 Supporters and 740 ‘Caravan Mate’ trainers. Set of alternative district headquarters as a pillar of disaster prevention bases, and implementation of disaster prevention base support of the *1 Care-fitter certification is administered by the non-profit Nippon Care-Fit Service decision, new stores of disaster prevention establishing stores in 2013 Association *2 Supporters for people with dementia are certified through a prescribed curriculum course to give care to people with dementia and support to their families. Target FY 2011 2012 2013 2020 The badge and orange band t3FTUPSBUJPOXPSLPGTUPSFTUIBUXFSFBòFDUFECZUIF Local temporary worn by staff specially trained to (SFBU&BTU+BQBO&BSUIRVBLF shelters at 100 of its assist customers with dementia t#SPXTFFBSUIRVBLFTBGFUZNFBTVSFTJUFN stores across Japan t$POEVDUFETFJTNJDSFJOGPSDFNFOUXPSLJOTPNFTUPSFT Care-fitter Training Session Role-playing in Caravan Mate training 59 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 compared to fiscal 2011 (7,174 opinions). This is because the Consumer Issues number of product inquiries increased in proportion to the expansion in TOPVALU product lineup and sales. The number of System of Dialog with Customers service complaints stood at 4,807, which was 97.4% of fiscal 2011, marking a slight improvement. The number of compliments System for Listening to the Opinions of Customers received was 1,919, which was 131.2% of fiscal 2011, for an increase of 456, Aeon puts the customer’s perspective at the heart of Going forward, we intend to listen carefully to the opinions of management. We strive to create conditions in which each and every customer to provide them with better services customers feel free to provide suggestions and to promptly and products and to help us attain our targets for the year 2020. incorporate customer comments into product lineup and service improvements, environmental conservation activities and other FY2012 Results and Target of KPI areas. Number of Products Developed / Improved based on Customer Feedback •Suggestion Boxes and Communication Boards 107 180 Each Aeon store has set up a box for customers to put their opinions in and a board disclosing the opinions and Aeon’s Target response. Comments and suggestions provided by customers FY are replied to directly by a store 2011 2012 2013 2020 representative and posted for Target others to see. We receive many suggestions from customers about 93 120 things that are difficult for stores and employees to notice. The suggestions are utilized to improve product lineups and services and TOPICS in environmental conservation Suggestion Box and Examples of Product Development activities and other initiatives. Communication Board and Improvements Made Based on FY2012 Results and Target of KPI Customer Feedback Number of Complaints and Compliments Received • TOPVALU Wine’ Signage offering directions on how to open a screw cap Number of We created point of purchase signage to help customers learn service complaints 4,838 4,807 3,900 2,420 how to open a long screw cap more easily after we received complaints that the screw cap on the bottle was too tight and Target impossible to open. FY 2011 2012 2013 2020 Target Number of compliments 1,463 1,919 1,900 1,290 •Customer Service Department The Customer Service Department at Aeon headquarters receives product and service related comments and requests from customers that visit our stores. Comments and requests, which come in via the phone, Internet, letters and other channels, are responded to after checking with the relevant departments. In addition, for TOPVALU products, we have set up a call center and collect customer suggestions. This information is reported to directors and executive officers, as well as shared with employees of relevant departments through systems that manage customer feedback. A total of 78,151 opinions (service complaints) were received in fiscal 2012 from our customers, marking a 10.1% increase AEON Sustainability Report 2013 60 Initiatives Undertaken by Group Companies MAXVALU NISHINIHON CO., LTD The Daiei, Inc. Crime prevention drill at safe harbor stores Get Friendly with Assistance Dogs class still going Many of AEON’s stores serve as “safe harbor stores” and strive strong after 20 years to ensure local safety. This is accomplished by providing first Since 1993, ten years before the Law Concerning Assistance aid or shelter, or assistance to call an ambulance or the police, Dogs for the Disabled came into effect which required for those injured by criminals and seeking refuge in a store. In establishments to accept disabled persons with assistance order to enhance its crime prevention capabilities, MAXVALU dogs (seeing eye dogs, hearing assistance dogs, and service NISHINIHON has been conducting crime prevention drills on dogs), The Daiei, Inc. has been welcoming assistance dogs an ongoing basis. In fiscal 2012, the drill was held at XX stores. (at first only seeing eye dogs) into its stores in enabling all The drill is conducted in collaboration with the local police customers to enjoy their shopping experience. station, based on several scenarios, such as purse-snatch theft, At the same time, the company launched the “Get Friendly to train participants on how to protect and rescue a customer with Assistance (Seeing Eye) Dogs” program to provide an in need and report the crime to the police. The initiative opportunity for all to learn more about assistance dogs. aimed to enhance and promote crime prevention awareness By May 2013, a total of over 900 sessions have been held. among local customers and staff. The class provides basic knowledge on assistance dogs, demonstrates the type of work and training these dogs AEON Kyushu Co., Ltd. are involved in, as well as sells goods for charities, allowing Kamimine Stay Well Shopping Delivery Service customers who otherwise have little chance to interact with Launched assistance dogs a firsthand opportunity to learn more about them. Aeon’s Kamimine Store, which is operated by Aeon Kyushu The Daiei, Inc. has been conducting charity events for over Co., Ltd., introduced the “Kamimine Stay Well Shopping 22 years since March 1991 in helping to foster and promote Delivery Service” jointly with Kamimine City, Saga Prefecture awareness of assistance dogs. In May 2013, the total amount in April 2012. of donations received reached 300 million yen for the first Kamimine City, which is faced with an aging population, is time in the grocery industry. home to a large number of elderly people that find it difficult to do everyday shopping. While helping with the shopping of elderly customers, the company also aims to keep an eye on the health condition of these customers through the delivery of goods. Efforts will continue to be made to contribute to the local community through initiatives that unite the company with the region. 61 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 ratio of female managers starting with fiscal 2013. Going forward, Human Rights / Labor Practices we will implement measures aimed at achieving our targets of a 30% ratio of female managers by fiscal 2016 and a 50% ratio by fiscal 2020. Promoting Diversity FY2012 Results and Target of KPI Ratio of Female Executive Officers Ratio of Female Executive Officers Since its founding, Aeon has recruited and hired human = Female Executive Offi cers / Total Executive Officers resources under the basic policy of treating all with fairness based solely on their skills and performance and not on nationality, 4.2% (33persons) * Number of female executive officers out of 789 total gender, age, or other personal attributes. executive officers including consolidated Group companies. Target Basic principles on personnel FY With the primary objective of management based on respect for 2011 2012 2013 2020 human rights, the Aeon Group’s basic principles on personnel revolve around listening to employees’ aspirations, understanding employees’ feelings and making the most of what employees have to offer, based on the guiding philosophy of ensuring that all Aeon 5.8% 30% people lead a full life at work, at home (33persons) and in the community. • Basic approach to personnel •Creating a corporate Management based on respect Hiring Employees of Foreign Nationality for human rights environment in which human To meet the goal to expand our presence in Asian countries Listening to employees’ resources can continue to grow aspirations Understanding outlined in our three-year medium-term management plan, as they work over the long term. employees’ feelings Making the most of what employees have to offer which started in fiscal 2011, Aeon plans actively hiring young •Dealing with personnel based on ability and achievement, Ensuring a full life at work, human resources, who will form the cornerstone of future not nationality, age, gender or at home and in the community management not only in Japan, but also in China (including category. Hong Kong), Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia and Vietnam. In fiscal 2012, our head office in China took the lead and In July 2013, we established the Diversity Promotion Office began hiring employees locally in earnest. In July 2013 alone, the and assigned a manager in charge in order to ensure that company hired around 700 employees. In addition, our ASEAN moving forward we respect the individuality of all Aeon Group head office established in November 2012 is examining the employees and encourage ways to get the most out of our hiring of around 900 employees in Malaysia and Thailand during diverse workforce. The Diversity Promotion Office will begin by fiscal 2013. focusing on gender diversity in the workplace. Our goal is to As of February 28, 2013, 11 out of 372 employees (3.0%) at become recognized as the best employer for females in Japan Aeon Co., Ltd. are of foreign nationality. This measure is one of and the company where female workers most want to work. the objectives listed under Aeon’s KPIs. As Aeon will further expand business in the Asia region going Going forward, Aeon will do its utmost to hire human forward, the role of foreign staff will become increasingly more resources in Japan, China and the ASEAN region that can take important, and with this in mind, Aeon is working hard to recruit active roles on the global stage, beyond borders. employees of foreign nationality. FY2012 Results and Target of KPI •Promoting Positive Action Ratio of Employees of Foreign Nationality We are working to promote Positive Action, which seeks to make 2.9% (11 persons) us a company where both men and women can flourish, through * Number of non-Japanese employees out of 375 employees that employed by AEON CO., LTD. participation in a council to promote women’s workplace performance sponsored by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Target Welfare. FY 2011 2012 2013 2020 As of February 28, 2013, Aeon now has 32 female executive officers out of a total of 620 executive officers, including consolidated companies. The ratio of female executive officers, 2.8% Make ratio of non-Japanese employees listed under Aeon’s KPIs, currently sits at 6.3%, including two to Japanese employees 1:1 female corporate auditors. By fiscal 2012, we had established the ratio of female executive officers as a key performance indicator, but since managers also play an important role in business decisions within the company, we have decided to create a key performance indicator for the AEON Sustainability Report 2013 62 • Employment for People with Disabilities •Improving System for Employing the Elderly Aeon is working to establish conditions that allow people with Aeon Retail instituted a mandatory retirement age of 65 starting disabilities to work with a sense of purpose. in 2007 in order to meet the needs of the company, which wants In April 2013, Japan’s Act on Employment Promotion etc. to continue employing people over the age of 60 that are highly of Persons with Disabilities was amended and the statutory motivated and hard working, and the needs of the worker, who employment requirement for people with disabilities was want to continue working in a stable environment. In addition, increased from 1.8% to 2%. As of June 2013, Aeon had an today the number of consolidated subsidiaries that have employment rate of 2.05% of people with disabilities, which instituted a mandatory retirement age of 65 has now reached 41. exceeds the revised statutory requirements. In addition, the total As of April 2013, more than 1,500 employees (full-time) across employment rate of people with disabilities at all Aeon Group the Aeon Group were over the age of 60. Their broad range of subsidiaries also exceeded 2.0%. experience, skills and knowledge are being fully utilized in our At Abilities JUSCO Co., Ltd., a special subsidiary established in businesses. 1980, people with disabilities take on the challenge of realizing their own potential, working at 9 Scrum CD stores in the Tohoku region alongside able-bodied staff (as of February 28, 2013). Human Rights-related Training * Aeon Co., Ltd. has received accreditation for applying the Special Subsidiary Company System to applicable Group companies. Therefore, the ratio is reported based on the total for Aeon Co., Ltd. (parent company), Abilities JUSCO Co., Ltd. (special subsidiary Aeon respects the human rights of all people and does not company) and Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. (affiliated company). discriminate on the basis of nationality, race, sex, academic background, religion, mental or physical disability, or any other • Promoting Equal Opportunities for Part-time Employees attribute. Each and every Aeon employee strives to listen closely We have developed various programs that allow part-time to co-workers and make the company a place where people employees to thrive at the workplace. respect one another as equals. For example, Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. has a system that makes it To accomplish this Aeon holds training programs to facilitate possible for all employees to utilize the same training and hiring correct understanding and deepen awareness of a variety of programs. It instituted the Community Employee* Program in issues, among all employees including issues pertaining to social 2004 to eliminate differences in roles, expectations and treatment discrimination, people with disabilities, foreign residents, abuse depending on employee classifications (full employee or partof power, diversity, and work-life balance. time employee) and to enable the continued growth of all The Aeon Group as a whole trains employees on human rights employees depending on ability, performance and motivation. issues at training for new executive officers, training for new The program eliminates differences in educational and hiring employees of the Aeon Group, Aeon Business School (personnel opportunities. It also makes it possible for anyone to take on the training course), and meetings held for human resource challenge of a higher position, including willing Community managers across the Aeon Group. At training for new employees Employees if they fulfill certain conditions set by the company. of the Aeon Group, participants acquire basic knowledge related * Community Employee is a collective designation for Aeon Retail employees working in to human rights that is required of employees. a specific location and not subject to geographic transfer. There are both hourly wage positions and monthly salaried positions. At the individual company level as well, efforts are made to raise human rights awareness through a variety of in-house training programs. 63 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 Establishing an Education System that Supports Employee Development and Provides Equal Opportunity for Growth Employees are one of Aeon’s most important management resources. • Group Recruitment System This is because each employee is a unique presence that concretely This system enables personnel to challenge the business and job expresses Aeon’s principles to customers through products, services position they aspire to without being restricted by the domain or and customer interactions. Aeon has established personnel systems company they belong to. In fiscal 2012, recruitment was conducted based on abilities and performance and training systems to support for various new businesses within AEON Retail Co,, Ltd., as well as ongoing growth so that employees engage in their work with a sense TOPVALU Collection Co,, Ltd., AEON INSURANCE SERVICE CO., LTD., of its value. AEON BIG CO., LTD., and My Basket CO., LTD. • Aeon Fundamental Education • Internal Certification Systems This is provided for the first three years following employment Aeon has established a wide array of internal certification systems for with the same content Group-wide. Besides sharing Aeon’s basic specific jobs. Eight of these certifications have been accredited by the philosophy and set of values, the education aims to get employees Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare and recognized for their high to completely master the corporate culture and basic skills as Aeon quality. people. • Aeon Group Self Declaration Form System Aeon’s in-house qualifications Number of qualifications holders* This system encourages transfer within the Aeon Group beyond the (As of February 2013) framework of the company amid the many different business domains covered by the Aeon Group. In fiscal 2012, a total of 1,233 forms were ◎Fresh fish master (grade 1) 11 Senior cycle advisor 204 submitted from employees of 54 different companies. ◎Fresh fish master (grade 2) 1,899 Beauty advisor 577 • Sending Personnel to Graduate Schools in Japan ◎Fresh fish master (grade 3) 3,757 Handcraft advisor 362 Under this system, Aeon selects employees from Group companies to enter graduate school in Japan (MBA course) as a means to develop Baby advisor 694 Senior care advisor 83 human resources that will take charge of managing the Aeon Group Fashion advisor 731 ◎Hot deli master 2,692 in the future. The aims are for them to learn specialized knowledge related to management and build networks outside of the company. Liquor advisor 429 ◎Sushi master 2,635 • Management Trainee System Fish advisor 343 ◎Farm product master 1,388 Under this system, exceptional personnel are dispatched to Group Digital advisor 320 ◎Greenery master 499 companies across borders in Japan, China and the ASEAN region. Home appliance advisor 83 ◎Gardening master 246 The aims are to get the employees to learn new knowledge and skills through business experience and training overseas and to develop General appliance advisor 52 Checkout certification (grade 2) 2,042 candidates for management at each company through employee ◎Cycle advisor 207 exchange. • Aeon Business School ◎ denotes qualifications accredited by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare. * Total for Aeon Retail Co., Ltd., Aeon Hokkaido Corporation, SUNDAY CO., LTD., AEON KYUSHU CO., The Aeon Business School provides courses for personnel to learn the LTD., AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd., AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD., Maxvalu Hokkaido Co., Ltd., Maxvalu knowledge necessary for the jobs they aspire to. The system supports Tohoku Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd., KOHYO CO., LTD., Maxvalu self-actualization of motivated personnel. 10 courses were held in Nishinihon Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Kyushu Co., Ltd., MAXVALU KITA TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU MINAMI fiscal 2012 and up to 293 people attended. TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD., MAXVALU CHUKYO CO., LTD., MAXVALU NAGANO CO., •Overseas Training LTD., MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD. Personnel are sent to other countries to observe the latest business conditions and store setting of local chain stores in order to understand up-to-the-minute circumstances in the retail industry overseas. TOPICS Aeon DNA University – training Aeon people Aeon is a retail business group of companies that has grown to staff of over 350,000 employees in around 250 companies in Japan, China, and ASEAN. In order to stay in close contact with communities and continue providing new value through our unchanging founding principles and values handed down since Aeon’s establishment, Aeon felt a need to instill the corporate DNA to new generations of employees. In September 2012, Aeon instituted the Aeon DNA University to train the next generation of Aeon management. The seasoned executives who have experienced a variety of changes and transitions since Aeon’s establishment, and who are able to lead discussions based on actual case studies, serve as the instructor. Inheritors of Aeon DNA will play a key role, as managers of the next generation, in Aeon’s continuing development of new values and growth. DNA University Class AEON Sustainability Report 2013 64 Creating Pleasant, Comfortable Workplaces Securing Work-Life Balance Aeon has been a strong advocate of helping employees balance • Four Career Paths for Employees [AEON Retail Co., Ltd] their work life with their child raising needs and has made various AEON Retail Co., Ltd established four career paths in 2004. Under improvements in its policies over the years. Specifically, we this system employees may choose to take on the challenge strive to encourage employees raising children to take childcare of a different career path. Also, there are no differences in leave, including fathers, to reduce their overtime work, to take opportunities for acquiring qualifications or applying for new annual paid leave, and to take time off to participate in parents’ positions depending on the path, and employees are able to days at their child’s school. In order to promote these initiatives participate in various training programs regardless of the path. further, in fiscal 2011 we established a KPI for promoting efforts Going forward, we will further develop our programs and for general business owner action plans (expand the number of systems so that female employees in particular have a workplace companies certified to display the Kurumin logo) under Japan’s environment where they can thrive professionally, while Act for Measures to Support the Development of the Next achieving a work-life balance between their job and marriage or Generation. As of fiscal 2012, the following nine companies have childcare. been certified to display the Kurumin logo. Going forward, we will continue to implement measures The four career paths available to AEON Retail Co., Ltd. employees aimed at this KPI. (As of February 28, 2013) * Aeon Group companies certified as of February 2013: AEON CREDIT SERVICE CO., LTD. and AEON Mall Co., Ltd., AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD., AEON Retail Co., Ltd., KASUMI CO., LTD., • Norational  overseas (N) staff: Can essentially be transferred anywhere in Japan SUNDAY CO., LTD., The Daiei, Inc., Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd. • Rregional  egional (R) staff: Can be transferred anywhere within a specific block FY2012 Results and Target of KPI Creating Pleasant, Comfortable Workplaces • Cdaily/monthly  ommunity-based staff: No transfer requiring relocation. Option of salary or hourly wage. 9 companies certified to use the Kurumin logo • C  ontract workers: No transfer requiring relocation. Part-time only Target 2011 FY 2012 2013 2020 •Childcare and Nursing Care Support Programs [AEON Retail Co., Ltd] Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. makes childcare leave available for up to April 20 of the year the child enters middle school. While the 9 companies Promote initiatives under the General Business Action certified to use Plan for Japan's Act for Measures to Support the legal requirement under Japan’s Child Care and Family Care the Kurumin logo Development of the Next Generation (expand number of companies certified to use the Kurumin logo) Leave Act is to attempt to make this available until the child enters elementary school, we have provided extra time because workers often want to take time off after that for other events in • Employee awareness survey their child’s life. From June to October 2012 an employee awareness survey on For employees with families for which nursing care is deemed morale was conducted targeting Aeon Group employees. necessary, we have established a nursing care leave program and The results of this survey and employee feedback will be a nursing care work program that provide time off or shortened utilized to develop our organization and systems to improve working hours. motivation and make our workplaces more employee-friendly. The following graph contains data on the number of The results will also enable us to improve business performance employees taking childcare or nursing care leave in fiscal 2012. by identifying the strengths and weaknesses of each company. (Unit: person) In fiscal 2013, we will continue to conduct this survey and Childcare leave Nursing care leave compare the results with the one held in fiscal 2012. In turn, the AEON Retail Co., Ltd. 980 (9) 30 (5) combined results will be used to propose new measures for fiscal 2014 and beyond. Aeon Group 2,144 (16) 135 (11) * Numbers in parenthesises indicate the number of male employees taking childcare/nursing care leave • Welfare Programs A general Aeon Group friendly society foundation, the Aeon Good Life Club administers support programs to help members and their families live life to the fullest. 65 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 Health and Safety Committees Helping Employees Maintain or Improve Their Health Health and Safety Committees are organized at the store and Aeon is working to ensure that all of its employees receive business office level in order to ensure the safety and health of regular health exams and that it thoroughly conducts followemployees and promote the creation of pleasant, comfortable up, which includes recommendations for additional medical working conditions. For example, at Aeon Retail, store managers, screenings and work schedule adjustments based on the results managers of personnel and general affairs departments, of the exams, in order to properly manage employees’ health in employee representatives and labor union representatives attend compliance with the provisions of Japan’s Industrial Safety and the committee meetings, which are held once a month. Health Act. To help employees maintain or improve their health, we also have developed an insurance program to provide more comprehensive health exams to employees over the age of 40 Labor Union Status that are enrolled in Aeon’s corporate health insurance society. A counseling office is provided to support good mental health. Aeon emphasizes dialogue between labor and management, It is one of the member services of the Aeon Good Life Club, a and discussions are held with the labor union through Safety and general foundation run by the Aeon Group. Sanitation Committees and the labor-management council. The labor union has encouraged part-time employees to become members, and as of the end of February 2012, the Setting Up Hotline for Employees labor union had 193,000 members, including 140,000 part-time employees. We actively work to incorporate employee feedback Aeon set up the Aeon Code of Conduct Hotline for employees in through workplace meetings participated in by union members. 2004. The hotline can be used not only to report non-compliance and improprieties, but also to speak to someone about various workplace issues, such as not being able to speak with a boss or encountering something that is troubling. The hotline handles a wide variety of reports and consultations. It is available to all employees working at the Aeon Group. There are two lines in operation, one for internal consultations and another to connect and consult with an outside party. AEON Sustainability Report 2013 66 Update Report Aeon’s Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake Ongoing assistance under the theme: ‘Taking Action for Great East Japan Earthquake Reconstruction Putting Ideas into Practice’ Aeon leveraged its collective strengths following the Great East Japan Earthquake to provide assistance to those in need affected by this disaster and to offer support to the reconstruction of important social infrastructure in the region. Under its unchanging principles of “pursuing peace, Together respecting humanity and contributing to local communities, with the people centered on customers,” Aeon stands committed to continuing of Tohoku to assist the reconstruction effort together with its customers Hearing that people in temporary shelters across Japan and the people of the Tohoku region. were inconvenienced by stores being far away, Aeon dispatches trucks carrying goods. March 11, 2011 – The Great East Japan Earthquake strikes March 2012 We exerted our best efforts and did everything possible as a member of We launched a variety of initiatives under the theme ‘Taking Action for the local community and as a provider of life style infrastructure in local areas. Great East Japan Earthquake Reconstruction Putting Ideas into Practice’ At 3:00pm, immediately after the Great East Japan Earthquake struck, In March 2012, one year since the earthquake and tsunami struck, Aeon Aeon set up a headquarters response team at the Makuhari head office, confirmed the resolve of Aeon people to provide ongoing assistance to based on earthquake and disaster preparedness rules that lay out the reconstruction effort with the announcement of the ‘Taking Action response protocol. Later in the day, an on-the-spot headquarters for Great East Japan Earthquake Reconstruction Putting Ideas into response team was established at the Tohoku Company (Sendai Office). Practice” initiative. Under this, Aeon people from across Japan have taken Both of these teams took charge of efforts to help customers evacuate the lead in carrying out ‘Project Aeon Joining Hands,’ planting trees in stores, confirm the safety of employees, and check damages to stores. the disaster-affected area to bring back greenery and doing volunteer Information collected by these teams was in turn utilized to dispatch work together with local governments and NPOs. This ‘Project Aeon support teams and establish a system for delivering relief supplies based Joining Hands’ is slated to continue with its activities for the foreseeable on disaster prevention agreements with local governments. We also took future. In addition, we created the ‘From Tohoku’ initiative to deliver the steps to ensure the safety of survivors by opening up the sales floor at bounty of the Tohoku region to people across Japan via our stores and certain stores as an evacuation site for the surrounding communities. To catalogues in order to aid the reconstruction effort through shopping. fulfill our role as an integral life style infrastructure for the local community, we reopened stores as quickly as possible, called on our customers across Japan to help the relief effort with donations, and held sales in support of this effort. We also began mobile sales services to ensure access was available to our products and services. Floors of a shopping center were open to disaster victims. Aeon pharmacists used store inventories to fill prescriptions for disaster victims Together with our customers Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign for Disaster Relief continues. The campaign was expanded to three days in March 2012-2013. Truck filled with relief supplies and Operations were restarted on the first floor heading to a disaster stricken area of Aeon Ishinomaki store on March 31, 2011 Integrated Aeon Group In order to replenish the trees lost to the tsunami in the earthquake devastated areas, Aeon started ‘Joining Hands Reforestation “Gambaro (Go) Japan! Yellow Program’ to plant 300,000 trees in a 10 year. Collecting cash donations in front Receipt Campaign” of a store in Japan disaster-relief campaign (March 12, 2011 – May 8, 2011) (April 8-12, 2011) 67 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 Aeon is working with Tohoku producers for product development. The ‘Fast Fish*’ seasoned boneless Support performance Mackeral (‘Honetori Sanma’) from of 2013 of February the Sanriku region in Tohoku * Fast Fish: easy to cook and delicious marine products proposed and selected Amounts of Contributions by the Fisheries and Donations in Kind Approximately 5.4 billion yen Agency. Catalogue sales of Tohoku Seasonal Foods Donation amount inside, Helping Tohoku reconstruction through had you approach from customers shopping 14.5 billion yen (As of May 2013) March 2013 Employees who participated We began initiatives as a daily life lifeline in addition to expanding in the disaster area volunteer our Children’s Dream Program. Total 990 Starting in 2013, we launched the ‘Children’s Dream Program’ organized by the Aeon 1% Club. This program was set up to teach children in the Employees who participated Tohoku region that it is important to have a dream for the future and in volunteer activities in the features school visits, concerts, and speeches given by famous athletes, company and around Total 5,334 writers and musicians. At the same time, a new form of urban development is starting to take form in the disaster-hit areas. Aeon, too, has begun a new store development initiative called ‘Smart Aeon’, utilizing the lessons it learned from the Great East Japan Earthquake. ‘Smart Aeon’ has a focus on ‘towns’ and ‘communities,’ working with Total contributions of local communities for energy efficiency and provision of safe and reliable Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt support in face of emergencies, such as large-scale natural disasters. We Campaign for Disaster Relief plan on enabling 100 Aeon stores across Japan serve as local temporary shelters in the event of an emergency by the year 2020 as part of 443 million yen (As of May 2013) ‘Protection Strategy’ (see page 59). The number of tree planting in the affected area 19,200 tree “Tohoku Reconstruction WAON” issue number 33,000 cards The WAON for Tohoku Restoration card was issued in ‘Fast Fish’ sales in Tohoku May 2012. 0.1% of the sales produced raw materials use amount is donated to children Pack more than one million Aeon started ‘Aeon Hometown Foster in these disaster affected Parents’ for Reforestation, allowing regions. customers to take home seedlings of trees. Aeon has been engaged in a charity We are implementing efforts to Helping children who were affected by project to screen the convey the importance of forest and the Great East Japan Earthquake to hold documentary film green. on to their dream, in the field of sport, Utagokoro in theaters literature, and music. in 16 locations throughout Japan. AEON Sustainability Report 2013 68 Strengtheing Our CSR Platform Corporate Governance Basic Approach Corporate Governance Framework Aeon engages in ongoing efforts that address the three core Aeon operates under the ‘Company with Committees’ system management challenges of corporate governance reform, Group of corporate governance. Supervisory and executive functions management reform and execution of the Group’s corporate of management have been clearly divided, with supervisory social responsibility as a means to building a foundation that functions assigned to directors and executive functions fulfilled will continually enhance the corporate value of the entire Aeon by executive officers. Executive officers have been given wideGroup. ranging authority to work toward the realization of our mediumterm and longterm goals, which serves to facilitate timely managerial decisionmaking.We have also established the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and Compensation Corporate Governance Framework (As of May 30, 2013) Shareholders’ Meeting Propose appointment/ Appointment/ Propose appointment/ Appointment/dismissal dismissal of directors dismissal dismissal of independent auditors Supervision, Nominating Committee Appointment/ Outside Directors：3 Independent Auditors Executive dismissal Inside Directors：1 Officers Chairman of the Board: Outside Director President and 17 other executives Board of Directors Accounting Audit Committee audit (Three double as a director) Outside Directors：5 Compensation Outside Directors：3 Inside Directors：4 Inside Directors：1 Chairman of the Board: Chairman of the Board: Outside Director non-executive Aeon Management Committee Audit Compensation Committee Cooperation Outside Directors：4 Management Audit Office Chairman of the Board: Outside Director Group Management Structure Peace G Chief Chief Business G Chief Products Officer G Chief Officer for G Chief Financial Officer G Chief G Chief Officer for Function The Human Resources Development Officer Customer Environmental Officer Administration Officer Strategy, Digital, IT People Community G: Abbreviation for Group Audit Committee Business Nomination Raise the corporate Chief Executive Officer of General Merchandise Store (GMS) Business Companies within the General Merchandise Store (GMS) Business value of the Group Committee Chief Executive Officer of Supermarket(SM) Business Companies within the Supermarket (SM) Business as a whole Compensation Committee Chief Executive Officer of Discount Store (DS) Business Companies within the Discount Store (DS) Business General Shareholders' Meeting (Shareholders) Chief Executive Officer of Strategic Small Size Store Business Companies within the Strategic Small Size Store Business Board of Directors' Meeting President and Group CEO Vice President and Group COO Chief Executive Officer of Drugstore and Pharmacy Business Companies within the Drugstore and Pharmacy Business (1) Make faster decisions by way of a centralized Chief Executive Officer of Financial Service Business Companies within the Financial Service Business committee Chief Executive Officer of Shopping Center Development Business Companies within the Shopping Center Development Business Companies within the Service Business (2) Build foundations Chief Executive Officer of Service Business for future growth Chief Executive Officer of Specialty Store Business Companies within the Specialty Store Business Chief Executive Officer of E-commerce Business Companies within the E-commerce Business (3) Steadily implement our medium-term Chief Executive Officer of ASEAN Business Companies within the ASEAN Business management plan Chief Executive Officer of China Business Companies within the China Business Aeon Tohoku representative As of April 2013 69 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 Strengtheing Our CSR Platform Risk Management Committee, each comprised of a majority of outside directors, in Basic Approach order to strengthen management oversight, ensure transparency Aeon regards risk management as an important task of and objectivity, and enhance shareholder returns. management that is the responsibility of each department. Based on this recognition, daily risk management is handled at the Board of Directors’ Meeting and Corporate Committees company and department level, while internal control divisions monitor the status of risk management at each department. Held Main Role The Risk Management Committee performs reviews of and ・Oversees the execution of work duties of directors and Board of 7 times executive officers makes decisions regarding external risk factors, such as new Directors’ Meeting per year ・Determines matters that must be decided by the board of directors as stipulated by Article 416 of Japan’s Companies infectious diseases and large-scale earthquakes, that cannot be Act and matters that cannot be mandated to executive addressed by individual companies, and risks found in products, ・Oversees the execution of work duties of directors and facilities and services across the entire Aeon Group, We work to Audit 9 times executive officers Committee per year ・Determines resolutions concerning whether to appoint, foresee, predict and prevent risks with particularly high impact dismiss or reappoint the Company’s auditor to be submitted to the general shareholders’ meetingxecutive officers. potential by assembling interdivisional task forces. Nomination 3 times ・Determines resolutions concerning the appointment and Committee per year dismissal of directors to be submitted to the general shareholders’ meetingecutive officers. Response to Incidents, Accidents and Natural Disasters Compensation 3 times Aeon’s Risk Management Rules has been established to set ・Determines compensation of individual directors and Committee per year executive officers out the reporting route and response procedures in the case of an incident, accident or natural disaster, so that the Group Internal Control Systems General Affairs Department can immediately set up a response Internal control systems are being further developed by headquarters, and the subsequent impact can be minimized. reinforcing systems for promoting corporate ethics, the A natural disaster response system has been established in foundation of internal control. We are working to disseminate which the situation of each Group company and store is reported and instill good corporate ethics in all employees of the Aeon over the Company’s intranet or the Internet, and information is Group in accordance with the Aeon Code of Conduct, which was promptly shared with each Group company and the response established in 2003. In addition, an internal reporting channel headquarters. In addition, certain Group companies, including (hotline) has been set up as a part of our monitoring activities. Aeon Co., Ltd. and Aeon Retail Co., Ltd., have implemented an Overall internal control design and operation is overseen emergency call system in which information is immediately by the Internal Audit Department, which reports to the Aeon reported to the Company’s management team and the safety Management Committee (highest level management committee) of employees is confirmed whenever an earthquake measuring and Audit Committee. greater than 6 on Japan’s seismic intensity scale occurs. Group Management 開催状況 主な役割 Under the unchanging premise of its Customer-First philosophy, ・取締役及び執行役の職務執行の監督 Aeon’s Group management seeks to harmonize its strong 取締役会 年8回 ・会社法第416条に定められる取締役会で決定しなければならない事項及び執行役に委 operating companies, which are located closest to its customers, 任することができない事項の決定 with its pure holding company, which can respond agilely ・取締役及び執行役の職務執行の監査 to 監査委員会 a myriad of changes年13回 in operating environment, in order ・株主総会に提出する会計監査人の選任・解任・再任しないことに関する議案内容の決定 to maximize the value it provides to its customers. This also 指名委員会 年3回 ・株主総会に提出する取締役の選任及び解任に関する議案内容の決定 represents the key to unlocking the Group’s continuous 報酬委員会 年3回 ・取締役及び執行役が受ける個人別の報酬等の内容の決定 development. By transitioning to a pure holding company structure as part of our group management reform, we will be able to (1) make faster decisions by way of a centralized committee, (2) build foundations for future growth, and (3) steadily implement our medium-term management plan. This structure will also enable us to seek even greater corporate value for the entire Aeon Group through Groupwide strategic planning, optimum allocation of management resources, generation of Group-wide synergies and adherence to basic principles. AEON Sustainability Report 2013 70 Strengtheing Our CSR Platform Compliance and Corporate Ethics Basic Rules Promotion Framework —Aeon Code of Conduct The Corporate Ethics Team was established to promote Aeon established the Aeon Code of Conduct in 2003 in order compliance and the code of conduct throughout the Aeon to express the Aeon Basic Principles in terms of a specific set of Group, and is under the direct control of the chief officer for guidelines. Education and training on the code, establishment of Group human resources at Aeon Co., Ltd. The Corporate Ethics a hotline, and monitoring activities were all also started in 2003 in Team develops and executes policies for the overall Aeon Group conjunction with establishment of the code. based on an annual plan and proposes and recommends specific The Aeon Code of Conduct makes explicit to Group measures to address various problems and issues facing the employees criteria for action, consideration and judgment in company. The status of compliance issues and initiatives as well order to serve customers. It is intended as a shared set of values as the promotion of the code of conduct pertaining to the overall for the Aeon Group. Group are reported to the Aeon Management Committee, which Training on the Aeon Code of Conduct for Group companies is Aeon Co., Ltd.’s executive organ, and to the Audit Committee in Japan began on a full-fledged basis in 2004. The same training (outside directors). has been provided by Group companies overseas since 2006. Companies in the Aeon Group have appointed managers in Since fiscal 2011, we have been working to create a system charge of promoting the code of conduct and have established to disseminate and instill the Aeon Code of Conduct at Group administrative offices for the same purpose. These managers companies in China and ASEAN nations in line with the ‘shift to conduct training at their respective companies, conduct factAsian markets,’ one of the strategies outlined in our mediumfinding investigations for matters reported through the hotline, term management plan. respond to questions, and report to Aeon Co., Ltd. Additionally, each store and business office selects one to Our Commitment three employees to serve as leaders in charge of promoting the code of conduct. They work as instructors to disseminate and 1. Aeon people are always grateful to the many instill corporate ethics at the workplace level. other individuals who provide support and help, never forgetting to act with humanity. Code of Conduct Hotline Aeon set up the Aeon Code of Conduct Hotline for employees in 2. Aeon people value the trust of others more than 2004. The hotline can be used not only to report non-compliance anything else, always acting with integrity and and improprieties, but also to speak to someone about various sincerity in all situations. workplace issues, such as not being able to speak with a boss or 3. Aeon people actively seek out ways to exceed encountering something that is troubling. The hotline handles customer expectations. a wide variety of reports and consultations. It is available to all employees working at the Aeon Group. There are two lines in 4. Aeon people continually challenge themselves to operation, one for internal consultations and another to connect find new ways to accomplish the Aeon ideas. and consult with an outside party. Reports and consultations are passed on to Group companies 5. Aeon people support local community growth, concerned as feedback through managers appointed in charge acting as good corporate citizens in serving of promoting the code of conduct. Within two weeks time, an society. investigation is conducted to ascertain the facts behind each report or consultation, with the results reported directly to Aeon Co., Ltd. In addition, all consultation matters are conveyed to the executive management team of Aeon Co., Ltd. and the presidents of all Group companies in a weekly and monthly report. 71 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 Implementing the Aeon Code of Conduct Survey Education and Training Once a year since 2003 we have conducted an anonymous Aeon conducts training to disseminate and instill corporate survey of employee awareness to ascertain the extent to which ethics, primarily through four programs: training for executive the Aeon Code of Conduct has penetrated the organization as management, training for code of conduct promotion leaders, well as to gather information on workplace issues, employee general training, and training for new employees. A code of working formats, motivation levels and the like. This survey is conduct curriculum is also incorporated into problems asked on used as a basis for assessing employee awareness and corporate hiring examinations and in recruitment training. culture across the entire Aeon Group, including its overseas locations, through evaluation of the visibility of promotional •Training for Executive Management (since 2003) activities, the personal commitment of employees and the Executive management from Group companies learns about situation of each workplace. Its findings are also compiled, and shares the situation surrounding corporate ethics and risk analyzed as well as shared with Aeon Group companies, and are management both within and outside their own respective used to help resolve specific social issues. companies. The curriculum aims to empower participants with In fiscal 2012, we added questions within the morale survey in the ability to make their own decisions based on the Aeon Code Japan and received 81,776 responses from 65 Group companies of Conduct and to lead as well as set a precedent for general in Japan, representing an increase of 411.2% in response rate employees. compared with the previous year. In China and the ASEAN region, we instituted a web-based format and received 25,673 •Training for Code of Conduct Promotion Leaders (since 2003) responses from 26 Group companies, representing an increase Participants learn about corporate ethics and how to proceed of 120.3% in response rate in year-on-year terms. This significant with related practices. They also acquire skills for conducting increase in responses from both Japan and overseas helped us to study sessions at their own workplaces on the material covered. better ascertain employee attitudes and inclinations. •General Training (since 2006) All employees of the Aeon Group participate in general training Promoting Corporate Ethics at Group Companies once a year to review the Aeon Code of Conduct. Reconfirming Overseas the necessity of corporate ethics helps create a shared set of Aeon has been conducting compliance training, establishing values among employees. hotlines and instituting monitoring systems at Aeon Group companies overseas since 2006. •Training for New Employees (since 2004) In fiscal 2012, 36 Group companies from China and ASEAN New employees of Group companies receive training as a part of nations participated in executive management training in order new employee orientation. Through the Aeon Code of Conduct, to further share and boost mutual understanding of Aeon’s employees learn about acting and making decisions while strategies and policies. An orientation on the Aeon Code of putting customers front and center. Conduct was also given to employees of 8 new companies that joined the Aeon Group in order to educate them about Aeon’s Creating Support and Awareness-Raising Tools history and values. In addition to training programs, Aeon also creates a variety of We have strengthened our compliance promotion structure at tools to disseminate and instill its code of conduct. our head office in China, which has been growing exponentially, For example, the monthly Aeon Code of Conduct Newsletter and began fully implementing this structure in fiscal 2013. presents issues reported or consulted on via the Aeon Code of Conduct hotline, reports on the results of training programs, and conveys Aeon’s values through excerpts from the writings of our TOPICS founder. Every month 270,000 copies are printed and distributed Utilizing a Picture Book to Share the to employees of Aeon Group companies. Aeon Basic Principles The newsletter has been very well received by employees, promoting some to revisit to code of conduct and take Aeon makes use of the picture book Arigatou no Yakusoku advantage of the hotline. (“The Promise of Thank You,” Text by Masato Ochi with pictures by Soya Nagashima) as a tool to share and encourage mutual understanding of the Aeon Basic Principles among employees overseas whose native language is not Japanese. By providing the picture book, which introduces the importance of being grateful and saying ‘thank you’ in any situation, we aim to boost understanding of the essence of our principles in an intuitive manner. AEON Sustainability Report 2013 72 Strengtheing Our CSR Platform Environmental Management Environmental Policy System Environmental Guideline* Aeon established the Aeon Sustainability Principle in line with the Aeon Basic Principles as the fundamental policy that governs We strive to balance enriching lifestyles with environmental the environmental and social contribution activities that all Aeon conservation by providing safe and comfortable stores, products Group companies should take part in. In addition, the Aeon and services to our customers. ECO Project and the Aeon Biodiversity Principle also represent We also operate an environmental management system to environmental goals and policies for the entire Group. execute measures, perform regular reviews, and promote Effective measures are conducted following the continual improvements. environmental guidelines and environmental management 1. We will strive to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases in systems developed by each Group company based on their all of our business activities in order to realize a low-carbon own unique characteristics. This is because the Aeon Group society. encompasses a multitude of business areas and the challenges (1) We will continually improve the energy efficiency of our that each Group company faces may differ depending on their stores. operating format and sector. (2) We will strive to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases As an example, Aeon Co., Ltd. undertakes environmental in all phase of our products’ supply chain. protection activities based on the Aeon Environmental Principles, 2. We will promote conservation activities and ascertain the which sets targets and objectives for such activities pursuant to benefits and impact of our business activities on natural the key issues defined in the Aeon Sustainability Principle. ecosystems. Targets for the following fiscal year are determined by sharing (1) We will strive to develop and procure products that environmental activities undertaken across the entire Group use properly managed resources in consideration of under the guidance of the Group Chief Environmental Officer as sustainability. well as by an evaluation of the progress toward meeting previous (2) We will promote tree planting and raising activities as well targets. as undertake activities that safeguard the ecosystems of local communities. Environmental Policy System 3. We will strive to implement resource conservation and resource recycling initiatives in order to use resources in a Peace sustainable manner. Aeon (1) We will promote “reduce, reuse and recycle” for all the Basic Principles The Customer resources we use. p.1 People Community (2) We will strive to select raw and general materials that have less of an impact on the environment. Aeon Aeon ECO Project 4. We will comply with environmental related laws, ordinances Group-wide Sustainability p.27 and regulations, and strive to prevent pollution. In addition, Policy Principle Aeon Biodiversity Principle we will widely make public and spread awareness of this p.33 p.8 policy to our employees and all stakeholders who support our business activities. Policy of 5. We will develop partnerships with many stakeholders, Individual Environmental Environmental Environmental Companies Guideline of Policy of Policy of including our customers, and widen the reach of our Aeon Co., Ltd. Company B Company C initiatives. Enacted March 1, 2011 Motoya Okada President Aeon Co., Ltd. * Environmental Guideline of AEON CO., LTD. is applied in the following group companies. AEON CO., LTD., AEON Retail Co., Ltd., AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd., MAXVALU MINAMI TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU KITA TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD., MAXVALU CHUKYO CO., LTD., MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD., MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD., Aeon Integrated Business Service Co., Ltd., My Basket CO., LTD. 73 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 ISO Certification Environmental Education As of February 28, 2013, 32 companies in the Aeon Group have Aeon provides time in its various training sessions for learning acquired ISO 14001 certification, the international standard for about Aeon’s environmental principles and policies in order to environmental management systems. raise the awareness of employees regarding the environment. Since fiscal 2008 we have encouraged employees to take List of ISO-Certified Companies (As of February 28, 2013) the Certification Test for Environmental Specialists® (Eco Test)*. Department managers at the head office and higher ranked ISO9001 ISO14001 personnel as well as store managers and others take the test. To AEON CO., LTD. AEON Mall Co., Ltd. date, a total of 6,388 (591, fiscal 2012) out of 10,184 (1,589, fiscal AEON Retail Co., Ltd. AEON KYUSHU CO., LTD. 2012) Aeon personnel who took the test have passed. AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd. AEON CREDIT SERVICE CO., LTD. Companies that have acquired ISO 14001 certification provide MAXVALU MINAMI TOHOKU CO., LTD. AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD. training for their employees. For example, Aeon Retail has MAXVALU KITA TOHOKU CO., LTD. Maxvalu Kyushu Co., Ltd. established a web-based training tool and requires employees MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD. Maxvalu Hokkaido Co, Ltd. to keep an ISO 14001 handbook with them. Training seminars MAXVALU CHUKYO CO., LTD. AEON DELIGHT CO., LTD. for internal environmental auditors led by outside instructors MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD. LAURA ASHLEY JAPAN CO., LTD. are also held every year to facilitate smooth operation of the MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD. Mega Sports Co., Ltd. environmental management system. As of February 2013, a total Aeon Integrated Business Service Co., Ltd. COX CO., LTD. of 1,718 employees (78, fiscal 2012) have attended the seminars AEON BIG CO., LTD. Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd. since 2000, when ISO certification was acquired. My Basket CO., LTD. Research Institute For Quality Living Co., Ltd. * The Certification Test for Environmental Specialists is a certification program sponsored by the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Industry. It was started in 2006 in order Maxvalu Tohoku Co., Ltd. AEON Hokkaido Corporation to develop human resources who possess broad-reaching basic knowledge of AEON FOOD SUPPLY Co., Ltd. AEON GLOBAL SCM CO., LTD. environmental issues and who can utilize their awareness of these issues in everyday activities, and to help build a sustainable society with a healthy balance between the Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd. Guangdong JUSCO Teem Stores Co., Ltd. environment and the economy. Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd. Qingdao AEON Dongtai Co., Ltd. *M  arch 2013, Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd. MAXVALU CHUKYO CO., LTD. and merged. Wastewater Management Wastewater discharged from Aeon stores rarely if ever contains Environmental Specialist Certification hazardous substances. Sometimes, however, this wastewater may contain large amounts of oils, which can exceed legal limits or clog up wastewater pipes leading to a leakage or other accident. As a result, Aeon conducts training for its employees and the employees of its tenants to ensure day to day maintenance is correctly performed, including compliance with cleaning rules for grease traps. We have also included grease trap monitoring as part of the required hygiene checks for our stores, and adopted a system where third-parties regularly perform these checks. Furthermore, Aeon Retail and several other Aeon Group companies perform water quality testing concurrently that includes sewerage as part of annual voluntary inspections. Stores where problems are identified are required to make improvements, which helps to improve our overall wastewater management practices. We have set voluntary standards that are set 5% below legal requirements and take immediate action if any values exceed these standards during voluntary inspections. AEON Sustainability Report 2013 74 Strengtheing Our CSR Platform Environmental Management Environmental Accounting Aeon Group Category Accounting items Environmental Economic benefits Environmental conservation costs of environmental conservation (Yen) conservation (Yen) benefits (t-CO2) Installation cost for photovoltaic power systems 51,789,000 5,072,108 94,525.9 Investments in energy efficient equipment for Smart Aeon stores* 0 0 0.0 Investments in energy efficient equipment for new stores other than Smart Aeon stores* 560,545,614 211,412,097 6,333.1 Adoption cost of CO2 refrigerant at new stores 216,234,033 20,259,254 83.3 Realization of a Investments in energy efficient equipment at existing stores* 1,393,259,659 411,102,790 1,396,263.5 Low-carbon Society nstallation of LED lighting at existing stores 21,768,870,524 3,373,521,050 1,092,460.3 Visualization of energy usage at existing stores 73,590,390 54,516,028 1,039.1 Costs associated with energy management seminars (participation) 9,437,840 0 0.0 CFC filling costs 135,668,555 0 0.0 Total 24,209,395,615 4,075,883,327 2,590,705.2 Aeon Hometown Forest program implementation costs 61,041,330 0 0.0 Conservation of Aeon Hometown Forest program tree planting festival 20,248,578 0 1,193 Biodiversity Cost of regular maintenance for planted zones 63,556,627 0 0.0 Total 144,846,535 0 1,193 Payment of third-party processing required under the Act on the Promotion of Sorted Collection and Recycling of Containers and Packaging 632,813,680 0 0.0 Operating costs for home appliance recycling program 89,053,514 0 0.0 Better Use of Resources Provision for offering 2 yen discount for declining plastic bags 537,144,999 518,169,594 0.0 Processing cost of recyclables collected in-store 377,188,471 195,833,129 0.0 Processing cost of recycling articles with food residue 335,736,957 0 0.0 Total 1,971,937,621 714,002,723 0.0 Contributions to the Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign 265,948,547 0 0.0 Addressing Social Issues Activity costs of the Aeon Cheers Club 3,569,328 0 0.0 Total 269,517,875 0 0.0 Cost of preparing the Aeon Environmental and Social Report 4,512,480 0 0.0 Operating costs of environmental website 1,760,000 0 0.0 Cost of operating or exhibiting at environmental events 9,221,250 0 0.0 Environmental Communication Environmental advertising (external) 192,352,797 0 0.0 Cost of environmental testing 6,928,476 0 0.0 Membership dues in and donations for environmental organizations 84,665,388 0 0.0 Total 299,440,391 0 0.0 Processing cost of waste generated by stores and offices 4,784,600,679 0 0.0 Maintenance of pollution prevention equipment and devices (including inspections and testing) 815,893,508 0 0.0 Environmental Personnel costs 216,422,980 0 0.0 Management Operating cost of environmental management system 29,774,173 0 0.0 Costs for preventing environmental accidents and for restoring in case of accident 10,545,110 0 0.0 Cost of organizing waste management seminars 122,460 0 0.0 Total 5,857,358,910 0 0.0 * Standard equipment included in the energy efficiency implementation plan established by the General Affairs Division 75 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 See the table below for the companies covered in each segment. GMS (includes some SM and SuC) SM DS Subtotal Subtotal Subtotal Environmental Economic benefits Environmental Environmental Economic benefits Environmental Environmental Economic benefits Environmental conservation costs of environmental conservation conservation costs of environmental conservation conservation costs of environmental conservation (Yen) conservation (Yen) benefits (t-CO2) (Yen) conservation (Yen) benefits (t-CO2) (Yen) conservation (Yen) benefits (t-CO2) 47,989,000 822,108 25.9 3,800,000 4,250,000 94,500.0 0 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 81,000,000 6,102,945 213.6 479,545,614 205,309,152 6,119.5 0 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 216,234,033 20,259,254 83.3 0 0 0.0 1,084,043,600 131,853,687 2,873.9 306,466,059 279,249,103 1,393,389.6 2,750,000 0 0.0 20,140,947,426 3,166,245,535 88,517.0 1,627,923,098 207,275,515 1,003,943.3 0 0 0.0 40,047,000 37,772,000 1,038.6 33,543,390 16,744,028 0.5 0 0 0.0 9,288,000 0 0.0 121,980 0 0.0 27,860 0 0.0 86,389,450 0 0.0 36,554,945 0 0.0 12,724,160 0 0.0 21,489,704,476 3,342,796,275 92,669.0 2,704,189,119 733,087,052 2,498,036.2 15,502,020 0 0.0 8,624,140 0 0.0 52,417,190 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 9,256,383 0 1193 10,992,195 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 28,772,552 0 0.0 32,822,121 0 0.0 1,961,954 0 0.0 46,653,075 0 1193 96,231,506 0 0.0 1,961,954 0 0.0 367,125,588 0 0.0 248,615,685 0 0.0 17,072,407 0 0.0 81,948,893 0 0.0 135,000 0 0.0 6,969,621 0 0.0 343,286,210 383,231,583 0.0 173,980,885 134,938,011 0.0 19,877,904 0 0.0 152,474,051 61,543,444 0.0 216,752,004 134,289,685 0.0 7,962,416 0 0.0 44,662,189 0 0.0 192,711,768 0 0.0 98,363,000 0 0.0 989,496,931 444,775,027 0.0 832,195,342 269,227,696 0.0 150,245,348 0 0.0 217,668,817 0 0.0 43,492,130 0 0.0 4,787,600 0 0.0 3,410,923 0 0.0 158,405 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 221,079,740 0 0.0 43,650,535 0 0.0 4,787,600 0 0.0 463,900 0 0.0 4,048,580 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 1,760,000 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 8,263,755 0 0.0 957,495 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 7,116,082 0 0.0 185,236,715 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 4,349,620 0 0.0 2,488,230 0 0.0 90,626 0 0.0 26,500,710 0 0.0 55,817,641 0 0.0 2,347,037 0 0.0 46,694,067 0 0.0 250,308,661 0 0.0 2,437,663 0 0.0 3,615,662,866 0 0.0 1,076,790,698 0 0.0 92,147,115 0 0.0 416,193,126 0 0.0 344,148,434 0 0.0 55,551,948 0 0.0 116,885,227 0 0.0 95,533,675 0 0.0 4,004,078 0 0.0 14,060,628 0 0.0 15,581,485 0 0.0 132,060 0 0.0 4,888,000 0 0.0 5,570,306 0 0.0 86,804 0 0.0 48,000 0 0.0 53,900 0 0.0 20,560 0 0.0 4,167,737,847 0 0.0 1,537,678,498 0 0.0 151,942,565 0 0.0 Companies covered: Aeon Retail, AEON RYUKYU, Companies covered: MV Hokkaido, MV Tohoku, MV Tokai, Companies covered: AEON BIG Aeon Hokkaido, Aeon Kyushu, Aeon Supercenter MV Chubu, MV Nishinihon, MV Kyushu, MV KITA TOHOKU, MV HOKURIKU, MV MINAMI TOHOKU, MV KANTO, MV NAGANO, MV CHUKYO, KOHYO, SANYO MARUNAKA (MV: MAXVALU) AEON Sustainability Report 2013 76 Strengtheing Our CSR Platform Environmental Management FY2012 ISO 14001 Targets and Performance AEON Retail Co., Ltd., Maxvalu six companies*, AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd., AEON BIG CO., LTD. ◎＝Achieved △・×＝Did not achieve, but will continue to make efforts Percentage over Environmental Policies Category Targets Performance Evaluation Department responsible target Reduce electricity usage by more than 5% Target: 2,358,732,515kwh ●Construction compared to fiscal 2010 Results: 2,135,237,586kwh Department General The target for locations within the Tohoku and 90.5% ◎ Affairs Division Tokyo electric power company service areas *Total for AEON Retail Co., Ltd., MaxValu Co., Ltd., 6 was a 20% reduction in electricity usage for the companies, AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd., and AEON BIG (Facility Management July to September period CO., LTD. Group) ・AEON Itamikoya Shopping Center opened (March 2011) Stores (Reduced CO2 emissions by 30% compared to existing ●Construction Promote Eco Store transition at new and stores / Acquired CASBEE S ranking (BEE4.1) Department existing stores, increase the installation ・Lake Town Outlet opened (April 2011) ●Construction of energy efficient devices, plan new Eco (Reduced CO2 emissions by 20% compared to existing ‐ ◎ Department General Stores that reduce CO2 emissions by 50% stores / Acquired CASBEE A ranking) Affairs Division compared to existing stores, and aim for ・AEON Yamato Shopping Center opened (May 2011) (Facility Management new store openings in 2012 (Reduced CO2 emissions by 20% compared to existing Group) stores / target to acquire CASBEE A ranking) ●CoolishFact, Heatfact 100% ◎ Realization of a LowSales results: 42 million units, 160% of previous year carbon Society ●TOPVALU KYOKAN SENNGEN 119.8% of Sales results: 119.8% of previous year previous year Develop low-carbon products and (AEON Retail, MV 6 companies,SUC,BIG ) (referential) promote further CO2 reductions through products ●TOPVALU Gurinai 110.1% of Sales results: 110.1% of previous year previous year ●Corresponding product ・Expand sales of environmental (AEON Retail, MV 6 companies,SUC,BIG ) (referential) divisions Products preservation products as well as cool biz ●SELF+SERVICE and warm biz related products ●SELF＋SERVICE Department ・Promote development of carbon Sales due to the expansion of sales of environmentally 92.5% △ footprint labeling (TOPVALU) and friendly products, 98.0% of previous year actively sell to customers Obtain new system accreditation for carbon footprint labeling Took part in METI grant project ‐ ◎ Results: Received and passed screening performed by national third-party government organization Item: TOPVALU Gurinai bell peppers Target: 8,346,085kg ●General Affairs Division Results: 7,797,530kg ●Department of Reduce use of materials by more than 5% 93.4% ◎ *Total for AEON Retail Co., Ltd., ＭV 6 companies, AEON Environment and Social SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd.,, and AEON BIG CO., LTD. Contribution Implement new trial scheme for the collection of recyclables Stores Purpose: AEON DELIGHT CO., LTD. will start Currently, yet to implement new trial scheme in-store recycling collection work in order to ●General Affairs Division reduce operating costs through improved Problems: (1) Logistics cost reduction; (2) Review AD sales ●Department of efficiency of stores with a recycling system price with vendors; (3) Reduce business outsourcing costs; ‐ × Environment and Social Better Use of and logistics, to reduce cost of recycling (4) Re-examine merits of AEON DELIGHT's scheme (reduce through more efficient collection, and to Contribution Resources in-store collection work, etc.) effectively utilize resources through the use of recycled products collected in store at Group companies. Target: 0.65% *AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd. had a target of less than 0.55%. ●Store Operations Maintain food waste-to-sales ratio at Stores Results: 0.6% 92.7% ◎ Department below 0.65% *Average of AEON Retail Co., Ltd., MaxValu Co., Ltd., ●Food Products Division 6 companies, AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd., and AEON BIG CO., LTD. Cumulative number of trees planted: 7,827,276 trees at ●Construction 765 locations (until Feb. 20, 2012) Department Conservation of Continue the Aeon Hometown Forests With Customers Held on-site lectures at three locations using the planted ‐ ◎ ●Department of Biodiversity Program, planting and nurturing trees zone management manual. Create monitoring ledger for Environment and Social each store and establish management system. Contribution Target: Ratio of stores violating voluntary water quality ●General Affairs Division Reduce the number of stores violating Pollution standards: less than 15% ●Department of Stores voluntary water quality standards to less 266.7% × Prevention Results: Ratio of stores violating voluntary water quality Environment and Social than 15% standards: 40% Contribution *MAXVALU KITA TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU MINAMI TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD., MAXVALU CHUKYO CO., LTD., MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD., MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD. 77 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 FY2012 Environmental load in business activities Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. (including head office building) Output Customers Packaging Disposal Input Output CO2 absorption through tree planting*2 1,193t-CO2 Electricity:2,015,043,893kWh Products CO2 CO2 （Private power generation6,463,169kWh） In-store CO2 CO2 emissions*1 Energy*4 1,008,582t-CO2 CO2 Utility gas : 34,627,951m3 CO2 CO2 collection boxes LPG : 1,910,105kg Packaging Discharge 211,812t Discharged into air Heavy oil : 6,317kℓ Plastic bags : 7,080t Light oil : 25kℓ Wrapping paper, paper bags : Gasoline : 159kℓ 5,275t Kerosene : 175kℓ Gift boxes : 1,097t Stores Recycling Separated Food scraps CO2 reduction collection Styrofoam volume reduction through collection boxes Waste oil of recyclable items Cardboard 26,461t-CO2*3 Other materials*4 Waste products Recycled Water Flyers : 5,999t Products 77,091t 9,161,800m3 OA, photocopy paper : 1,136t Disposal Recycling manufacturers Input Output Recyclable items collected CO2 emissions*5 Suppliers Aluminum cans: 109,970t-CO2 Energy*4 1,306t Light oil：41,973kℓ Food trays: 708t Waste products Products Paper cartons: 1,458t Distribution center Cardboard PET bottles: 2,789t *1 Calculations based on energy consumption of equipment at stores and business places. *2 Calculated based on the group-wide total number of trees planted under the “Aeon Hometown Forest” program. *3 Calculated based on the 3R basic unit method (Waste Management and Recycling Department, Ministry of the Environment; March 2013) *4 Calculated by multiplying the ratio of Aeon Retail by the total energy used by Aeon Global SCM. *5 Calculated using the CO2 emission coefficient (2.62t-CO2/kl) for CO2 emissions AEON Sustainability Report 2013 78 Independent Review Dr. Naoki Adachi, CEO Response Ability, Inc. After reading the Aeon Environmental and Social Report, I At the same time, Aeon can encourage a shift to more discovered once again that the Aeon Group, which stands as the sustainable raw materials and ingredients by developing its largest retail group in Japan and Asia, has responded to the many procurement policy. Aeon already has carried products that use expectations that society places in companies in a very wideraw materials or ingredients certified by internationally recognized reaching, yet in a meticulous manner. In the Top Message section, organizations such as FSC and MSC. I would like Aeon to increase President Okada speaks of the “need to give attention to a variety the number of TOPVALU products made from such sustainable of issues endangering a healthy and sustainable society” in order to materials. The ultimate goal should be for all of its raw materials and achieve the dual objectives of ‘Aeon Group growth’ and ‘Societal ingredients to be sustainably produced. This is because making all development,’ and I feel that these words have permeated the raw materials and ingredients sustainable will be required for truly company’s daily business activities. Of course, Aeon is still unable to sustainable products and consumption. fully and completely cover and address all of the issues it faces, but Of course, such an undertaking cannot be done by Aeon alone. when you consider the size of the Aeon Group and the sheer volume Aeon must exhibit leadership over product manufacturers and of products it carries on a daily basis, it is quite extraordinary that the producers both in Japan and abroad, and lead the market. This company is attempting to address such a wide range of issues. In this will be no easy task, but not impossible for Aeon who has already regard, I highly commend the Aeon Group’s level of commitment. shown its strong sense of responsibility for its lineup of private brand Achieving true sustainability requires that the company’s products. initiatives be broadened in scope and number. Specifically, Aeon is I would also like Aeon to focus on educating customers as well, in the process of shifting its business focus to Asia where the entire to ensure that they understand and support the value of products market is seeing robust growth, and so it will have to answer the that use sustainable ingredients and raw materials. If Aeon can question of how to secure the products, and the raw materials and increase the number of customers in Japan and Asia that select the ingredients needed for those products. As demonstrated by products for peace of mind and not simply price alone, then I the recent stories of the river eel (unagi), fishery resources are fast believe we will be able to take another step toward achieving a truly approaching their quantitative limitations. Many of Aeon’s products sustainable society. are made possible by nature’s bounty, and this is why it will be critical for Aeon and the sustainability of its business to find ways to Profile conserve and enhance the natural resources that it depends on. Dr. Naoki Adachi, CEO of Response Ability, Inc., studied in the Faculty of Given these themes, the retail industry may feel that these Science of the University of Tokyo and received a doctor’s degree in Ecology goals are too distant for them to work on themselves, but there from the University of Tokyo’s Graduate School. After researching tropical forests at the National Institute for Environmental Studies (NIES) and the are plenty of opportunities for Aeon to do this. For example, Aeon’s Forest Research Institute Malaysia (FRIM), he became a consultant. His areas tree planting activities, which began back in 1991, will reach a of specialty are “business and biodiversity” and “responsible procurement major milestone this year as the ten millionth tree will be planted. (supply chain management).” He holds several additional positions, including I recognize that Aeon’s emphasis has been to restore trees in local serving as a standing committee member of the Ecological Society of Japan, communities, but going forward I recommend that this be expanded advisor to the Sustainable Management Forum of Japan, executive director of to include restoring local ecosystems and their functions. Such the Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB), and member of the Ministry of the Environment’s Committee on Biodiversity Private Sector Activities activities will also be beneficial to promoting the understanding Guidelines. of local residents toward the importance of ecosystems playing as “natural capital” that produces natural bounties. 79 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 Group Chief Environmental Officer's Commitment Primary environmental conservation and social contribution activities 1965 Donation of 1,000 cherry trees to the city of Okazaki at the opening of the Okazaki Okadaya Store 1977 Established of the JUSCO Company Welfare Fund (now known as the Aeon Welfare Fund) 1979 Established Cultural Foundation of Okada 1989 JUSCO Group is renamed Aeon Group, and the Aeon Group 1% Club (now known as the Aeon 1% Club) is established Launched the JUSCO Earth-Friendly Committee 1990 The Aeon 1% Club started the Small Ambassadors (now known as Teenage Ambassadors ) Program as a part of its international cultural and personnel exchange activities Hidehiro Hirabayashi 1991 Launched the Aeon Hometown Forests Program, with Jaya JUSCO Stores Malacca Store (Malaysia) as its first store Group Chief Environmental Established the Aeon Group Environment Foundation (now known as the Aeon Environment Officer Foundation) AEON CO., LTD. Started Clean & Green activities Commenced the Bring Your Own Shopping Bag campaign on a trial basis Began trial operation of the food tray collection and recycling campaign Aeon is promoting ‘sustainable management’ that contributes both 1992 Planted trees at JUSCO Shin Hisai Store (now known as Hisai store) – the first store in Japan to the development of a sustainable society and to the growth of the under the Aeon Hometown Forests Program 1993 Started development of organic and other agricultural produce as the Green Eye (now Aeon Group. known as TOPVALU Green Eye) private label The basic principle representing the shared philosophy and 1994 Formulated the independent Aeon Heart Building Design Standards based on the Heart Building Law ( the Barrier Free New Law from December 2006). Opened JUSCO Minamikata action of all the people of the Aeon Group the world over is ‘pursuing Store as the first building in Japan certified under the Heart Building Low 1995 Introduced returnable food container and reusable hanger systems peace, respecting humanity and contributing to local communities, 1996 Launched the Environment Committee Founded the JUSCO Children's Eco Club (now known as the Aeon Cheers Club) centered on customers.’ In 2012, Aeon expanded the ‘Aeon Happy 1998 Established the Aeon Group Environment Foundation and conducted the 1st tree planting Yellow Receipt Campaign’ to China, and the ‘Aeon Cheers Club’ to in the Great Wall Forest Rejuvenation Project 2000 Launched the My Basket and My Bag campaigns Malaysia, both of which activities started in Japan. As part of our Started sales of TOPVALU KYOKAN SENGEN products recognition of our social responsibility in Japan, our support for Commenced development of SELF + SERVICE ecology shops Acquired ISO 14001 certification across the entire company reconstruction following the Great East Japan Earthquake is ongoing. 2001 Changed company name to Aeon Co., Ltd. and started the Aeon Day Started the Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign In 2013, the number of trees planted in Aeon’s Tree planting Aeon 1% Club starts support for the construction of schools in Cambodia (total of 149 Activities in Japan and overseas since 1991 will exceed 10 million. schools from 2001 to 2003) 2002 Started Aeon Clean Road Activities in partnership with the Volunteer Support Program of These activities and efforts embody the fundamental Aeon principles. the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism In March 2011 Aeon instituted the “Aeon Sustainability Principle.” 2003 Began use of biomass packaging materials Formulated the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct With four priorities: 1) realization of a low-carbon society, 2) 2004 Formulated the Basic Policy for the Prevention of Global Warming Announced participation in the Global Compact advocated by the United Nations conservation of biodiversity, 3) better use of resources, 4) addressing Achieved SA8000 certification for Aeon Co., Ltd. TOPVALU supplier management systems social issues. A system of Key Performance Indicators (KPI) was and Aeon corporate operations Commenced sales of TOPVALU Fair Trade Coffee under the TOPVALU label devised to quantitatively apprehend achievement in each priority Aeon 1% Club starts support for the construction of schools in Nepal (total of 57 schools from 2004 to 2005) area, and we instituted practices to determine performance of 2005 First eco store, Aeon Chikusa SC, opens medium-term goals set for fiscal 2013 and long-term goals for up 2006 Second eco store, Aeon Kashiwa SC, Third eco store, Aeon Dainichi SC, opens Stores and shopping centers acquire chain of custody certification for processing and to fiscal 2020. The KPI progress is reported annually on the website distribution of MSC certified products (MSC-CoC), the first such certification by a general merchandiser in Japan in the report to stakeholders. (the 2013 report will be available in Aeon 1% Club starts support for the construction of schools in Laos (Total of 120 schools September, 2013). from 2006 to 2009) 2007 Review of the process of issuing plastic shopping bags (discontinuing the free provision of Through dialogue with our diverse stakeholders, Aeon will plastic shopping bags in food departments) begins with the JUSCO Higashiyamanijou Store continue to seriously confront environmental and societal issues Aeon Co., Ltd. becomes the first company in the general retailing industry to sign an agreement on initiatives towards the establishment of a recycling-oriented society with the associated with our business activities, to strengthen our capabilities Japanese Ministry of the Environment Forth eco store, Aeon Kagoshima SC, open in sustainable management and to achieve a sustainable society. 2008 Aeon formulates the Aeon Manifesto on the Prevention of Global Warming, becoming the first retailer in Japan to name a specific goal for reducing output of CO2 Aeon Clean Japan campaign started as an initiative to mark Aeon’s 250th anniversary Ran a carbon offsetting campaign for the CO2 produced when delivering year-end gifts Fifth eco store, Taki Crystal Town CS, Sixth eco store, Aeon Tomakomai SC, Seventh eco store, Aeon Laketown, Eighth eco store, Aeon Hiezu, Eco shopping mall (ninth eco store), Aeon Mall Kusatsu, opens 2009 Trial sales of Carbon Footprint product labeling for nine varieties across seven TOPVALU products Tenth eco store, Aeon Tsuchiura SC, opens Aeon Environmental Foundation establishes Japan Awards for Biodiversity Participated in Japan Climate Leaders' Partnership as a founding member 2010 Established Aeon Biodiversity Policy The “Great Wall Forest Rejuvenation Project” by the Aeon Environmental Foundation, the number of seedlings planted had reached one million MIDORI Prize for Biodiversity Established by the Aeon Environmental Foundation 2011 Established the Aeon Sustainability Principle Eleventh eco store, The Aeon Itamikoya Shopping Center opens 2012 Developed the Aeon Sustainability Principle Developed KPI System Developed Aeon China CSR Principles Established the Sustainable Management Committee Started Aeon ECO project AEON Sustainability Report 2013 80 GRI Guidelines Indicators Section Index Aeon Environmental and Social Report (2012) 1 Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, 1.1 or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization p.3 President's Commitment and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2 Organization Profile 2.1 Name of the organization Front cover 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services p.19-22, 51-52 TOPVALU Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating 2.3 p.5-6 Aeon Group's Business companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4 Location of the organization s headquarters Back cover Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries that 2.5 either have major operations or are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues p.5-6 Aeon Group's Business covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 2.7 customers/beneficiaries) Scale of the reporting organization, including: • Number of employees • Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector 2.8 organizations) p.5 Settlement Report • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) • Quantity of products or services provided Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including: • The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and 2.9 expansions • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alterationoperations (for private sector organizations) 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 3 Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided p.2 Report period 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) September 20, 2011 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biannual, etc.) p.2 Report period 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Back cover Report scope and parameters Process for defining report content, including: • Determining materiality p.2 Editorial Policy 3.5 p.2 Scope of report • Prioritizing topics within the report p.2 Target audience • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report Parameters of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint p.2 Editorial Policy 3.6 ventures, suppliers) p.2 Scope of report p.2 Editorial Policy 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or parameters of the report p.2 Scope of report Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced 3.8 operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions p.68 Environmental Accounting 3.9 and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators p.69 ISO14001 Targets and Performance and other information in the report p.70 Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier 3.10 reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of p.27, 67 Aeon ECO Project base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, parameters, or p.23 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI 3.11 measurement methods applied in the report p.27 Reduce CO2 Emissions GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report p.73-78 GRI Guidelines Indicators Assurance Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain 3.13 p.71 Independent Review the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). 81 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 4 Governance, Commitments and Engagement Governance Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest 4.1 governing body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational p.63-64 Corporate Governance oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governing body is also an executive officer 4.2 (and, if so, their function within the organization's management and the reasons for p. 3 President's Commitment this arrangement) For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of 4.3 p.63-64 Corporate Governance the highest governing body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or p.60 Part-time employees also join the labor union 4.4 direction to the highest governing body. p.63-64 Corporate Governance Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governing body, senior 4.5 managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). Processes in place for the highest governing body to ensure conflicts of interest are 4.6 p.63-64 Corporate Governance avoided. Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest 4.7 governing body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles p.8 Aeon Sustainability Principle 4.8 relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their p.65 Aeon Code of Conduct implementation. p.67 Aeon Environmental Guideline Procedures of the highest governing body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, p.7 Joining the Global Compact 4.9 including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with p.49 SA8000 internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governing body's own performance, particularly 4.10 with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Commitments to External Initiatives Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed p.64 Risk Management 4.11 by the organization p.65-66 Compliance Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other p.7 Joining the Global Compact 4.12 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses p.49 SA8000 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ international advocacy organizations in which the organization: • Has positions in governing bodies 4.13 • Participates in projects or committees • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues • Views membership as strategic Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type 4.16 and by stakeholder group Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, 4.17 and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting 5 Management Approach and Performance Index Economic Disclosure(s) on Management Approach Goals and Performance Policy Additional Contextual Information Economic Performance Index Aspect: Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, EC1 employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities EC2 due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government Aspect: Market Presence Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at EC5 significant locations of operation AEON Sustainability Report 2013 82 GRI Guidelines Indicators Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant EC6 p. 48 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct locations of operation Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local EC7 community at locations of significant operation Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts p.32, 36 Aeon Environmental Foundation p.41-47 Community Involvement Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily p.46 Aeon 1% Club EC8 for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement p.50 Fair Trade p.51-53 Consumer Issues (Store Safety and Security) p.61-62 Aeon’s Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the EC9 extent of impacts Environmental p.8 Aeon Sustainability Principle Disclosure(s) on Management Approach p.23 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI p.67 Aeon Environmental Guideline p.23-26 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI Goals and Performance p.27, 67 Aeon ECO Project p.69 ISO14001 Targets and Results p.8 Aeon Sustainability Principle p.27, 67 Aeon ECO Project Policy p.33 Aeon Biodiversity Principle p.67 Aeon Environmental Guideline p.69 ISO14001 Targets and Performance p.67-70 Environmental Management Organizational Responsibility p.72 Group Chief Environmental Officer's Commitment Training and Awareness p.68 Environmental Education Monitoring and Follow-up p.68 Environmental Accounting Additional Contextual Information p.70 Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities Environmental Performance Indicators Aspect: Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume p.70 Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities EN2 Percentage of recycled input materials used Aspect: Energy p.23-24 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source p.70 Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities p.23-24 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source p.70 Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities p.23-24 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements p.69 ISO14001 Targets and Performance Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, EN6 p.27-30 Reduce CO2 Emissions in Stores and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved p.27-30 Reduce CO2 Emissions in Stores Aspect: Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Aspect: Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas EN11 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in EN12 p.33-36 Conservation of Biodiversity protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity p.33 Aeon Biodiversity Principle Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in EN15 areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight p.70 Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight p.70 Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities p.27-32 Reduce CO2 Emissions in Stores EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved p.70 Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 83 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under EN24 the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related EN25 habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff Aspect: Products and Services p.29 Eco Stores p.30 Carbon footprint initiatives p.31 Carbon offsets Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of EN26 p.33 MSC certification (marine eco-label)/FSC certification impact mitigation p.34 TOPVALU Gurinai p.39 Plastic bag Reduction p.39 TOPVALU KYOKAN SENGEN Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by p.38 Recycling Food Product Waste EN27 category p.39 TOPVALU KYOKAN SENGEN Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for EN28 noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Aspect: Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and EN29 materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the p.30-31 Logistics Initiatives workforce Aspect: Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type p.68 Environmental Accounting Social Performance Index Labor Practices and Decent Work (Fair Employment Conditions) Disclosure(s) on Management Approach p.25 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI Goals and Performance p.25-26 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI p.8 Aeon Sustainability Principle Policy p.57 Basic Principales on Personnel p.65 Aeon Code of Conduct p.57-59 Human Rights Organizational Responsibility p.59-60 Labor Practices p.65-66 Compliance p.58 Education System Training and Awareness p.59 Human Rights-related Training p.65-66 Compliance Monitoring and Follow-up p.65-66 Compliance Additional Contextual Information Labor Practices and Decent Work (Fair Employment Conditions) Performance Index Aspect: Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or partLA3 time employees, by major operations Aspect: Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is LA5 specified in collective agreements Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management worker health LA6 and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of workLA7 related fatalities by region Education, training, counseling, prevention, and riskcontrol programs in place to assist LA8 workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Aspect: Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued LA11 p.58 Education System employability of employees and assist them in planning the end of their careers Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development LA12 reviews AEON Sustainability Report 2013 84 GRI Guidelines Indicators Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governing bodies and breakdown of employees per category LA13 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category Human Rights Disclosure(s) on Management Approach p.25 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI p.7 Joining the Global Compact p.25-26 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI Goals and Performance p.48 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct p.49 SA8000 p.7 Joining the Global Compact p.48 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct Policy p.49 SA8000 p.57 Basic principles on personnel p.7 Joining the Global Compact p.48 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct Organizational Responsibility p.49 SA8000 p.57-59 Human Rights p.48 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct Training and Awareness p.49 SA8000 p.57-59 Human Rights p.7 Joining the Global Compact Monitoring and Follow-up p.48 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct p.49 SA8000 Additional Contextual Information Human Rights Index Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human HR1 rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on HR2 human rights and actions taken Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of HR3 human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Aspect: Non-Discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken Aspect: Freedom of Association Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and p.7 Joining the Global Compact HR5 collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these p.48 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct rights p.49 SA8000 Aspect: Child Labor p.7 Joining the Global Compact Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures HR6 p.48 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor p.49 SA8000 Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor p.7 Joining the Global Compact Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory HR7 p.48 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor p.49 SA8000 Aspect: Security Practices p.7 Joining the Global Compact Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures HR8 p.48 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations p.49 SA8000 Aspect: Indigenous Rights Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and HR9 actions taken Society Disclosure(s) on Management Approach p.25 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI Goals and Performance p.25-26 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI p.8 Aeon Sustainability Principle Policy p.65-66 Compliance Organizational Responsibility p.65-66 Compliance Training and Awareness p.65-66 Compliance Monitoring and Follow-up p.65-66 Compliance Additional Contextual Information Social Performance Index 85 AEON Sustainability Report 2013 Aspect: Community Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage SO1 the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting Aspect: Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and SO3 p.65-66 Compliance procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Aspect: Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and SO6 related institutions by country Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly SO7 practices and their outcomes Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for SO8 noncompliance with laws and regulations Product Responsibility Disclosure(s) on Management Approach p.25 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI Goals and Performance p.25-26 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI Policy p.65 Aeon Code of Conduct Organizational Responsibility p.51-52 Product Safety and Security Training and Awareness p.51-52 Product Safety and Security Monitoring and Follow-up p.51-52 Product Safety and Security Additional Contextual Information Product Responsibility Performance Index Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are PR1 assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services p.51 TOPVALU Quality Assurance categories subject to such procedures Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR2 concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by p.51 TOPVALU Quality Assurance type of outcomes Aspect: Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of PR3 significant products and services subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR4 concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring PR5 p.55 System of Dialog with Customers customer satisfaction Aspect: Marketing Communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing PR6 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR7 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Aspect: Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and PR8 losses of customer data Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations PR9 concerning the provision and use of products and services AEON Sustainability Report 2013 86 Planting Seeds of Growth We are AEON Please contact us concerning any inquiries or comments you may have on this report or on our environmental and social activities. AEON CO., LTD. Group Corporate Citizenship Dept. 1-5-1 Nakase, Mihama-ku, Chiba-shi, Chiba, 261-8515 Japan Tel: +81-43-212-6037 Fax: +81-43-212-6790 URL: http://www.aeon.info/ 2013.09.18
