United Nations Global Compact Communication on progress 2013 The Quality Connection Content Declaration of support 3 The LEONI Group 5 Human rights 6 Labour standards 8 Environmental protection 10 Anti-corruption 12 Results and key figures 14 Declaration of support | UN Global Compact 3 Declaration of support As a company operating globally, LEONI has made it its misin accordance with the ISO 14001 environmental standard and sion to ensure observance of human rights and recognised why we launched our Green Technology Initiative in 2009, with labour standards at our 96 facilities in 32 countries. This form which we are advancing towards being the leading manufacof responsibility was already taken on in 2003 with publication turer of cables for environmentally friendly technologies. of the LEONI Social Charter, continued in 2007 with the LEONI Prevention of corruption is managed as a key compliance field Code of Ethics and taken further forward in 2011 by joining the in our Compliance Management System. LEONI thereby ensures UN Global Compact. anti-corruption conduct in accordance with the principles of the The obligation under the German Corporate Governance UN Global Compact. Code, the LEONI Social Charter and the LEONI Code of Ethics This second LEONI Global Compact Communication on Proconstitutes a solid basis for all of LEONI’s activity and commitgress documents our key steps towards upholding the 10 princiment to fulfil the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. ples of the UN Global Compact through to signing it and details Sustainability has especially high priority for LEONI. It means our measures and results since August 2012. both a long-term business outlook and integration of ecological LEONI is committed to ongoing support of the ten principles and social aspects in our management systems. We regard this of the UN Global Compact and to continual improvement in as a contribution both to safeguarding our Company‘s future applying those principles. and towards sustainable growth of business and society. That is why we submitted the questionnaire on the Carbon Disclosure Project for the years 2005 and 2006 for the first time in 2007; why we have certified our principal production facilities Nürnberg, July 2013 LEONI AG The Management Board Dr Klaus Probst Dieter Bellé Dr Andreas Brand 4 The LEONI Group | UN Global Compact 5 The LEONI Group Leading cable systems manufacturer with a global footprint LEONI operates worldwide, providing wires, optical fibers, Geared to global trends cables and cable systems as well as related services for the The Company intends in the future to benefit more from automotive sector and other industries. The group of comglobal trends. These present the Company with major chalpanies market-listed in the German MDAX index employs lenges because they frequently entail greater consumption of about 60,000 people in 32 countries and generated consolresources and environmental harm. At the same time, howidated sales of EUR 3.8 billion in 2012. ever, they provide major opportunities. LEONI is therefore, with its products and services, preparing for the change involving Established 95 years ago, the Company now ranks among the demography, ecology, mobility, globalisation, industrialisation world‘s largest and most successful cable manufacturers. In and urbanisation. Especially with respect to environmental proaddition to tailor-made cable solutions, the Group is increastection, LEONI aims to become the most innovative cable supingly offering its customers complete systems with perfectly plier for the ‘green technology’ market. harmonised components – from the cable itself through to the required connectors and fixings. Ongoing growth of the ComThe highest quality thanks to skilled staff pany as a provider of development work and systems is a signifThe quality principle is resolutely applied at LEONI. It is part icant trend in this respect. of our corporate philosophy and firmly embedded in all of our core segments. This is reflected in repeated awards, for examSynergies thanks to a high real net output ratio ple as “Top employer” in Germany and, internationally, as supLEONI employees have profound knowledge in cable assemplier of the year of Caterpillar, DAF and Porsche. PSA nominated bly as well as a comprehensive understanding of the operating us as a core supplier in 2012. Furthermore, in-depth research conditions and technical correlations at the user end. In addiand development work underpins a high degree of innovative tion there is a ratio of real net product output unique in the secpower. tor, which provides valuable synergies: it begins with the finest single wire and optical fiber, moves on to the copper or fiber Tradition and progress since the 16th century optic cable and ends with the complete wiring system including A small wire factory in the Franconia region of Bavaria laid the integrated electronics. foundation for today’s global player LEONI back in 1569. At that time, Frenchman Anthoni Fournier began with a handful of Experience in and presence on the markets of the future staff in Nuremberg to produce finest gold and silver threads, LEONI focuses its business on the core markets of Automotive, known as Lyonese wares, for precious woven products. His sons Industry & Healthcare, Communication & Infrastructure, Elecopened further production facilities in the region. From these trical Appliances as well as Conductors & Copper Solutions. Its beginnings, Leonische Werke Roth-Nürnberg AG emerged customers include well-known companies such as ABB, Alpin 1917. Then as now the ability to change as well as a keen Transit Gotthard, BMW, Bosch, Continental, Deutsche Telekom, sense for trends in the market and for customer requirements EADS, Ericsson, Fiat, GM, IBM, Jaguar/Land Rover, Johnson Conare among the key characteristics of the Company, which was trols, MAN, Mercedes-Benz, Meyer Werft, Philips, Renault/Nisrenamed LEONI AG in 1999. Long-standing values simultanesan, Shell, Siemens, Solarworld, Volvo and VW Group. The Comously serve as a guide for acting in a predictable and responsipany already leads the world market as a supplier of single-core ble manner. automotive cables; in the wiring systems market it occupies first place in Europe and is fourth worldwide. In addition, LEONI is among the leading manufacturers across Europe in all of its other business areas. More information is to be found at www.leoni.com 6 Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of international human rights within their sphere of influence; and Principle 2: make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LEONI supports and respects the protection of inter­ nationally recognised human rights within its sphere of influence and ensures that it is not complicit in human rights abuses. Human rights | UN Global Compact 7 LEONI Social Charter and LEONI Code of Ethics Health and safety at work LEONI was one of the first companies in the world to draft Acting sustainably safeguards our Company’s future. Specific a Social Charter in April 2003. It applies directly to all LEONI principles for action are embedded in our health and safety Group companies worldwide. Ensuring employee and human policy to safeguard everyone who works for or with LEONI. rights as well as assuming social responsibility have always These include avoiding injury to or illness of our employees by been integral elements of our corporate policy. LEONI’s Europreventive detection of risks and effective averting of threat. pean Works Council and the International Metalworkers’ FederActing in a safety aware manner is part of every employee’s job. ation (IMF) are co-signatories to this Charter. Adhering to all legal obligations on safety at work and other In the LEONI Social Charter, the Group commits to respecting requirements is the basis for our activity and the applicable internationally recognised human rights and to support their national standards are minimum requirements in this respect. observance. We also encourage our business partners to conLEONI undertakes to observe all pertinent laws and directives sider this declaration in their own business policy. We regard on safety at work as well as internal rules of conduct. this as a beneficial basis for reciprocal business relationships. In March 2007, LEONI also introduced its own Code of Ethics. It Conflict minerals is binding on all employees of the LEONI Group worldwide and LEONI is committed to ensuring the traceability of conflict minhas been made accessible to every staff member. erals. Although LEONI is not affected by the reporting obligaThe Code of Ethics describes in unequivocal terms the values tions under Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act, LEONI is aware and the demands placed on the kind of personally responsible of this topic’s importance and feels obliged to work with its and honest conduct that has always guided LEONI as a busisuppliers to ensure that their products correspond with its cusness enterprise. The crux of the Code of Ethics is that LEONI tomers’ requirements and simultaneously provide the necessary employees act in accordance with the corporate rules and the transparency in their supply chain with respect to the use of statutory regulations of the legal system that applies to them. conflict minerals. Based on the information made available by Every LEONI employee must, when newly recruited, have a corits suppliers, LEONI will to the best of its knowledge and belief responding clause in their service contract by which he or she provide information on whether the products that they supply undertakes to observe the LEONI Code of Ethics. are made from responsible raw materials. Courses on LEONI Code of Ethics compliance The mandatory training courses that we have been holding for management worldwide for several years, and which currently involve about 150 managers, were switched to the “Compliance Basics and LEONI Code of Ethics” e-learning module starting in 2011. In 2012, these courses were offered in five further languages in addition to German and English, and extended to more than 10,000 employees. This involves all LEONI staff with e-mail access. We use a training platform with worldwide accessibility for this purpose. The courses make our managers and staff more aware on the topic of human rights. The LEONI Social Charter and the LEONI Code of Ethics are published on the LEONI website. 8 Labour standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. LEONI is committed with worldwide effect to providing a working environment for its employees that is free of discrimination in both employment and occupation, and in which there is freedom of association. The right to collective bargaining is effectively recognised. LEONI strictly rejects child and all forms of forced labour. These principles are embedded in LEONI’s Social Charter. Labour standards | UN Global Compact 9 Measures In addition to our Social Charter, which suppliers already had Part of the annual Control Self Assessment of managers pertainto accept in the past as part of our General Terms and Condiing to LEONI’s Social Charter involves confirming at all of the tions, the principles of the UN Global Compact have also been Group companies that all employees are of at least the miniadopted in our T&Cs. Here we draw express attention to the mum age under local law and are at least 15 years old. fact that, in the event of any serious or repeated breach of the Furthermore, breaches of these principles require Human principles as detailed in the T&Cs, LEONI is entitled to terminate Resource Reporting and can also be reported directly to our the supply relationship without notice. Chief Compliance Officer via our internal compliance process. In addition, the Internal Audit department checks this on a ranDiversity dom basis as a separate control factor of our Internal Control Due to our Group’s worldwide operations, our workforce System (ICS). We received no reports of any breaches of this includes people from many nations, cultures and ways of life. kind in 2012. With plants in Brazil, Egypt, India and South Korea, among other places, virtually all of the world‘s religions, including ChristianSupply chain management ity, Islam, Hinduism and Buddhism, are represented. To promote In order to apply the principles of the UN Global Compact in acceptance of this diversity, training courses on the General everyday work, it is of great importance to LEONI that social Equal Treatment Act are regularly held at LEONI. responsibility is also taken into account in the context of supply relationships. This applies not only within LEONI, but also Social commitment to suppliers’ operations and for the Company in general. In the LEONI commits itself with donations for and sponsorship of varselection of suppliers, our Wiring Systems Division therefore ious social projects, where we give priority to sustainability and checks candidates according to the principles of the UN Global a regional approach. In 2012, we increased our donations for Compact using a supplier self-audit. The supplier will receive children’s aid organisations, sports clubs, crèches and orphanapproval to supply only if either the LEONI Social Charter or the ages, among other good causes, by one third. The largest single principles of the UN Global Compact are accepted. donation of EUR 75,000 went to UNESCO. Note item “Social responsibility” in our General Terms and Conditions: http://www.leoni.com/AGB.179.0.html 10 Environmental protection Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. LEONI supports protection of the environment with a precautionary approach and has several ongoing initiatives to promote greater awareness of responsibility for the environment. We therefore encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. LEONI regards environmental protection as a primary corporate objective. Our environmental management is geared to keeping the impact of all our processes on nature as minor as possible. The principles of our environmental policy also play a role in the selection of our suppliers. Environmental protection | UN Global Compact 11 Initiatives Saving resources GREEN TECHNOLOGY It is a key part of our strategy with our LEONI endeavours everywhere to reduce energy consumption portfolio of products and solutions as well as our technology and thereby CO2 emissions. Both divisions run environmental expertise to tap the potential of future markets for sustainable, management systems and multifaceted environmental proenergy-saving and environmentally compatible applications tection activities, which are adapted to the respective requireand thereby also for ourselves to promote the use of environments of their activities. In our Wire & Cable Solutions Division mentally friendly materials as well as to improve our value chain an energy manager works on ensuring more energy-efficient from ecological aspects. LEONI summarises these effect under processes. The ‘Factory of the Future’, a production facility with the term ‘green technology’. Our activity in this respect is measenergy-consumption optimised production, is being planned ured by the criteria of application, product and process. our Roth facility. In so doing, attention is being paid to both more efficient processes and methods sensible in terms of ■■ Application: energy consumption like heat recovery. Expanding our range of products and solutions that are used directly in green markets and technologies or serve as input CO2 EMISSIONS Although LEONI’s CO2 emissions rose by products or components for green applications 1.5 percent between 2011 and 2012, LEONI’s figures compared with other companies in the automotive sector and other indus■■ Product: tries that participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project were Increasing the proportion of low-emission, environmentally better than average measured both as a proportion of sales compatible raw materials in our cable products as well as and relative to the number of employees. raising the ability to recycle the processed materials and comGroup-wide, direct CO2 emissions [ tons per € 1 million in sales ] ponents 60 40 20 Process: 0 Optimising resource efficiency in our manufacturing processes 2009 2010 2011 2012 by deploying energy-efficient machinery and heat recovery measures. Certifying the environmental management systems Energy consumption of more facilities in our global production network to ISO 14001 There was a year-on-year reduction in energy consumed in 2012, yielding a saving of 2.5%. CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT LEONI participated in the Worldwide energy consumption [ MWh per € 1 million in sales ] Carbon Disclosure Project for the fifth time in 2012. On behalf of 150 institutional investors, the initiative surveys the world’s largest, 100 market-listed companies on the amount of their CO2 emissions, 50 among other things. The 2011 figures were ascertained dur0 ing the year under report. Compared with other companies in 2009 2010 2011 2012 the automotive sector and other industries that participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project, LEONI’s figures were better than RECYCLING The EU End-of-Life Vehicle Directive (“Directive average measured both as a proportion of sales and relative to 2000/53/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the number of employees. end-of-life vehicles”, dated 18 September 2000) defines the objective, among others, of broadening the recycling and the reusability of waste. LEONI has, above all due to the use of copper as a main element of its products, an ideal starting position in this respect. Copper is a 100% recyclable material. 12 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. LEONI’s rules of conduct, which are laid down in the LEONI Code of Ethics, clearly reflect the anti-corruption mindset. There are clear rules concerning both the giving and receiving of gifts as well as control systems that proactively monitor observance of these rules. Furthermore, we pursued all reported suspect cases. Anti-corruption | UN Global Compact 13 LEONI Code of Ethics – Prevention of corruption prises various e-learning modules, among them the module The LEONI Code of Ethics stipulates that no employee anywhere on the compliance field of prevention of corruption, various in the world may offer or demand any benefit relating to preferexplicit statements of undertaking and the Control Self Assessential treatment involving a business partner. ment process of the respective managers, the integrated comFor the past several years there have been training courses pliance status reporting as well as the internal whistleblower on this topic for all 150 managers on LEONI’s first four managesystem. Staff were informed worldwide in this regard that any ment levels, which from 2011 were switched to the “Anti-corcompliance breaches can and should be reported directly to the ruption” e-learning module. In 2013 this course will additionally Chief Compliance Officer. be expanded to all pertinent staff worldwide and offered in As a matter of principle, LEONI uses function separation to more languages. This will concern approximately 5,500 LEONI rule out any accounting manipulation. A strict double verificaemployees. We will be using a training platform with worldwide tion principle provides corruption-relevant processes with addiaccessibility for this purpose. This course has further sharpened tional safeguard. our managers’ awareness concerning the prevention of corruption. DETECTION The detection process comprises the areas of Compliance audits by means of Control Self Assessments and ‘internal audits’ by the Internal Audit department, ‘complia statement of undertaking to be submitted by each manager ance field-related audits’ and ‘clarification of deviations’ by the on an annual basis provide the prevention of corruption with a respective compliance field managers as well as external audits. further safeguard. The Internal Audit department uses the Control Self Assessments as a template for compliance and ICS audits. External Compliance management system audits comprise structured, regular spot checks, which are carLEONI has developed its own compliance system that comprises ried out either alone or in close collaboration with companies the key compliance fields. This also includes the compliance specialising in compliance matters and internal control systems, field of ‘anti-corruption’, which is overseen by a compliance such as accounting and law firms that operate internationally. field manager. The compliance programme breaks down by the three processes of avoidance, detection and response. RESPONSE In the event of a compliance breach, either the Chief Compliance Officer or the responsible compliance field AVOIDANCE The avoidance process is based on the risk manager will notify the Management Board. The Management policy stipulated by the Management Board and the statement Board will decide on the suitable and appropriate measures and of our Management Board on compliance with the following designate the person responsible for their immediate implekey points: mentation. Responses can involve, for example, repeated training courses, ad hoc audits by either internal or external audi■■ Neither corruption nor breaches of competition law, tors and/or sanctions available under employment law for the export control, the LEONI Social Charter or the LEONI responsible staff members. Both the Management Board and Code of Ethics are tolerated in the LEONI Group. the Corporate Compliance Committee continually review the ■■ We use neither bribes nor cartel agreements to win compliance system for possible ways of improving it. In addia contract. tion, the information and notices provided by staff and oper■■ Every staff member and every manager is obliged to apply ational managers also result in ongoing improvement of the all necessary measures within the Company to refrain from whole compliance programme. and avoid infringements of the law. Compliance within the risk management system at LEONI is controlled and monitored at corporate level by the Corporate Compliance Committee, which meets regularly with the parti­ cipation of Management Board members. The risk management reporting system provides for reporting of the compliance risks across all levels of the Company. The avoidance process comThe LEONI Code of Ethics is See also “Courses on LEONI Code published on the LEONI website. of Ethics compliance” under item 3 “Human rights”. 14 Results and key figures LEONI guidelines and systems Results & key figures Principles 1 – 2: Human rights ■■ The obligation to uphold internationally recognised ■■ Every LEONI employee is, upon being recruited, human rights is laid down in the LEONI Code of Ethics handed or given access to the LEONI Code of Ethics. and the LEONI Social Charter. ■■ 10,000 staff and managers worldwide have completed ■■ The e-learning module on the LEONI Code of Ethics an e-learning course on the topic of “Compliance Basics subject area contributes to sharpening the awareness and LEONI Code of Ethics”. among management and staff of human rights. ■■ Embedded in our guidelines for health and safety are principles for action that ensure the health and safety of everyone who works for or with LEONI. Principles 3 – 6: Labour standards ■■ Courses are held at LEONI on the General Equal ■■ 10,000 staff and managers have completed the Treatment Act to ensure a working environment that “Compliance Basics and LEONI Code of Ethics” e-learning is free of discrimination. module and were taught the principles of the LEONI Social Charter that concern labour standards. ■■ The right of association as well as equal opportunity and equal treatment are assured in LEONI’s Social Charter. ■■ Through this participation in the Diversity Charter LEONI ensures diversity and mutual respect. ■■ In the selection of suppliers, a Control Self Assessment ensures that suppliers accept the principles of the UN Global Compact or alternatively the LEONI Social Charter and the LEONI Code of Ethics. ■■ Our principles on observing labour standards are also embedded in our T&Cs. Results and key figures | UN Global Compact 15 LEONI guidelines and systems Results & key figures Principles 7 – 9: Environmental protection ■■ LEONI condenses its efforts towards saving resources and ■■ In fiscal 2012, our Group-wide sales of products and sustainability in the product, process and application areas solutions for green technology were, at € 222.6 million, under the term ‘green technology’. roughly at the previous year’s level. ■■ By gradually certifying our plants to the ISO 14001 standard ■■ Group-wide, our sales of products that are made in we are working on continuously improving the environenvironmentally certified facilities or using energy mental performance of our facilities. efficient plant and machinery increased from € 2,972.4 million to € 3,128.5 million in 2012. ■■ Via renewed participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project we both record CO2 emissions and gain knowledge on ways ■■ Of that figure, € 1,164.5 million pertained to the to reduce them. Wire & Cable Solutions Division (previous year: € 1,234.3 million) and € 1,964.0 million to the Wiring ■■ LEONI participates in the “Our Cars” http://www.unsereSystems Division (previous year: € 1,738.1 million). autos.de/ initiative and thus in projects to recycle them, such as the EU End-of-Life Vehicle Directive, for example. Principle 10: Anti-corruption ■■ The LEONI Code of Ethics stipulates clear and binding rules ■■ Approx. 150 managers have already completed on combating corruption. the ‘Anti-corruption’ e-learning module. ■■ Through function separation LEONI ensures that situations ■■ Our guide on prevention of corruption, the LEONI Code at risk of involving corruption are avoided. of Ethics, has been made available to all managers and staff worldwide and has also been translated into ■■ Alongside other tools for controlling compliance, an e-lear19 languages. ning module on ‘anti-corruption’‚ is incorporated in the Compliance Management System. ■■ In 2012, Deloitte & Touche successfully reviewed the improvements made to LEONI’s compliance management system (CMS). See also the Annual Report 2012 of LEONI AG, page 112 . LEONI AG Marienstrasse 7 90402 Nuremberg Phone +49 (0)911-2023-0 Fax +49 (0)911-2023-455 E-mail info@leoni.com www.leoni.com
