2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental Sustainability ∙ Ethics and Compliance ∙ Governance ∙ Health and Safety ∙ Communities and Giving ∙ People and Culture Stakeholder Letter Stakeholder Letter About CBRE Group, Inc. About this Report Environmental Sustainability Ethics and Compliance Bob Sulentic Governance President & Chief Executive Officer Health and Safety Communities and Giving Dear Stakeholder, We respect the environment, as demonstrated by our People and Culture Environmental Sustainability Policy, released in July 2012. CBRE is a unique organization and I am honored to serve as Global Reporting Index its CEO. Our Company has many strengths, including marketThe policy focuses on 11 key areas of environmentally sound leading professional talent; a loyal and diverse client base; a performance that strengthen our own environmental commitment, highly regarded, recognized brand; an unmatched service line reflect the best environmental practices we help clients adopt in and geographic footprint, and the ability and willingness to invest their real estate, and provide vital training and education to our in our business. These strengths have helped us attain a position professionals. A new initiative, launched in 2012, is CBRE’s Real of leadership in our industry. Green Research Challenge, our four-year, $1-million commitment to developing meaningful solutions to sustainability issues in CBRE’s vision is to be commercial space. For our environmental initiatives, CBRE has the preeminent, been the highest ranked commercial real estate services company vertically integrated Newsweek’s Green Rankings for four consecutive years. global commercial real estate services and We also respect the power of an inclusive and diverse workforce, investment firm serving our clients with market-leading and see it as an opportunity to further define our competitive collaboration. Our RISE values (Respect, Integrity, Service, advantage. We continued our longstanding commitments to our Excellence) are fundamental to executing on that vision, providing Women’s, LGBT, African-American and Hispanic Networks, and an operating framework that enables CBRE to be not only developed a new Veterans’ Engagement Team, which connects profitable, but responsible. It is our policy to do the right thing new hires with military backgrounds to CBRE employees with and to act responsibly in our day-to-day relationships with our similar experience. As a result, in early 2013 CBRE was ranked clients, suppliers, communities, and other stakeholders, as well as on the Companies that Care Honor Roll for the sixth consecutive each other. year, and received an 85 on the 2012 Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index, the only commercial real estate firm to CBRE’s RISE values are clearly demonstrated in our corporate do so. responsibility strategy. We frequently evaluate our corporate responsibility program, now in its sixth year, to ensure it is backed For the fourth year, over 98% of our 37,000 employees by tangible commitments and outcomes. In 2012, our RISE values completed our annual ethics certification within a 45-day 2 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report yielded the following outcomes: compliance period, demonstrating the breadth and depth Stakeholder Letter Stakeholder Letter About CBRE Group, Inc. of CBRE’s commitment to integrity, which our Standards of CBRE’s commitment to corporate responsibility excellence is About this Report Business Conduct are based on. demonstrated by the fact that ultimate responsibility for the program lies with our Board of Directors and top executives. Environmental Sustainability Our culture of integrity ensured that in 2012, CBRE continued to Additionally, our global corporate responsibility professionals Ethics and Compliance invest in people, processes and training that enable compliance collaborated in early 2012 to develop our corporate responsibility with laws and regulations in every country in which we operate. Governance policy statement. CBRE professionals continued to generously support people and Health and Safety Over the past five years, CBRE has had an injury-free record on organizations in need, donating volunteer service and funds to 21 corporate accounts and managed locations, totaling over 5.1 Communities and Giving more than 580 different charitable organizations through CBRE million work hours. This level of performance excellence is 3.7 People and Culture Cares. Charitable contributions by the company and employees times better than the industry average and yielded eleven awards totaled $6.7 million last year, a company record. from the Royal Society of Prevention of Accidents. Global Reporting Index CBRE has provided our LEED EB certification service to 171 These achievements, and others outlined in this report, are the buildings totaling more than 70 million square feet globally, result of the efforts of more than 37,000 dedicated employees, eliminating nearly 49,000 metric tons of greenhouse gas who demonstrate our RISE values at every level of the company. emissions. Our Global Energy & Sustainability team eliminated That CBRE remains a profitable and responsible business leader more than $114 million in client energy costs through our is a testament to their commitment, and I’m honored to work OHMega $100 Million Energy Challenge. alongside them. Robert E. Sulentic President & Chief Executive Officer 3 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter about cbre group, inc. About CBRE Group, Inc. About CBRE Group, Inc. 37,000+ Management subsidiary, CBRE Global Investors, had $92 billion About this Report CBRE Group, Inc. (NYSE:CBG), a of assets under management as of December 31, 2012, and our Fortune 500 and S&P 500 company Development Services subsidiary, Trammell Crow Company, had Environmental Sustainability headquartered in Los Angeles, is the Employees $4.2 billion of development property in process, including $1.2 Ethics and Compliance world’s largest commercial real estate billion of long-term operating assets. Governance Health and Safety services and investment firm (in terms of 2012 revenue). The Company has approximately 37,000 employees 332 Offices CBRE Group, Inc. is incorporated in Delaware in the United States. The company’s Class A common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “CBG.” During this reporting (excluding affiliates), and serves real Communities and Giving 42 period, there were three significant management changes that estate owners, investors and occupiers People and Culture related to our Corporate Responsibility efforts: through more than 330 offices Global Reporting Index (excluding affiliates) worldwide. CBRE On November 30, 2012, Brett White retired as CBRE’s Chief Executive offers strategic advice and execution countries Officer. Robert Sulentic, who previously served as CBRE’s President, for property sales and leasing; Excluding affiliates succeeded Mr. White as Chief Executive Officer. Prior to assuming corporate services; property, facilities and project management; this role, Mr. Sulentic, who held several senior leadership positions mortgage banking; appraisal and valuation; development services; at CBRE including CEO of Trammell Crow Company at the time of investment management; and research and consulting. This report the 2006 merger, had direct responsibility for all of CBRE’s business covers CBRE’s global operations including our wholly owned, lines and operating segments since 2009. The CEO transition reflects independently operated subsidiaries, Trammell Crow Company CBRE’s keen focus on executive development and succession planning and CBRE Global Investors, unless otherwise noted. This report at all levels of the organization. Commenting on the news, the Wall excludes joint-venture and affiliate office information, unless Street Journal wrote: “Management specialists said CBRE’s change of otherwise noted, and supplier information. command represents the type of methodical succession planning that 3.3bsf many companies talk about but rarely practice.” In 2012, CBRE advised clients on 69,475 property sales and lease CBRE’s position as the world’s largest commercial real estate services transactions valued at more than and investment firm has occurred through organic growth and a U.S.$189 billion. As of December Global management portfolio Excluding affiliates series of strategic acquisitions. With our company footprint well31, 2012, we managed more than established in every market in which we choose to do business, 3.3 billion square feet of commercial properties and corporate CBRE has begun to focus on building infrastructure to support a facilities around the world (including property managed by our truly world-class operation. On July 26, 2012, CBRE announced affiliate offices). Commercial mortgage loan originations, including two key appointments that advance our Corporate Responsibility loan sale advisory, totaled U.S.$22.4 billion; and loan servicing, efforts. Laura O’Brien was appointed as Global Director of including loans serviced by GEMSA—a joint venture between CBRE Human Resources and Workplace Strategy, with responsibility Capital Markets and GE Capital Real Estate—totaled more than for worldwide human resources operations and CBRE’s global U.S.$125 billion. We completed 118,400 appraisal and valuation facilities. Ms. O’Brien previously served as Senior Vice President, assignments in 2012, and our project management contract value Global Facilities and Special Projects, working with CBRE senior 4 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report was U.S.$22.3 billion, including U.S.$13.2 billion of projects that were in process as of December 31, 2012. Our Global Investment leadership to implement the company’s strategic occupancy priorities in the Americas and around the globe. Chris Kirk was Stakeholder Letter about cbre group, inc. About CBRE Group, Inc. appointed Chief Administrative Officer, with responsibility for key Our Europe, Middle East 2012 revenue by segment Shared Services functions, including Corporate Communications, and Africa (EMEA) segment About this Report 7% Global Investment 1% Development Services Global Research, Human Resources & Workplace Strategy, operates in 41 countries Management Environmental Sustainability Information Technology, Program Management Office, and with our largest operations Ethics and Compliance Sourcing & Procurement. Mr. Kirk previously served as Global located in France, Germany, Director of Human Resources, and as Chief Operating Officer and Italy, the Netherlands, Governance General Counsel at Trammell Crow Company, CBRE’s real estate Russia, Spain and the United 13% Asia Pacific Health and Safety development services subsidiary. Kingdom. As of December 16% Europe, 31, 2012, within EMEA, Middle East 63% Americas Communities and Giving In 2012, CBRE restated our corporate Vision to reflect our & Africa we had more than 4,950 People and Culture commitment to being a leader in the commercial real estate employees. Our EMEA investment business as a result of our 2011 acquisitions of certain Global Reporting Index segment accounted for businesses from Netherlands-based ING Group N.V. and its 12.6% of our 2012 revenue. affiliates (ING), which bolstered our global real estate investment management business. We acquired substantially all of ING’s Real Our Asia Pacific segment operates in 13 countries. Our principal Estate Investment Management (REIM) operations in Europe and operations in Asia are located in China, Hong Kong, India, Asia, and its U.S.-based global real estate listed securities business, Japan, Singapore and South Korea. The Pacific operations Clarion Real Estate Securities (CRES). These former ING businesses include Australia and New Zealand. As of December 31, 2012, are now part of our Global Investment Management business Asia Pacific had more than 7,075 employees and accounted for segment, providing us with a significantly enhanced ability to meet 12.6% of our 2012 revenue. the needs of institutional investors across global markets with a full Operations in our Global Investment Management segment spectrum of investment programs and strategies. are conducted through our indirect wholly owned subsidiary Aside from what is noted above, there were no other significant changes CBRE Global Investors, LLC, which we also refer to as CBRE to the size, structure or ownership of CBRE Group, Inc in 2012. Global Investors. As of December 31, 2012, Global Investment Management had more than 1,103 employees and accounted for Operational Structure 7.4% of our 2012 revenue. This percentage increased notably over CBRE Group, Inc. is a holding company that conducts all of its 2011 (4.9%), reflecting a full year of revenue contribution in 2012 operations through its indirect subsidiaries and affiliated offices. from the ING acquisitions which closed in the last half of 2011. We report our results of operations through five business segments: Our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary Trammell Crow Company The Americas is our largest segment of operations and provides and certain of its subsidiaries provide Development Services a comprehensive range of services throughout the United States primarily in the United States to users of and investors in and in the largest metropolitan regions in Canada as well as key commercial real estate, as well as for its own account. As of markets in Latin America. Services are provided through mostly December 31, 2012, Development Services had more than 160 wholly owned operations but also independent affiliated offices. employees and accounted for 1.2% of our 2012 revenue. As of December 31, 2012, our Americas segment had more than 5 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 20,700 employees and accounted for 63.0% of our 2012 revenue. Please refer to the CBRE Group, Inc. 2012 Annual Report for more information about CBRE and our operations. Stakeholder Letter about this report About CBRE Group, Inc. About This Report Our Index, which contains references to specific GRI indicators and About this Report This report provides an overview of the social, economic and standard disclosures, and UNGC principles, can be found on page environmental impacts of CBRE globally in 2012. This is our 81. In the Index, we made an effort to show the section(s) and Environmental Sustainability sixth annual Corporate Responsibility report, with the most page(s) where each GRI indicator or standard disclosure, and each Ethics and Compliance recent previous report (our 2012 Corporate Responsibility report) of the 10 UNGC principles is located, but it is important to note Governance published in July 2012. After publishing our previous report, we that some are addressed across multiple pages and/or sections. have not received any information—internally or externally—that All data presented in our report is supported by documentation, Health and Safety requires us to re-state information provided and there have been internal systems and information from external organizations. Communities and Giving no significant changes in our corporate responsibility strategy Our goal is to produce a comprehensive report on all of our from previous reporting periods. People and Culture global operations and we work diligently toward that year-over12 In preparing this report, we referenced year. While our report reflects that the majority of our operations Global Reporting Index the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the are in the U.S., each section also contains global perspective. globally accepted independent framework While some of CBRE’s growth has been organic, most of the for reporting on sustainability issues. For this Defined company’s growth over the past decade is attributed to the stakeholder more than 60 acquisitions we completed in that timeframe. year’s report, we used the G3.1 Guidelines groups and the Construction and Real Estate Sector These acquisitions allowed us to build our global service delivery Supplement. Our process for determining materiality was platform and solidify our industry-leading market position. conducted by our global Corporate Responsibility committee, However, growth through acquisitions also means there are comprised of practice leaders and subject matter experts for multiple programs and systems that track our corporate data. each of our six pillars, as well as senior company executives, One of our key priorities over the past few years has been and vetted with key stakeholders. In our materiality assessment, planning, designing and building the systems and structures we objectively identified those GRI Performance Indicators that that will globally integrate vital corporate data. In recent years, are relevant to our business as a services firm; report topics are we have made significant progress in the areas of finance and not prioritized within the report, as we consider all topics equally human resources. Once complete, these systems and structures important. The Corporate Responsibility committee also reviews will streamline or eliminate many of the manual processes we and refines stakeholders annually. We define our stakeholders in currently use. We believe these and other efforts underway will the following categories: shareholders, clients, employees and benefit our corporate responsibility reporting in the future. their families and communities, CBRE Board of Directors, CBRE For now, however, there remains information for which the affiliates and joint-ventures, suppliers and vendors, commercial systems have not yet been developed and/or that we are unable real estate industry organizations, regulating bodies, advocacy to report globally. Also, especially outside the U.S., we are just and activist groups, governmental organizations and regulating beginning to track certain corporate responsibility-related (and bodies, NGOs and competitors. All of these processes are other) data and statistics. As noted above, we are taking steps conducted via regular strategy meetings during the reporting to establish a streamlined data-gathering process and create timeframe. Since we are a U.N. Global Compact (UNGC) centralized systems to collect data across the company. For now participant, we have also communicated our progress toward the 6 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 10 UNGC Principles. and for the next few years, however, this process will remain Stakeholder Letter about this report About CBRE Group, Inc. manual and have limitations. We run our business in a way that is both profitable and About this Report responsible. We focus on providing exceptional service for our Except where noted, the information covered in this report clients, delivering financial performance for our shareholders, Environmental Sustainability highlights our corporate responsibility initiatives in fiscal-year and making positive contributions to our local communities, the Ethics and Compliance 2012 (January 1 through December 31). When available and environment and all of our stakeholders. significant, updates through early 2013 are included. This report Governance covers CBRE’s global operations including our wholly owned, It is our policy to act responsibly in our day-to-day relationships Health and Safety independently operated subsidiaries, Trammell Crow Company with our customers, suppliers, employees and communities. We and CBRE Global Investors, unless otherwise noted. This report consciously focus our attention on the areas where we believe we Communities and Giving excludes joint venture and affiliate office information, unless can make the greatest impact: People and Culture otherwise noted, and supplier information. We plan to continue • helping to mitigate the impact of the built environment on reporting on our initiatives annually. This report and future updates Global Reporting Index climate change; can be accessed online through the Corporate Responsibility • using our talent, energy and resources to improve the quality of section of www.cbre.com. For questions regarding the report or its life of others; contents, contact responsibility@cbre.com. • and helping our people to reach their full potential while providing a safe and ethical workplace. Our Corporate Responsibility Framework and Vision Despite continued challenges from global economic conditions, Being known as a responsible business is an essential CBRE remains committed to our Corporate Responsibility element of our brand and fundamental to our RISE values of program and agenda. We aspire to be known as much for our Respect, Integrity, Service and Excellence. It is also key to the commitment to responsible business as for the quality of our continued growth and success of our business. For this reason, commercial real estate services. We are committed to doing our corporate responsibility strategy is backed by tangible the right thing, and integrating responsible and sustainable commitments and our performance is evaluated annually and business practices across our global operations. Our Corporate assessed against external reporting standards. Responsibility program encompasses: • Governance • Environmental Sustainability • Ethics and Compliance • Health and Safety • Communities and Giving • People and Culture 7 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter about this report About CBRE Group, Inc. Awards and Milestones About this Report Only commercial real estate services company in the Fortune 500; #387 in 2013* Environmental Sustainability Ethics and Compliance Governance #1 real estate brand Health and Safety Communities and Giving Highest ranked commercial real estate services company* People and Culture Global Reporting Index #1 brand for 12 consecutive years* 2013 #4 outsourcing company across all industries; #1 among real estate services firms* ® Honor Roll member for sixth consecutive year* Top global real estate advisor and consultancy firm #96 among all companies and top real estate company in “green” rankings U.S. EPA 2013 ENERGY STAR Sustained Excellence Award (six consecutive years of Partner of the Year status)* Best Corporate-Community Partnership for CBRE Cares Shelter Program, Ragan’s PR Daily* Inaugural winner of CREW Circle of Excellence Award, CREW’s highest honor 8 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report * Awards received in 2013 Stakeholder Letter About CBRE Group, Inc. About this Report Environmental Sustainability °° Environmental Sustainability Overview °° Academic Collaboration °° Resource Management °° Occupancy °° Internal Certification °° Procurement °° Client Services °° Public Policy and Engagement °° Communications and Training °° Sustainable Reporting °° Global Sustainability Steering Commitee °° What Lies Ahead °° CBRE Global Investors °° Trammell Crow Company Ethics and Compliance Governance Health and Safety Communities and Giving Environmental Sustainability People and Culture Global Reporting Index 9 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc. Environmental Sustainability Overview To serve these needs, in 2012 CBRE About this Report established the Real Green Research In 2012 CBRE revisited our Challenge. The RGRC is intended to Environmental Sustainability corporate environmental create opportunities for advanced • Environmental commitment, which resulted in collaborative research with CBRE and Sustainability Overview our Environmental Sustainability Policy. As the first update since the global academic community, and our program’s 2007 launch, the new policy focuses on 11 key • Academic Collaboration areas of environmentally sound performance in our own °° Resource Management operations and our client services. Our Global Sustainability Steering Committee, formed in late 2011, reviewed our Awards & Recognition °° Occupancy procedures and practices, and recommended enhancements to °° Internal Certification our policy that we believe make CBRE the standard-bearer for • Newsweek ranked CBRE No. 96 in its 2012 Green Rankings, a list sustainability best practices in our industry. The policy provides a which measures the environmental performance of the 500 largest °° Procurement U.S.-based publicly traded companies. set of internal practices and programs that strengthen our own °° Client Services environmental commitment, reflect the best environmental • The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) named CBRE as a 2013 ENERGY STAR Sustained Excellence Award Partner of the Year, °° Public Policy and Engagement practices we help clients adopt in their own real estate, and the company’s sixth consecutive year of recognition. provide vital training and education to our professionals. As a °° Communications result, the structure of this report has been amended to better • Bloomberg-Maplecroft ranked CBRE 162 of 360 U.S. companies on its 2012 Climate Innovation Index, which tracks companies’ and Training align with the policy’s 11 focus areas. environmental performance in five areas: management, mitigation, emissions reductions, innovation and adaptation. °° Sustainable Reporting In 2012, CBRE hosted our first internal Global Sustainability • Rebecca Pearce, CBRE Head of Sustainability in the Pacific °° Global Sustainability Summit, a gathering of CBRE sustainability professionals from region, won the National Association of Women in Construction’s Steering Commitee around the globe to develop policy implementation strategy, Baulderstone Award for Contribution to Sustainability. stakeholder engagement activity and business integration • CBRE’s EMEA headquarters in the City of London were recognized °° What Lies Ahead with a Clean City Platinum Award for the office’s waste minimization protocols. The event was held during the USGBC’s Greenbuild °° CBRE Global Investors 2012 in November, which allowed for real world context and and recycling commitments. • CBRE’s Adelaide office was named the CitySwitch South Australia °° Trammell Crow Company collaboration. Signatory of the Year, a program that promotes energy efficiency within tenancy areas instead of buildings. CBRE’s Melbourne office Ethics and Compliance Academic Collaboration was a finalist for the Victoria Signatory of the Year award. Governance The environmental impact of commercial buildings is widely • CBRE was awarded the “Leadership & Achievement in Sustainability” by StopWaste of Alameda County in California for efforts to embed Health and Safety recognized; they consume substantial amounts of water and energy sustainable practices at CBRE-managed properties. and produce significant waste and greenhouse gas emissions. Communities and Giving • CBRE won the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources’ Researchers and academic scholars around the world are seeking Sustainable Large Business of the Year Award for its use of People and Culture solutions to some of the most pressing problems in these areas, sustainability best practices in our global property management but they often lack critical financial support and access to the portfolio. Global Reporting Index actionable, real-time data necessary to deliver solutions to market. 10 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc. 110+ to accelerate that research through • Amount and caliber of third-party (non-CBRE) resources About this Report partnerships with clients, NGOs and dedicated to the research and outcomes the other business stakeholders. The Environmental Sustainability RGRC submissions Funding recipients are proceeding with research projects in RGRC combines a significant capital the areas of occupant productivity; measurement, scoring °° Environmental 7 contribution, focused academic Sustainability Overview and reporting protocols; sustainable property valuations; and research, and direct collaboration predictive modeling for energy efficiency projects. Ongoing • Academic Collaboration between researchers and CBRE’s program progress is available at www.rgrc.com. sphere of influence to create initial funding recipients • Resource Management meaningful impact in sustainable 4 • Occupancy commercial real estate practices. In Resource Management addition to our financial investment As part of our policy commitment to improving our Occupancy °° Internal Certification in the RGRC, CBRE offers RGRC and as a component of our Workplace360 program, CBRE has research focus areas °° Procurement recipients the opportunity to partner mandated that all existing offices undergoing future lease renewal globally with CBRE professionals and potential, appropriate and/or tenant improvements be retrofitted with EMON submeters °° Client Services access our clients and data through real-time, real-world to measure electric usage. In the U.S. submeter is monitored and °° Public Policy and Engagement experience. its data is collected remotely via a server-based software program. This process produces real-time energy use data that supports °° Communications CBRE received more than 110 RGRC submissions from an accuracy for our corporate carbon footprint measurement and and Training impressive list of candidates around the globe. Representing a helps us meet LEED® certification credits under the USGBC LEED °° Sustainable Reporting range of innovative ideas, these proposals have the potential for Commercial Interiors rating system. We use revenue grade to significantly impact how commercial real estate is operated, EMON Class 3000 with Ethernet submeters. We currently have 20 °° Global Sustainability occupied and owned. The submissions largely fell into four key Steering Commitee meters installed in 50 of our highest emitting offices, which puts topical categories: CBRE 40% compliant against our 2017 policy goal. °° What Lies Ahead • software solutions and predictive modeling °° CBRE Global Investors • occupant behavior and engagement Occupancy • productivity and value In 2012, CBRE appointed Laura O’Brien as Global Director of °° Trammell Crow Company • building performance measurement and scoring protocols Human Resources and Workplace Strategy, a role that unifies our Ethics and Compliance HR and facilities practices in an integrated, strategic approach. At the time of this report’s publication, the RGRC Judging Panel Governance As a result, CBRE has begun to develop and capture efficiencies, had selected seven recipients for first round funding. Projects were particularly as it relates to managing company facilities. More Health and Safety based on a number of criteria, including: information on the impacts of this strategic role can be found in Communities and Giving • Ability of the submission to address a recognized and wellthe “People and Workplace” section of this report. People and Culture defined sustainability need in the built environment; Global Office Occupancy Strategy • Innovativeness and impact potential in the commercial real Global Reporting Index estate space In 2012, CBRE continued to execute our policy commitment to locate at least 70% of our corporate facilities over 20,000 11 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc. square feet in space or buildings with recognized green building implement in our own space a program called Workplace 360, About this Report standards (LEED® , BREEAM, Green Star and other regionally a collaborative practice between CBRE’s Project Management, relevant schemes) by 2017. The below map indicates all CBRE, Consulting and Brokerage lines of business. The approach Environmental Sustainability CBRE Global Investors and Trammell Crow Company offices examines all aspects of the workplace, including work °° Environmental certified at the time of publication. environment, supporting technology, branding, personal Sustainability Overview productivity, space efficiency, sustainability, mobility, flexibility and Workplace 360 more. The results not only translate into office build-outs – many °° Academic Collaboration In response to shifting workplace occupancy patterns among of which have a positive environmental impact, but also help °° Resource Management our highly mobile employee base, in 2012 CBRE began to • Occupancy °° Internal Certification GLOBAL OFFICE CERTIFICATIONs | Certifications include LEED, NABERS, ISO14001, BREEAM, Singapore Eco-Office °° Procurement °° Client Services °° Public Policy and Engagement °° Communications and Training °° Sustainable Reporting °° Global Sustainability Steering Commitee °° What Lies Ahead °° CBRE Global Investors °° Trammell Crow Company Ethics and Compliance Governance Health and Safety Communities and Giving People and Culture Global Reporting Index CERTIFIED OFFICES OFFICES PURSUING CERTIFICATION 12 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc. shape productivity and maximize employee behavior and cultural About this Report outcomes. This initiative is covered in the “People & Workplace” Sustainable Office Operations Standards section of this report. Environmental Sustainability 1. Participate in a recycling program that includes paper and aluminum at a minimum. °° Environmental Internal Certification 2. Purchase all green office supplies, such as paper and Sustainability Overview Since 2008, CBRE has audited all U.S. offices over 5,000 remanufactured printer toner cartridges whenever available. °° Academic Collaboration square feet (about 90) through our Toward a Greener Tomorrow 3. Optimize efficiency for all printing, copying, scanning and certification, which recognizes offices that have most fully mailing functions. °° Resource Management implemented CBRE’s Sustainable Office Operation Standards. 4. Encourage electronic marketing materials whenever possible. • Occupancy Certification criteria are aligned with aspects of the USGBC’s 5. Turn off office lights and equipment when not in use, particularly LEED and EPA ENERGY STAR® programs and are customized to at night and on weekends. • Internal Certification the unique operational requirements of a firm of our size and 6. Eliminate the purchase and use of plastic, paper and/or °° Procurement complexity. Styrofoam utensils and cups. 7. Eliminate the purchase and use of bottled water. °° Client Services This survey process provides operational best practices, enhances 8. Employ green cleaning practices. °° Public Policy and Engagement our understanding of CBRE’s specific operational challenges, and 9. Properly dispose of any electronic office equipment and informs decisions and investments that elevate our environmental °° Communications performance. The below graphic demonstrates our progress over batteries. and Training 10. Actively participate in the local market Green Task Force and the past five years: national Eco Knight program. °° Sustainable Reporting CBRE Toward a Greener Tomorrow °° Global Sustainability Office Audit 2008-2013 Steering Commitee 2008 2013 Audit Categories: °° What Lies Ahead Recycled paper......................................90% 100% • Recycling °° CBRE Global Investors • Equipment Since 2008 °° Trammell Crow Company Composting.............................................0% 11% • Paper Reduction • Green Cleaning 11% Gold Ethics and Compliance Green cleaning.....................................40% 96% • Purchasing 49% Silver Governance • Transportation Occupancy sensors..............................40% 55% 0% Bronze Health and Safety • Energy Conservation Communities and Giving Post-consumer paper..........................70% 96% • Office Behaviors 23 Using Green Teams...............................40% 51% LEED CI People and Culture Global Reporting Index 100% e-marketing..................................n/a > 50% 13 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Recycled shoe drive participation........n/a 83% Offices Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc. Additional 2012 Occupancy Achievements end of each day, avoiding the early morning heat gain and About this Report 2012 saw record high engagement among CBRE’s EMEA reducing air conditioning load. employees, primarily with the launch of our EMEA Green Environmental Sustainability CBRE’s North Sydney and Parramatta, Australia offices each have Week, part of the region’s commitment to Earth Hour. Green 5 star NABERS Energy ratings with T5 lighting and occupancy °° Environmental Week showcases our sustainable commitments to employees, Sustainability Overview demonstrates progress and encourages individual support. The sensors. These offices benefit from the region’s sustainable IT UK launch included an event for more than 100 employees with and sustainability education programs. In January 2012 CBRE’s °° Academic Collaboration input from major global clients. Brisbane office relocated within the same building, 4.5 star °° Resource Management NABERS Energy Waterfront Place. The new fit-out includes T5 CBRE in Russia continued its commitment to the global “save a lighting with occupancy sensors throughout, a new waste and °° Occupancy tree” initiative on nature preservation as part of its environmental recycling strategy and improved energy efficient IT infrastructure. • Internal Certification commitments. In the last twelve months our operations in Russia The office will be undertaking a NABERS rating in 2013. have saved 5620 kw of electric power, 112,400 liters of water °° Procurement and have prevented carbon emissions of 9,554 kg – preserving CBRE’s head office in Sydney, historically a poor performer in °° Client Services more than 56 trees. This represents significant increases on 2011 terms of energy efficiency, improved significantly in 2012. In achievements. 2011, the office had a NABERS Energy Tenancy rating of 3.5 °° Public Policy and Engagement stars and the audit process identified several opportunities to °° Communications CBRE in France has made significant steps in energy improve energy efficiency. The NABERS rating for 2012 has been and Training management and resource consumption with more effective calculated at 4 stars (without GreenPower); the lease expiration timers, recycling paper and green product procurement. allowed us to relocate to 363 George Street, where new °° Sustainable Reporting construction on a more efficient space has begun. Our UK Property and Asset Management team have rigorous °° Global Sustainability Steering Commitee processes in place surrounding what we expect of our In 2012, CBRE Singapore’s Green contractors (Certification to ISO14001, Procurement Guidelines, Office Program focused on two key °° What Lies Ahead Environmental Rules, environmental risk assessments, etc.), initiatives – employee engagement °° CBRE Global Investors detailed guidance and training packages for our managers and and office certification. The Green surveying staff. Office Committee successfully °° Trammell Crow Company renewed the Singapore Environmental Ethics and Compliance CBRE’s Adelaide office was already a high performer with a 5.5 Council’s Eco-Office certification for the period 2012 – 2014, star NABERS Energy tenancy rating even before the decision was following an external audit. The audit committee found employee Governance made to move to a more efficient building – the 4 star GreenStar, engagement significantly higher since the initial accreditation Health and Safety 5 star NABERS Energy rated 151 Pirie Street. The new tenancy audit in 2010, largely due to CBRE Singapore’s efforts in incorporated T5 lighting with occupancy sensors installed in all Communities and Giving recycling, energy conservation, management support and meeting rooms. A waste and recycling strategy was put in place targeted communications. Singapore’s Green Office Committee’s People and Culture with separate receptacles clearly marked for different waste exemplary program remains focused on both employee and client streams. After occupation an issue was identified with solar Global Reporting Index engagement, as well as landlord collaboration to improve the gain to one facade and a strategy developed with the cleaning sustainability of the space we occupy in Singapore. 14 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report contractor whereby the cleaners lower blinds to one face at the Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc. In 2012, our Pacific region continued its engagement in Project sustainable practices and insight, improved employee morale and About this Report Green, a program aimed at increasing staff engagement, CBRE brand integrity. building a culture based in sustainability values and creating a Environmental Sustainability Carbon Neutrality sustainable working environment. The result was a three pronged °° Environmental 5.13% approach including achieving carbon neutrality, developing CBRE Australia once again achieved Sustainability Overview client and employee engagement in Green Day, and engaging certification under the National 500 or more CBRE Pacific staff in Earth Hour 2012. The results Carbon Offset Standard, validating °° Academic Collaboration our Australian operations as Carbon Carbon reduction over 2011 of the program included 100% carbon neutrality, a 5% increase °° Resource Management in overall employee engagement, 150+ client connections, and Neutral for the second year. In our second year of reporting 512 Earth Hour pledges. Program outcomes included improved we exceeded our goal of reducing our carbon emissions by 5% °° Occupancy • Internal Certification sustainability in action °° Procurement The first Green Day created to showcase Adelaide’s efforts, featuring in Shanghai, Tianjin, Chongqing and Wuhan °° Client Services °° Public Policy and Engagement WHAT was rolled out across all Asia Pacific offices a stop-motion snapshot of their lobby expo being set up. For more information, view the Prezi. brought from home items they no longer want or need to exchange with colleagues. WILL on December 8, 2011. Other initiatives around the region included More than 50 CBRE °° Communications YOU As part of the event sustainability trainings sessions, webinars, green Hong Kong employees and Training DO? 9,075 employees across 13 countries building and recycling tours, lobby expos, green drinks showcasing organic food and biodynamic collaborated to clean up Lamma Island’s °° Sustainable Reporting took part in various wine, mobile phone recycling, and other events. beaches. The beach— sustainable activities, littered with rubbish 2012 Green Day highlights include: °° Global Sustainability Contact your office managers or local such as catching public from Hong Kong’s CBRE’s North Sydney Residential Projects office marketing teams to find out about Green Day Steering Commitee transport, sharing a initiatives in your local office. busy shipping lane—filled more than 100 bags. sustainable lunch, won the award for greatest reduced printing Armed with gloves, bin liners and clipboards the °° What Lies Ahead abstaining from printing and recycling e-waste, – down 88% compared to the office’s daily averages for September. team combed the beaches, filling more than 100 unused batteries and paper goods. bags, and recorded the type of waste in order °° CBRE Global Investors On September 20, 2012, all offices in the Asia The Sydney office hosted a Green Day Expo in to help identify and prevent the major sources Pacific region participated in the second annual building lobby including City Switch & City of of litter. This initiative contributed to the Ocean °° Trammell Crow Company CBRE Green Day, which promotes sustainable Sydney sustainability programs display; cycle to Conservancy’s global annual ocean pollution Ethics and Compliance change and environmentally responsible work resources including bicycles, maps, safety data collection exercise. thinking. CBRE Green Day encourages all CBRE advice, building facilities; recycling display Each CBRE staff in Governance offices and employees to implement one-day including e-waste and fluoro tubes service with India received a sapling initiatives in the workplace to reduce our impact education session from providers and a looping Health and Safety to plant at home to on the environment. On the day, a strict “no presentation on the building’s sustainability help reduce their printing” rule was enforced across all offices and performance. Communities and Giving staff were encouraged to make a concerted effort carbon footprints and Over 60 CBRE colleagues in Beijing, show support for a People and Culture to reduce their printing levels on a daily basis. Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Chengdu, Qingdao, green future. Over 70 CBRE’s Adelaide office had the most impressive Shenyang challenged themselves to a saplings, indoor pots Global Reporting Index Green Day initiatives including a green “climbathon” by taking the stairs to get into and outdoor plants, commuting challenge, a shared lunch to reduce to the office on Green Day. They have also were planted by CBRE staff across India. In 15 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report packaging/waste, no TV day, and a green expo in the lobby of their building at 151 Pirie Street answered questions related to environmental protection and won various green prizes. In a Hyderabad, employees also took a site tour of Godrej CII, the first LEED Platinum certified which featured an electric car. A video was also regional FreeCycle challenge, CBRE employees building in India. Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc. (5.13% actual reduction). A new reduction goal has been set of copiers globally, we implemented performance tracking for the About this Report 10% reduction over 3 years 2012-14, allowing for longer term U.S. offices in which most of our print consumption occurs. investment in reduction initiatives. We offset a total of 3,541 tons Environmental Sustainability In 2012, we had a global inventory of 689 RICOH devices using across three projects: Lifestraw water filters in Kenya, a biogas 5.6 million sheets of paper monthly; at the time of publication, °° Environmental conversion to energy on a pig farm in Thailand, a run-of-river Sustainability Overview we had 777 devices using 4.7 million sheets monthly – in other hydroelectric power station in India. words, despite a 12.7% increase in device inventory, our paper °° Academic Collaboration CBRE Austrailia GHG Emissions 2011 usage dropped 15.4%, resulting in a corollary 15.4% reduction 15.4% °° Resource Management of carbon emissions. These savings Fuel combusted vehicle fleet were largely driven by shifting employee °° Occupancy Purchased electricity behavior and implementing locked print, • Internal Certification Business Travel air (direct & indirect) card identification and electronic copy/ Copier/printer carbon Business Travel employee use of scanning functions. emission reduction • Procurement personal vehicles for work purposes °° Client Services Paper purchased CBRE U.S. and Iron Mountain Secure Shredding Base building emissions porportion °° Public Policy and Engagement 2012 Environmental attributable to CBRE’s occupancy Electricity consumption transmission Benefits °° Communications and distribution losses 15,384 and Training Officew Waste to Landfill Trees Saved °° Sustainable Reporting °° Global Sustainability Steering Commitee Procurement CBRE has significant opportunities to contribute to the company’s 54,297 Pounds of Air Pollution Avoided °° What Lies Ahead sustainability goals by making them a factor in supplier selection and ongoing performance reviews. Building on some strong 2,715 Cubic Yards of Landfill Avoided °° CBRE Global Investors 3.7 existing supplier relationships, CBRE’s Sourcing and Procurement million kWh team is working with its’ current and future supply base to °° Trammell Crow Company Energy Saved establish relevant supplier selection criteria and new sourcing Ethics and Compliance Governance practices that improve efficiency and cost effectiveness, and reflect our company-wide commitment to good corporate citizenship. 6.3 million Gallons of Water Saved Health and Safety Technology Our global PC inventory totals roughly 40,000, 60% of which are Communities and Giving We partner with vendors who can help us effectively manage laptops. Since our initial 2007 commitment PCs have become our environmental performance through both practice and about 25% more energy efficient. Without usage metrics at the People and Culture equipment. Since our initial 2007 commitment, CBRE has individual level, it is difficult to track energy consumption related Global Reporting Index replaced legacy office equipment with ENERGY STAR or to PCs but as a general practice, we replace laptops about comparable versions around the globe. Working with RICOH, every four years with the most energy efficient models available. 16 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report which manages more than 60% of CBRE’s office printers and Additionally we contract with Dell, our procurement partner for Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc. asset resale and recycling services for our retired and obsolete Based on myTravel data and estimates for bookings outside the About this Report PCs. In addition to wiping proprietary data from the PCs, Dell system, in 2012 our Americas employees: breaks down PC components into core materials that can be Environmental Sustainability • flew 33,049,807 air miles (generating 5,920 metric tons of CO2) recycled and ensures no hazardous materials are released into • drove 921,450 rental car miles (348 metric tons) °° Environmental the environment during disposal. • traveled 81,532 rail miles (15 metric tons); and Sustainability Overview 50% Providing reliable technology for a • stayed 15,229 nights in hotels (325 metric tons) °° Academic Collaboration company of CBRE’s size is no small We are currently developing procurement programs that both °° Resource Management task, and in 2012 we continued our Data requirements have a broad impact, such as company-wide electronic invoicing, efforts to assess and refine our global IT and are strategically integrated into company objectives, such °° Occupancy infrastructure, with emphasis on virtualizing virtualized by 2017 as sustainable office furnishing sourcing for our Workplace 360 °° Internal Certification data and standardizing equipment across our data centers. Both initiative. We look forward to progressing our sustainability of these tactics minimize energy requirements associated with • Procurement agenda internally and with suppliers and reporting program storage requirements. advancement and resulting metrics in future reports. • Client Services 85% Currently, we expect that roughly °° Public Policy and Engagement 50% of our data requirements will be Client Services °° Communications virtualized in the next four years. We are Americas travel Environmental sustainability is the only component of CBRE’s and Training further reducing infrastructure energy booked through Corporate Responsibility platform that also represents a direct requirements by standardizing equipment myTravel business opportunity. As a result, we have accepted the challenge °° Sustainable Reporting to ENERGY STAR or comparable servers of both influencing and learning from the sustainability °° Global Sustainability and equipment. We have applied these measures to each of requirements of our clients, many of whom are similar in size, Steering Commitee our 16 data centers around the globe; currently 14 of these complexity and geographic diversity. Often the lessons learned centers are collocated and two operate within the Los Angeles in implementing our own sustainable strategies translate into— °° What Lies Ahead or are informed by—the sustainability services we provide and London offices of our investment management business. We °° CBRE Global Investors expect to reduce the number of data centers serving our current our clients. More information is available at www.cbre.com/ sustainability. °° Trammell Crow Company operations to six by 2017. Ethics and Compliance Travel Our sustainability services cover management and operations of, As part of our commitment to report our Scope 3 emissions for and transactions and consultancy for, our clients’ commercial real Governance 2013, CBRE has begun quantifying our corporate travel metrics estate needs. We manage 3.3 billion square feet of client property Health and Safety for the Americas, where most of our corporate travel occurs. Our globally and influence billions more, so our environmental Communities and Giving corporate travel program, myTravel, has been effective in the impact potential expands well beyond our own occupancy and Americas for several years and following a 2012 revamp of our operations. Following are key highlights resulting from our People and Culture commitment to sustainable services. travel policy to ensure compliance with the program, we estimate Global Reporting Index that more than 85% of all Americas travel is currently booked LEED Certification through myTravel. 17 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report CBRE’s Sustainability Programs Group, the clear industry leader in green building certification, assists CBRE clients in navigating Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc. the LEED rating system by embedding long-term, sustainable best Program, which will benefit CBRE clients through a streamlined About this Report practices at both the individual building and portfolio level. The certification process. CBRE Sustainability Programs team also was programs developed and implemented through the process have selected through a comprehensive RFP process by the USGBC to Environmental Sustainability positive impacts on economic, environmental, and social aspects co-author the USGBC’s “Green Operations Guide Integrating °° Environmental of our clients’ assets. LEED into Commercial Property Management.” Sustainability Overview °° Academic Collaboration We have seen the concept of LEED® certification Even with all the client success we’ve supported with through our LEED for Existing Buildings certification work, CBRE believes we’ve °° Resource Management move from a somewhat abstract scheme in the barely scratched the surface of our ability to further impact the built °° Occupancy minds of many property owners to become a matter environment. With that vision in mind, CBRE has created a LEED for Existing Buildings Volume program prototype. It’s designed to °° Internal Certification of standard business practice. The notion that a include a vast number of clients and their facilities and seeks to °° Procurement LEED® certified building will represent a significant deliver and implement consistent, sustainable plans, policies, and • Client Services “green premium” has been replaced in the minds procedures that include meaningful performance metrics. °° Public Policy and Engagement of many landlords with the idea that a LEED® Additional Client Service Achievements CBRE’s EMEA offices have established regionally specific °° Communications certification on a Class A building is an expected corporate sustainability objectives; which include building our and Training attribute and merely keeps the playing field level. °° Sustainable Reporting Gary Thomas, Director of Sustainability Programs CBRE Sustainability Programs Group °° Global Sustainability Over the past five years, CBRE has witnessed steadily increasing LEED EB Certifications 2009-Current Steering Commitee interest and investment in sustainability on a voluntary basis. Buildings 171 °° What Lies Ahead This trend is supported not only by a direct, economic return Square Feet 70,438,000 on investment in sustainable strategies and programs, but also °° CBRE Global Investors by a strong belief in the intangible and difficult-to-measure in Annual kBtu Savings 281,401,000 Annual CO2 Emission Reductions 48,519 metric tons °° Trammell Crow Company monetary terms benefits of improved sustainable practices. Annual Water Savings 87,845,000 gallons Ethics and Compliance CBRE clients 59 CBRE’s Sustainability Programs team members serve on key CBRE SA Clients 26 Governance national USGBC committees, including the LEED Market Advisory Committee and LEED Implementation Advisory Committee, which Buildings – Certified Level 14 Health and Safety Buildings – Silver Level 55 are instrumental in the development and oversight of future Communities and Giving LEED program changes. CBRE has been contracted by USGBC Buildings – Gold Level 102 as a consultant on all LEED for Existing Buildings credits in the Percentage of Credit Achievement 98.7% People and Culture upcoming LEED Version4 rating system Reference Guide. Buildings with Perfect Scores 97 Global Reporting Index States with Certifications 22 In recognition for CBRE’s consistently quality LEED submissions, 18 CBRE 2012 Current Number of Certifications Underway 147 Corporate Responsibility Report the team has been selected to pilot the USGBC’s Proven Provider Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc. capability through further sustainability professional appointments LEED certification boosts our bottom line and makes a About this Report across service lines and in country, knowledge sharing and improving levels of corporate awareness across service lines. major contribution to our responsible business agenda. Environmental Sustainability CBRE and Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Corporate Workplace Carmen Ruiz Moreno, Head of PwC FM °° Environmental Sustainability Overview team delivered $1.15 million in energy cost savings and reduced CBRE represented Skanska in the $67.5 million sale of City Green CO2 emissions by 4,000 tons over a 21-month period. CBRE Court—an eight-story, 175,000 square-foot, pre-certified LEED °° Academic Collaboration and Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Corporate Workplace and platinum office building under construction in Prague’s Pankrác °° Resource Management Technology Infrastructure teams collaborated to improve energy business district. The building will be the only LEED platinum efficiency at the Bank’s London West Data Center. By using a °° Occupancy predictive methodology to monitor and alter airflows and air certified building in the Czech Republic. °° Internal Certification temperature, the teams were able to deliver $1.15 million in CBRE is representing Penta Investments, a central European energy cost savings and CO2e emission reductions of 4,000 metric investment group, as the joint leasing agent for Florentinum, °° Procurement tons over a 21-month period. a nine-story, 527,432 square-foot, Grade A office complex • Client Services currently under construction in Prague. The pre-certified LEED In the fourth quarter of 2012, CBRE launched an Energy and °° Public Policy and Engagement Sustainability hub in Madrid, specializing in LEED, the most °° Communications internationally renowned sustainability rating system for the built OHMega Challenge and Training environment. Led by David Lazaro, GCS E&S Director, the hub is part of the parent EMEA Global Energy & Sustainability team In February 2012, °° Sustainable Reporting based in the UK led by Sam Pickering, GCS Head of E&S. The CBRE’s Global Energy & °° Global Sustainability team supports clients across the region looking to implement Sustainability (GES) team Steering Commitee launched the OHMega LEED and other green building certification systems for existing $100 Million Energy buildings, renovations or new developments. °° What Lies Ahead Challenge to various CBRE business lines, including Asset Services and Global Corporate °° CBRE Global Investors CBRE secured the LEED for Commercial Interiors Gold award for Services. The campaign aimed to identify more than $100 million in PwC’s new 23,019 square-foot Madrid tower, the largest office cost avoidance for our clients in one calendar year. °° Trammell Crow Company development to achieve the accreditation in Europe. Incorporating CBRE GCS and Asset Services accounts that chose to participate Ethics and Compliance market leading water, energy, waste and resources and indoor completed an online submission form with a detailed description of the cost-savings plan that was provided to their client. Activities such environmental quality sustainable strategies into the tower, Governance as CBRE negotiating energy costs with energy providers, completing CBRE helped to achieve significant operational cost reductions equipment upgrades, or recommending operational changes are Health and Safety and an exceptional working environment for PwC, making some of the typical tactics used to identify savings for clients. To be qualified for the challenge, the identified savings and corresponding Communities and Giving a major contribution to their responsible business agenda. business case needed to be delivered to the client in 2012, with a Energy demand has been reduced by 35% and features such as payback of three years or less. People and Culture better daylight, CO2 concentration measurement and control More than 20 accounts participated in the challenge and, Global Reporting Index are helping to achieve increases in productivity, a reduction in collectively, the result was $114.3 million in cost avoidance for our absenteeism, improved employee motivation and retention. clients in 2012. 19 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc. Gold project will be the Czech Republic’s largest office property About this Report when completed in 2013. U.S. Sustainability by the Numbers Environmental Sustainability CBRE’s Building Consultancy team in the U.K. has recently certified completion of the new American Express award-winning Yearend 2012 °° Environmental ENERGY STAR® Sustainability Overview and industry-leading data center in Brighton, England. CBRE also secured BREEAM Very Good rating focusing on sustainability Buildings Benchmarked and Registered 1,392 °° Academic Collaboration features in line with American Express corporate requirements. SF Benchmarked and Registered 259M °° Resource Management The construction process started in 2009, and saw the scheme Labels 289 brought forward for development by CBRE following a complex Labels in Process 40 °° Occupancy design and planning application process. The scheme includes Eligible to Apply 209 °° Internal Certification a highly resilient office building over nine floors, and the designs have been adopted by American Express as a standard for future LEED °° Procurement office space requirements. The new premises will accommodate Existing Buildings • Client Services 3,000 employees. Buildings Managed by CBRE 201 Buildings Certified by CBRE 153 °° Public Policy and Engagement CBRE client property Carnegie Morgan Hill House, Local Buildings Pursuing Certification 207 °° Communications Government Superannuation won both the Sustainable Development SF Pursuing Certification 80M and Training award from the Property Council of Australia Awards for Excellence Buildings Engaged in Sustainability Services 785 and the top honor in the environment category of the Excellence in °° Sustainable Reporting Property Awards from the Australian Property Institute. SF Engaged in Sustainability Services 215M °° Global Sustainability New Construction Steering Commitee In 2012, CBRE Sustainability undertook over 150 NABERS Buildings Certified by CBRE 17 Energy and Water ratings, registered Building Energy Efficiency °° What Lies Ahead Certificates (BEECs) and provided strategic advice to assist clients Commercial Interiors °° CBRE Global Investors to understand the performance of their buildings and comply Projects Certified by CBRE 77 with Commercial Building Disclosure legislation which requires °° Trammell Crow Company the disclosure of energy ratings prior to the sale and lease of Core & Shell Ethics and Compliance commercial office buildings. Buildings Certified by CBRE 21 Governance In 2013 CBRE will expand our advisory services, focusing on ACCREDITATION Health and Safety building energy and water audits and creating sustainability LEED Professionals 482 improvement plans to address short and long term opportunities. Green Professionals 534 Communities and Giving We will also be participating in new building rating schemes as People and Culture they become available – GreenStar Performance (Green Building PROGRAMMING Council of Australia) and NABERS New Zealand. These services BOMA Energy Efficiency Program Attendees 12,821 Global Reporting Index will be offered to clients, along with education sessions to explain Green Knights 108 20 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report the methodologies and market impact of these new tools. Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc. CBRE was selected by Shanghai Tower Construction & About this Report Development Co., Ltd. to provide property management CBRE UK: Sustainable Value consultancy services for the iconic Shanghai Tower—a Environmental Sustainability IPD Sustainable Property Indicator 2,073-square-foot, super-tall skyscraper currently under °° Environmental construction in the Lujiazui district of Shanghai, China. When CBRE acted as sponsor and leading valuation consultant in the Sustainability Overview completed in 2015, the 6.18 million-square-foot mixed-use tower IPD/RICS and client-backed initiative to create a sustainability data gathering process for property investors in the U.K. The program will be one of the most renowned commercial properties in China °° Academic Collaboration gained momentum during 2012 and now incorporates data from and around the world. over 2,000 properties valued at £32.5 billion sourced from 15 °° Resource Management whole portfolios subscribed by eight of the largest property fund CBRE Project Management and Sustainability Asia teams won the managers in the country. We are aiming for this to become an °° Occupancy first integrated project management and LEED for Commercial industry standard approach to understanding sustainability attributes and risks both at asset and portfolio levels and it demonstrates °° Internal Certification Interiors consulting project in Hong Kong, using an innovative CBRE’s close involvement and leadership in this rapidly changing model providing U.S., regional and on-the-ground expertise to specialist area. °° Procurement generate genuinely integrated green value for the client. The • Client Services Asia Project Management team completed 14 projects totaling “As valuers we already appreciate the need to be fully aware of these sustainability factors, and we have been delighted nearly 3.8 million square feet for clients such as Bank of America, °° Public Policy and Engagement both to sponsor IPD and work with them, our clients and the CISCO, HSBC and Visa. RICS on producing this upgraded data-collecting initiative °° Communications which we hope will become an industry standard.” and Training CBRE India Asset Services John Symes-Thompson, Senior Director LEED Certifications in Managed Portfolio °° Sustainable Reporting “At IPD we have been working to bring sustainability °° Global Sustainability Steering Commitee 60% 28% Gold Core & Shell 52% New Construction questions into the core framework of investment performance measurement, now for more than five years. It is most gratifying that all sides of the industry are at this crucial moment acting together to give this initiative a real chance of °° What Lies Ahead 24% 8% success.” °° CBRE Global Investors Ian Cullen, Founding Director, IPD Platinum °° Trammell Crow Company Commercial Interiors “This is an investor and valuer-led initiative aimed at solving 4% 8% a common problem, namely, capturing investment-relevant Ethics and Compliance environmental data at asset level for every property in an investment portfolio in a meaningful but pragmatic way.” Governance Silver Operations & Maintenance Richard Jones, Managing Director UK Real Estate, AVIVA Investors Health and Safety CBRE is also a member of the Industry Advisory Panel of IPD Green Communities and Giving The Shanghai Sustainability Summit, a client event organized by Index Australia and is a primary sponsor for the newly introduced CBRE in conjunction with GE Capital and CITIC Capital, featured IPD Green Index New Zealand. For further information, please visit People and Culture speakers from the China government, NGO and business http://www.ipd.com/ISPI Global Reporting Index stakeholders. The event provided a review of current and future 21 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc. sustainability regulations and targets, drilling down into the sustainability accounting standards, champions the integration About this Report detail of potential implications for real estate stakeholders at the of sustainability and financial fundamentals reporting to enable portfolio and individual asset level. investors and the public to compare critical dimensions of Environmental Sustainability sustainability performance. CBRE India sustainability team saved 3.3 million kWh in 2012 °° Environmental Sustainability Overview at client CTS’ Pune and Kolkata properties, by leveraging best 2012 Olympics practices in their HVAC, lighting and building envelope systems. As part of the build-up to the Olympics in London CBRE EMEA °° Academic Collaboration hosted a blog, highlighting the most sustainable Olympic games °° Resource Management Public Policy & Engagement ever and providing insight into the games’ legacy. CBRE continues our relationships with various non-governmental °° Occupancy EPA ENERGY STAR organizations and environmental specialists around the globe °° Internal Certification including The Climate Group, C2ES’ Business Environmental As a long-standing EPA partner, CBRE began collaborating with EPA °° Procurement Leadership Council, World Wildlife Fund, The Natural Resources ENERGY STAR to develop sales tools Defense Council, United States Green Building Council and other • Client Services global Green Building Council organizations, and numerous and resources to help brokers engage with clients on energy performance and sustainability. In 2012, • Public Policy and Engagement other region-specific entities. this support took the form of a CBRE U.S. broker survey to provide °° Communications GRESB U.S. Launch much needed feedback and insights on the key drivers and areas and Training CBRE hosted more than 110 industry for additional education for the brokerage community. °° Sustainable Reporting managers, investors and stakeholders at Green Building Councils a reception at CBRE’s New York office as °° Global Sustainability Nils Kok, executive director of GRESB CBRE is a member of the Green Building Council of Australia’s Steering Commitee Stakeholder Review Panel for a new GreenStar Performance rating (Global Real Estate Sustainability tool. CBRE’s Director of Sustainability for Asia is a representative °° What Lies Ahead Benchmark), unveiled the U.S. results of for Greater China at the USGBC’s LEED International Roundtable the 2012 GRESB Survey. The first benchmark of its kind, GRESB °° CBRE Global Investors provides insight into sustainability performance across and led groups of industry professionals in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan to create the first set of Greater China specific °° Trammell Crow Company commercial real estate portfolios, and attendees learned how the regional priority credits for LEED for New Construction (v2009). Ethics and Compliance implementation of sustainability could positively impact their CBRE also represented the Spanish Green Building Council on the organization and bottom line. Governance same roundtable. SASB Health and Safety Business Roundtable In 2012, CBRE joined the Sustainability Accounting Standards Communities and Giving In 2012, then-CEO Brett White participated in Business Board’s Advisory Council, a network of industry, sustainability, Roundtable’s “Create, Grow, Sustain 2012 Report,” featuring People and Culture and financial professionals that informally advise, support and narratives from 126 CEOs on how their companies are promote the work of Global Reporting Index SASB. SASB, a non-profit leading the way with solutions to make the U.S. economy more sustainable while also driving economic growth and job creation. 22 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report engaged in the creation and dissemination of This was Brett’s third contribution and the report’s fifth year. Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc. Clean Drinking Water for School • USGBC/Houston Annual Meeting Keynote Speaker About this Report CBRE’s affiliate office in • EXPO Munich Panelist Thailand sponsored the • 2012 Olympics Real Estate SME Environmental Sustainability “Clean Drinking Water for • NABERS New Zealand, Government Stakeholder Panelist °° Environmental School” project for its • Sydney Better Building Partnership member Sustainability Overview twentieth consecutive year. • Property Council of Australia NSW Sustainable Development Organized by the Rotary Committee Member °° Academic Collaboration Club of Bangkok South, the • Regular Contributor: Australian Financial Review, Sydney °° Resource Management project aims at installing Morning Herald, The Fifth Estate water purification systems for rural schools in Thailand. A • Contributor Environmental Leader “Insider Knowledge Report 2012” °° Occupancy standard system produces sufficient water each day for up to 400 • Tridium Niagra Summit Panelist °° Internal Certification students and sometimes excess purified water can be shared by • BOMI/ICF Sustainability Training Protocol SME °° Procurement village residents as well. CBRE has sponsored 20 water • RealComm/IBcon Speaker purification systems in total, which have benefitted students and • NAIOP/Albuquerque Annual Developer Meeting Speaker °° Client Services village residents since 2002. CBRE is also recognized as the • GRESB Benchmarking Committee Member and U.S. Survey • Public Policy and Engagement longest serving corporate sponsor of this signature project of the Launch Host • Communications Rotary Club in Bangkok South. • BOMA International Panelist and Training • McGraw Hill Sustainability Conference Institute for Market Transformation • Biz Now Los Angeles Conference Panelist °° Sustainable Reporting In 2012, we continued our alliance with • McGraw Hill Sustainability Conference Panelist °° Global Sustainability the Institute for Market Transformation • National Electrical Contractors Association Keynote Speaker Steering Commitee (IMT), a nonprofit organization dedicated • CoreNet Global Singapore Conference Speaker to promoting energy efficiency, green • Responsible Investor Conference Speaker °° What Lies Ahead building and environmental protection in • IFMA Shanghai Conference Presenter °° CBRE Global Investors the U.S. and abroad. Together, we • CoreNet Global Masters in Corporate Real Estate Presenter developed Guide to State and Local °° Trammell Crow Company Energy Performance Regulations, a guide Communications & Training Ethics and Compliance that features energy mandate Broker Training In the evolution of the green Governance requirements and implementation schedules by U.S. city and building industry over the last state, a valuable resource for building owners and management Health and Safety teams navigating through the compliance process. several years, various stakeholders – including architects, engineers Communities and Giving Thought Leadership and even building management People and Culture CBRE professionals are regularly sought as thought leaders for staff – have been early supporters. Global Reporting Index sustainability industry events and organizations, think tanks and It seems one of the last groups to publications. In 2012, some examples included: become engaged and knowledgeable in the green building 23 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report industry are the brokerage agents representing building owners Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc. and tenants in leasing and sales activity. Brokers are the marketing engines for the industry and are on the front lines CBRE Asia Green Professionals About this Report promoting the benefits of each real estate asset. They have an Environmental Sustainability opportunity, and perhaps even an obligation, to better inform and Qualification total BEAM Pro 3 °° Environmental educate those seeking to lease space or purchase assets on Sustainability Overview energy efficiency principles. As such, brokers must be equipped BEE Certified Energy Auditor/Assessor 6 with the training resources and knowledge base to intelligently CASBEE AP 1 °° Academic Collaboration engage in discussions about sustainability and its impact on a Certification Test for Environmental Specialists 2 °° Resource Management building’s brand value in the marketplace, operating expenses Certified Energy Manager 4 and overall “health.” °° Occupancy Certified Measurement & Verification Professional 1 In support of our goal of training 1,000 CBRE brokers globally Green Mark Manager 1 °° Internal Certification by 2015, last year CBRE developed “Sustainability 101 Green IGBC LEED AP 4 °° Procurement Building Basics for Brokerage Professionals,” a comprehensive LEED AP (no designation) 6 °° Client Services approach to bridging the knowledge gap and creating real, LEED AP BD+C 4 actionable expertise in our broker community. This training series °° Public Policy and Engagement is the largest of its kind in the commercial real estate services LEED AP ID+C 9 LEED AP O+M 6 • Communications industry. At the time of publication, we had completed our LEED Green Associate 15 and Training first round of interactive, in-person training and were nearing completion of an online version, as well. °° Sustainable Reporting °° Global Sustainability 13,000 Employee Certifications need to successfully manage and reduce 480+ Steering Commitee As of year-end 2012, more than 480 CBRE energy consumption. In partnership with professionals worldwide had obtained the BOMA, CBRE licensed BOMA Energy °° What Lies Ahead LEED® professional designation, which Efficiency Program (BEEP) training and BOMA BEEP attendees °° CBRE Global Investors signifies advanced knowledge in green LEED APs has offered weekly sessions to employees for the past six years. building practices. Nearly 130 CBRE employees in the Americas BEEP educates industry professionals on how to reduce energy °° Trammell Crow Company consumption and costs with proven noand low-cost strategies have been designated as Green Knights, a CBRE Institutional Ethics and Compliance and Corporate Services program that helps clients strategically for optimizing equipment, people and practices. Recognized as Governance transform their facility operations via sustainable practices, the leading sustainability program for commercial real estate products and behaviors. More than 100 CBRE employees have professionals, the program has been adopted as a required Health and Safety training standard for all CBRE Asset Services real estate managers participated in CBRE’s Eco Knights, an Americas volunteer Communities and Giving group that supports CBRE’s corporate tasks of becoming a more and building engineering staff. During 2012, this training was sustainable organization. expanded globally with sessions attended by international People and Culture management and corporate account staff. Since 2007, a total of Global Reporting Index BOMA BEEP more than 13,000 attendees have participated in the four-part CBRE continues to place a strong focus on equipping building training series. 24 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report staff with the knowledge, proper tools and best practices they Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc. Earth Hour 2012 • Inside the Office – Inside the Office is a main landing page 722msf About this Report CBRE engaged over 26 million tenants on CBRE’s intranet, and a central figure in the larger family of in more than 722 million square feet of Sustainability pages. Inside the Office can be a one-stop shop Environmental Sustainability client support in World Wildlife Fund’s for all CBRE employees or a deeper portal for access to office°° Environmental Earth Hour 2012, and more than 300 of 2012 Earth Hour related sustainability tools and resources. Sustainability Overview participation our offices around the world participated • Social media – CBRE is highly active in social media, including in the event. Earth Hour was particularly successful in the Pacific, daily interactions through our Twitter account @cbregreen and °° Academic Collaboration where participation increased 10%, and in Asia, where 70% our Speaking of Green blog. We also hosted an blog dedicated °° Resource Management of our staff made personal pledges in the “I Will If You Will” to the 2012 Olympics in London. speaking of green challenge, which encourages participants to think critically °° Occupancy about their own personal commitment to the challenge. In 322 °° Internal Certification CBRE client properties in India alone, Earth Hour participation around the globe. °° Procurement minimized energy use by 60,000 kWh. CBRE has supported • Video – With the growing popularity and ease of posting Earth Hour since its 2007 inception; during that time, we have videos, CBRE developed “The Business of Green” in which CBRE °° Client Services contributed 1.6 billion square feet of participation in properties executives discuss the importance of CBRE’s sustainability efforts °° Public Policy and Engagement we manage for clients globally. for clients and our own operations. • Communications • Employee engagement – We recognize that our employees National Building Competition can be our greatest advocates, best idea generators and even and Training Each year, CBRE has proudly participated in strongest critics. Working through nearly a dozen existing • Sustainable Reporting EPA’s National Building Competition, a communications channels around the globe, CBRE harnesses highly visible and widely recognized °° Global Sustainability program that highlights the efforts of our employees’ environmental commitment, giving them current Steering Commitee updates, participation opportunities and feedback channels. management staff in improving energy °° What Lies Ahead efficiency. With the expansion of the Following a World Wildlife Fund “Lunch competition guidelines to include any and Learn” on the topic of sustainable °° CBRE Global Investors seafood (a significant issue in Hong Kong), building achieving 20% reduction or greater this year, even more °° Trammell Crow Company building teams will have the opportunity to be recognized. CBRE Hong Kong launched “no shark fin” Ethics and Compliance Through broad internal promotion of the national challenge to all and sustainable seafood policies in employees, CBRE is encouraged that participation for 2012 partnership with the WWF. Governance successfully increased by 300% to include 36 managed buildings Health and Safety as challenge entrants. Sustainable Reporting Communities and Giving In addition to this report, CBRE reports on sustainability matters Communication Channels through various third-party organizations, including the UNGC, People and Culture A key driver in creating lasting behavioral change is an ability to GRI, CDP and numerous investment indices. Many of these and communicate – to capture and convey meaningful ideas about Global Reporting Index other reports include criteria that may not directly apply to our sustainability that engage users and alter their daily habits. At company. By way of organizational transparency, we offer the 25 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report CBRE, we strive to connect our messages strategically with our stakeholders through a variety of key channels: following insights. Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc. As a service provider, the environmental impact of our operations business practices, CBRE has formed our Global Sustainability About this Report is relatively low by comparison to similarly sized firms in other Steering Committee. Comprised of senior leadership across industries. In 2011, we estimate that our global operations all business lines and global functions, the committee ensures Environmental Sustainability electricity use was 64,284 megawatt hours and our distillate fuel sustainability becomes embedded across every line of business °° Environmental (oil) usage was 28,429,914 megawatt hours. Comparable 2012 and geography and develops a leading sustainability culture of Sustainability Overview statistics were not available at the time of publication but will be shared outcomes based on innovation and best practices. published in CBRE’s Carbon Disclosure Filing. The filing will be °° Academic Collaboration available for download at www.cdproject.net by July 1, 2013. 2012 GSSC Members °° Resource Management Our natural resource use and waste stream are not related to °° Occupancy manufacturing, research and development, logistics and other Larry Midler EVP and General Counsel, Global Head of Corporate Responsibility °° Internal Certification resource-intensive activities. Since we do not produce, package Dave Pogue or transport goods, we do not source sustainably or reclaim any Global Director of Corporate Responsibility, committee chairman °° Procurement products or packaging, nor do we transport hazardous waste or Bob Abberger °° Client Services water. Senior Managing Director, Trammell Crow Company Mark Creamer °° Public Policy and Engagement The majority of our operations occur in office settings, and in Deputy Managing Director, UK °° Communications most cases, we lease but do not own the space we occupy, and Maureen Ehrenberg and Training our leases comprise only a small portion of the buildings in which Global Director of Facilities Management they are located. In addition, in multiple tenancy buildings, we Karen Ellzey • Sustainable Reporting Executive Managing Director, Consulting do not always have access to energy submeters. As a result, we • Global Sustainability Pieter Hendrikse do not have the means to track materials source or use beyond Chief Executive Officer, CBRE Global Investors EMEA Steering Commitee recycling efforts, water withdrawal or discharge, or significant air Rob Hensley emissions beyond those indicated elsewhere in this report section. Managing Director, Valuation & Advisory °° What Lies Ahead Steve Iaco °° CBRE Global Investors Our operations are largely based in urban and suburban areas, Senior Managing Director, Corporate Communications minimizing our exposure to protected natural areas and potential Asieh Mansour °° Trammell Crow Company impacts on biodiversity and endangered species. To the best of Head of Americas Research Ethics and Compliance our knowledge, we do not own or occupy facilities or land on or Mindee Metz Director of Corporate Responsibility adjacent to protected habitats or areas nor have we participated Governance Rebecca Pearce directly in habitat restoration. Director of Sustainability, Pacific Health and Safety We have not been issued any fines in violation of environmental Ed Schreyer Communities and Giving Executive Managing Director, Brokerage Services regulations or law, nor have we been responsible for or party to Tim Shen People and Culture any significant spills. Director of Sustainability, Asia Global Reporting Index Brian Stoffers Global Sustainability Steering Committee Chief Operating Officer, Capital Markets 26 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report In response to the increasing globalization of our sustainability business and our desire to fully integrate our operations and Steve Swerdlow Chief Operating Officer, Americas Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc. What Lies Ahead About this Report As reflected in our 2012 Environmental Sustainability Policy, we have made these commitments: Environmental Sustainability • We will continue to implement and advance procurement °° Environmental Sustainability Overview standards that incorporate sustainable best practices for furniture, paper, office supplies, computer equipment, printing °° Academic Collaboration devices and other relevant items. °° Resource Management • By 2017, we will have the capability to monitor and measure utility usage in our 50 largest carbon emitting locations through °° Occupancy the installation of separate metering devices. °° Internal Certification • By 2017, we will strive to locate at least 70% of our corporate facilities over 20,000 square feet in space or buildings with °° Procurement these recognized green building standards, as regionally °° Client Services appropriate. °° Public Policy and Engagement • We will continue to promote and expand the Toward a Greener Tomorrow office certification program to other global offices °° Communications over 5,000 square feet by the end of 2014. and Training • Having met our 2012 goal of developing enhanced training °° Sustainable Reporting programs for delivery through the company’s in-person and web-based training curriculum, we will train a minimum of °° Global Sustainability 1,000 brokerage, sales and marketing professionals by 2015. Steering Commitee • We will continue to take an active role in the public policy • What Lies Ahead debate regarding effective solutions to climate change. We will seek input from and contribute to environmental discussions °° CBRE Global Investors through meetings and open dialogue with companies, °° Trammell Crow Company institutions, shareholders, clients, non-governmental Ethics and Compliance organizations, academia and government. • We will continue the Real Green Research Challenge, our Governance $1 million research grant program seeking to discover new Health and Safety and innovative programs, practices and tools to advance innovations and thought leadership aid in the development and Communities and Giving promotion of energy efficiency and sustainable practices. People and Culture Global Reporting Index 27 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability CBRE GLOBAL INVESTORS About CBRE Group, Inc. About this Report Letter from Pieter Hendrikse CEO, CBRE Global Investors EMEA Environmental Sustainability Chairman, CBRE Global Investors Global Green Team °° Environmental Chairman, Green Rating Alliance Sustainability Overview Member, CBRE Global Sustainability Steering Committee °° Academic Collaboration °° Resource Management I am pleased to present CBRE Global Investors’ first contribution to • Market-driven by tenants who must meet sustainability targets for CBRE’s Corporate Responsibility Report. This is an important step buildings they occupy; °° Occupancy in sharing our goals, challenges, approach and performance on • Regulation-driven as governments establish laws and policies °° Internal Certification environmental issues material to our business. for building development and operations regardless of owner or tenant requirements; °° Procurement In our business, responsible environmental, social and governance • Competition-driven as investment managers are looking to °° Client Services (ESG) practices are more than trends; they’re fundamental to the differentiate themselves and their projects; business strategy of our firm, our investors, our tenants and the key °° Public Policy and Engagement stakeholders in the communities, properties and funds in which we • Risk-driven to mitigate the impact of future external factors such as energy costs. °° Communications invest. Our mission is to provide real estate investors with exceptional and Training performance worldwide, and we recognize that taking ESG Going forward, sustainability will continue to be a critical component considerations into account in any investment decision is integral to of CBRE Global Investors’ strategy. In 2013 we will continue to °° Sustainable Reporting enhance returns and preserve value for our investors. implement Project Green across the organization. We will seek °° Global Sustainability to improve the environmental performance of our assets under Steering Commitee To that end, CBRE Global Investors’ Global Green Team was management and develop clear guidelines to link our sustainable established in 2012 to harness best practices in environmental °° What Lies Ahead sustainability, enhance knowledge sharing, and expand the firm’s actions to financial value. We firmly believe that a sustainable approach to real estate investment management can increase • CBRE Global Investors sustainable investment approach worldwide. This team is responsible occupancy and enhance risk-adjusted returns we earn for our clients. for establishing measurable indicators, monitoring performance, °° Trammell Crow Company and sharing best practices from the market and our funds. Every employee and stakeholder has an important role to play in Ethics and Compliance achieving the firm’s sustainability goals, whether we are making In 2012 the Green Team launched “Project Green: An Action Plan Governance investment decisions or simply looking at how we can reduce our Toward a Greener Tomorrow” to integrate our sustainability goals own consumption of resources. Health and Safety and ambitions throughout the firm’s investment and corporate operations. In January 2013 we published our Global Sustainability We appreciate the support of our various stakeholders as we make Communities and Giving Policy, fulfilling the first target of Project Green. Through the policy we ESG criteria a fundamental component of our investment process People and Culture will strive to meet goals that are: and look forward to sharing our continuing progress in this critical Global Reporting Index • Client-driven by investors who require meaningful sustainability endeavor in future reports. initiatives and increasingly evaluate our services based on our 28 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report sustainability policies; Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc. Introduction and asset management activities, we can make a tangible About this Report CBRE Global Investors is one of the world’s largest real estate impact on improving energy efficiency, reducing greenhouse gas investment management firms with $92.0 billion in assets under emissions and slowing climate change. Through a comprehensive Environmental Sustainability management as of December 31, 2012. The firm sponsors mindset of sustainable solutions, we execute acquisition due °° Environmental real estate investment programs across the risk/return spectrum diligence and asset management activities designed to improve Sustainability Overview in North America, Europe and Asia for approximately 600 the environmental footprint and promote managed asset institutional investor clients worldwide including public and private sustainability over its lifecycle. During the acquisition process, °° Academic Collaboration pension funds, insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, we often engage third-party consultants to identify opportunities °° Resource Management foundations, endowments and private individuals. Programs to reduce a property’s environmental impact. Investment teams consider these findings when defining the investment strategy °° Occupancy include core/core-plus, value-added and opportunistic strategies through separate accounts and commingled equity funds, debt and capital expenditure program for the property, including °° Internal Certification investment, global multi manager programs and listed global real location, energy savings, environmental characteristics of the °° Procurement estate securities vehicles. building (orientation, facades, landscape, etc.), access to public transportation, and tenant comfort characteristics such as natural °° Client Services lighting, acoustic and olfactory comfort, indoor air quality, etc. Direct Real Estate Equity Investment Operations °° Public Policy and Engagement With buildings generating roughly 40% of the emissions of CO2, For example, a key consideration in our Asia team’s acquisition of a portion of Kowloon Commerce Center Tower 2 in Hong Kong °° Communications CBRE Global Investors recognizes that through our investment and Training °° Sustainable Reporting assets under management1 GREEN HIGHLIGHTS By Region or program ($b) °° Global Sustainability 186 Green Building Certifications Steering Commitee Worldwide across 149 properties. °° What Lies Ahead $12.0 $16.7 North America Our Dutch Funds = NAMED Most • CBRE Global Investors EMEA Sustainable in the Netherlands Asia Pacific °° Trammell Crow Company Ethics and Compliance $23.6 Securities GMM # 1 Dutch Office, Residential & Retail Funds = #1 in the GRESB 2012 Survey Governance Our Dutch Funds & Retail Property Fund Iberica = GRESB Green Star Award Health and Safety $35.5 Communities and Giving People and Culture $4.2 86 % of Strategic Partners US valueadded portfolio LEED Certified. Global Reporting Index 1 As of December 31, 2012. Assets under management (AUM) refers to fair market value of real estate-related assets with respect to which CBRE Global Investors provides, on a global basis, oversight, investment management services and other advice, and which generally consist of properties and real estate-related loans; securities 29 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report portfolios; and investments in operating companies, joint ventures and in private real estate funds under its fund of funds program. This AUM is intended principally to reflect the extent of CBRE Global Investors’ presence in the global real estate market, and its calculation of AUM may differ from the calculations of other asset managers. Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc. in 2012 was the fact that the building was designed to be preCertifications and Recognition About this Report certified as a LEED Gold property. Certification Quantity Size (SF) GMV Year-end 2012 Location(s) Environmental Sustainability Beyond a focus on acquisitions, we also encourage fund teams (USD Millions) to consider adopting sustainable solutions for older properties, BOMA360 16 5,606,086 1,188 United States °° Environmental BREEAM 41 10,617,974 3,861 UK, Portugal, Spain, the Sustainability Overview running payback analyses to replace inefficient mechanical and Netherlands, Poland, Czech electrical plants with modern solutions. Examples of recent energy Republic, Hungary, France, °° Academic Collaboration efficiency initiatives in Europe include: Italy, Belgium and Germany °° Resource Management BREEAM Pre-Certification 4 460,899 242 France, Italy • Installation of 484,376 square feet of solar panels on the CASBEE 1 1,419,428 210 Japan rooftop of the Eindhout logistic property by the Belgium team, °° Occupancy DGNB 3 713,421 90 Germany providing tenants with 50% renewable energy. °° Internal Certification • Refurbishment and installation of a more efficient HVAC system Energy Star 30 8,625,564 2,343 United States °° Procurement at the 129,167 square-foot Shamrock office complex in Paris. Green Rating 21 3,611,794 891 Sweden, Belgium, France, Spain, Italy, Germany, and We estimate that this will improve the building energy efficiency the Netherlands °° Client Services by 10% per year. HQE 2 324,768 79 Belgium, France °° Public Policy and Engagement • Replacement of the HVAC system in the Forum Aveiro shopping ISO 14001 20 6,425,488 2,679 Spain, Portugal, Italy center in Portugal, which reduced electrical consumption by °° Communications LEED 47 21,897,519 5,644 United States, Italy, Hong and Training 27% per year and has a three-year payback period. Kong BBC 1 36,264 17 France °° Sustainable Reporting For many years, our Dutch funds teams have distinguished 149 47,330,389 themselves by developing a focused sustainability strategy that °° Global Sustainability is today an integral part of their fund management strategy. The Steering Commitee team has supported the funds’ property managers in developing, Number of green properties certified Property Total Area (in square feet) °° What Lies Ahead 186 $14,757 implementing and communicating corporate responsibility policies at the corporate and property levels in order to improve • CBRE Global Investors the performance of their organization. Number of certifications Gross Market Value as of 31 Dec 2012 (USD Millions) °° Trammell Crow Company Several years ago, these teams implemented a web-based solution Ethics and Compliance to track electricity usage, and in the last year expanded corporate managers to improve sustainability performance. They achieved Governance responsibility awareness among their funds’ property managers their first success this year when an office building in Prague, and contractors by developing a web-based solution to measure the which was their pilot program supported by the Green Team, Health and Safety received a BREEAM In-Use “Excellence” rating for its management sustainability level of respective operations. This helps to measure Communities and Giving the effectiveness of environmental agreements made between performance. People and Culture stakeholder groups and encourages environmentally responsible Some of our European teams also work with utility companies to management and maintenance of the Dutch properties. Global Reporting Index ensure that electricity is provided mainly from renewable sources. A comparable process was started in 2011 in the CEE region, Our Italian team has been particularly successful at this, securing 30 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report where the asset managers worked intensely with their property contracts for 100% renewable sources for several office complexes. Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc. In order to measure our properties’ green performance and enhance Indirect Real Estate Investment Operations About this Report communication with property managers, suppliers and tenants, Global Multi Manager consumption follow-up systems have been installed to continuously CBRE Global Multi Manager (GMM) is the independent multiEnvironmental Sustainability monitor, classify and visualize electricity, gas and water usage manager and funds division of CBRE Global Investors. As part °° Environmental consumption at many properties in our European portfolios. of CBRE Global Investors’ commitment to the UN Principles of Sustainability Overview Responsible Investment, GMM’s ESG Policy states it will invest in We believe that in today’s world it is not sufficient to simply °° Academic Collaboration provide “cookie cutter” environmentally intelligent buildings. Our real estate funds where: • There is a clearly defined investment strategy which takes °° Resource Management philosophy customizes a sustainable real estate investment and operations approach to the specific investment strategy, building account of environmental, social and governance issues in °° Occupancy and tenant needs. order to deliver superior returns to investors °° Internal Certification • There is no intention to encourage or engage in socially As various occupier segments increasingly irresponsible activities °° Procurement express a preference for minimum levels • The corporate governance provisions meet best practice °° Client Services Green building guide of sustainability in the spaces they rent, standards, developed in conjunction with our lawyers, and the ability to meet such requirements has reporting meets our requirements for transparency °° Public Policy and Engagement LE MERMOZ clearly provided financial benefits, increasing °° Communications property cash flows by lowering or shortening and Training April 2012 in association with vacancies. Sustainability in Action: GRESB °° Sustainable Reporting Recent examples include: CBRE Global Investors’ three Dutch °° Global Sustainability • Our French team signed more than 292,626 square feet of new funds have been ranked first in the Steering Commitee green leases in Paris. applicable fund categories in the • Sustainability was a key factor in closing 215,278 square feet annual Global Real Estate Sustainability °° What Lies Ahead Benchmark (GRESB). The report of new leases at the 376,737 square-foot Airport Plaza office • CBRE Global Investors benchmarked its CBRE Dutch Office complex near Brussels’ international airport, attracting several Fund, CBRE Dutch Residential Fund and grade A tenants for long-term leases averaging ten years of °° Trammell Crow Company CBRE Dutch Retail Fund against other secured cash flow. Dutch real estate funds that are active in the same sector. The CBRE Ethics and Compliance • Our initiative to get a BREEAM in-use label on the Brussels’ Dutch Office Fund and CBRE Dutch Retail Fund were also awarded the GRESB Green Star for the second year in a row. Governance Bastion Tower office complex has been a key factor to This outcome demonstrates that strong performance in sustainability renegotiate a 80,729 square-foot, 12-year lease with an Health and Safety can go hand in hand with outperforming returns. These Dutch funds international law firm. have shown outperformance of the IPD/ROZ benchmark for both the Communities and Giving fiveand ten-year period, while taking on a leading role in providing Not only do we seek to sign green leases, but we also try to raise sustainable solutions for their portfolios. People and Culture awareness of the importance of sustainable behavior with our CBRE Global Investors’ Retail Property Fund Iberica scored second Global Reporting Index tenants by creating asset-specific green committees and green in its category and was also awarded the GRESB Green Star for the guides to define sustainability guidelines for the usage of our second year in a row. 31 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report buildings. Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc. GMM actively engages with managers of the funds in which • Green Rating Alliance: Pieter Hendrikse, CBRE Global Investors’ About this Report it invests, and other counterparts, with the goal of improving CEO of the EMEA region and Chairman of CBRE Global the real estate industry’s approaches of benchmarking and Investors’ Global Green Team, serves as Chairman of Green Environmental Sustainability reporting building efficiency standards, and we are committed Rating Alliance, a partnership of leading global real estate °° Environmental to developing onward reporting to our clients in this area. companies launched in 2011 to exchange best practices to Sustainability Overview Beginning this year, GMM is using the annual GRESB survey bring concrete sustainability solutions to the property industry, as the framework for comparison of fund investments and the enhance methodology and tools for building owners and °° Academic Collaboration manager’s approach to the sustainability of their portfolios. occupiers, anticipate future trends, and set tangible and °° Resource Management GMM will use this data to review the performance of our clients’ measurable indicators to monitor progress. investments from an environmental perspective and report to • Sustainable Building Alliance: CBRE Global Investors is a °° Occupancy clients on an annual basis. member of the Sustainable Building Alliance, an international °° Internal Certification initiative supported by the UNESCO to work towards the CBRE Clarion Securities °° Procurement development of common minimum standards to ensure CBRE Clarion also recognizes the importance of evaluating a consistency worldwide while recognising local specificities. °° Client Services company’s policies and implementation of ESG factors as part • Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change: CBRE Global °° Public Policy and Engagement of the securities selection process. Environmental considerations Investors is a member of the Institutional Investors Group such as sustainable development or green building standards on Climate Change, which provides institutional investors in °° Communications are assessed as part of our property quality evaluation and are and Training Europe with a voice on climate and engages with government, factored into a company’s overall score for comparison with other companies and investors on addressing the long-term risks and °° Sustainable Reporting companies. opportunities associated with climate change. °° Global Sustainability While not the case in every market around the globe, in certain Steering Commitee markets we believe that such considerations, as they increasingly CBRE Collaboration become the standard for many corporations and local United States °° What Lies Ahead governments, are a potential positive catalyst for tenant demand In 2012, our Strategic Partners US team engaged CBRE Energy • CBRE Global Investors and landlord pricing power. & Sustainability to help define their position on sustainability at both an organizational and asset level. The result was a °° Trammell Crow Company comprehensive sustainability program that began in mid-2012. Ethics and Compliance Industry Engagement Some elements included: Because we believe it is important to collaborate with other Governance industry stakeholders, we are actively involved in a number • 20 peer reviews to identify best practices and benchmark Health and Safety of organizations that enable us to exchange ideas and work Strategic Partners’ current position together to develop solutions: • Identification of 35 industry best practices across ten thematic Communities and Giving areas such as greenhouse gas reduction initiatives, waste • UN Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI): In 2009, People and Culture CBRE Global Investors became a signatory to the UN Principles diversion techniques, and governance policies • Certification, recertification or annual audit of several new Global Reporting Index for Responsible Investment, an investor initiative in partnership LEED-certified buildings with the UN Global Compact and the UN Environment 32 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Programme (UNEP) Finance Initiative. • Cost analysis of water and energy use and recommendations for reduction Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc. • Design and deployment of LEED Gap Analysis to determine and CBRE Investors platforms. The most About this Report cost and feasibility of attaining LEED certification for potential advanced sustainability solutions were acquisition targets as part of pre-investment due diligence factored into the design process for the Environmental Sustainability • Creation of a new “Green to Gold” marketing and awareness working spaces and technical plant. We °° Environmental campaign in order to brand Strategic Partners as the industry’s reduced occupancy, materials and resource Sustainability Overview premier green asset manager consumption by increasing flexibility in workstations and telecommuting policies. °° Academic Collaboration United Kingdom We also incorporated smart features like: °° Resource Management In early 2012, CBRE Global Investors engaged CBRE’s Green • Motion detection lighting Consulting Group to perform a risk assessment project on a $53.6 °° Occupancy million fund, composed of 50 properties and 228 units, to assess • Shower facilities to encourage bike riding • FSC certified wood-based materials and products °° Internal Certification our ability to comply with the UK Energy Act 2011. This act will • Recycling programs prohibit the leasing or sale of any units without Energy Performance °° Procurement • Dual flush toilets Certificate (EPC) ratings of F or G beginning in 2018. °° Client Services • Auto shut-off and low-flow controls on sinks After this pilot project, CBRE Global Investors in January 2013 • High efficiency lamps °° Public Policy and Engagement decided to expand the project across 37 account portfolios in CBRE Global Investors will attempt to implement the Toward °° Communications the UK (about 900 properties and 4,500 units) and four fund and Training a Greener Tomorrow office certification program for its offices portfolios with about 500 units, with the ultimate goals being: globally by the end of 2013. This program establishes protocols °° Sustainable Reporting • Improved returns for clients’ portfolios through mitigating risk for the improved sustainable performance of CBRE Global and gaining a better understanding of obsolescence related to Investors’ occupied space. °° Global Sustainability sustainability Steering Commitee • Improved energy efficiency and overall sustainability in clients’ Green Team °° What Lies Ahead portfolios The CBRE Global Investors’ Global Green Team, which is • CBRE Global Investors • Enhanced green reputations for our clients headed by EMEA CEO Pieter Hendrikse, includes representatives Operations from various functional teams across each region in which °° Trammell Crow Company In our own operations, we established best practice initiatives to the firm invests. The Green Team supports fund teams in their Ethics and Compliance participation in sustainability initiatives, thereby developing reduce our resource consumption, minimize waste and increase Governance use of renewable or recyclable materials. We intend to achieve and implementing a consistent global strategy and increasing and measure our reductions through the implementation of awareness of sustainability as a key factor in daily asset Health and Safety environmental management systems. management activities. Communities and Giving One example of these best practices in 2012 involves the The Green Team’s mission is to ensure that CBRE Global Investors People and Culture relocation of some of our largest European offices – Amsterdam, will always be in the forefront of the industry and aligned with Global Reporting Index London and Paris – after the merger of the former ING REIM sustainability best practices. 33 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc. About this Report Environmental Sustainability Green from the Ground Up °° Environmental Daniel Queenan Sustainability Overview Chief Executive Officer °° Academic Collaboration °° Resource Management °° Occupancy Well before “environmental sustainability” became a catch phrase, Trammell Crow Company had recognized that prudent Trammell Crow Company believes green buildings make °° Internal Certification environmental stewardship was a fundamental social and ethical more efficient use of various resources, including energy, °° Procurement corporate responsibility. As a leader in commercial real estate water and materials, while reducing the impacts on development, TCC uniquely understood the impact of the built °° Client Services environment on our communities. human health and the environment. Choosing the best °° Public Policy and Engagement approach to achieving these efficiencies, such as optimal 15msf By 2006, TCC began formally adopting °° Communications and incorporating sustainability site selection, design, construction, operation, maintenance and Training guidelines and practices into numerous LEED certified projects and removal, will help create value for our clients. projects in all product types that °° Sustainable Reporting comprise our core business. In 2007, we first formalized Danny Queenan, CEO °° Global Sustainability our sustainability initiative, and our commitment to making Steering Commitee environmental stewardship integral to our brand. Today we have planning, design and construction for each project. Our goal is to completed nearly 15 million square feet of LEED certified projects build value with comprehensive, integrated building solutions that °° What Lies Ahead are attentive to the environment, the health of the occupants and across a broad spectrum of product and geographies, and °° CBRE Global Investors have an active development pipeline of over 19 million square the needs of our investors. • Trammell Crow Company feet of projects targeted for LEED certification or with significant Trammell Crow Company, founded in 1948, is one of the nation’s sustainable design considerations. Ethics and Compliance leading developers and investors in commercial real estate. The Knowledge leadership is central to our brand and business Company has developed or acquired nearly 2,600 buildings Governance model. We pursue environmentally responsible building solutions valued at nearly $60 billion and over 540 million square feet. Health and Safety because they generate long term economic benefits for our TCC’s teams are dedicated to building value for its clients with professionals in 15 major cities throughout the United States. The Communities and Giving financial partners and meet the long term objectives of our tenants, employees and the communities in which we live. company serves users of and investors in, office, industrial, retail, People and Culture healthcare, multi-family residential and mixed use projects. For Global Reporting Index TCC is committed to the continued expansion of its expertise in those who occupy real estate, TCC can execute the development environmental sustainability, to making sustainability an important or acquisition of facilities tailored to meet its clients’ needs. For 34 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report part of our business and to assuring that our clients and financial partners have access to TCC’s best practices in sustainable investor clients, the company offers large strategic joint ventures, opportunity funds, and other targeted investment options. Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc. CBRE’s acquisition in 2006 was a perfect fit of two firms About this Report committed to corporate responsibility, with environmental TCC Environmental Commitment stewardship central to our brands. Our knowledge leadership Environmental Sustainability in new development directly compliments CBRE’s initiatives °° Environmental to advance the performance of existing buildings in the built Environmental RESPONSIBILITY Sustainability Overview environment. As a commercial developer on the cutting edge • Respect and preserve the environment of new technologies, we bring direct insight into how the design °° Academic Collaboration and use of commercial buildings can dramatically reduce • Conserve energy, water & non-renewable natural resources °° Resource Management impacts on the environment as compared to past designs and practices. As an industry leader, we make it our responsibility to • Create healthy indoor environments °° Occupancy inform our clients of best practices gleaned from our experience, °° Internal Certification and the options available to them and the benefits gained economic PERFORMANCE °° Procurement through intelligent building design practices. Our employees • Limit development burden on land share the same passion to insure improved quality of life in our °° Client Services communities for generations to come. • Develop and promote sustainable buildings & practices °° Public Policy and Engagement As climate change continues to be a public issue and client and • Contribute to social, economic and physical benefits of our °° Communications investor demands for sustainable development continue to rise, and Training TCC is proactively responding to this trend and need. Through clients, partners, tenants and communities °° Sustainable Reporting state-of-the-art design and construction, active engagement with suppliers and benchmarking our performance, we continue our °° Global Sustainability drive to be the industry leader in environmental best practices. Steering Commitee Environmental benefits Environmental benefits Central to our business strategy is leveraging our knowledge • Enhance & protect • Reduce operating costs °° What Lies Ahead base, and advancing the skills sets and education of our ecosystems & biodiversity • Enhance asset value and profits °° CBRE Global Investors employees. We have in place: • Improve air & water quality • Optimize life-cycle economic performance • Trammell Crow Company • A national task force comprised of senior development • Reduce solid waste Ethics and Compliance managers representing and supporting the market area of each • Conserve natural resources group president Health and community benefits Governance • Management reporting and tracking via our in-house • Improve thermal & acoustic environments Health and Safety information platform providing a comprehensive database of Tenant benefits the scope and scale of our sustainable projects • Enhance occupant comfort & health Communities and Giving • Increase employee productivity • A focus on the continuing education of our employees • Minimize strain on local infrastructure People and Culture • An initiative to document best practices to further leverage our • Improve employee satisfaction • Contribute to quality of life knowledge base Global Reporting Index • Representation on CBRE’s Global Sustainability Steering 35 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Committee, ensuring we leverage our collective company knowledge leadership Stakeholder Letter Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc. Continuing Education Sustainability in Action About this Report TCC’s commitment to knowledge leadership in sustainable Darden Restaurants design and development is core to our principles, responsibilities Corporate Headquarters Environmental Sustainability and brand. The growth of our pipeline with our recovering Orlando, Florida °° Environmental economy underscores our need to have training and capabilities Sustainability Overview at the forefront of our strategic focus to best serve our clients, investors, and to maintain our commitment to our employees. The °° Academic Collaboration Company currently has 22 LEED APs and recently announced its FACTS °° Resource Management 2013 Sustainable Education Initiative. 50acres | 467,500sf | $180Mbudget | 2009Completion | °° Occupancy Perkins & Will Architects | Hardin Construction | LEED® Gold °° Internal Certification It is our goal to have ALL active YIELD °° Procurement development managers or development LEED Gold | 3.1mwhr annual energy savings | $200,000annual energy cost savings | 2million gallons water savings °° Client Services management supervisors LEED Accredited °° Public Policy and Engagement to advance our knowledge leadership, Hess Tower °° Communications and to assure the best guidance to future projects. Houston, Texas and Training Bob Abberger, Senior Managing Director and Chief Sustainability Officer Hess Tower sets a new standard for office building design and construction °° Sustainable Reporting with its use of innovative solutions and Project sf type location LEED Certification sustainable elements that help sepa°° Global Sustainability Hess Tower 844,763 Office Houston Platinum rate it from typical developments. To Steering Commitee obtain the tower’s high quality interior Block 19 395,483 Office Denver Gold layout and spatial configuration, Tram°° What Lies Ahead Cascade Station 92,877 Office Portland Gold mell Crow Company began the design process from the inside out. The U.S. °° CBRE Global Investors Darden Restaurants 471,000 Office Florida Gold Environmental Protection Agency has DaVita World Headquarters 270,000 Office Denver Gold acknowledged Hess Tower through its • Trammell Crow Company Designed to Earn the ENERGY STAR Energy Center II 305,585 Office Houston Gold award with a Design Energy PerforEthics and Compliance Franklin Center 200,593 Office MidAtlantic Gold mance rating of 99 out of 100. Governance History Colorado Museum 195,000 Civic Denver Gold Hess Tower is approximately 22% more energy efficient than a typical Patriots Plaza II and III 701,587 Office MidAtlantic Gold office building and features a number of sustainable features: Health and Safety • Low-emitting interior finishes and materials Sentinel Square 412,661 Office MidAtlantic Gold Communities and Giving • Indoor chemical and pollutant control 161 @ Pioneer Park 603,354 Industrial DFW Silver • Open views of the park and abundant natural interior light People and Culture Energy Center I 332,000 Office Houston Silver • A highly efficient energy recovery unit • High-efficiency centrifugal chillers for cooling I-20 Distribution Center 887,810 Industrial DFW Silver Global Reporting Index • Low-flow fixtures and 40% more efficient plumbing system Max @ Kierland 258,000 Office Phoenix Certified • Reuse of air conditioning condensate for landscaping irrigation 36 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Westinghouse Cranberry Woods 823,980 Office NE Metro Certified • A “green” roof on entry pavilion • An energy efficient roof and insulation Stakeholder Letter About CBRE Group, Inc. About this Report Environmental Sustainability Ethics and Compliance °° Ethics and Compliance Overview °° Ethics and Compliance Programs °° Internal Audit Programs, Risk Identification and Assessment °° What Lies Ahead Governance Health and Safety Communities and Giving People and Culture Global Reporting Index Ethics and Compliance 37 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Ethics and Compliance About CBRE Group, Inc. Ethics and Compliance • proactive distance learning and employee training programs About this Report CBRE continues to lead the commercial real estate services industry, that reinforce our culture and commitment to identifying and and our Ethics and Compliance program matches this excellence resolving harassment, fraud, conflicts of interest, bribery and Environmental Sustainability by maintaining a culture of values as a cornerstone of our business other material ethical issues; Ethics and Compliance philosophy. While global markets still remain uncertain, the • ownership of ethics outcomes in our business units; and • Ethics and Compliance corporate focus of our Ethics and Compliance program remains • aggressive risk identification, audit and compliance monitoring Overview stalwart and we continue to mature and continuously improve our that includes a proactive country-by-country annual risk integrated, global platform. assessment process, globalized whistleblower hotline, internal °° Ethics and Compliance investigations program and strict non-retaliation policy. Programs Through the recovering yet uncertain global economy of 2012, CBRE remained dedicated to our RISE values of Respect, Integrity, °° Internal Audit Programs, Service, and Excellence, and the reinforcing Ethics and Compliance Risk Identification and Assessment program that reinforces our commitment to achieving success in A Model of our Values – CBRE Healthcare Services the right way. Our leaders understand that maintaining a culture °° What Lies Ahead of ethics and compliance is essential to assuring and preserving Not only is the GCS team that the invaluable trust placed upon us by our clients. Building upon serves Baylor Health Care system a Governance the themes and achievements of prior years, we have continued living example of the RISE values, Health and Safety to implement our values across the globe, thereby establishing but they actively integrate ethics into their everyday activities. Communities and Giving a unified culture and minimizing the poor decisions that can Every week, the Baylor account ultimately put individual offices and the corporation-at large at leadership team on the Dallas People and Culture risk. Committed to continuous and incremental improvement, our campus spends about an hour discussing and debating ethical Global Reporting Index global compliance team built upon past successes while operating topics that are critical to ensuring best in class support to their customer. They review a case study contained within the newly as an integrated unit, thereby focusing and orienting on common updated SOBC and then break into small groups and debate compliance risk and ensuring that appropriate controls and appropriate actions or responses if this issue were to occur on processes are evenly distributed across our regions. their account. Then later in the week, each of the leaders has a follow on meeting with his or her team to review and discuss the With these goals in mind, our Ethics and Compliance program is case study. designed to reinforce CBRE’s RISE values and ensure compliance According to Ken Lawson, Senior Vice President of Operations on the with Company policies and the laws and regulations that apply Baylor Account, this activity is time very well spent. He sees it as a key leadership development tool and one that empowers his managers to us globally. This is accomplished through the execution of five and supervisors to make the right decisions in difficult situations. He general tenants of our program, including: believes that this also adds to the pride of the team, overall satisfaction and happiness of those working on the account, and has increased • clear policies on ethical wrong-doing and consistent procedures personal accountability. Most importantly, Mr. Lawson has noticed that related to follow-up and remediation; the client is more satisfied with the work performed by the CBRE team • regular communications and outreach from senior and trusts them to always do the right thing. This program is easily management focused on practical examples of how employees implementable, and the Baylor team would be happy to help promote their program elsewhere within the Company. can identify, avoid or report inappropriate behavior in all 38 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report regions in which we have business operations; Stakeholder Letter Ethics and Compliance About CBRE Group, Inc. 98% Ethics and Compliance Programs values and several specific About this Report A detailed description of our programs can be found in our previous reports. It is important to emphasize, however, that our policies (e.g., harassmentprevention, anti-bribery/ > Environmental Sustainability highest policy of the corporation, the CBRE Standards of Business corruption, confidentiality, Global employees completing Ethics and Compliance Conduct, was completely updated in English etc.). Employees are also annual ethics certification °° Ethics and Compliance Overview • Ethics and Compliance in 2011. Translations of the updated SOBC began in 2011, and by 2012, CBRE had translated the SOBC into 24 different 24 Language required to affirmatively report in the certification any suspected material wrongdoing of which they might be aware. For the fourth year in a row, over 98% of our 37,000 employees completed languages. Now, virtually all of our 37,000 translations the certification within the 45-day compliance period. Numerous Programs employees can read the SOBC in either their of Standard of instances of suspected wrongdoing were reported, but after Business Conduct thorough investigation the actual incidences of serious misconduct °° Internal Audit Programs, native or conversant language. Risk Identification and were small in number and impact. Ethics and Compliance Infrastructure Assessment For a program to be effective, have a lasting impact, and be Tone from the Top Communications: Regular monthly °° What Lies Ahead driven by a set of uniform global standards, the appropriate and quarterly publications set the tone at the top, including amount of people and resources are critical. Therefore, every “Compliance Corner” and “Ethics Examiner,” circulated to all Governance country where CBRE operates has a staff member responsible CBRE employees by the Chief Compliance Officer and/or other Health and Safety for ethics and compliance. As mentioned in the previous report, highly visible senior executives in the company. The reports Communities and Giving Ethics and Compliance is now led by a Senior Vice President, highlight material employee investigations and disciplinary with responsibilities separate from the General Counsel actions and inform employees on the wide range of aggressive People and Culture CBRE systems that detect wrongdoing, regardless of who is role, and accountability for facilitating an effective program Global Reporting Index globally. Each region within CBRE has a Regional Compliance involved. Officer responsible to the SVP for Ethics and Compliance. In 30days Core Legal, Ethics, and every country in which CBRE has an office, there is a Country Compliance Training: In Compliance Officer that reports to the Regional Compliance 2012, CBRE continued to Officer. The number of professionals committed to the program Standard new-hire antiroll out programs based on stayed consistent in 2012 and there are no plans to reduce corruption training timeframe core principles of distance personnel in the immediate future. learning. We facilitated anti-corruption training in all regions, and Policies, Training, and Communications continued to ensure all new employees complete several required CBRE has instituted a comprehensive menu of policies, education training programs within 30 days of hire. These programs include and communications programs to underscore the critical nature SOBC, Harassment Prevention/People and Culture Behavior, the of ethics and compliance in our business operations. These Employee Handbook with RISE values, and in targeted countries, 90% training programs, communications, and examples of new Anti-Corruption Training. policies include: While much of our anticorruption training occurs 39 CBRE 2012 Annual Certification: Through our annual global certification in-person, which challenges Non-U.S. employees receiving Corporate Responsibility Report process, our employees reaffirm their commitment to the RISE our ability to track exact targeted anti-corruption training Stakeholder Letter Ethics and Compliance About CBRE Group, Inc. numbers of employees trained, we estimate that more than 90% personal commitment to adhering to our anti-corruption policy About this Report of employees in countries outside of the United States targeted for in their daily activities; this training have completed it. • Proactive anti-corruption risk assessments conducted in selected Environmental Sustainability countries with the purpose of continuously strengthening and Ethics and Compliance Specialized Training Based on Risk Assessments: Additional improving controls; specialized programs were rolled out focusing on various aspects • Quarterly review and sign-off on anti-corruption financial °° Ethics and Compliance of ethics and compliance issues. Similar to years past, the Overview controls; and, programs were targeted to relevant employee audiences based • Periodic audits of the country-level anti-corruption controls • Ethics and Compliance on topic or need – in some cases reflecting issues identified in our and activities. Programs country risk assessments. Similar to 2011, CBRE did not have an identified circumstance in °° Internal Audit Programs, Anti-Corruption Programs 2012 which necessitated a voluntary or involuntary disclosure to Risk Identification and Regardless of our success in recent years in discouraging and the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) or Securities and Exchange Assessment preventing inappropriate payments or gifts and gratuities to Commission (SEC) based on potential violations of our internal Government Officials, CBRE has continued to tailor and improve °° What Lies Ahead anti-corruption policies. its anti-corruption program. In 2012, the Ethics & Compliance Governance team released further internal guidance, an Anti-Corruption U.S. Business Records Retention Health and Safety Manual, to its Country Compliance Officers to assist in the In 2012, CBRE created and implemented an effective business implementation of a consistent, effective program, regardless document retention process to reduce legal risk and the storage Communities and Giving of location. The Manual builds upon the guidance of our global costs associated with archiving unnecessary records. The People and Culture anti-corruption policy and standards, and is tailored for countryprocess was conducted in four phases. First, an assessment level compliance and programmatics. was conducted of all business records in the U.S. to determine Global Reporting Index whether business records were being appropriately retained and, In previous editions of this report we have described in detail ultimately, destroyed in accordance with our Records Retention our commitment to building aggressive policies, controls, audit Policy. Second, in concert with our enterprise storage vendor, we systems and training programs to prevent violations in this area. destroyed all business records that had been retained longer than Further implemented examples include but are not limited to: necessary for internal business activity or than legally required, 100% • The Global Anti-Corruption and were not subject to a preexisting litigation hold. Third, CBRE’s Policy, which is translated Records Retention process was revamped and simplified to ensure into at least 30 languages better consistency and retention in all offices throughout the and is applicable to all CBRE Employees to whom Global U.S. Lastly, CBRE implemented a web-based document retention Anti-Corruption Policy applies employees globally; platform to assist individual offices with accountability and • Mandatory anti-corruption training programs for employees compliance. In conjunction with Legal and Operations staff, Ethics in several targeted countries of operation, including new 120 and Compliance has effectively employees within the first 30 days of employment; trained over 120 local document • New employee requirements to provide a written sign-off to managers to the new process 40 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report comply with the company’s ethics and anti-corruption policies; all employee mandatory annual re-affirmations of their and platform, which will begin in 2013. Managers trained on document retention practices Stakeholder Letter Ethics and Compliance About CBRE Group, Inc. 28% Human Rights issues forward, which allows About this Report With approval and sponsorship from the most senior executives us to investigate and address in the company, in 2012 we developed and implemented a concerns in a more proactive Environmental Sustainability Increase in whistleblower global Human Rights Compliance Program. The cornerstone manner. We believe that our Ethics and Compliance reports over 2011 of the program is our Human Rights policy, in which CBRE success in this program is recognizes that it has a responsibility to respect human rights in attributable to our zero-tolerance policy on retaliation and to the °° Ethics and Compliance its operations, to promote an appropriate example, and to make Overview numerous communications and training programs that highlight a positive global impact. CBRE is dedicated to complying with the this channel for reporting misconduct. The percentage of people • Ethics and Compliance United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which self-identifying when reporting concerns, as opposed to remaining Programs includes such important topics as combating child labor and anonymous, has remained steady and at or above industry norms. human trafficking. We further commit to maintain a safe, secure, To us, this signals that our program is working and our employees °° Internal Audit Programs, Risk Identification and and inclusive workplace, free from prejudice and discrimination. feel safe and empowered to report misconduct. Assessment Lastly, CBRE is dedicated to being an ethical employer that provides fair work hours and wages and respects the rights Public Policy and Political Participation °° What Lies Ahead of employees to associate freely. We support this program by CBRE encourages our employees to be knowledgeable and active Governance incorporating human rights topics into our annual legal and in civic life, charitable endeavors and political affairs. We are compliance risk assessments, ensuring that our vendors adhere to proud to support the many employees who serve on countless local Health and Safety and regional boards of organizations working on public policy the same level of commitment, and communicating our program Communities and Giving to our employees. issues of importance to our business and the communities in which we live and work. It has long been our practice, however, that the People and Culture Whistleblower Hotline, Internal Investigations and company generally does not lobby on our own behalf or on issues Global Reporting Index Non-retaliation Policy of parochial interest to CBRE (or fund lobbying of) government CBRE continues to focus significant energy and resources on officials, or make financial or in-kind contributions to candidates, sustaining our internal avenues for reporting and investigating campaigns, ballot measures, political parties or political activities of suspected unethical or illegal activities. This includes a worldwide any kind in any country. anonymous reporting system that is available online and through $0 country-specific, toll-free phone numbers. Whether received While generally we have not through this system or via any of out other avenues of reporting taken positions on public misconduct, once an allegation of serious misconduct is logged policy in the past, in 2012 we continued involvement Company contribution to into the system, internal investigators are required to conduct political candidates, campaigns a prompt, thorough, consistent and unbiased investigation. in three notable areas. First, or other political entities Uniformity of process and outcomes in an investigation is achieved we participated in the policy by requiring our investigators to attend annual training and regular debate regarding effective solutions to climate change, particularly case peer-review meetings. those that will facilitate the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from buildings (which make up a substantial portion of the worlds’ The number of whistleblower reports continues to be robust, greenhouse gas emissions). This is a position we have taken since including a 28% increase in the number of reports from 2011. 41 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report This indicates to us that our employees are comfortable bringing 2007, and in 2012 we continued to participate in support of Environmental Sustainability. Stakeholder Letter Ethics and Compliance About CBRE Group, Inc. Second, CBRE continued to provide thought leadership at the Significant Fines and Legal Actions for NonAbout this Report request of several government agencies in the U.S. with direct compliance or Anti-competitive Behavior applicability to the business practices of the commercial real CBRE was not subjected to Environmental Sustainability significant fines or sanctions 0 estate industry. In keeping with our commitment to transparency, Ethics and Compliance all incidences of our participation were publicly disclosed and for non-compliance with the submitted. We anticipate our interest in participating in similar law in any country. No claims °° Ethics and Compliance of anti-competitive behavior or Overview proceedings will continue in 2013, and we will maintain our human rights violations were Anti-competitive behavior claims commitment to participate in policy debate in a transparent, °° Ethics and Compliance informed, respectful and responsible manner. filed against the company Human rights violations Programs in 2012, nor were there any Third, ongoing changes to state-level lobbying laws in the U.S. privacy or data loss claims. Privacy or data loss claims • Internal Audit Programs, have expanded the definition of lobbying to include certain clientRisk Identification and related tax incentive projects that previously were not considered What Lies Ahead Assessment lobbying. CBRE has taken a leadership role in the industry by (1) In 2013, we will implement a Global Anti-Corruption Toolkit to • What Lies Ahead implementing an aggressive compliance program in this area, provide best-practice tools at the country level and examples and (2) eliminating outcome-based compensation from our Governance in all areas of the anti-corruption program, to include clients which critics believe can have a corrosive impact on good trainings, country-level policies and procedures, and third-party Health and Safety government. assessments. Communities and Giving Internal Audit Programs, Risk Identification In response to the dynamic and constantly changing area of data People and Culture privacy, we will launch our first-ever global Data Privacy Program. In and Assessment Global Reporting Index Our Internal Audit group conducts planned and random reviews this multi-year project, we will assess our current, local data privacy of many of our business units to augment our compliance programs and create an enterprise program designed to comply with and archive our efforts adhering to the multiple types of data 10,000 programs. Internal Audit dedicates more than 10,000 hours each year privacy regulations throughout the globe. to financial internal control and In the U.S., we will conduct our bi-annual, mandatory antimanagement assessment related to Hours dedicated to harassment training. This training will be presented in a combination Sarbanes-Oxley. Sarbanes-Oxley auditing of in-person and on-line formats. Annual country-level legal and compliance risk assessments We will continue to facilitate all annual Ethics and Compliance were originally launched in 2009 and have continued annually activities, which include the Standards of Business Conduct ever since. The risk assessment process is embedded in annual Certifications, Global Communications and Trainings, and legal business plans, and owned and implemented by local and and compliance Risk Assessments in every country in which we do regional business leaders. In addition, risk assessment activities business. inform our allocation of resources to target and minimize identified compliance risk while improving the quality of service CBRE invites the cooperation and feedback of all of our stakeholders 42 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report we provide our clients, employees and other stakeholders. in continually improving our Ethics and Compliance program. Our Ethics Helpline is available to all stakeholders 24/7. Stakeholder Letter About CBRE Group, Inc. About this Report Environmental Sustainability Ethics and Compliance Governance °° Mission, Values, Principles and Codes of Conduct °° Governance Overview and Structure °° Managing Conflicts of Interest °° Enterprise Risk Management °° Governance Metrics and Stakeholder Engagement °° What Lies Ahead Health and Safety Communities and Giving People and Culture Global Reporting Index governance 43 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter governance About CBRE Group, Inc. A business governed by a strictly transaction mindset will realize Governance Overview and Structure About this Report only short-term and irregular success. At CBRE, we believe one Board of Directors of the reasons we have held our industry-leading position over The governance of CBRE is supervised by an 11-member Board Environmental Sustainability the long-run is because our clients recognize and appreciate of Directors, ten of whom are deemed independent, and the Ethics and Compliance our rigorous governance practices and the ethical principles that eleventh is our Chief Executive Officer, Robert E. Sulentic. This Governance permeate all aspects of our global operations. independence level far exceeds the majority standard established by our Corporate Governance Guidelines and the listing rules • Mission, Values, Mission, Values, Principles and Codes of Conduct of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). No director qualifies Principles and Codes as “independent” unless the Board affirmatively determines CBRE has established a mission and set of corporate values that, of Conduct that the director has no material relationship with CBRE or any together with our governance structure and ethical practices, • Governance Overview allow us to effectively serve our clients, shareholders and of our subsidiaries (either directly or as a partner, stockholder and Structure employees with integrity. The guidelines for ethical behavior in or officer of an organization that has a relationship with the our business operations are outlined in our Standards of Business firm). This is in accordance with standards established by the °° Managing Conflicts Conduct (SOBC), which include specific policies and codes NYSE. We have separated the roles of Chief Executive Officer of Interest related to appropriate behavior and good governance. Every and Chairperson of the Board since 2001 in recognition of the °° Enterprise Risk new employee is given a copy of the SOBC, and the document differences between the two roles. Our Board Chairperson, who Management is posted electronically to our intranet and public website, and is is independent of management, provides oversight and guidance available in more than 20 languages. to the Chief Executive Officer, sets the agenda for Board meetings °° Governance Metrics and presides over meetings of the 10of11 and Stakeholder We have also adopted: Engagement full Board. Our Board Chairperson A comprehensive Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers that leads meetings of the full Board and °° What Lies Ahead is intended to promote honest and ethical conduct and compliance executive sessions of the Board when Board members Health and Safety with the law, particularly as related to the company’s financial management is not present. deemed independent Communities and Giving record keeping and the preparation of financial statements. Board candidates are selected on the basis of outstanding People and Culture A rigorous Anti-Corruption Policy globally to help avoid violations achievement in their professional careers, broad experience, of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar non-U.S. personal and professional integrity, their ability to make Global Reporting Index independent and analytical inquiries, financial literacy, mature laws. Our non-U.S. employees receive a copy of this policy, which is also posted electronically to our intranet and public website. judgment, high performance standards, familiarity with our business and industry, and an ability to work collegially. In A rigorous Whistleblower Policy and anonymous reporting system for addition, the Board is interested in adding candidates who are our employees, vendors, consultants and other third parties to report acting operating executives (particularly chief executives of large suspected wrongdoing, with every report subject to investigation. public companies), or who have a strong technology background, and in either case, a passion for building a transformative business on a global basis. Other factors include having 44 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter governance About CBRE Group, Inc. members with international experience, including knowledge of Compensation Committee is responsible for overseeing the About this Report emerging markets and/or management of business operations management of risks relating to our compensation plans and and resources that are dispersed across a global platform, as well arrangements. The Audit Committee oversees management Environmental Sustainability as various and relevant career experience and technical skills, of risks related to our financial reports and record-keeping Ethics and Compliance and having a Board that is, as a whole, diverse. and potential conflicts of interest. The Governance Committee Governance manages risks associated with the independence of the Board of The Board’s work is partially accomplished through its Directors and the composition of our Board and its committees. °° Mission, Values, committees: Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance and The Board also receives regular reports from our Executive Risk Principles and Codes Nominating (Governance), Acquisition and Executive. The Audit, Committee (ERC) as to key risks for the company, as well as of Conduct Compensation and Governance committees are considered reports from the General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer key governance committees, and each member is independent • Governance Overview regarding litigation and compliance issues. Through committee under the standards referenced above, as well, in the case of and Structure and management reports, the Board determines whether our Audit Committee, under relevant rules of the U.S. Securities management is adequately focused on identifying and managing °° Managing Conflicts and Exchange Commission (SEC). At least one member of risks, and assesses the Board’s own oversight of risks associated of Interest the Board serving on the Audit Committee should have the with its governance and delegation decisions. qualifications and skills necessary to be considered an “Audit °° Enterprise Risk Board of Committee Financial Expert” under relevant SEC rules. We have Our Board retains responsibility Management determined that all four of our Audit Committee members qualify for the corporate responsibility °° Governance Metrics and Stakeholder Engagement as “Audit Committee Financial Experts” under the SEC rules. More information on the roles of our Board committees can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website and in our annual initiatives outlined in this report. Two key non-Board task forces have been set up to advance Directors Level of organization with proxy statements. Each year, our our goals in this area, one for which CR responsibility lies °° What Lies Ahead 100% Board and its key governance corporate responsibility generally, and the other specifically for Health and Safety committees conduct annual environmental sustainability, both of which are led by a member Communities and Giving performance self-assessments of executive management, who reports to our Chief Executive with the purpose of increasing Audit Committee members Officer and updates the Board on the programs periodically. People and Culture the effectiveness of the Board qualifying as Financial Global Reporting Index and its committees. Experts under SEC rules Executive Management CBRE employs executives who share our vision of sustainable The Board plays an active role, as a whole and also at the performance and our corporate RISE values. Aligning our executives’ committee level, in overseeing management of the company’s short-term goals and long-term vision with those of our shareholders risks. The Board engages with management to ensure the Board is a top priority. To achieve that goal, we reward executives for understands the material risks associated with the company’s annual and long-term business performance, based on either global strategy and operations, including business segment, reputation, or line-of-business financial performance, and strategic progress, credit, liquidity and compensation issues. The Board looks to its and the creation of stockholder value. Our compensation programs key governance committees to identify, report on and manage are more fully described in our annual proxy statements. 45 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report risks relevant to their areas of competency. The company’s Stakeholder Letter governance About CBRE Group, Inc. Managing Conflicts of Interest comprised of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, About this Report CBRE is the largest commercial real estate services provider in the Chief Operating Officer, Chief Administrative Officer, President— world. As a result, there may be times when conflicts of interest Americas, General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer, Chief Environmental Sustainability arise. Through the firm’s policies, education and oversight efforts, Risk Officer, and Senior Vice President–Corporate Strategy. For Ethics and Compliance we proactively manage such conflicts in full accordance with the the most significant risks, “risk owners” are assigned and are Governance law, our Standards of Business Conduct and our RISE values. In responsible for implementing CBRE’s risk analysis, response 2012, we implemented a comprehensive, new global conflicts of and reporting tools for the applicable risk. Quarterly updates °° Mission, Values, interest framework in clear and concise language that will help for each of these significant risks are then provided to the ERC. Principles and Codes guide our employees through conflict issues that may come up This process is proving to be best practice in the industry and of Conduct in their activities. This revised policy manifests our commitment enhances our ability to identify and manage risk for our company. °° Governance Overview to put the client first by conducting our business with the highest In addition, as part of the ERM process, we have a policy to and Structure ethical standards, and to comply fully with all of our legal and address when and how our formal risk management process and regulatory obligations. • Managing Conflicts ERC should be triggered for new, expanded or changed business of Interest At the Board level, our directors must report any potential conflicts opportunities or significant transactions. Under the policy, of interest with, or corporate opportunities available to, the certain events and/or business activities trigger the escalation of • Enterprise Risk company. When a potential direct conflict of interest or corporate risk information to the ERC so that appropriate activities (e.g. Management opportunity situation arises, it is reviewed, and approved mitigation, exploitation, etc.) can be taken and the management • Governance Metrics or rejected by our independent Audit Committee. For more approval process can be enhanced. and Stakeholder information on our conflict management system at the employee Engagement level, see the “Ethics and Compliance” section of this report. Governance Metrics and Stakeholder Engagement °° What Lies Ahead CBRE seeks full transparency in its public disclosures and strives Health and Safety Enterprise Risk Management to demonstrate a strong standard of governance relative to our We have adopted an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process industry. ISS, one of the major institutional proxy advisors and Communities and Giving to identify, assess, respond and monitor the most significant a division of MSCI, Inc., rated public companies based on a People and Culture strategic, operational, financial and compliance risks to the corporate governance grid prior to 2013. This grid ranking was organization. Annually, senior leaders across the organization are based on a number of factors and was relative to the indices in Global Reporting Index interviewed by a Chief Risk Officer and/or head of Internal Audit which ISS places the company. During 2012, the company was regarding these risks based on a standard Business Risk Inventory ranked as follows on the ISS grid: developed and maintained by our Global Risk Management Board Low Risk group, with input from internal 9 Audit Low Risk and external sources. These risks Compensation Low Risk are aggregated and the ERC Shareholder Rights Low Risk assesses them against commonly Number of CBRE SENIOR accepted prioritization criteria (i.e., EXECUTIVES SERVING ON OUR In 2013, ISS developed a new ranking format that is numerical impact, likelihood, etc.). The ERC is EXECUTIVE RISK COMMITTEE 46 CBRE 2012 and provides an overall scale of 1-10, with higher risk associated Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter governance About CBRE Group, Inc. 4 with higher numbers, based on subcomponent We have also begun an internal assessment to better understand About this Report scores in categories similar to that used with where we are already active in stakeholder engagement. For ISS’ prior grid approach: Board Structure, example, we regularly solicit input from our employees on Environmental Sustainability CBRE’s ISS Audit, Compensation and Shareholder Rights. how well-informed they feel they are based on company Ethics and Compliance risk ranking We earned an overall numerical score of 4 as communications, and what types of communications they prefer. Governance of March 2013. Our rankings reflect, in our view, the continued We periodically conduct surveys of our employees on work emphasis we place on strong governance practices. conditions and employee satisfactions. We also surveyed our °° Mission, Values, employees globally in 2011 to assess the health of our ethics and Principles and Codes When formulating governance policies, the Board regularly compliance programs. The survey was designed to help both of Conduct monitors the analysis of ISS, given its role as a prominent CBRE leadership and employees better understand key areas governance-activist advisor to numerous institutional shareholder of our culture such as openness of communication, tone at the °° Governance Overview interests, as well as other shareholder advisory firms and large and Structure top and comfort in speaking up. We intend to repeat this survey shareholders themselves. periodically. °° Managing Conflicts of Interest CBRE has not implemented a formalized process for Except for Works Councils in certain European countries, we do systematically gathering the views of outside stakeholders on not otherwise have organized employee councils. Our employees °° Enterprise Risk governance matters. However, in addition to the ISS ratings are always encouraged to communicate directly and informally Management noted above, we engage in dialogue with current and potential with management and are given multiple avenues to do so • Governance Metrics investors, creditors, clients and peer companies to gather without fear of retaliation, including by filing anonymous reports and Stakeholder feedback regarding our governance practices and other issues through the CBRE Ethics HelpLine, which is managed by an Engagement of importance to shareholders. For example, our Chief Financial independent third-party provider. Officer meets with various institutional investors to discuss our °° What Lies Ahead 6 performance during the prior quarter and any concerns or issues We believe that shareholders are Health and Safety these shareholders would like to address. We have found this to very satisfied with the performance be a meaningful method to learn what issues are of immediate of our Board in governing the Communities and Giving Consecutive years in which concern to our shareholders, and also the general trends in the company. All standing directors People and Culture minds of these shareholders. have been re-elected each year ALL CBRE directors have been approved by at least 93% of Global Reporting Index since 2007 by at least 93.0% of shareholders In addition, from time to time shareholders engage us in dialogue votes from shareholders voting over specific issues of importance to them as part of our annual at our annual meetings. In addition, our shareholders have meeting process, as occurred in 2011 with a couple of our indicated their approval of our 2011 executive compensation shareholders regarding sustainability issues. As a result of these practices by approving an advisory resolution on named executive discussions, we identified an appropriate policy organization in officer compensation by a vote of 93.9%. Our shareholders which we could participate to further our interests in sustainability. are given an advisory opportunity each year to indicate Ongoing dialogue with shareholders relative to their specific their approval/disapproval on our named executive officer policy interests is an important avenue for us to understand compensation, and they will have a similar vote at our 2012 issues of concern to our shareholders and to determine, where 47 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report appropriate, how to calibrate our activities. annual meeting, which we will address in next year’s report. Stakeholder Letter governance About CBRE Group, Inc. Shareholders, employees and other interested stakeholders with and assessing stakeholder engagement on a go-forward About this Report concerns or recommendations are encouraged to contact our basis, along with a reporting mechanism that allows our senior Board or any of its committees. Information on how to contact executives better insight into how we capture and consider the Environmental Sustainability our Board/committees is posted in the Corporate Governance views expressed by our stakeholders through the engagement Ethics and Compliance section under the Investor Relations section of our website and is process. We will provide an update on these efforts in next year’s Governance provided in our annual proxy statement. report. °° Mission, Values, What Lies Ahead CBRE has flourished by adhering to the highest ethical standards Principles and Codes and reinforcing them in everything we do. We intend to continue In 2012, we began a process of assessing our ongoing efforts at of Conduct this path while always being open to opportunities to refine and stakeholder engagement. We created a team to survey our lines improve our policies and practices. We know that our leadership °° Governance Overview of business and support groups globally as to engagement they can only be maintained by keeping our corporate values— and Structure may be involved in with shareholders, employees, labor groups, respect, integrity, service and excellence—at the heart of our trade organizations, NGOs, advocacy groups, etc. This same °° Managing Conflicts team will recommend an organized structure for coordinating governance practices. of Interest °° Enterprise Risk Management °° Governance Metrics and Stakeholder Engagement • What Lies Ahead Health and Safety Communities and Giving People and Culture Global Reporting Index 48 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter About CBRE Group, Inc. About this Report Environmental Sustainability Ethics and Compliance Governance Health and Safety °° Health and Safety Overview 2012 °° Injury and Illness Performance °° Notices of Non-Compliance °° Health and Safety Awards and Recognition °° Health and Safety Training °° What Lies Ahead Communities and Giving People and Culture Global Reporting Index health and safety 49 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter health and safety About CBRE Group, Inc. About this Report Health and Safety Overview 2012 It is CBRE’s ongoing commitment to health and safety as part At the heart of our health and safety mission Environmental Sustainability of its integrated, responsible business practices, which underlie is protecting our employees who support our Ethics and Compliance our year-over-year safety improvement, and exceed the industry clients. CBRE’s profound duty to provide our standards by a significant margin. In 2012 CBRE stayed the Governance steady course of safety process improvement and saw our best employees with a work environment that is safe, Health and Safety year, building on the previous five years of health and safety and eliminates or reduces the risk relative to the • Health and Safety platform refinement, a growing global community of health and safety professionals within the company, and culture that is more tasks they perform, is what our health and safety Overview 2012 defined and integrated into the company’s fabric than ever. platform is all about. • Injury and Illness CBRE’s global health and safety results are indicative of a high D. Tim Carter, Vice President, Global HSE Performance level of management engagement and leadership throughout safety network conference calls; our attendance and active the organization, supported by a global team of health and °° Notices of participation has never been better, and the information we are Non-Compliance safety professionals. The deliberate approach we take when able to disseminate through these calls has helped us communicate refining our processes, procedures and systems helps us be better important information farther and faster. Performance metrics, °° Health and positioned for a future where the health and safety requirements Safety Awards lessons learned, safety recalls, best practices, and direct sharing of and expectations of our clients, regulators and valued employees and Recognition incidents and near-miss events are among the critical information will challenge us to find new and more effective ways to improve; we share through this network process. While health and safety °° Health and and we will. performance is generally focused on injury and illness rates, we Safety Training choose that and more in our performance measurement process. In 2012 CBRE amassed more employee hours worked than ever °° What Lies Ahead before, yet our rates of incident and injury declined. However, we Measuring the safety results associated with certain activities has know we could have done better, and applied our findings and been enlightening and challenging, exposing issues that weren’t Communities and Giving lessons learned to our strategies for improving our health and readily recognizable, and seeking solutions that aren’t immediately People and Culture safety performance in 2013. known. Our emphasis on ladder safety, electrical safety, incidents related to falls, and vehicle safety (fleet drivers) have challenged Global Reporting Index us to develop better training, safe work procedures, and become Injury and Illness Performance more deliberate in our work planning. While these areas still At CBRE our commitment to health and safety is part of our challenge us, they are improving. greater commitment to responsible, ethical and compliant business practices. After hiring the best, we invest in their longTwo industry standards for measuring safety performance are the term safety with a balanced safety training program and follow Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) and the Lost Workday Case it with appropriate refreshers. We further that commitment by Rate. In the U.S. where vast 46% encouraging employees at all levels of the organization to provide majority of our “self delivery” of feedback and advice on health and safety matters, as we believe outsourced services is provided, that a process without feedback is not a process that can effectively and where the vast majority of Accounts and managed 50 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report improve. A positive upstream indicator of our safety engagement is the growing level of participation in our monthly health and occupational hazard exposure is the greatest, CBRE experienced a locations without recordable injury in 2012 Stakeholder Letter health and safety About CBRE Group, Inc. #1 lower (better) rate of injury in each of these measures as compared continues to outperform the About this Report to both our 2012 performance goals and our performance in commercial real estate industry these categories over the previous three years. We believe that this in general by a wide margin. Environmental Sustainability CBRE’s safety ranking against is indicative that our purposeful and deliberate approach to injury The safety performance of Ethics and Compliance other U.S. commercial real prevention is effective and improving. In the U.S. alone, 46% of our our Facilities Management estate firms Governance accounts and managed locations did not have a recordable injury group in the U.S. was nearly during the past year, and 28% of our accounts and managed three times better than the U.S. National Average for FM, and Health and Safety locations currently have a combined total of 5,893,000 safe work our Asset Services group was more than three and a half times hours since their last recordable injury event. Twenty-one of our better than the U.S. National Average for AS. Collectively, CBRE in °° Health and Safety 5.1million Overview 2012 accounts (18%) and managed the U.S. was 3.7 times better than the U.S. National Average for locations have worked injury free commercial real estate companies, and globally we were more °° Injury and Illness for the last five consecutive years than five and a half times better than the U.S. National Average. Performance for a total of over 5.1 million injury Injury-free worker hours across 21 accounts For CBRE, it is even more notable our global injury rate was lower • Notices of free worker hours. in 2012 at the time the number of exposure hours increased Non-Compliance CBRE Injury Performance Compared to U.S. BLS Data significantly; 6% more exposure hours but an 8% lower rate °° Health and of injuries. We are pleased that our injury rates are steadily Safety Awards 4.0 improving, but we are not satisfied since there is still much and Recognition 3.5 opportunity for improvement. °° Health and 3.0 Safety Training Notices of Non-Compliance 2.5 In 2012, there were three instances where a regulatory inspection °° What Lies Ahead TRIR 2.0 was conducted and resulted in the issuance of one or more citations. Communities and Giving 1.5 Inspection #1 People and Culture 3 1.0 In July 2012, an incident occurred Global Reporting Index 0.5 in the state of New Jersey in which a CBRE maintenance 0.0 technician was accidentally Instances of non-compliance $10,550 shocked while working on a CBRE U CBRE CA . .S CBRE ADA N EME CBRE A lighting circuit. While the circuit CBRE AC AP L Pro CBRE AC jec t M Glob an ag l a Co D mm evel nt em e had been de-energized, it was erc ial men Re op ale t Bro te As rage kesta set Se not effectively locked-out and was Total 2012 penalties issued Fa rvice cili ty Ma s int 100% Source: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (US-BLS) accidentally energized by another worker. The employee was not The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) provides the best injured, and was medically 51 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report available benchmark for a comparative average with which to assess our global performance based on the TRIR. CBRE evaluated and released back to work. The Occupational Safety Non-compliance issues PROMPTLY corrected Stakeholder Letter health and safety About CBRE Group, Inc. and Health Administration (OSHA) became aware of the event Health and Safety Awards and Recognition About this Report and conducted a workplace inspection. They cited CBRE for CBRE was once again the recipient of several awards from the failure to have in place an effective hazardous energy control prestigious Royal Society of Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA), in Environmental Sustainability process. A citation (classified as serious) with a penalty of $3,700 the UK. CBRE was awarded a total of 11 awards in 2012, and Ethics and Compliance was issued. CBRE did not contest the citation and did correct the four of those awards were the prestigious Gold Medal Award. The Governance violation to the satisfaction of the regulatory inspector. Gold Medal Award is awarded to companies who achieve Gold Medals for at least five consecutive years. This was CBRE’s eighth Health and Safety INSPECTION #2 consecutive year receiving In August 2012, an inspection by OSHA was conducted at a 11 °° Health and Safety property managed by CBRE in the state of Texas. The inspection this distinction and its first Overview 2012 to receive four Gold Medal was initiated as a result of an anonymous complaint to OSHA Awards in one year. CBRE also °° Injury and Illness from a tenant employee in the facility (not a CBRE employee). The received five Gold Awards and 2012 Royal Society of Performance inspection (relative to the complaint) identified some electrical Prevention of Accidents awards two Silver Awards for 2012. • Notices of deficiencies related to some of the permanent electrical installations 8 RoSPA Awards recognize Non-Compliance in the facility. At issue were the discovery of uncovered openings in companies for developing an electrical panel and a junction box and some circuit disconnects a strong safety culture and • Health and that were not legibly marked. Three citations were issued, two demonstrating a socially Consecutive years RoSPA Safety Awards classified as serious, and one classified other than serious, for a responsible attitude. has recognized CBRE and Recognition combined penalty amount of $6,600. CBRE did not agree with • Health and the findings and the citations as issued, but a formal contest of Health and Safety Training Safety Training the citations was not pursued. The deficiencies were corrected Health and safety training is a particularly important component of immediately to the satisfaction of the regulatory inspector. °° What Lies Ahead an effective health and safety platform; a culture of excellence and Inspection #3 continual improvement cannot flourish without it. Our health and Communities and Giving In October 2012, CBRE was cited by the Department of Labor and safety training approach is not new, but in 2012 it was enhanced People and Culture Industries (L&I) in the state of Washington. The citation resulted and further utilized to support both general training and refresher Global Reporting Index from an earlier general inspection at a property managed by CBRE training topics and also address specific subject matter relative where the L&I compliance officer noted the presence of asbestos to incidents and trends that have been identified through our containing materials (ACM) on the roof of the facility. It was L&I’s performance measurement process and employee feedback. In the contention that CBRE did not adequately inform the vendors and U.S. alone, where most of our “self delivery” of services is provided, service providers accessing the roof of the presence of the ACM. nearly 6,200 of our employees utilized CBRE’s online training CBRE did not agree with the finding and the citation, as issued, but platform for health and safety training through CBRE Foundations. a formal contest was not made. The citation issued was classified This is not the only health and safety training that we deliver through other than serious for a penalty amount of $250. The deficiency the course of a year as there are significant hours of training related was corrected to the satisfaction of the regulatory inspector. to site and client specific health and safety requirements, training that is unique to a particular task, and training that results from There were no other notices of violation or penalties imposed 52 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report against CBRE relative to health and safety in 2012. lessons learned due to incident or near-miss; all of these equate to thousands of hours of training for our employees. Stakeholder Letter health and safety About CBRE Group, Inc. 6,200 It is very difficult to quantify In the U.S., the health and safety management system is also being About this Report the volume of training expanded to include a tiered ranking of our accounts and managed activity conducted globally properties to both drive and acknowledge excellent performance, Environmental Sustainability Global employees receiving online since there are so many program improvement, and sustainable performance through what Ethics and Compliance different actions that result health and safety training we will refer to as the Star Program for Excellence in HSE (health, Governance in training in varying degrees. General safety training programs, safety, and environment). Through this process our management employee safety orientation, hazard recognition training, weekly teams will be challenged to not only improve their performance year Health and Safety and monthly safety meetings, safe work planning and instruction, over year, but reach a level of excellence and sustain it. and formal training on more complex issues are performed °° Health and Safety Our other global health and safety team members are pursuing Overview 2012 routinely, involving thousands of employees and thousands of initiatives relative to their regions and their exposures as well, and hours in training. °° Injury and Illness we expect to see more platform development and health and safety Performance By way of transparent reporting, CBRE does not have a formal resource deployment into Latin America in 2013. joint management-worker health and safety committee, nor do °° Notices of we have any formal trade union agreements that cover health In 2013 CBRE will be working with its insurance partners and others Non-Compliance to find better methods of keeping injured employees productive and and safety topics. °° Health and working in a manner that more effectively minimizes the negative Safety Awards What Lies Ahead impacts of being injured. and Recognition 2013 will challenge us to find the next level of excellence in our The health and safety platform in CBRE is more defined and more • Health and performance and require us to expand and refine our health and effective than it has ever been, and the global consistency we have Safety Training safety management process. A significant portion of maintenance created signifies that we have a cultural value for this important technicians utilize a service vehicle, which adds another dimension process and practice. Beyond performance metrics and awards, and • What Lies Ahead to their health and safety exposure; vehicle safety. An initiative that greater than the strength or quality of our programs and processes Communities and Giving began in 2012 to establish a more rigorous fleet safety program, is the fact that our work environments are safer today than they have People and Culture and give our fleet vehicle drivers better training and support will been before. begin to take form and function throughout 2013 as we take a very Global Reporting Index proactive and deliberate step in this regard. We continue to enhance our overall approach with a greater attention to driving safety. Driving is a growing component of our Our health and safety management systems are rapidly developing business activity and so we are deliberately growing this aspect of throughout our global platform. In the EMEA region our health and our program. We added a dedicated Corporate Fleet Vehicle Driving safety platform is moving in a direction that will support more OSAS Safety Program Manager to our platform of safety professionals to 18001 certifications across multiple countries and clients. spearhead the initiative and give it the focus it needs to enable the results we expect. Defensive driving is a controllable skill set which In Canada, an initiative that began in 2012 to bring more formal is expected of all our drivers and so we’ve made the investment in a structure and achieve greater health and safety excellence will set of cutting-edge tools to ensure our drivers are safely sharing the continue with even more emphasis and resource commitment. While road with others and performing at the CBRE standard of excellence. 53 CBRE 2012 it mirrors the health and safety system in the U.S. in many ways, the Corporate Responsibility Report health and safety system in Canada is now fashioned to address the regulatory needs in Canada more effectively and appropriately. Stakeholder Letter About CBRE Group, Inc. About this Report Environmental Sustainability Ethics and Compliance Governance Health and Safety Communities and Giving °° Communities and Giving Overview °° Americas °° EMEA °° Asia Pacific °° What Lies Ahead °° Selection of Organizations Supported By CBRE and Its Employees in 2012 People and Culture Global Reporting Index COMMUNITIES AND GIVING 54 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter COMMUNITIES AND GIVING About CBRE Group, Inc. At CBRE, we approach our commitment to community service Disaster relief has always been at the core of About this Report and philanthropy with the same enthusiasm and creativity as CBRE’s charitable agenda. To further its support we approach our business. Our professionals are dedicated to of victims of natural disasters around the Environmental Sustainability bettering the communities where they live and work, and we world, CBRE formed the CBRE Disaster Relief Ethics and Compliance continue, as a firm, to build on that passion for assisting those in Foundation in late 2012. The CBRE Disaster Governance need, all over the world. Relief Foundation, acting in tandem with the CBRE Foundation and CBRE Cares, was created Health and Safety b u i l d i n g o n to enable CBRE to provide financial assistance Communities and Giving Overview compassion $6.7million Communities and Giving Inherent in CBRE’s position as and support in the immediate aftermath of a the industry’s top firm is the major natural disaster anywhere in the world. The Foundation is • Communities and designed to match employee contributions and promptly distribute responsibility to engage our Giving Overview resources and professionals 2012 total employee and the funds through a network of pre-approved organizations that °° Americas around the world to better CBRE charitable donations focus on disaster relief and rebuilding communities in need. In 583 our communities. As such, addition, the Foundation—which will operate globally once it °° EMEA becomes fully operational in mid-2013—will enable employees community service and °° Asia Pacific volunteerism remains at the around the world to aid CBRE colleagues who have suffered a Organizations supported catastrophic loss as a result of a natural disaster by providing °° What Lies Ahead forefront of our corporate by CBRE in 2012 accountability agenda. Since financial assistance via a grant process. °° Selection of Organizations the CBRE Foundation assumed the governance and execution $151,265 Supported By CBRE and Its Within weeks of its of CBRE Cares—CBRE’s corporate Communities and Giving Employees in 2012 establishment, the program in the U.S.—six years ago, the company’s charitable CBRE Disaster Relief People and Culture initiatives has been transformed from scattered, grassroots efforts Employee and Disaster Relief Foundation swung into Global Reporting Index to a cohesive program aligned with our business. But one element Fund contributions to action to aid the victims has remained unchanged: the charitable spirit and enthusiasm Superstorm Sandy victims of Superstorm Sandy. for service from our employees. Despite the uncertain global In the immediate aftermath of the storm, CBRE’s executive economic environment of 2012, CBRE continued to honor its leadership in the U.S. launched a nationwide internal fundraising charitable commitments to organizations and individuals in need campaign, encouraging employees to give what they could of assistance and financial support. In addition to donations-invia the Foundation’s website. With a matching grant from kind, CBRE and our employees globally donated a total of $6.7 the CBRE Disaster Relief Foundation, employee contributions million in 2012. The CBRE Foundation supplemented employee totaled $151,265. A significant portion of the proceeds of the donations via its matching-funds program, and continued to offer campaign were then distributed as emergency funds to those employees paid time off for their participation in certain volunteer employees who had suffered devastating losses as a result of the opportunities. At CBRE, we recognize that supporting the personal storm through the grant process. Funds were also distributed to charitable endeavors of our employees increases morale, aids the American Red Cross, Rebuilding Together and Habitat for talent retention, contributes to overall job satisfaction and, most Humanity. 55 CBRE 2012 importantly, fosters a healthy work-life balance. Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter COMMUNITIES AND GIVING 6 About CBRE Group, Inc. In recognition of CBRE’s commitment Americas About this Report to philanthropy and community service, United States CBRE was one of only 13 companies CBRE Cares Environmental Sustainability Consecutive years on 75% named to the prestigious 2013 the Companies that With oversight from the CBRE Ethics and Compliance Companies That Care Honor Roll by Care Honor Roll Foundation—an independent, Governance the Center for Companies That Care, non-profit, public-benefit a U.S. non-profit dedicated to social sustainability by engaging corporation that funds the CBRE Cares funds returned Health and Safety employers in improving the lives of employees, families and to local market causes company’s charitable initiatives— Communities and Giving communities. Notably, this was the sixth consecutive year that CBRE Cares serves as a platform to advance the philanthropic CBRE was named to the list. efforts of our employees through community outreach and • Communities and Giving Overview support, disaster-response, and locally driven, nationally In addition, CBRE won the first-ever PR Daily Corporate sanctioned programs. Social Responsibility Award in the Best Corporate-Community • Americas Partnership category for our community outreach efforts related In the U.S., CBRE continued to empower local offices to make °° EMEA to our Shelter Program. The award, which was bestowed by charitable-giving decisions by returning 75% of all funds raised Ragan’s PR Daily, one of the most influential publications within °° Asia Pacific through the CBRE Cares annual campaign to our client account the public relations sector, recognizes corporate-community teams and local offices to be allocated to the causes of their °° What Lies Ahead efforts and companies that have formed a partnership that choosing. Our professionals made the most of this opportunity, °° Selection of Organizations benefited both sides. and in 2012 donated volunteer hours and funds to more than Supported By CBRE and Its Employees in 2012 People and Culture CBRE Donates Equivalent of 23,000 Pairs of Shoes During Soles4Souls Drive in U.S. Global Reporting Index 15,330 pairs of shoes, more than double the number collected in 2011. Additionally, CBRE Cares also donated $7,668 to the international charity, allowing Soles4Souls to provide an additional 7,668 pairs of shoes to children and adults in need around the world. Notably, this was Soles4Souls’ most successful internal company-wide shoe drive ever. “We deeply appreciate this commitment by CBRE and its employees. From our experiences Building on the success of the 2011 initiative, efforts to eradicate poverty, on the large-scale over the past seven years, we are certain that CBRE Cares and CBRE sustainability group the collaborative effort. the campaign will result in inspiring personal Eco Knights held their second annual National stories from individuals who have witnessed One-hundred-nine CBRE locations participated Shoe Drive Collection in late 2012. CBRE again transformation among their families and in the nationwide effort—including 57 CBRE partnered with Soles4Souls, a Nashville-based communities.” offices, 14 affiliate offices and 38 CBRE56 CBRE 2012 charity that collects shoes to benefit victims of managed properties—collecting more than – Keith Woodley, Chief Development Officer, Soles4Souls Corporate Responsibility Report abject suffering and to support micro-business Stakeholder Letter COMMUNITIES AND GIVING About CBRE Group, Inc. 583 different groups—more than ever before (see “Selection of addition, CBRE continued to incorporate large-scale rebuilding About this Report Organizations Supported By CBRE and Its Employees in 2012”). projects into the programming for national conferences and corporate initiatives, bridging geographies and business lines— Environmental Sustainability In 2012, CBRE’s U.S. corporate and employee donations totaled and offering opportunities for networking in the process. In May Ethics and Compliance $5.4 million. This included $1.3 million of employee contributions 2012, more than 175 employees participating in CBRE’s annual to the CBRE Cares 2012 annual campaign and the associated Governance Women’s Networking Forum in Chicago, Illinois, refurbished the match by the CBRE Foundation. Not included in this total are South Central Day Treatment School on Chicago’s South Side. Health and Safety in-kind donations, such as the 15,335 pairs of shoes CBRE In addition, CBRE once again sponsored and participated in employees donated via a nationwide collection effort. (See “CBRE Communities and Giving Rebuilding Together’s Kickoff to Rebuild event which is held in Donates Equivalent of 23,000 Pairs of Shoes During Soles4Souls the Super Bowl host city in the week preceding the big game. As °° Communities and Drive in U.S.”). part of the event, CBRE employees worked alongside hundreds of Giving Overview other volunteers to perform renovations on 10 homes owned by Established in 2010 in partnership with national housing • Americas nonprofits Rebuilding Together and HomeAid, CBRE’s Shelter low-income families in New Orleans’ Algiers neighborhood. °° EMEA Program has emerged as the flagship program for CBRE Cares in the U.S. The program is designed to help improve housing °° Asia Pacific options for individuals in need, and allows our professionals to BuildMonth 2012 °° What Lies Ahead build on their leadership skills to deliver measurable results in their communities. Since its inception, more than 3,750 CBRE In September and October °° Selection of Organizations employees have donated nearly 26,800 hours of service through 2012, more than 750 Supported By CBRE and Its CBRE employees in 17 the program, participating in more than 65 housing rebuilding Employees in 2012 offices across the U.S. took projects across the U.S. part in CBRE’s third-annual People and Culture “Get Out and Give Back” In 2012, the Shelter Program continued its strong growth. Taken BuildMonth campaign, the Global Reporting Index alone, the third-annual “Get Out and Give Back” BuildMonth signature event of CBRE 3,750 in fall of 2012 saw more than Cares’ Shelter Program. During the fall campaign, 750 employees take part in 17 CBRE employees helped rebuilding projects at homeless renovate and refurbish shelters, transitional housing Employees participating in private homes, homeless facilities and private homes. In CBRE’s Shelter Program shelters and other facilities across the U.S. in tandem with CBRE Shelter Program partners Rebuilding Together and HomeAid, as well 26,800 as Habitat for Humanity. Notable BuildMonth 2012 projects included the renovation of the Clean South Dallas Community Center by more than 100 CBRE Service hours donated employees in Dallas, Texas; the rehabilitation of two homes in Los 65 Angeles, California, by 35 CBRE Global Investors employees in partnership with Habitat for Humanity; and repairs to an Orlando, Florida, home that had been severely damaged by Hurricanes 57 CBRE 2012 Charley, Frances and Jeanne in 2004. Corporate Responsibility Report Housing projects rebuilt Stakeholder Letter COMMUNITIES AND GIVING About CBRE Group, Inc. In early 2013, CBRE Cares launched a new weekly column, EMEA About this Report titled “CBRE Cares,” that highlights charitable initiatives by local 2012 marked the second year of CBRE’s EMEA-wide charity offices across the U.S. The column is prominently featured on the program, which combines a region-wide charity partnership with Environmental Sustainability homepage of the Navigator, the company’s intranet, as well as UNICEF— the world’s leading children’s rights non-governmental Ethics and Compliance $794,000 in CBRE Today, a weekly email distributed to all CBRE personnel organization—with proactive Governance in the U.S. The column, which replaces a monthly newsletter, local country charity initiatives. has significantly increased the level of exposure of CBRE’s The program focuses on Health and Safety philanthropic activities among U.S. employees. children’s rights, education EMEA employee Communities and Giving and the environment, reflecting charitable donations U.S. employees continued to support CBRE’s signature Birthday °° Communities and Cakes and More for Homeless Children Program, a grassroots Giving Overview initiative in which volunteers deliver personalized cakes to homeless CBRE Offices in EMEA Turn Blue for UNICEF children to help them celebrate their birthdays. In 2012, 1,236 • Americas cakes were delivered to children nationwide. Since its inception in • EMEA 2001, the program has served thousands 1,236 of birthday cakes to children in more °° Asia Pacific than 79 shelters in 54 cities. The program °° What Lies Ahead also offers supplemental support through °° Selection of Organizations school-supply donations, holiday parties, Cakes delivered to Supported By CBRE and Its clothing drives and more. homeless children Employees in 2012 Led by CBRE’s senior executive leadership in EMEA, more than Lastly, as part of CBRE University’s Foundations Program, 5,500 EMEA employees wore blue items of clothing—business wear People and Culture professionals in the first two years of their real estate careers were or otherwise—for one day as part of “C-Blue Day.” Thirty CBRE offices in EMEA turned CBRE’s green brand into UNICEF’s corporate Global Reporting Index introduced to CBRE Cares and its programs, and were strongly blue color on Tuesday, December 11, 2012—the same day as encouraged to embrace the emphasis on community engagement UNICEF’s 66th anniversary. As part of the region-wide initiative, inherent in the CBRE culture. the headquarters offices for EMEA, the U.K. and the Netherlands rolled out blue carpets for the day in their entrance halls, and Canada senior executives and staff across the region—including members of the EMEA Board—showed their support by wearing blue wigs. In The generosity of CBRE’s employees and private donors was on addition, CBRE’s websites, intranets and social media channels in full display in Canada in 2012, with total contributions topping EMEA also displayed customized blue branding for the day. $174,000. A variety of creative fundraising efforts were held The fundraising day also coincided with CBRE’s annual EMEA press in support of organizations such as the United Way, Juvenile lunch in London, where more than 60 members of the press showed Diabetes Research Foundation, Parkinson Society Canada, their support by taking part in a fundraising auction. The campaign engaged EMEA’s Charity Champions—CBRE professionals who Huntington Society of Canada and several research hospitals. lead charity activity in each office—to coordinate local office activity Canada’s corporate giving strategy involves supporting the which raised awareness of CBRE’s life-saving work with UNICEF, causes and initiatives most important to—and spearheaded by— and generated $26,000 in staff donations for the CBRE-UNICEF both employees and our clients. program in Madagascar. 58 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter COMMUNITIES AND GIVING About CBRE Group, Inc. 30 About this Report CBRE’s overall commitments February 2012, employees were to sustainable and responsible encouraged to donate one hour of Environmental Sustainability business practices. As part of their salary to help “build a school Ethics and Compliance the program—which unites in an hour,” while on December EMEA offices participating in UNICEF C-Blue Day owned CBRE offices spread 11, 2012—in conjunction with Governance across 30 countries—CBRE UNICEF’s 66th anniversary—CBRE offices hosted “C-Blue Day,” Health and Safety supports UNICEF’s innovative turning 30 EMEA offices (and CBRE’s award-winning green Climate Positive program, which aims to mitigate the devastating brand) to UNICEF’s corporate blue color for one day to raise Communities and Giving effects of climate change on children in Africa. funds and awareness. Combined, the two events raised more °° Communities and than $78,000 for UNICEF (See “CBRE offices in EMEA Turn Blue Giving Overview In 2012, CBRE’s EMEA region—comprised of offices in Europe for UNICEF”). the Middle East and Africa—collectively contributed $794,000 to °° Americas 70 more than 100 different charities. In addition to our regional UNICEF • EMEA partnership, our local offices in €600,000 CBRE and its EMEA employees EMEA supported hundreds of local °° Asia Pacific contributed more than charitable initiatives during the year. EMEA employees $337,000 to UNICEF in participating annual °° What Lies Ahead EMEA commitment to UNICEF CBRE’s annual EMEA charity bike 2012. Since 2011, CBRE has charity bike ride ride, held in June 2012, raised more °° Selection of Organizations donated more than $558,000 through 2014 Supported By CBRE and Its than$71,000 for UNICEF, the Red Cross, Age UK and World Land to UNICEF and is on track to meet its commitment to donate Employees in 2012 Trust. A team of 70 CBRE employees, colleagues, clients, family $779,000, or €600,000, by 2014. CBRE’s corporate commitment members and friends participated in the grueling 190-kilometerPeople and Culture to UNICEF focuses on supporting life-saving work in Madagascar, a-day ride, which started in Toulouse, France, and ended in one of the world’s poorest countries, where CBRE is funding the Global Reporting Index Barcelona, Spain. construction of 10 new cyclone-proof schools—including water and sanitation facilities (WASH) and teacher training and school In May 2012, an earthquake in Emilia Romagna, Italy, killed materials—by 2013, literally saving hundreds of vulnerable 24 people and forced 17,000 people from their homes. CBRE’s children’s lives and providing a lifeline to the local community. Italian offices responded with the creation of “SOS Emilia,” a As part of its commitment, CBRE fundraising campaign which aimed to raise at least €20,000 employees from Belgium, France, (approximately $26,000) for relief efforts, as well as organize Germany, Netherlands and the U.K. a children’s activity camp to help the main town affected by the visited Madagascar in May 2012 to natural disaster. see the difference that CBRE’s efforts CBRE’s offices in Poland worked with the Children’s Hospice in are making on the ground. Kraków to raise funds for sick and terminally ill children. For Fundraising for the Madagascar initiative in 2012 included two 2012, CBRE employee and clients donated more than $26,000 synchronized regional employee fundraising campaigns. In as well as over 50 Christmas presents for the children. 59 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter COMMUNITIES AND GIVING About CBRE Group, Inc. In the U.K., CBRE donations for 2012 totaled $367,000. This About this Report figure encompasses employee and corporate donations, which also includes funds from the CBRE U.K. Charitable Trust. The Environmental Sustainability Trust is an independently registered charity that supports CBRE’s Ethics and Compliance U.K. employee volunteering and fundraising activities. During Governance 2012, CBRE employees in the U.K. supported 95 national and international charitable organizations through both individual Health and Safety efforts and office-wide fundraising activities. Communities and Giving Asia Pacific $220,000 °° Communities and In Asia Pacific, CBRE contributed a total of $375,500 to a broad they can drive participation Giving Overview across the local Hong range of charitable causes in 2012. Kong office. In 2012, the °° Americas Funds raised for Asia group welcomed a new • EMEA chairman and a mission Operation Smile Vietnam Professionals in Asia made philanthropic engagement a priority • Asia Pacific during the year, serving a number of local organizations and to increase engagement by CBRE professionals and provide an continuing to actively engage with the community to promote avenue for our clients to give back. This new initiative significantly °° What Lies Ahead bolstered CBRE’s charitable efforts in Hong Kong while employing CBRE’s commitment to service. The region’s fundraising efforts °° Selection of Organizations have benefitted organizations such as Operation Santa Claus a creative strategy to increase client interaction and drive Supported By CBRE and Its in Hong Kong, Operation Smile in Vietnam, Operation Blessing opportunities for business development. In 2012, the group Employees in 2012 China and the Run for the Cure Foundation in Japan. In addition organized six events with clients covering a range of interests and People and Culture to CBRE Asia’s fundraising efforts, Rob Blain—CEO & Chairman, expertise to support charity. 7 Asia Pacific, and a perennial champion of good works—helped Global Reporting Index raise $220,000 during the year through auctions that benefited For the seventh consecutive year, the Hong Kong Council of Social Service Operation Smile Vietnam and the Po Leung Kuk children’s awarded CBRE the “Caring Company learning and development center in Hong Kong. CBRE continued Consecutive years Logo” in recognition of community Hong Kong Council to promote employees’ good works and engender enthusiasm involvement and commitment to being of Social Service has through CBRE Today, the region’s monthly internal newsletter. a responsible corporate citizen. recognized CBRE As CBRE’s Asia Pacific headquarters, our Hong Kong office 60 In 2012, our China offices concluded their aims to lead by example when supporting the community. In sixth year of the Save a Child’s Life program 2010, our Hong Kong business launched CBRE Hong Kong’s in conjunction with Operation Blessing Charity & Sponsorship Committee, which drives the company’s China. Through this program, CBRE has Children’s heart support for a number of charitable avenues, with a focus on four surgeries funded funded heart surgeries for more than 60 designated charities: Enlighten Action for Epilepsy, The Salvation by CBRE in China children from impoverished families in Army, Operation Santa Claus and Newcomers Ward at Po Leung Hebei, Sichuan and Hubei provinces since 2007. To date, CBRE 60 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Kuk. The committee’s philosophy is to support organizations that value active involvement over pure financial contribution, so has donated approximately $193,000 in relation to this program. Stakeholder Letter COMMUNITIES AND GIVING About CBRE Group, Inc. Australia and New Zealand opportunity to take two days of paid leave to volunteer with a About this Report In the Pacific region, which is comprised of CBRE offices in charity or non-profit organization. More than 100 CBRE employees Australia and New Zealand, employees contributed a total of across Australia took volunteering days to assist those less fortunate Environmental Sustainability approximately $274,450 in support of organizations such as through organizations such as The Lighthouse Foundation, St. Ethics and Compliance Spinal Cord Injury Network, Starlight Children’s Foundation Mary’s House of Welcome, Australian Animal Protection Society, Australia and Make-A-Wish New Zealand. Salvation Army, Property Industry Foundation, Bushlink, 139 Governance Homeless Day Centre and OzHarvest. 850 Health and Safety More than 850 Australia and New Zealand employees laced Communities and Giving What Lies Ahead up their sneakers to participate Australia and New Zealand In 2013, we look forward to uniting our disaster-relief efforts into °° Communities and in Walk for a Wish 2012, Giving Overview which consisted of concurrent employees participating in a unified global effort that will empower CBRE and our employees Walk for a Wish 2012 to expeditiously provide financial support in the immediate 10-kilometer walks through °° Americas Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Canberra, aftermath of a natural disaster anywhere in the world. The launch of the CBRE Disaster Relief Foundation will be finalized in 2013 °° EMEA Auckland and Wellington to raise money for Starlight Children’s and will serve as the cornerstone of the company’s disaster • Asia Pacific Foundation Australia and Make-A-Wish New Zealand. The relief initiatives. Through the Foundation, CBRE will establish an 2012 event raised $167,000 and provided the ideal opportunity • What Lies Ahead to simultaneously engage the region’s various office locations organization of regional and global disaster relief committees that will vet local charitable partners in advance of a disaster, so °° Selection of Organizations through a common charitable goal, driving cohesion and that we are prepared to act rapidly in the event of another natural Supported By CBRE and Its boosting employee morale. disaster. In addition, the Foundation will be able to provide Employees in 2012 In 2012, CBRE’s Helping Hands volunteer program was rolled financial support through a grant process to CBRE employees that People and Culture out across Australia after a strong initial trial through our New suffered catastrophic damage as a result of a natural disaster— South Wales offices in 2011. Each staff member was given the anywhere in the world. Global Reporting Index Operation Santa Claus Garners Strong Support from CBRE Since 2011, CBRE’s Hong Kong office has In December 2012, CBRE produced an “We are truly thankful for CBRE’s generous ramped up its support for the charity, becoming innovative social media campaign to raise support of OSC through donations and an organizer for the OSC corporate five-aawareness and funds for OSC. CBRE launched dedication in organizing the annual Five-a-side side football tournament, a full-day event that a fictional campaign during the holiday season Football Tournament. The event has enjoyed featured 20 corporate teams and raised over through YouTube and social media channels great success as it caters for corporate teams, H.K. $1 million ($181,000) in 2011. Additional in which CBRE “represented” Santa Claus in junior players and players with special needs. activities included a corporate quiz and arranging space for his reindeers at the stables In 2012, it raised close to H.K.$1 million for conducting in-office fundraising activities such of the Hong Kong Jockey Club. OSC to help people in need in the Hong Kong as a “dress special” day. CBRE again hosted the community. It’s a great event that everyone looks CBRE donated H.K.$5000 ($644) and the football tournament in 2012 and hopes to raise forward to!“ campaign was featured in The New York Times, another H.K. $1 million for the cause. 61 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report SCMP and RTHK. The video can be viewed by clicking here. – Ellen Yeung, Project Director, Operation Santa Claus Stakeholder Letter COMMUNITIES AND GIVING About CBRE Group, Inc. In the U.S., CBRE will continue the expansion of the Shelter in April 2013, where CBRE is helping to build sustainable schools About this Report Program, working alongside Rebuilding Together, HomeAid, and facilities as part of the Climate Positive program. The EMEA Habitat for Humanity and other non-profits to add more local offices will also continue its annual charity bike ride, with the next Environmental Sustainability rebuilding projects and corporate-conference builds to its annual event—to run from Munich, Germany, to Trieste, Italy—scheduled Ethics and Compliance schedule. As part of its 2013 agenda, the Shelter Program will for May 2013. Governance focus on rebuilding projects in areas of the Northeastern U.S. that In Asia, CBRE will formally adopt the CBRE Cares brand in 2013 sustained heavy damage as a result of Superstorm Sandy. This Health and Safety will include numerous builds in New York and New Jersey during and continue to support our communities under one unified umbrella. In addition, CBRE will bring its signature Walk for a Communities and Giving the fall 2013 “Get Out and Give Back” BuildMonth campaign. In Wish program to the region. Walk for a Wish, which began with addition, CBRE will continue to pursue its 2011 goal to increase °° Communities and office participation in annual BuildMonth events by 10% annually. CBRE offices in the Pacific region, continues to garner enthusiasm Giving Overview and support from employees and executive leadership alike due In 2013, CBRE Cares will launch a new internal website which to its unique, unifying concept that engenders teamwork and a °° Americas will enable employees to easily contact and interact with their sense of community. In the coming years, CBRE aims to increase °° EMEA local CBRE Cares committee, read about recent charitable events the number of charitable organizations benefitting from the event. by offices across the U.S. and find information on CBRE Cares’ °° Asia Pacific At a local country level, we are also organizing to better support various national programs and initiatives. • What Lies Ahead our communities in 2013. CBRE employees in Japan will continue We will also continue our 2011 goal to expand the Birthday to volunteer in the Tohoku earthquake recovery zone. CBRE’s °° Selection of Organizations Cakes and More for Homeless Children Program by 15%. As Japan offices have also extended their Special Paid Volunteer Supported By CBRE and Its part of this effort, CBRE Cares will launch a nationwide campaign Program to encourage community service during the work week. Employees in 2012 in 2013 to help local CBRE offices set up and implement the As has been the case the past several years, our offices in Tokyo People and Culture program in their communities. are continuing to support the Run for the Cure Foundation in Global Reporting Index their work with Japanese men and women for breast cancer We continued to make progress in our goal to ensure that by awareness and detection. CBRE’s Singapore office will continue year-end 2013, local CBRE offices apply 100% of allocated match to support the Down Syndrome Association, organizing various money from the CBRE Foundation toward local charitable causes. fundraising events to complete the $39,000 donation it pledged To that end, the national CBRE Cares committee will reach out to in 2007. In China, CBRE will continue to sponsor the Save a all U.S. CBRE offices and CBRE Cares committees to encourage Child’s Life program in conjunction with Operation Blessings employees to take advantage of the company match program to with the aim of expanding the program’s coverage to additional maximize the value of their support for the charitable causes of regions in China. Lastly, our affiliate office in Thailand will host their choice. several charitable events in 2013 to mark its 25-year anniversary, In 2013, our EMEA business will continue to enhance its regionincluding a week-long, hands-on event to support the construction wide partnership with UNICEF. CBRE is on track to meet its of a water system for a community in Northern Thailand. commitment to donate €600,000 to UNICEF by 2014, having In 2013, CBRE’s Pacific region will aim to place a greater focus already raised €430,000 ($558,000), through yearend 2012. In on corporate sponsorships, building on CBRE’s sponsorship of the 62 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report addition, a CBRE delegation will pay another visit to Madagascar Stakeholder Letter COMMUNITIES AND GIVING About CBRE Group, Inc. 2012 Corporate Rugby Sevens charity event, which supported the CBRE’s Pacific offices will also continue to develop its Helping About this Report Spinal Cord Injury Network. Hands program, which entitles employees to use two work days per year to volunteer in their communities at full pay. Environmental Sustainability In Australia and New Zealand, CBRE will continue to expand its Ethics and Compliance signature Walk for a Wish program, which has quickly become a When CBRE Cares was founded six years ago, its goal was to beloved tradition throughout the region. CBRE aims to increase establish a cohesive philanthropy program that applied CBRE’s Governance the number of charitable organizations benefitting from the global resources to assist those in need in communities around Health and Safety event. Since its establishment in 2010, Walk for a Wish has raised the world. Buoyed by the global success of these programs—and nearly $511,000 for Children’s charities in Australia and New the continued passion and participation of our employees—our Communities and Giving Zealand. Based on the success of the 2012 Walk, CBRE has set commitment to improving our philanthropic and volunteerism °° Communities and an aggressive fundraising goal of more than $209,000 for the efforts will continue to grow in the coming years. Giving Overview 2013 effort. °° Americas °° EMEA °° Asia Pacific • What Lies Ahead °° Selection of Organizations Supported By CBRE and Its Employees in 2012 People and Culture Global Reporting Index 63 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter COMMUNITIES AND GIVING About CBRE Group, Inc. Selection of Organizations Supported By CBRE and Its Employees in 2012 About this Report 3rd Precinct Fellowship Assistance League of Southern California Buckhead Christian Ministry Charlotte Chamber of Commerce Environmental Sustainability A Child's Place of Charlotte, Inc. Atlanta History Center The Buoniconti Fund to Cure Paralysis Charlotte Regional Partnership Ethics and Compliance Academy of Holy Angels Atlantic Theater Company The Southampton Business Alliance chashama Governance Adirondack Health Foundation Audubon California State University, Sacramento Chicago Children's Museum Ada S. McKinley Community Services, Inc. Avenue of the Americas Association Calvary Christian School Child Mind Institute Health and Safety Agros International Avon Foundation for Women Camp Blue Skies Foundation Children at Heart Communities and Giving AIA New York Chapter Avon Walk for Breast Cancer Camp John Marc Children at the Crossroads Foundation °° Communities and AIDS Foundation of Chicago Back on My Feet Camp Mary Orton Children First Fund: The Chicago Public Schools Foundation Giving Overview AIDS Project Los Angeles Baltimore Leadership School for Young Women CanCare Children's Bureau °° Americas The Alfred E. Smith Memorial Foundation Bellevue College Foundation Cancer Services Children's Bureau Carnival at the Santa Monica Pier All Stars Project, Inc. Benjamin H. Wilson Senior Community Center Canonsburg General Hospital Children's Hospital Foundation °° EMEA Alzheimer's Association Ben's Bells CAPRATE Events, LLC Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago Foundation °° Asia Pacific American Diabetes Association Newark Beth Israel Medical Center Foundation Capuchin Soup Kitchen Children's Miracle Network °° What Lies Ahead American Brain Tumor Association Big Brothers Big Sisters of Metro Atlanta Caribbean Cultural Center African Diaspora Institute (CCCADI) The Children's Village American Cancer Society Big Brothers Big Sisters of Tucson CaringBridge China Institute • Selection of Organizations American Friends of Rabin Medical Center The BiNA Farm Carleton College The Chino Hills Community Foundation Supported By CBRE and Its American Heart Association Bishop England High School Carnegie Mellon University Christ the King Preparatory School Employees in 2012 The American Ireland Fund Bishop O'Dowd High School The Catalog for Giving of New York City Christopher House People and Culture American Irish Historical Society BOMA/Chicago Foundation Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York The Church in Anaheim Global Reporting Index The American Israel Public Affairs Committee Borough of Manhattan Community College Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of Saint Paul and Habitat for Humanity of Greater Cincinatti Minneapolis American Red Cross The Bowery Mission and Kids with a Promise Catholic Eldercare Community Foundation Inc. Citizens Budget Commission American Psychological Foundation Boy Scouts of America Catholic Youth Organization (CYO) City Harvest America's VetDogs The Veteran's K-9 Corps Boys & Girls Clubs of America The Center for Courageous Kids Citymeals-on-Wheels Amethyst, Inc. Boys & Girls Clubs of Greater Washington Center for Disability Services Mabel Hoggard Elementary School, Clark County School District The American Foundation for AIDS Research (amfAR) Boys' & Girls' Towns of Italy The Center for Enriched Living The Cleveland Clinic Andrew Glover Youth Program Boys Hope Girls Hope of Detroit Center for Family Life Colin's Kids, Inc. The Andrew Jay-Hoon Kim Memorial Foundation Bright Pink Center for Security Policy College of the Holy Cross Angela Hospice Home Care, Inc. Brooklyn Children's Museum Central Atlanta Progress, Inc. Colony South Brooklyn Houses Archdiocese of New York The Brooklyn Hospital Foundation Central Philadelphia Development Corporation Colorado Open Golf Foundation Arete Youth Foundation Brother Bill's Helping Hand Cerebral Palsy of Westchester, Inc. Common Ground Community 64 Art Omi, Inc. Brunswick School Charcot-Marie-Tooth Association The Community Foundation of Utah CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report The Arthritis Foundation Bucket List Foundation Charlie's Champions Foundation Community of the Cross Lutheran Church Stakeholder Letter COMMUNITIES AND GIVING About CBRE Group, Inc. Community Volunteers in Medicine Downtown Madison, Inc. The Flea Theater Hands on Nashville About this Report Compasio Dysautonomia Foundation Food Bank for New York City Harvard Business School Club Environmental Sustainability Connecting & Bonding, Inc. Eagle Brook Church-White Bear Lake Food for the Poor Health Care Executives of Southern California Constitutional Rights Foundation Easter Seals Michigan Forward Atlanta Hedge Funds Care Ethics and Compliance The Cooke Center for Learning and Development Epiphany Community Health Outreach Services (ECHOS) Franklin & Marshall College Helping Hearts Helping Hands Governance Cool Girls, Inc. EcoHealth Alliance Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center Here to Help Foundation Health and Safety CoreNet Global, Inc. The Educational Alliance Freedoms Foundation at Valley Forge/Utah Chapter Hoag Hospital Foundation-Toshiba Classic Cornell Hotel Society Edward J. III Excellence in Medicine Foundation French-American Foundation Holy Innocents' Episcopal School Communities and Giving Yaddo Ele's Place Friends of Hudson River Park HomeAid °° Communities and Courage Center Emmanuel Cancer Foundation Friends of the High Line Hope and Friendship Ministries Giving Overview Convent of the Sacred Heart Encino Little League Futures and Options Hope 4 Hanna °° Americas Covenant Preparatory School Endure to Cure Pediatric Cancer Foundation GENBAND Hope for the Warriors Creative Arts Workshops for Kids Epilepsy Foundation of Georgia George Sheehan Classic Hope Hollow Ministries °° EMEA Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW) Epilepsy Foundation of Minnesota George West Mental Health Foundation HopeKids °° Asia Pacific Cristo Rey Jesuit High School/Chicago Eva's Village Getting Out and Staying Out The Hotchkiss School °° What Lies Ahead Cristo Rey Philadelphia High School EvergreenHealth Girl Scouts of the USA Houston Food Bank • Selection of Organizations Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America (CCFA) Executive Service Corps of Chicago Girl Scouts of Nassau County Hubbard Street Dance Chicago Supported By CBRE and Its Crossroads of Michigan Expesite, LLC Girls Inc. Human Services Council Employees in 2012 Crossroads School Extera Public Schools Girls on the Run International Human Society of Broward County Cuyahoga Community College Family and Child Treatment Gleaners Community Food Bank of Southeast Michigan Hunter College Foundation People and Culture Cystic Fibrosis Institute Family Services of Westchester Good Samaritan Foundation I.M Sulzbacher Shelter Global Reporting Index Cystinosis Research Foundation Farmingdale College Foundation Goodwill Industries International, Inc. inMotion Inc. Dallas Citizens Council Fashion Delivers Charitable Foundation, Inc. GovDocs Inner-City Scholarship Fund Damon Runyon Cancer Research Foundation Federal Drug Agents Foundation Grace Centers of Hope The Innovation Foundation Dana-Farber Cancer Institute Feeding the Homeless Project, Inc. Greater Chicago Food Depository Institute for Corporate Counsel Dana-Farber Marathon Challenge Fellowship Housing Boy Scouts of America Greater New York Councils Insurance Industry Charitable Foundation Daytop New Jersey Fellowship of Christian Athletes Grossmont Hospital Foundation Interfaith Hospitality Network of Washtenaw County Democracy Prep Charter Schools First Church in Marlborough Group Health Community Foundation Interior Design Services, Inc. The Denis Theatre Foundation First Love Ministries Habitat for Humanity The Intrepid Foundation Detroit RiverFront Conservancy First Love Ministries USA Austin Habitat for Humanity Iona Gaels Capital Improvements Fund Diabetes Research Institute First Presbyterian Church of San Pedro Hailey's Hope Foundation Iris S. and Bert L. Wolstein Research Building Downtown Jimmie Hale Mission, Inc. The First Tee of Metropolitan New York Hamilton College Jack Martin Fund 65 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter COMMUNITIES AND GIVING About CBRE Group, Inc. Jacob's Light Foundation Lifesteps' Family Caring Fund Metropolitan Club of New York NYC Outward Bound Schools About this Report The James L. Eichberg Foundation Lighthouse of Oakland County Metropolitan Family Services New York City Police Foundation Environmental Sustainability James Lenox House Association, Inc. Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts The Metropolitan Museum of Art New York Junior Tennis & Learning The Jamie & Paige Malone Foundation Inc. AJ Linville Foundation The Metropolitan Opera Guild New York Police and Fire Widows' and Children's Benefit Fund Ethics and Compliance Jewish Big Brothers Big Sisters Locks of Love Michael's Mission New York Restoration Project Governance Jewish Community Relations Council of New York Lone Survivor Foundation Michigan Humane Society New York Ski Educational Foundation Health and Safety The Jewish Foundation for the Righteous Long Island Association Mid-Ohio Foodbank The New York Stem Cell Foundation Jewish United Fund Long Island Cares Inc. Midway Sports & Entertainment New York University Communities and Giving Jill's House Long Island City Partnership Misericordia Newark Beth Israel Medical Center °° Communities and The Jimmy Hersh Family Fund LA Conversation Corps Mission USA Newasurion Compassion Fund Giving Overview Joan's Legacy Lower Manhattan Cultural Council Monmouth Council, Boy Scouts of America Niagara University °° Americas Jobs for Youth/Chicago LUNGevity Foundation Monmouth University Nontraditional Employment for Women Journey 4 A Cure Lutheran Social Service of Minnesota Motor City Sports North Texas Food Bank °° EMEA Jumpstart Macy's Glamorama Motor City Youth Theatre Northwestern Memorial Hospital °° Asia Pacific Junior Achievement Madison Square Park Conservancy MultiCare Health Foundation NuHealth Foundation °° What Lies Ahead Junior Achievement of Greater Washington Maimonides Academy Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation (MMRF) New York Private Equity Network • Selection of Organizations Junior Achievement of Utah Make-A-Wish Foundation Muscular Dystrrophy Association Oak Park Education Foundation Supported By CBRE and Its Junior League of Ann Arbor, Inc. March of Dimes Nassau/Suffolk Law Services Committee, Inc. Oak Park River Forest Food Pantry Employees in 2012 JDRF Mary Bridge Children's Foundation National Academy Foundation Oakland County, Michigan John V. Lindsay Wildcat Academy Charter School Marymount School of New York National Eating Disorders Association Oakwood Healthcare Foundation People and Culture Keep a Child Alive Massachusetts Hugh O'Brian Youth Leadership National Executive Service Corps The Ohio State University Foundation Global Reporting Index kidz2leaders, inc. Massachusetts Iraq & Afghanistan Fallen Heroes Memorial Fund National Hispanic Business Group Oregon Health & Science University Foundation Kidworks Matrix Human Services National Italian American Foundation One Heartland Kiva MD Anderson Cancer Center National Jewish Health Opportunity Austin Lakeland Bank Memorial Hermann Foundation National Kidney Foundation Opportunity Partners Lakeview Pantry Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center National Media Partners, Ltd. Out & Equal Workplace Advocates Lawyers Alliance for New York Memphis Child Advocacy Center National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Michigan Chapter P.S.226/Nadia J. Pagan Gymnasium Fund Leah's Pantry Mental Health Association of New York City National Multiple Sclerosis Society Pace School Learning Rights Law Center Mercy Children's Hospital National September 11 Memorial & Museum Pancreatic Cancer Action Network The Legal Aid Society Mercy Education Project Nevada Development Authority Parent Project Muscular Dystrophy Leukemia & Lymphoma Society Mercy Medical Airlift New Jersey Future Park East Synagogue LifeCare Alliance Messiah Lutheran Church New York Angels The Partnership at Drugfree.org 66 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter COMMUNITIES AND GIVING About CBRE Group, Inc. Pediatric Cancer Research Foundation The Salvation Army Stanford University United Way About this Report Pelotonia Santa Monica Rotary Club Foundation Starlight Children's Foundation University of Colorado Environmental Sustainability PENCIL Save-A-Pet Stichting Cultuur Inventarisatie University of Wisconsin Foundation Pepperdine University The Scholarship Fund for Inner-City Children Straydog University of Nevada, Las Vegas Foundation Ethics and Compliance Phipps Community Development Corporation The Sean Reilly TBI Fund Sunrise Day Camp USO of Metropolitan New York Governance Police Athletic League Second Harvest Food Bank Susan G. Komen for the Cure USS Michael Murphy DDG-112 Commissioning Committee Health and Safety Pontiac Area Vicariate Second Harvest Heartland Swim Across America, Inc. Val Skinner Foundation Port Chester Carver Center Sheilah A. Doyle Foundation Talmudical Academy of Norfolk VIP Mentoring Communities and Giving Prevent Child Abuse America Shepherd’s Call Ministry T-Bird Booster Club Volunteers of America °° Communities and Prize4Life, Inc. Shepherds of Youth Teach for America, Inc. Wakeman Boys & Girls Club Giving Overview Pro Bono Net The Skyscraper Museum Texas Scottish Rite Hospital for Children Warrick Dunn Charities °° Americas Progeria Research Foundation, Michigan Chapter Sojourner Center The ALS Association, Minnesota Chapter Washington Area Women's Foundation Project Kindle, Inc. Soles4Souls Anne Frank House, Inc. Washington Jesuit Academy °° EMEA Real Estate Associate Program Sound Mental Health The Fletcher School New Covenant Fellowship °° Asia Pacific Performance Space 122 South Bay Family Health Care The Michael J. Foundation for Parkinson's Research Wellspring Trust °° What Lies Ahead Rainbows South Street Seaport Museum The Miracle League of Orange County, California West Suburban Community Pantry • Selection of Organizations Randall's Island Sports Foundation Southampton Cultural Center The Team Julian Foundation Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center Supported By CBRE and Its Royal Canadian Golf Association Southbrook Community Church The Women's Centers of Greater Chicago Wheeler Mission Ministries Employees in 2012 Reach Incorporated Spanish Education Development Center Travelers Championship White Plains St. Patrick's Day Real Estate Takes Heart Special Olympics Trustees of Purdue University William Paterson University People and Culture Rebuilding Together Spirit of America U.S. Green Building Council Winthrop-University Hospital Global Reporting Index The Foundation for Reed Schools St. John the Baptist Greek Orthodox Church UC Irvine Foundation World Resources Institute Reelin' for Research, Inc. St. Ann’s Warehouse UJA-Federation World Vision Right to Dream St. Francis Food Pantries and Shelters Union Rescue Mission Wounded Warrior Project The Rise School St. Jude Children's Research Hospital Uniting Against Lung Cancer WX, Inc. River City Food Bank St. Luke’s and Roosevelt Hospitals United Cerebral Palsy Yeshiva Darchei Torah The Woodruff Arts Center St. Marks School United Family Services, Inc. Yeshiva Schools Rofeh Cholim Cancer Society St. Nicholas Albanian Orthodox Church United Hospital Fund Yeshiva University of Los Angeles Ronald McDonald House Charities St. Paul the Apostle School United Nations Foundation Young Israel of Hewlett Safe Shores The DC Children's Advocacy Center St. Pius V Church & School United Neighborhood Houses Young Life Saint Patrick Parish Labels are for Jars Society of St.Vincent de Paul United States Fund for UNICEF YMCA Salvadori Center St. Vincent’s Services United States Golf Association Zen Life & Meditation Center of Chicago 67 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter About CBRE Group, Inc. About this Report Environmental Sustainability Ethics and Compliance Governance Health and Safety Communities and Giving People and Culture °° People and Culture Overview °° The CBRE Workforce: By the Numbers °° Ethics, Diversity, Tolerance and Respect °° Benefits and Total Compensation °° Performance Management and Recognition °° Talent Management °° Women’s Compact °° Workplace 360 °° What Lies Ahead Global Reporting Index PEOPLE AND CULTURE 68 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter PEOPLE AND CULTURE About CBRE Group, Inc. As a professional services firm, CBRE recognizes that the reputation The CBRE Workforce: By the Numbers About this Report and strength of our company directly reflect the quality of the GLOBAL people we attract, hire and retain. We want our employees to 37,000 8% Environmental Sustainability excluding know that they have tremendous opportunities to fully utilize their affiliate Ethics and Compliance talents and make an impact on our business and our clients. We offices believe that the success of our company depends upon fostering Total workforce workforce growth Governance a respectful, challenging, diverse and rewarding workplace that Health and Safety Communities and Giving provides our employees with a solid foundation upon which they can enjoy continued professional growth and achieve satisfaction 332offices 5,600 42countries in serving our clients and driving our business success. brokers People and Culture 6continents 8,000 • People and Culture People and Culture Overview Overview During 2012, CBRE continued to focus our human resources • The CBRE Workforce: efforts on supporting our business plans, globalizing the human Offices Asset Services By the Numbers resources platform, improving talent management efforts and EMPLOYEES increasing organizational efficiency. °° Ethics, Diversity, 11,100 Facilities Managers Tolerance and Respect Increasingly, CBRE has been strengthening the link between effective Project Managers human resources operations and business success. The recent °° Benefits and Total appointment of Laura O’Brien, an executive with more than 20 years Maintenance & Engineering Compensation with CBRE and extensive knowledge of our business, as Global Director 1,650 Shared Services (IT, Human Resources, °° Performance of Human Resources and Workplace Strategy affirms this priority. Legal, Finance, Communications/ Management O’Brien’s predecessor, Chris Kirk, also provides business expertise in Marketing, Research, etc.) and Recognition the new Chief Administrative Officer position, which oversees all of the organizations Shared Services functions including HR. °° Talent Management U.S. °° Women’s Compact 2012 marks the sixth year in which CBRE has reported on measures 34% 990 0.5% related to our labor practices and workplace environment. Because °° Workplace 360 our human resources information systems (HRIS) are not yet fully °° What Lies Ahead globally integrated, we currently are unable to compile, compare FEMALE VETERANS (U.S.) “temporary” employees Global Reporting Index and report information on our global workforce demographics and statistics. However, HRIS global implementation continues with a targeted completion date of 2014. The U.S. segment was completed in 2012, the Asia Pacific (APAC) business segment will be integrated in 2013 and Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) business segment 99.5% regular 98.9% full time 98.6% females are full time is expected to be fully integrated in 2014. Most of this report section employees 69 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report reflects U.S. information, which makes up over 50% of our employee population, unless a specific global or country reference is identified. Stakeholder Letter PEOPLE AND CULTURE About CBRE Group, Inc. 73% While our workplace is comprised of diversity in beliefs, color, and Enhancing Job Satisfaction About this Report ethnicity backgrounds, religions, sexual orientation/gender training. EJS training is offered to identity or expression, gender, job function, geography and many non-management employees and Environmental Sustainability North American other factors, there are some things that all of our employees empowers them to take ownership Ethics and Compliance participants in employee have in common. CBRE employs only individuals 18 years of age of their engagement at work engagement survey Governance and over; we do not tolerate or engage in forced or compulsory through different techniques and labor; we offer a competitive compensation and benefits package resources. Additionally, our corporate communications team Health and Safety consistent with (and in many cases significantly more generous affirmed their commitment to deliver key business messages Communities and Giving than) local standards; and perhaps most importantly, they all through our executive leadership. Individual business units also share our commitment to our corporate RISE values (Respect, developed internal plans specific to their findings. People and Culture Integrity, Service and Excellence). The nature of our business does In the U.S., three client accounts conducted “pulse” surveys in • People and Culture not create the human rights challenges found in other industries 2012 to measure engagement compared to their 2011 results. Overview such as manufacturing; we have no issues with child labor; and Two of the three accounts showed marked improvement to we offer desirable work conditions in all locations. Although we °° The CBRE Workforce: conduct employee training on non-discrimination, preventing their overall employee engagement index with 3.5% and 9.7% By the Numbers increases, respectively, while one account showed a decline. harassment and business conduct, there is not a business need to • Ethics, Diversity, Additionally, two accounts that did not participate in the 2011 conduct human rights training in our organization. Tolerance and Respect survey conducted pulse surveys in 2012 to obtain benchmarks We support the right to exercise freedom of association and for future survey results. °° Benefits and Total collective bargaining, and 4% of our U.S. employee population Compensation operates under collective bargaining agreements. In our global Ethics, Diversity, Tolerance and Respect °° Performance operations, there are no areas where these rights are at risk. The CBRE workplace culture is grounded in policies and Management We have seen the number of employees in the U.S. covered by practices that foster employee choice, opportunities for career and Recognition collective bargaining 4% advancement, mutual respect and principled behavior. The agreements increase as company continually implements organizational guidelines and °° Talent Management our business has grown programs that facilitate an ethical and respectful workplace. °° Women’s Compact in new markets and new U.S. employees under collective 85 industry sectors. bargaining agreements We believe our clients, employees °° Workplace 360 and communities are best served °° What Lies Ahead In 2011 we completed the largest employee survey undertaken by by fostering a diverse workforce CBRE. Over 73% of our North American employees participated and an inclusive culture. In 2012, Human Rights Campaign Global Reporting Index in our employee engagement survey. CBRE’s results were we scored an 85 on the Human Corporate Equality Index excellent, with CBRE’s engagement and performance excellence Rights Campaign Corporate levels exceeding the 75th percentile of the normative data for the Equality Index, achieving a “green” ranking (amongst the highest survey. The results were shared with employees and managers, rankings), and were again the only global commercial real estate and informed our human resources priorities in 2012. These services firm to do so. 70 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report efforts included the addition of Management Practices Training Stakeholder Letter PEOPLE AND CULTURE About CBRE Group, Inc. About this Report As the first major commercial real estate Companies that Care Honor Roll Environmental Sustainability company to participate in the HRC Foundation’s In early 2013, CBRE was named to the Companies that Care Honor Roll for the sixth consecutive year. To be named to the Honor Roll, a company must complete a detailed annual application addressing each of the Ethics and Compliance Corporate Equality Index, we commend CBRE on 10 characteristics of a company that cares. The application is reviewed by a panel of independent judges and the results are combined with the results of a comprehensive employee survey. Companies that achieve Governance all of the great progress it has made for LGBT high marks in both the application and the survey are named to the Honor Roll. Health and Safety workplace equality. Companies That Care demonstrate the following 10 characteristics: Kathryn Friedman, Director of the HRC Foundation’s Workplace Project 1 Sustain a work environment founded on dignity and respect for all employees Communities and Giving In 2012 CBRE was the first company to be awarded the prestigious CREW Circle of Excellence award for 2012 People and Culture We treated our people with dignity and respect—when for our ongoing support of CREW and our commitment to advancing women in the real estate industry. practicable, we provide the affected workforce with advance 2 Make employees feel their jobs are important °° People and Culture The Employee Job Satisfaction workshop was reinstated in 2012 based on Employee Engagement Survey Overview notice of staff reductions and significant operational changes feedback requesting more training opportunities. in excess of the regulatory requirement. In instances where we °° The CBRE Workforce: 3 Cultivate the full potential of all employees 545 could not provide advance notice, By the Numbers employees received pay in lieu of The implementation of the Career Planning page now gives employees broader access and increased transparency to the resources and information to progress in their career path. • Ethics, Diversity, notice, consistent with our severance 4 Encourage individual pursuit of work/life balance Tolerance and Respect plan. In 2012, 545 employees Employees received In 2012, we developed a formalized telecommuting policy to support the growing number of employees received severance payment. severance in 2012 taking advantage of flexible work arrangements. °° Benefits and Total Compensation Standards of Business Conduct (SOBC) 5 Enable the well-being of individuals and their families through compensation, benefits, policies and practices CBRE implemented the myHealth – Invest in You wellness program, which empowers employees to learn We define our ethical values in our SOBC. The document has °° Performance about their current health and what they can do to improve their overall well-being. Management been translated for employees of each country in which we 6 Develop great leaders, at all levels, who excel at managing people as well as results and Recognition operate, and made available publicly via http://sobc.cbre.com/, CBRE University trained over 600 employees in 2012. Programs are available for virtually all levels of or on the Navigator, our employee intranet, in printed materials experience in client-facing positions, from “Foundations” to “Experts.” °° Talent Management and as part of the onboarding process for new hires. 7 Appreciate and recognize the contributions of people who work there °° Women’s Compact The SOBC states our value system relative to —among other In addition to numerous line of business awards, in 2012, nearly 50 field and shared services employees were recognized with the MORE (Marketing Operations Research Excellence) Awards. °° Workplace 360 things—hiring, termination of employment, workplace behavior, 8 Establish and communicate standards for ethical behavior and integrity severance benefits, and employee conduct toward each other, our °° What Lies Ahead CBRE was given the 2012 Global Outsourcing Social Responsibility Impact Award by the International Association of Outsourcing Professionals and Information Services Group. We were recognized for a high clients, our business partners and our global communities. Global Reporting Index standard for operating in an ethical and responsible manner. In the last year, over 16,000 employees participated in the SOBC 9 Get involved in community endeavors and/or public policy certification. Our employee investigation process was executed In 2012, CBRE continued to partner with Rebuilding Together to bring nearly 18,000 hours of service to the Shelter Program, in addition to locally driven philanthropy efforts. globally with training conducted on a quarterly basis. RISE values were also prominently displayed throughout our offices and 10 Consider the human toll when making business decisions referenced in all relevant communications with employees. Our 2012 U.S. Benefits Open Enrollment featured “salary banding” for premiums to lessen the impact of 71 CBRE 2012 increasing health care costs for employees who aren’t in the high earning bands. Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter PEOPLE AND CULTURE About CBRE Group, Inc. Diversity and Inclusion We also maintained efforts to incorporate diversity objectives 16,000 About this Report Diversity continues to be an area into normal business processes such as succession planning. of major focus and commitment Recruiting diverse talent on college campuses included visits Environmental Sustainability at CBRE. We continued our key to historically African-American colleges and universities, Ethics and Compliance partnership with the Commercial Participants in diversity-related college organizations, and universities with Real Estate Women’s (CREW) Standards of Business broad international representation. Governance Conduct training Network as a corporate sponsor Health and Safety in 2012. This valuable collaboration highlights a shared Communities and Giving commitment to advancing women in the real estate industry. CBRE has worked with CREW since 2004, and in 2012, we networking groups People and Culture were recognized as the inaugural winner of the CREW Circle of African-American Network Group (AANG) °° People and Culture Excellence Award, CREW’s highest honor. 57 members, 400+ participants Overview AANG held its annual conference in Chicago, where members had Our diversity committee met to discuss challenges and the opportunity to interact with CBRE leadership and participate in °° The CBRE Workforce: opportunities in increasing company diversity. Previously chaired a number of roundtable discussions ranging from current market By the Numbers by President of the Americas, the committee is currently being trends to career pathing. • Ethics, Diversity, transitioned to the new CEO of the Americas and is comprised Hispanic Network Group (HNG) Tolerance and Respect of 15 other senior leaders from across the organization, 26 members including leaders from CBRE’s networking groups. Refreshed in 2012, HNG continues its mission as an organization °° Benefits and Total for Hispanic brokerage professionals to network and share best practices. Compensation After interviewing key business and HR leaders throughout the organization to identify key business needs from HR, we LGBT Network (LGBTN) °° Performance determined that it was important to add a new role to support our 97 members Management LGBTN again served as a corporate sponsor for the OUT & Equal diversity efforts: Global Director of Talent Strategy and Diversity. conference in Baltimore, Maryland, and the Dallas Black Tie and Recognition This HR leader will actively partner with regional and business Dinner, the largest fundraising dinner for the LGBT community in 7 °° Talent Management line leaders globally to define talent the nation. needs, refresh our diversity strategy Women’s Network °° Women’s Compact 400 members and to create tailored, high-value The annual Women’s Networking Forum in Chicago provided an °° Workplace 360 programs to enhance our efforts. CREW interns in 2012 opportunity for professional development and personal enrichment °° What Lies Ahead Promotion and Governance by gathering its members, along with clients and other special guests, for focused networking and learning from expert presenters. Global Reporting Index We also continue to strive for diversity in Governance. Our The Forum began with 175 women participating in the CBRE Cares BuildDay program to revitalize the South Central Day Treatment Board of Directors has 18% gender diversity and 11% ethnic School for teenagers and young adults. diversity and has stated that diversity will be a key attribute In its 12th year, the Women’s Network also refocused its efforts for future director candidates. Our internal Operations to increase membership and engage its members. This initiative Board, composed of the senior-most executives and key was bolstered by Laura O’Brien’s executive sponsorship and leaders, has 18% gender diversity, an increase over the commitment to reinvigorating this long-established network. 72 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report previous year. Stakeholder Letter PEOPLE AND CULTURE About CBRE Group, Inc. 18% We were pleased with the efforts to incorporate diversity in 89% of all commercial real estate About this Report all of our promotional decisions. Our managers maintained professionals who responded diverse candidate pools, and inclusion of high-potential, diverse identified as white. CBRE’s focus to Environmental Sustainability Board of Directors employees in succession planning was a priority. However, improve on diversity as an industry Ethics and Compliance gender diversity we remain challenged by our overall diversity representation leader is ongoing. 11% Governance in management and sales positions, which has held relatively constant despite improvement efforts. Diversity in commercial real Additional Diversity Efforts Health and Safety estate has been noted as an industry-wide issue; a recent survey The recently formed VET, or issued by the National Association of Realtors indicated that Veterans Engagement Team, is Americas Board of Communities and Giving Directors ethnic diversity People and Culture VETs Initiative Success Story °° People and Culture Overview Please describe your military experience (what branch did you serve in, what was your role, etc.) °° The CBRE Workforce: While in the Marine Corps, I served both on the Enlisted and Officer side. As an Enlisted member and NCO, I was an Automotive and By the Numbers Tactical Vehicle Mechanic. However, as an officer I am an Adjutant and an Officer Selection Officer. Prior to joining the Marine Corps, I did serve in the Air Force and attended the Air Force Academy. My complete military service spans 16 years. • Ethics, Diversity, What interested you about CBRE? Tolerance and Respect I became interested in CBRE as the climate and culture reflects that of the military. I enjoy the fact that not every day is the same and every day I have an opportunity to leave an indelible mark on the tenants and CBRE. °° Benefits and Total Compensation Please describe your rotational experience? I have had the opportunity to work with and at three properties (Marathon Oil Tower, The Houston Center, and Wells Fargo Plaza). Tamersen Glenn °° Performance Every step of the way, there has been an outline of the Real Estate Manager’s expectations of me and what they would be imparting Houston, Texas Management upon me. In addition, every Real Estate Manager has taken a personal interest in my work, assisting me with answering my questions, and Recognition and giving me 30 minutes to an hour a week to go over Real Estate Licensing courses. My rotational experience truly feels like a team effort and everyone wants me to succeed. °° Talent Management Please describe what it was like learning from other veterans within the company. °° Women’s Compact Every property that I have been able to learn from has had veterans. Whether it is a member of the actual Property Management Team or security, everyone has eagerly and openly offered their area of expertise. And I can say that my learning extends beyond the veterans at the properties I °° Workplace 360 have visited. Kyle Mosley is in Austin and he checks on me weekly to see where I am at with my training and to offer assistance. Stewart Geise has implemented a monthly Junior Military Officer (JMO) call, which allows me to network with others who have gone through the same process. °° What Lies Ahead What role are you in now at CBRE? Global Reporting Index Currently, I am working and training as a Management Associate. At the end of my 6-8 months of training, I will be placed in the Houston area as an Associate Real Estate Manager. Ultimately, I hope to one day be in charge of the Texas JMOs—to implement a program where newly hired JMOs have a class 1-2 week class of CBRE basics (New Hire Orientation and AREM syllabus), as well as financial and real estate courses. I believe a program such as this will help catapult the JMOs future successes and ensure longevity with CBRE. How do you feel that rotation experience with other veterans has impacted your overall experience at CBRE so far? The other veterans that I have had the honor of coming into contact with have been very helpful and understanding of my transition. Most share stories or 73 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report things to look out for, but all offer guidance along with their contact info (so even after I leave a property, I can still request and ask for their assistance). This program and the help of the other veterans gives the sense of “I am not alone in my efforts” and “someone else has been where I am currently at”. It has truly been a sense of camaraderie for me and that everyone is “pulling on the rope” with me. Stakeholder Letter PEOPLE AND CULTURE About CBRE Group, Inc. 2 an employee resource group that and regardless of the intent, interferes with this priority. It is a About this Report partners with CBRE’s Corporate form of discrimination and interferes with our commitment to Recruiting team to connect equal employment opportunity. It has no place at CBRE. Our Environmental Sustainability Years among Top 100 candidates with possible job Harassment-Free Workplace policy reflects the strongest possible Ethics and Compliance Military Friendly Employer opportunities. After hire, VET statement in support of CBRE’s commitment to the prevention of Governance partners new hires with military backgrounds to current CBRE unlawful harassment or retaliation. employees with similar military backgrounds. The seasoned Health and Safety veteran CBRE employee helps the new recruit get acclimated Communities and Giving to the corporate environment. Because of this initiative and Wheel Program Success Story: Natalie Moore other policies specific to active duty military/reservists, CBRE People and Culture was recognized as a Top 100 Military Friendly Employer for the When did you participate in the WHEEL program? °° People and Culture second year in a row. Overview September 2011September 2012 CBRE served as a Platinum Sponsor for the 2012 Global Diversity What market did you participate in? °° The CBRE Workforce: Summit held in Atlanta with the theme “ReFocus, ReInvest, Dallas By the Numbers ReBound.” The summit presented leaders who are responsible What lines of business, or parts of the wheel, • Ethics, Diversity, for identifying opportunities in the market, developing the creative did you rotate through? Tolerance and Respect financial instruments to rebuild cities and promoting diversity Office and industrial investment sales, property within the servicing sector, all through the lens of an industry with management, office tenant rep, and office and °° Benefits and Total a careful eye on the challenging economic climate. CBRE Senior industrial leasing. Compensation Program/Finance Manager Keith Brown served as a chair for the What was the best part of your wheel experience? What did you learn through the Wheel program? °° Performance summit, and three other CBRE leaders also attended. Management Without a doubt, the best part of my Wheel experience was the CBRE’s Wheel Program is designed for recent graduates, at unique opportunity to work in various lines of business before and Recognition joining my permanent team. By rotating through the different both the undergraduate and master’s levels, seeking a career in departments, I gained knowledge about the technical aspects of °° Talent Management real estate. Participation is intended to provide a well-rounded each role and was exposed to best practices from first-class teams, knowledge of the commercial real estate business and valuable °° Women’s Compact both of which will continue to benefit me throughout my career. skills, earned by working alongside talented professionals. While learning about CBRE’s vast platform, I was also learning °° Workplace 360 Twenty-six “Wheelies” were chosen out of 900 applicants to to understand the distinct points of views and motivations of the various parties involved in a real estate transaction. In addition, by °° What Lies Ahead gain experience in areas such as brokerage services, project working alongside so many talented professionals throughout our management and investment management across six markets. office, I am now more inclined to reach out to them to collaborate Global Reporting Index in the future. All of these things combined make me more effective Over 50% of Wheel participants in 2012 were diverse. in my current position than I would have been without this strong Harassment Prevention foundation. Developing an inclusive culture that promotes high levels of What is your current position? integrity and ethical behavior is a key organizational priority Associate – Brokerage Services, Fort Worth, TX and an ongoing process. Unlawful harassment, in any form 74 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter PEOPLE AND CULTURE About CBRE Group, Inc. The policy: CBRE is also vigilant in regulatory compliance for regional About this Report • Defines examples so employees can identify cases of variations, both in the U.S. and on a global level. For instance, CBRE has been proactive in complying with the recent New York Environmental Sustainability harassment • Describes our expectations of all employees and the special Wage Theft Prevention Act and other state-specific regulations. Ethics and Compliance responsibilities of managers Governance • Incorporates our RISE values and Standards of Business Benefits and Total Compensation Conduct We understand that employee benefits participation is an Health and Safety • Uses the recommendations of leading legal experts and follows important part of the employment relationship. CBRE offers all Communities and Giving best practices of leading companies full-time U.S. employees a benefits package generally made up of the following components: People and Culture 50% In 2012, we provided our 24 HOURS • Health benefits, including °° People and Culture harassment prevention training medical, dental and vision Overview program to over 4,000 people. Wheel participant diversity • Income continuity benefits Newly hired North American °° The CBRE Workforce: employees participate in an innovative online training program such as disability and life Standard harassment claim By the Numbers insurance, and severance/ investigation initiation and leadership receives in-person training. These training and redundancy programs 30 DAYS • Ethics, Diversity, communications programs have enabled us to take an industry Tolerance and Respect • 401(k) matching leadership role in creating a collegial, harassment-free workplace. • Ancillary benefits, such as • Benefits and Total Regretfully, as in all large organizations, allegations of time off with pay, employee Standard harassment claim Compensation harassment or discrimination occasionally occur. Once assistance program, and investigation completion wellness program °° Performance reported, our internal investigation teams act swiftly to uncover Management and evaluate the facts, take remedial action if warranted, We strive to be inclusive of all employees. For example, in the and Recognition and eliminate the root causes of problematic behavior. Most U.S., a full-time employee is defined as an employee who works investigations of harassment claims are initiated immediately °° Talent Management (within a day) and are completed within 30 days. CBRE handles at least 30 hours per week. This inclusive definition results in the eligibility of over 98% of our employees for our entire °° Women’s Compact allegations of harassment or discrimination with the utmost care benefits package. The company pays the majority of the cost of and attention. °° Workplace 360 our employee medical benefits and we also provide companypaid life, supplemental life, short term disability, and long term °° What Lies Ahead Regulatory Compliance CBRE acts in accordance with all laws regarding minimum and/ disability insurances. Global Reporting Index or living wages. The company also abides by all national and Part-time employees have a more limited benefits package, which local requirements regarding overtime pay, timekeeping, and includes paid time off and eligibility to participate in the 401(k) 4,000 rest and meal periods. If any retirement savings and investment program. compliance issue is brought to our attention, it is promptly CBRE does not have a defined benefit plan. 75 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report researched and remedied as appropriate. Employees trained in harassment prevention in 2012 Stakeholder Letter PEOPLE AND CULTURE About CBRE Group, Inc. Beginning in 2013, employees will pay benefits premiums based A majority of benefits-eligible employees were able to earn About this Report on salary banding, which stratifies premium costs into three a medical premium reduction by completing the biometric different levels based on employee salary. This measure, now a screening and Well-Being Assessment. This incentive helps offset Environmental Sustainability common industry practice, will help lessen the impact of the rising the rising cost of health care for the employee in the short term Ethics and Compliance costs of health care on those employees in lower salary bands. and rewards program buy-in. CBRE will receive aggregate data Governance from the myHealth program, which will help inform benefits and Wellness programming. In turn, healthier employees mitigate costs for Health and Safety In late 2012 CBRE introduced a revitalized wellness program everyone, including the company. for benefits-eligible employees. Employees were encouraged Communities and Giving to receive a free biometric screening and take a confidential Leave People and Culture Well-Being Assessment that compounds their screening results During 2012, about 5% of our U.S. workforce availed themselves with their assessment to paint a comprehensive picture of the of our leave policies, most frequently for maternity/parental °° People and Culture Overview employee’s health and well-being. The Well-Being Connect, the leave. In nearly 100% of the cases, employees who wanted to online portal for the Well-Being Assessment, also features health return to work had the same or a comparable position waiting °° The CBRE Workforce: education, news and tools associated with exercise, nutrition, for them. We do not maintain comparative retention statistics on By the Numbers 98% health risk awareness, and more. employees who return from leave versus employees who were °° Ethics, Diversity, Biometric screenings began in late 2012, not on leave. CBRE provides flexible workplace practices that Tolerance and Respect and the Well-Being Connect and its facilitate a parental employee’s return to work with reduced fullfeatures will be available to employees Employees eligible time schedules, alternative work arrangements and new mothers’ • Benefits and Total for full benefits in 2013. rooms where possible. Compensation • Performance Severance Management Our severance plan, benchmarked to industry standards, and Recognition The most effective well-being programs are offer benefits to fulland part-time qualified employees, designed to improve physical, social and emotional including separation pay, a health care stipend and access °° Talent Management well-being, while making the healthy choice the to outplacement services. The outplacement services offer °° Women’s Compact assistance with job-ending transitions, skills training for job easy choice. CBRE’s myHealth program exemplifies seeking, identification of transferrable skills and consideration of °° Workplace 360 this approach by equipping their employees to take alternate careers. We complied with the notice requirements of °° What Lies Ahead relevant labor and employment laws and collective bargaining Global Reporting Index charge of their own well-being and improve their agreements, as applicable. quality of life. This, in turn, helps them better enjoy their workplace, their community and time with Performance Management and their families and loved ones. —Ross Scott, Healthways Chief Human Capital Officer Recognition CBRE is a meritocracy, and our employees are empowered and encouraged to achieve 5% Employees who 76 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report the level of success their skills and desire took leave Stakeholder Letter PEOPLE AND CULTURE About CBRE Group, Inc. 44 allow. Currently, virtually all of our U.S.-based, non-commissioned Publishing Harvard ManageMentor About this Report employees receive a formal annual performance reviews. Outside (HMM) Program. HMM includes 44 the U.S., our progress toward this goal is subject to local law, topics with focus on manager and Environmental Sustainability Development topics customs, and the building of our global HR information system. leadership development such as Career available via Harvard Ethics and Compliance In addition, our commission-based sales professionals receive Management, Delegating and Process ManageMentor Governance regular, ongoing performance feedback and coaching. Health and Safety In 2012, we have added global competencies for each position as discussion tools for the performance evaluation process. Sample CBRE recognition Programs Communities and Giving Managers familiar with the jobs identified key competencies for People and Culture their employees’ job descriptions. While the competencies will be The RISE Award integrated into all talent management processes over times, they President’s Performance Award °° People and Culture were included in 2012 performance evaluations to evaluate the Chairman’s Excellence Award Overview proficiency of employees on specific job-related skills. Trammell Crow Master Builder Award °° The CBRE Workforce: Edward S. Gordon Award By the Numbers The company honors our employees with more than 200 individual Benjamin Arthur Banker Learning Award or group awards that recognize leadership, commitment, ethics, °° Ethics, Diversity, financial performance, community involvement, philanthropy Gary J. Beban Teamwork Award Tolerance and Respect and more. Informal recognition is also very important to our The William H. McCarthy Award °° Benefits and Total organizational culture. McAdam Cup Compensation Turnaround Award • Performance Talent Management Manager Innovation Award 612 Management In the second year since its relaunch, Rookie of the Year Award and Recognition CBRE University, CBRE’s internal CBRE Ambassador Award employee development program in the Women’s Network Endurance of Spirit Award • Talent Management U.S., focused on advancing the skills CBRE University students MORE (Marketing, Operations & Research Excellence) Awards °° Women’s Compact and capabilities of our new or highColbert Coldwell Circle 350+ potential, market-facing professionals. °° Workplace 360 This has resulted in increased Rock Star Award Einstein Award °° What Lies Ahead personal, professional and company success. During 2012 we trained 612 Managers trained Mission Impossible Award Global Reporting Index professionals through CBRE University programs, which tend Leasing Performance Award to be rigorous multi-day off-site programs attended by senior Greatest Contribution by an Engineering Professional leaders and subject matter experts. In 2012 we also provided Greatest Contribution by an Accounting Professional management practices training to over 350 managers. Sustainability Leader of the Year Top Accounting Leader Award 77 CBRE 2012 We provide senior leaders, high-potential employees, and Corporate Responsibility Report CBRE University participants access to the Harvard Business Stakeholder Letter PEOPLE AND CULTURE About CBRE Group, Inc. Improvement. HMM is enhanced with videos, tools, HBR In 2012, CBRE rolled out a new global job architecture and About this Report articles, along with insight from Harvard professors and business competencies (JAC) program, resulting in standardized job professionals. titles, descriptions and families, and a solid framework for Environmental Sustainability talent management, including recruitment and retention. Ethics and Compliance Additionally, a group of top leaders is invited each year to By integrating the JAC into our human resources platform, join for each position High Potential Leadership Program, Governance employees are able to view the career path within their job which is designed to offer an executive-level education with family, as well as the competencies associated with these roles. Health and Safety exposure to our key businesses, geographies and global priorities. This global network provides the opportunity for our New career planning resources were introduced via our Communities and Giving key professionals to forge relationships with their peers in an U.S. intranet to provide added transparency to the internal People and Culture environment that encourages professional development and transfer/advancement processes. The site features internal personal growth. Participants have unique access to valuable and external links to professional development and networking °° People and Culture opportunities, such as presenting at major company functions, opportunities, internal transfer documents and a direct link to the Overview managing special projects to challenge their skills and Career Path Planning module. The site enables our employees to °° The CBRE Workforce: interacting with our senior leadership and Board of Directors. plan and manage their professional career at CBRE. The page By the Numbers has received over 1,400 visits since its launch in early November 500+ We continue to invest in 2012. °° Ethics, Diversity, distance learning initiatives for Tolerance and Respect 23 all employees, allowing our Through our Employee Assistance °° Benefits and Total geographically distributed workforce Training programs Program, we also offer resources for Compensation to access over 500 prescriptive available globally employees and their family members and optional training programs. Employees and managers on a variety of professional and Hours of Employee °° Performance frequently use the WebEx system to facilitate online trainings that personal topics ranging from health Assistance Programming Management are accessible globally. to finances. In addition to the 23 annual hours of programming and Recognition available, a resource library is available online and accessible at • Talent Management any time. • Women’s Compact Our most successful people certainly have some °° Workplace 360 attributes in common. No matter how good they are, Women’s Compact CBRE shares the goal of the U.N. Women’s Compact to globally °° What Lies Ahead they always seek ways to become even better. That advance women in the workplace. As part of our commitment Global Reporting Index idea, that there is always room for improvement to the compact, we began our analysis in the U.S. in 2012 on and always new things to learn, is at the heart of the seven principle elements and 31 standards of demonstration for the Women’s UN Compact. CBRE is fully achieving 14 CBRE University because it’s at the heart of CBRE. and partially achieving six of the 31 standards. We are most —Bob Sulentic, President and Chief Executive Officer successful in the areas of high-level support, company culture, related policies and equal access to benefits, leave programs, 78 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter PEOPLE AND CULTURE About CBRE Group, Inc. 65% and counseling. These women-owned businesses, re-emphasize flexible work options About this Report results reinforced the value and communicate more broadly about workplace safety when of our planned talent traveling to/from work or on company business. Environmental Sustainability UN Women’s Compact demonstration management efforts, standards completed Ethics and Compliance which will help us achieve Workplace360 Governance additional demonstration. These enhancements include employee Rapid innovation in today’s global marketplace is changing transparency to job descriptions, qualifications, competencies and the way we communicate and, consequently, the way we work. Health and Safety career paths, which will assist us in making a broader array of Traditional notions of the office are giving way to newer attitudes Communities and Giving career options more visible to our employees. about what constitutes the ideal environment. At CBRE, we are leading this trend from the front. We have a new vision for a People and Culture In 2013 we will complete the gap analysis for our other global truly productive and market-leading workplace solution for our regions. We also plan to increase our talent management °° People and Culture efforts focused on women, expand our purchasing program for employees. We call this Workplace360. Overview °° The CBRE Workforce: By the Numbers CBRE Group Offices Undergoing Workplace360 °° Ethics, Diversity, Tolerance and Respect °° Benefits and Total Compensation °° Performance Management and Recognition °° Talent Management • Women’s Compact • Workplace 360 °° What Lies Ahead Global Reporting Index complete 79 CBRE 2012 in progress Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter PEOPLE AND CULTURE About CBRE Group, Inc. About this Report As a result of Workplace360, we will be Recently implemented in several offices around the globe including our Amsterdam and Sydney offices, as well as in Minneapolis for Environmental Sustainability reinvesting these savings in areas that matter Client Accounting and in Boston for Capital Markets Multi-Housing, Ethics and Compliance most for our employees, enhanced technology, this initiative is aimed at improving the way we work, increasing collaboration, generating more business, and optimizing CBRE’s Governance increased mobility and flexibility in the workplace, real estate assets around the world. Over the next 10 years, we Health and Safety and higher quality service. have the opportunity to impact 3M SF of our expiring leases. Conservatively, this translates into over $125 million in Rent and Laura O’Brien, Global Director of Human Resources and Workplace Strategy Capital Savings. Communities and Giving People and Culture Workplace360 examines the workplace—including supporting Downtown LA technology, personal productivity, space efficiency, sustainability, Our U.S. Workplace360 showcase office in Downtown Los °° People and Culture mobility, flexibility and more—and applies this research to create Overview Angeles will be opening at the end of August 2013, and offices that are reflective of the way CBRE employees work. Most employees are already anticipating the benefits. In the new space, °° The CBRE Workforce: professionals juggle a variety of projects each day, some requiring CBRE leased 25% less space than we would have leased without By the Numbers collaboration and others demanding concentration. By offering our new workplace strategy—with room for 25% more people. a mixture of environments, providing a higher level of services °° Ethics, Diversity, and enhancing mobility in the form of digital files and improved In addition to improved utilization, the workplace strategy for Tolerance and Respect Downtown Los Angeles will feature improvements including: personal technology devices, Workplace360 allows employees to • Improved flexibility in where we work, with new space types °° Benefits and Total conduct business in the spaces where they will be most productive, Compensation in the office and the ability to work remotely from quiet rooms to open meeting areas designed to promote • Better health and wellness with more access to natural light, connections with colleagues and clients. °° Performance height adjustable seating, ergonomics education, juice bars Management and more and Recognition There is no doubt in my mind that over the • Improved personal efficiency through digitization of files and °° Talent Management next decade tenants will move to a more open, seamless connectivity in the office • Reduced carbon footprint through minimizing space demand, °° Women’s Compact collaborative and flexible workspace. I see the as well as paper use through recycling programs and • Workplace 360 following benefits in moving to this type of office digitization of files °° What Lies Ahead environment: more interaction among my team • Improved communication and collaboration with new collaborative technology Global Reporting Index and across all of our service lines; leading by example when advising clients on workplace In preparation for their Q3 2013 office move, our strategies; and, lastly, we will be ‘first movers’ Downtown LA Legal donated their entire law library among all of our competitors. – an extensive collection of more than 1,000 80 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stephen Bay, CBRE Vice Chairman volumes – to Goodwill of Southern California. Stakeholder Letter PEOPLE AND CULTURE About CBRE Group, Inc. CBRE employees aren’t the only beneficiaries of Workplace360’s • Continued focus on talent management and operational About this Report many benefits. Clients also gain innovative workplace solutions excellence already tested in CBRE spaces, and the confidence that they are • Establish a new position for Global Director of Talent Environmental Sustainability partnering with the best in the business. Through successfully Strategies and Diversity, who will partner with global business Ethics and Compliance transforming our own offices first, we demonstrate to our clients leaders to create high-value programs to address CBRE’s Governance our ability to design and implement a contemporary workplace. talent management needs, including succession planning, learning and professional development, strategic recruiting, Health and Safety and retention and workforce diversity What Lies Ahead Communities and Giving • Continue globalizing HRIS Platform • Focus on diversity in high-potential leadership and senior• Fully implement by end of 2014 with delivery of PeopleSoft level promotions People and Culture • Identify and gear learning programs toward the young highfor EMEA and LAC regions °° People and Culture • Following the completion of the globalization project, we will potential professionals within the organization Overview be able to better understand and report on our company • Develop a global, company-wide mentoring program, holistically beginning with pilot programs °° The CBRE Workforce: • Continue to assess CBRE implementation of Women’s By the Numbers • Globalize Learning and Development programs, including CBRE University Empowerment Principles °° Ethics, Diversity, • Complete gap analysis for the UN Women’s Compact for our Tolerance and Respect EMEA and APAC regions in 2013 • Implement talent management efforts based on deficiencies °° Benefits and Total Compensation identified in the U.S. analysis °° Performance Management and Recognition °° Talent Management °° Women’s Compact • Workplace 360 • What Lies Ahead Global Reporting Index 81 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter About CBRE Group, Inc. About this Report Environmental Sustainability Ethics and Compliance Governance Health and Safety Communities and Giving People and Culture Global Reporting Index °° GRI Standard Disclosures Index °° GRI Performance Indicators and UNGC Principles Index Global Reporting Index 82 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter GRI Standard Disclosures Index About CBRE Group, Inc. Strategy and Analysis GRI Reference Page 1.1 Executive management statement 2-3 About this Report 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 3-4, 5-6, 7-8 Environmental Sustainability Organization Profile GRI Reference Page Ethics and Compliance 2.1 Name of organization 4 Governance 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 5 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 5 Health and Safety 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters 4 Communities and Giving 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates 4 People and Culture 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 4 Global Reporting Index 2.7 Markets served 4-5 2.8 Scale of reporting organization 4-5 • GRI Standard Disclosures Index 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership 4-5 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 8 °° GRI Performance Report Parameters GRI Reference Page Indicators and UNGC Principles Index 3.1 Reporting period 6 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 6 3.3 Reporting cycle 6 3.4 Contact points for questions regarding the report and its contents 7 3.5 Process for defining report content 6-7 3.6 Boundary of the report 6-7 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 6 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities 7 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations 6-7 3.10 Explanation of the effects of any restatement of information provided in earlier reports 6 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 6 3.12 Table identifying the location of standard disclosures in the report 83 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 6 83 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report * This indicator has been partially addressed. Data and/or other resources needed to fully address this indicator are not currently available. As our data systems and other resources evolve, we plan to provide additional detail and work toward fully addressing the indicator. Stakeholder Letter GRI Standard Disclosures Index About CBRE Group, Inc. Governance GRI Reference Page 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 4, 44-45 About this Report 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 44 Environmental Sustainability 4.3 Members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members 44 Ethics and Compliance 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body 44, 46, 48 Governance 4.5 Linkage between compensation and the organization's performance 45 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are resolved 46 Health and Safety 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for 44-45 Communities and Giving guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental and social performance People and Culture 4.8 Internally developed statement of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, 44 environmental and social performance and the status of their implementation Global Reporting Index 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of 44-45 economic, environmental and social performance • GRI Standard 4.10 Process for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, 47-48 Disclosures Index environmental and social performance °° GRI Performance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principles is addressed by the organization 46 Indicators and UNGC 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles or other initiatives to which the 2-3, 6-7, 13-15, 17-23, Principles Index organization subscribes or which it endorses 55-67, 78 4.13 Significant memberships in organizations 17-18, 22-23, 64-67, 78 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 2, 6, 46-48 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom organization engages 6, 46-48 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 46-48 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 47 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Disclosure on Management Approach EC GRI Reference Page Economic performance 3-4, 5-6 Market presence 3-4, 5-6 Indirect economic impacts 3-4, 5-6 Disclosure on Management Approach EN GRI Reference Page Materials 12-18 Energy 12-18 Water 27* Biodiversity 27 84 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report * This indicator has been partially addressed. Data and/or other resources needed to fully address this indicator are not currently available. As our data systems and other resources evolve, we plan to provide additional detail and work toward fully addressing the indicator. Stakeholder Letter GRI Standard Disclosures Index About CBRE Group, Inc. Disclosure on Management Approach EN GRI Reference Page Emissions, effluents & waste 27 About this Report Land degradation, contamination & remediation 27 Environmental Sustainability Products & services 18 Ethics and Compliance Compliance 27 Governance Transport 17, 18 Overall 10-36 Health and Safety Disclosure on Management Approach LA GRI Reference Page Communities and Giving Employment 68-80 People and Culture Labor/management relations 38-42, 69-71 Global Reporting Index Occupational health & safety 38-42 Training & education 52-53, 77-78 • GRI Standard Disclosures Index Diversity & equal opportunity 72-74 Disclosure on Management Approach HR GRI Reference Page °° GRI Performance Investment & procurement practices 11-12, 29-34 Indicators and UNGC Non-discrimination 69-74 Principles Index Freedom of association & collective bargaining 70 Child labor 41, 70 Prevention of forced & compulsory labor 41, 70 Security practices 50-53 Disclosure on Management Approach SO GRI Reference Page Local communities 54-67 Corruption 40-41 Public policy 41-42 Anti-competitive behavior 38-40, 42 Compliance 38-40 Disclosure on Management Approach PR GRI Reference Page Product & service labelling 3-4, 5-6* Customer privacy 40-41 Compliance 9 85 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report * This indicator has been partially addressed. Data and/or other resources needed to fully address this indicator are not currently available. As our data systems and other resources evolve, we plan to provide additional detail and work toward fully addressing the indicator. Stakeholder Letter GRI Performance Indicators and UNGC Principles Index About CBRE Group, Inc. Economic GRI Reference Page UNGC Principle GRI EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating 55 About this Report See also: CBRE Group, Inc. 2012 costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, Annual Report, Selected Financial Data, Environmental Sustainability retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments page 31, available at ir.cbre.com. Ethics and Compliance GRI EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's 2-3, 10-36 7,8,9 activities due to climate change Governance GRI EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage 75 1 at significant locations of operation Health and Safety GRI EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided 10-11, 55-67 8,9 Communities and Giving primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or probono engagement GRI EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including 55-67 People and Culture the extent of impacts Global Reporting Index Product GRI Reference Page UNGC Principle GRI PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are 38-42 °° GRI Standard assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services Disclosures Index categories subject to such procedures • GRI Performance GRI PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes 51-52 concerning health and safety impacts of products and services, by type of outcomes Indicators and UNGC GRI PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy 42 Principles Index and losses of customer data Environmental GRI Reference Page UNGC Principle GRI EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 16-26 7 GRI EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 13 7 GRI EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 16, 26 8 GRI EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 17* 8 GRI EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 13-17 7 GRI EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and 17-22 8,9 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives GRI EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect consumption and reductions achieved 13-16 7 GRI EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 26* 7 GRI EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 25 7 GRI EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 26 7 GRI EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in or adjacent to, protected 26 7 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 86 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report * This indicator has been partially addressed. Data and/or other resources needed to fully address this indicator are not currently available. As our data systems and other resources evolve, we plan to provide additional detail and work toward fully addressing the indicator. Stakeholder Letter GRI Performance Indicators and UNGC Principles Index About CBRE Group, Inc. Environmental GRI Reference Page UNGC Principle GRI EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in or adjacent to, protected 26 7 About this Report areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Environmental Sustainability GRI EN12 Description of significant activities, products and service on biodiversity in these areas. 26 7 Ethics and Compliance GRI EN13 Habitats protected or restored 26 7 GRI EN14 Strategies, current actions and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 26 7 Governance Health and Safety GRI EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats 26 7 in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Communities and Giving GRI EN16 Total direct and indirect GHG emissions by weight 15-16, 26 7 People and Culture GRI EN17 Other relevant indirect GHG emissions by weight 26 7 GRI EN18 Initiatives to reduce GHG emissions and reductions achieved 11-16 7 Global Reporting Index GRI EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 17, 26 7 °° GRI Standard GRI EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by type and weight 26 7 Disclosures Index GRI EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 26 7 • GRI Performance GRI EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 26 7 Indicators and UNGC GRI EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 26 7 Principles Index GRI EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed hazardous 26 7 under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally GRI EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related 26 7 habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff CRE5 Land and other assets remediated and in need of remediation for the existing or 26 7 intended land use according to applicable legal designations. GRI EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent 17-22 7,8,9 of impact mitigation GRI EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by 26 7 category GRI EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions 26 7 for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulation GRI EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods 26 7 and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce GRI EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 10-11, 28-33 7 87 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report * This indicator has been partially addressed. Data and/or other resources needed to fully address this indicator are not currently available. As our data systems and other resources evolve, we plan to provide additional detail and work toward fully addressing the indicator. Stakeholder Letter GRI Performance Indicators and UNGC Principles Index About CBRE Group, Inc. Labor GRI Reference Page UNGC Principle GRI LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region 69 6 About this Report GRI LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or 75-76 1,6 Environmental Sustainability part-time employees, by major operations Ethics and Compliance GRI LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 70 1,3 GRI LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and 53 1 Governance safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Health and Safety GRI LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and total number 50-51 1 of work-related fatalities per region Communities and Giving GRI LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 53 1,3 People and Culture GRI LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee per category 52-53 GRI LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued 76 Global Reporting Index employability of employees and assist them with managing career endings °° GRI Standard GRI LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 76 Disclosures Index GRI LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according 72-74 to gender, age group, minority group membership and other diversity indicators • GRI Performance GRI LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. 76* Indicators and UNGC Principles Index Social GRI Reference Page UNGC Principle GRI SO3 Percentage of employees trained in the organization's anti-corruption policies and 39 10 procedures GRI SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 40 10 GRI SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying 41-42 10 GRI SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians and 41 10 related institutions, by country GRI SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly 42 10 practices, and their outcomes GRI SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non40, 42 10 compliance with laws and regulations 88 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report * This indicator has been partially addressed. Data and/or other resources needed to fully address this indicator are not currently available. As our data systems and other resources evolve, we plan to provide additional detail and work toward fully addressing the indicator. Stakeholder Letter GRI Performance Indicators and UNGC Principles Index About CBRE Group, Inc. Human Rights GRI Reference Page UNGC Principle GRI HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects 39-41 About this Report of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of Environmental Sustainability employees trained GRI HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and 70 1,3 Ethics and Compliance collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Governance GRI HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and 70 1,2,5 measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor Health and Safety GRI HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory 70 1,2,4 labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Communities and Giving GRI HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies and procedures 41 1,2 People and Culture concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations GRI HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved 42 Global Reporting Index through formal grievance mechanisms. °° GRI Standard Disclosures Index • GRI Performance Indicators and UNGC Principles Index 89 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report * This indicator has been partially addressed. Data and/or other resources needed to fully address this indicator are not currently available. As our data systems and other resources evolve, we plan to provide additional detail and work toward fully addressing the indicator. Stakeholder Letter About CBRE Group, Inc. About this Report Environmental Sustainability Ethics and Compliance Governance Health and Safety Communities and Giving People and Culture Global Reporting Index °° GRI Standard Disclosures Index °° GRI Performance Indicators and UNGC Principles Index 90 CBRE 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report For more information, visit www.cbre.com/responsibility or email responsibility@cbre.com
